Police / Law Enforcement bikes often have a quiet freehub. This Cannondale Law Enforcement bicycle refers to it as a "Silent Clutch Rear Hub" and specifically mentions "R085" as a model number (further googling suggests it's a Shimano). 

"On the hoods", "Hoods" Hands on the brake hoods. The brake hood is that rubbery thing that the brake lever comes out of and on a modern road bike likely also contains the shifter. There's different ways to put your hands on the hoods, I'm showing two I use. 

A skateboarding shoe. They have flat grippy soles with more stiffness than most shoes. A traditional bicycling shoe (intended for use with clips and straps). A shoe made for any indoor sport. Indoor soccer shoes (like John Zwinck linked to in a comment), basketball shoes, etc. These will have a flat grippy sole intended for hardwood, that any flat pedal will grip quite nicely. Probably avoid anything "high top". A shoe made for athletic activities on pavement. Walking shoes, running shoes, etc. These won't be as flat or as grippy as the indoor sport shoes, but will still be quite good. Any athletic shoe. A shoe made for trail running will tend to have a fairly lumpy sole, but that may still work just fine on your flat pedals. Any shoe. Face it, flat pedals work with any shoe you can walk in. Preferably something with a secured heel and toe coverage. I don't recommend it, but I've even done it in flip-flops with no problems. 

A mixte is a step-through (low top tube or "ladies") frame with 3 sets of stays instead of the usual 2. The usual is that the middle set of stays run all the way to the head tube replacing the top tube, but there's some where the top tube is still a normal single tube. The traditional mixte has those axle-to-head stays straight, but I've seen designs where they're bent to give an even lower standover height. They still retain the usual chain stays and seat stays. This design keeps the frame strong and doesn't require a longer seat post. I believe the word itself comes from french and means "mixed" as in "mix of women's and men's styles" or maybe even "unisex". Anybody around here speak french? 

The primary purpose of chain lube is to lubricate the rollers and other internal parts of each link, not to lubricate the outside. Excess lube on the outside of the chain will get dirt stuck to it, that dirt will slowly work its way into the rollers that you're trying to protect, and dirt inside will grind away at the internal parts and wear out the chain faster. I wouldn't use toilet-paper (WC-paper), as that's usually pretty flimsy and will leave bits of itself behind. You don't want to wipe with something that will leave anything behind. Use a lint-free rag of some sort. I either use a worn out dish towel or a worn out sock. A sturdy paper towel would probably be fine. I interpret "to wipe" as meaning to rub an absorbent cloth against all 4 sides of the entire length of the chain, such that there's only a thin coating of lubricant left behind (no visible drops). I would usually wait a few minutes and ride the bike around to give the lube a chance to penetrate into the internal parts of the chain, then wipe off the outside of the chain. 

It's not possible. You'd gain lower gears, but lose your very highest gear. If you want to keep that highest gear, maybe you should look at a wider-range cassette to get there, instead? If you were switching from a 53/39,12-28 setup to a 50/34,11-28 setup, it would work out well. Switching your largest chainring from 53 to 50 basically shifts all your high gears about 1 notch lower. 11 teeth is the smallest cog you can get on a road bike cassette, currently. I've seen BMX bikes with a smaller gear on the back, but they're not cassette based. You can compare gear ratios on a given bike (where wheel diameter, tire width and crank length can all be assumed to be a constant with simple division. Assuming your 11-28 is 11-12-13-14-15-17-19-21-24-28, or similar: 

Exactly which I actually do depends on the traffic levels and what the far side of the intersection looks like. I would only do the 2nd or 3rd options if right-turning traffic is low and there's clearly space on the far side of the intersection for me to be to the right of the going-straight traffic (2 lanes, or 1 lane with a bike lane or wide shoulder). To repeat: the main thing is to not be to the right of cars turning right. Get to their left or directly in front of them. 

A pedal or crank based power meter will be measuring either how much torque is applied to the cranks. That combined with your cadence gives you the power output (add in time and you have the total work done). A hub based power meter is measuring the torque applied to the hub by the drivetrain and combining that with speed or wheel rotation counts to do the same basic math and calculate the power output there. Basically, one measures the power going into the drivetrain, the other measures power coming out of the drivetrain. If you had both, the hub power meter would show a slightly smaller amount of power due to power lost in the drivetrain. A bicycle drivetrain is very efficient however (especially when well maintained), so I wouldn't worry about the very small difference. To some extent it may depend whether you care more about your power output or the power output of the entire rider+bicycle system. The actual underlying physical mechanism is probably a strain gauge consisting of thin wire running zig-zag over a beam that bends slightly as force is applied. Bending the wires changes the electrical resistance. $URL$ I've also heard of power meters that measure force to the pedals. I assume they need to be told the length of the cranks. I've also heard of systems that measure chain vibration to calculate the tension on the chain to get force/torque information to calculate power output. 

A lot of the online mapping websites have elevation data you can use to figure it out. Example 1: Go to $URL$ choose the bicycle icon and ask for directions. Once it gives you the map, switch to the "map" instead of satellite view and turn on the terrain overlay. When you ask for bicycle directions it tries to avoid steep climbs and the terrain data overlay can give you some idea how bad things are. You can drag points on the route to force it into giving you a specific route. Example 2: Go to $URL$ -- go through the annoying interface to create a new ride (there's some annoying ad stuff). Once you've done that, you can see some data including a graph of the climbs. Do that for all the routes and compare side by side. There's a lot of competing websites for that kind of thing that you can search for out there. 

Front and rear: Brake clearance — can a larger tire fit in the brakes? If this is the only issue, you can get different brakes Rear: Stay width — will a wider tire rub on any of the stays (rear)? Rear: Stay bridge clearance* — will a larger tire hit the bridge between seat stays or chain stays? Rear: Seat tube clearance — many bikes have a geometry where too large of a wheel/tire will hit the seat tube above the cranks Front: Fork clearance — how much room is there under the fork crown? (height and width) Front: Down tube clearance — how much extra room before the front tire hits the downtube? 

The thing that causes saddle sores is friction. Moisture contributes as well. Cycling shorts are probably a good idea, but if you don't want to wear cycling shorts (I don't for commuting, but my longest commute is half the distance of yours), there's three key things: 

There are multiple ways to talk about wheel/tire sizing. "700c" is an old standard that's actually the exact same size as "622" or "29er". 622x14 is the ISO standard way to refer to the rim's bead seat diameter. 700x33 is "622x33" in ISO standard sizing. 622 means it will fit a 622 rim. 33 means that on some standard rim, the width of the inflated tire is 33mm. There's no real standard used for measuring tire width, so "same size" tires from different companies may differ by 1 or 2mm... 

Whether or not you're required to use a shoulder or not is different in different states. In California you're allowed to use a shoulder, but not required to; a narrow lane and wide shoulder allows you to legally use the full lane (but riding on the shoulder might be better). Police often don't know the proper rules for bikes and mistakenly think you're always required to ride as far to the right as possible. Other road users often have that same problem. The key phrase to look for to learn more is "vehicular cycling". There was a big move to vehicular cycling in the 60s and 70s, an I've noticed many laws that make it explicitly legal date to the 70s. 

Enthusiasts of them tend to call them "High-wheel" or "Ordinary" bicycles, but more people know the "penny-farthing" term. Most have a solid rubber tire. The large spoked wheel and rubber tire smoothed out the ride compared to the small-wheeled steel-tire direct-drive velocipedes that preceded them. A larger wheel gives a higher gear ratio, allowing for higher speeds. Mounting That little "bump" on the frame above the rear wheel is probably meant to represent a mounting post. On one side there's a small post used as a step. The rider holds the handlebars, steps on the post, kicks off, then puts the other foot onto the pedal and the first foot onto the other pedal. I've seen experienced riders do it and it can be very quick and smooth. It's also possible to push the bike forward, step directly onto one pedal and mount, but that's trickier and less common. References: