I agree that full-on numerical modelling is good but could be delayed to grad school, since the student has a strong math background. I think environmental modelling is important for an understanding of how conceptual models are constructed and then implemented mathematically. Yes to physics. The other reason is so the person asking the question can find out if they are really interested in the discipline. It would be bad to get to grad school and then find out it isn't as good as it sounds. You might look at Dalhousie University because of the proximity to Bedford Institute of Oceanography. Also check out the Federal Student Work Experience Program and see if there is a chance to spend some time at BIO or elsewhere. That would look very good on an application. 

The US EPA mandate is quite broad as are the range of environmental issues. The issues aren't really amenable to such a list because it is subjective to decide what is 'major' except in very broad terms. Major could mean greatest risk or it could mean of greatest importance to address soon. Those could be different things, for example, carbon dioxide emissions are high risk but difficult to address whereas an industrial site with leaky chemical drums might have only a local risk but need dealing with right away to contain the problem. The 'Learn the issues' tab gives the important areas in a general sense; you could look at the EPA organisation chart to see where they are putting their resources. For the specific case of pollution from old industries, The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA or Superfund) maintains the National Priorities List (NPL) for sites needing cleanup. 

To amplify on Gary's answer for the situation under a stream: Surface water will be connected to an unconfined groundwater aquifer if the sediments are saturated between the aquifer and the stream. If the head (the elevation of the water i.e. its pressure) is lower at the stream than the adjacent sediments, then it will be a "gaining stream" the water in the aquifer will flow into the stream. If the head is higher at the stream it will be a "losing stream" and water will flow into the aquifer. However sometimes, the water level in the aquifer drops enough that it is lower than the sediments right under the stream and the stream becomes a "disconnected stream". This can occur when the sediments in the stream bed have lower permeability than the rest of the aquifer. That's a common occurrence because fine sediment transported by the stream can build up in the stream bed - called a skin effect. If a stream has intermittent flow then the stream can be disconnected when it starts to flow but the water seeping into the bed hasn't had time to fully saturate the sediments underneath. Note that the gaining or losing flow can be very low. The difference in head tells you the potential flow direction but the permeability of the sediments determines how much flow you will get for a given potential. It is analogous to a battery voltage (potential) and a resistor (permeability) governing currrent (flow). 

There are several processes that can cause a mineral to precipitate from solution. You mention one which is adding elements to the solution This could occur in a number of ways. For example, aragonite is a form of calcium carbonate with a higher solubility at low temperatures than the mineral calcite that makes up limestone. So it can dissolve and cause calcite to precipitate. Ions adsorbed on the surface of minerals like clay minerals can exchange with ions in solution changing the concentrations and causing precipitation. Two different compositions of water can mix to cause minerals to precipitate. Changing temperature can also make minerals precipitate. Changing the pH or oxidation state affects the solubility of various minerals. Increasing the pH will cause precipitation of calcite from a saturated solution. One way this can occur is to degas carbon dioxide from the water. That's what causes the formation of stalactites in caves. 

Based on a misunderstanding of another post, I prepared an estimate of how much water would be required to lower sea level by one meter. the main question would be: could this be stored on land? 

Ice can grow up from the ground in the form of needle ice. The formation requires sufficient moisture in the ground. According to the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) site needle ice can grow up to 40 cm in length. Needle ice are thin crystals of ice and has a very distinct look. A search on Needle Ice provides a wealth of examples of needle ice, note that all pictures are not relevant! Needle ice can also form from plants if suddenly subjected to very low temperatures and where moisture in the plant has limited escape possibilities. The picture in the post is, however, not needle ice, it is clearly a form of icicle. In fact the common icicle is reminiscent to a stalactite forming from a cave ceiling. Corresponding to the stalactite, a stalagmite forms on the floor. The ice form on the picture is a stalagmite form, created by water dripping from a structure down onto the ground in sub-freezing temperatures (credit to geotheory). 

The principle does not apply to all materials on earth as observed by us but is primarily concerned with sediments and rocks that form from sediments. Since sedimentation is a process driven by gravity grains settle one on top of others and there is no possibility to change that without adding additional processes. So from this perspective the principle is 100% in situations where it is applicable. It is of course not uncommon to find situations where older material overlays younger. In such cases there has been additional forces (natural mind you) in action. It is for example possible for intrusions (magma) to be injected in older solid rocks thus completely changing the age sequence. It is also possible for crustal movement (tectonics) to fold the bedrock and thrust parts of the bedrock to overlay other parts hence creating situations where younger rocks seem to undelie older. It is also possible for sediments to slide or move downslope so that a reverse or at least disturbed age sequence is established. I could continue ad infinitum. So many possibilities exist to obtain such cases but always with a logical explanation involving post-sedimentary processes. To correctly interprete observations, one has to have gained full understanding of the geological setting and history as well as physical processes. It is not generally wise to look at an outcrop or cut and create a larger scale interpretation without such background knowledge. 

The question is requesting an answer that has no practical application. So rather than improving on some hypothetical calculation, I will describe the problem and hopefully make the difficulty providing a real answer to a time frame clear. First: "polar ice" Antarctica is located in a polar position and consists of a multi-km thick ice sheet. The Arctic is covered by sea ice except for smaller glaciers and Greenland, which is not located in a polar position equal to Antarctica. One has to remember that Antarctica is circulation-wise isolated from the rest of the planet by circumpolar circulation, both in th esea and atmosphere, a situation not met in the Arctic. Hence the term polar ice is very fuzzy and should be avoided. It is better to speak about the objects directly. Second: an ice sheet such as Greenland and Antarctica is not a stagnant sheet of ice, it has its own dynamics and which can change over time depending on forcing and change in forcing.. Greenland is largely land based but with outlet glaciers that terminate in the sea. Although mass loss through these have seen an increase in loss, much of the Greenland mass gain and loss is through surface mass balance (snow accumulation minus ablation, melt). Antarctica is a different beast since East Antarctica is largely land based while West Antarctica is to a large extent sitting on ground below (in places several km) below sea level. Te latter situation is more unstable since the ice could disintegrate by calving (loss through ice berg formation), a process which is potentially much quicker than surface melt (of which there is currently very little in Antarctica). So one part of Antarctica is much more unstable than the other. Now, several other processes are at play. Ocean currents are sen to produce massive amounts of submarine melt on both Greenland outlet glaciers as well as on the sea-terminating edges of Antarctica. In places, circulation models estimate up to equal loses by calving an submarine melt. This occurs at the same time as there is hardly any surface melt to speak of. So calculating mass loss by surface melt is clearly a lost cause when calving and submarine melt dominate. Finally, in this still simplified picture, the dynamic response of the ice sheets to changes in forcing is not well understood. This means we do not know how unstable East Antarctica really is. That Antarctica will totally disappear seems very unlikely any time soon and time frames of 10^3-10^4 years is a minimum. Greenland, not being a polar ice sheet is more sensitive in that as it loses mass it is also on average lower in altitude, experiencing more melt. There appears to be a point of no return for Greenland, under which elevation the ice sheet would not be able to recuperate unless the climate cooled significantly. Again the time to melt off the ice is long. despite the seemingly slow increase in sea level, much infra structure in the coastal environments is threatened by only dm to m changes in ea level so the 66.1 m quoted from IPCC is not something that will happen in a life time but that does not mean the rates are not already problematic. As a PS, I will add some relevant references once I am back home in case someone misses them at the moment. 

Strike and dip are one way of describing the orientation of a plane in 3 dimensions. The strike is the angle of the intersection of the plane with a horizontal surface so the strike of a horizontal plane is undefined. Just as two intersecting lines define a point, two intersecting planes define a line. You can define a line perpendicular to the line of strike and this defines the direction of dip. If you imagine a vertical plane that intersects the horizontal surface along that line it will intersect your original geologic surface along another line. The angle between the direction of dip and the geologic surface is the dip angle, or just called the dip. Conventionally, the dip is always measured so it is the angle down from the horizontal. If someone gives you a strike and dip, you still need one more piece of information to determine the orientation of the plane. That's because you need to know if the plane is dipping to your left or the right if you are looking in the direction of the strike. Some conventions specify the general direction of dip (e.g. to the east) but I prefer to use a convention where you define the strike direction so that your dip is to the right side (the right-hand rule) So if the strike is a line that points, for example 10 degrees (east of north) and 190 degrees (10 degrees west of south) and the dip is 30 degrees to the west you would say strike 190 degrees, dip 30 degrees. The dip is the maximum angle that can be measured between your geologic plane and the horizontal. Sometimes it is hard to tell if your are measuring the angle exactly down-dip and the value of that apparent dip will be less than the true dip. Another way to describe the orientation of the same geologic plane is use the bearing and plunge (also termed plunge and azimuth). Go back to the vertical plane perpendicular to strike and its intersection with the geologic plane. Imagine looking along the line where that plane intersects the horizontal and facing down dip. That direction is the bearing (the strike plus 90 degrees if you are using the right-hand rule). The plunge is just the dip angle. The reason it is called something different is that you can use the same terminology to describe any linear feature such as the line where a bed intersects a fault. I suspect that when you say, "dip shows the orientation of the geological plane" you mean both the dip angle (the plunge) and the bearing of the dip line. So in actuality you are still using two values with the bearing being 90 degrees from the strike. The reason you can't just use the strike is that that does not give you the angle value. There is another way to define the orientation of a plane by defining the vector that is normal to the plane. That line forms an angle of 90 degrees with the line of dip. The convention in structural geology is to use the vector where the perpendicular to the plane points downward, not up in the air. The bearing and plunge of that vector is used to plot features on stereo-nets - a handy way to reduce the orientation of a number of planes to a number of points. 

I see three issues to be considered and will address them in what I think is reverse order of importance: 3) Cost: you have considered this with solar power and by trying to use mud to reduce infiltration through the lake bed. Fair enough, for now let's assume the scheme could be cost effective. 2) Negative impacts on the environment. You will get infiltration of saline water to the ground, although you may be able to minimise it. Eventually that will recharge the groundwater or form an unconfined or perched aquifer on top of low-permeability sediments. My understanding is that the Nubian Aquifer is largely confined except in recharge areas far to the south. So the saline water may not affect it except over exceedingly long time frames. The Nubian Aquifer has extremely old water so even if it were to be contaminated with salt, it might take so long to reach irrigation areas that people wouldn't worry about it. After all, they are essentially mining the fresh water out and not trying to match sustainable yields. In some places the groundwater is saline and not usable already. But these are things that would have to be addressed. I'm not sure that salt at the surface would be a significant problem. Much of Australia has ephemeral saline lakes at the surface that don't have major impacts (in my opinion) on the surrounding land when they are dry. But you are talking very large scale. I expect that the dry lake bed would stabilise with a sediment cover blowing in so salt dispersion would cease. 1) Would it work? I think it's a great idea but I'm skeptical. There are a lot of areas near the oceans where dew formation doesn't seem to produce significant amount of green vegetation. Well there are parts of Chile where dew is important in supporting the ecosystem, but that ecosystem is pretty unique and sparse. Not something that would support much human population. If I understand your question you are suggesting that the green vegetation would produce a feedback loop that promotes further dew or precipitation and becomes self sustaining. I can't say whether that could occur in some regions. If you look at the Great Artesian Basin of Australia, Lake Eyre and other very large lakes will fill with fresh water periodically and then go saline or even dry out. However, they haven't developed self-supporting vegetation, to my knowledge. The terrestrial plants rely on periodic rainfall due to storm tracks, generally from the west or north. If nothing else, thinking about it will teach you a lot about climate and weather. Hope this helps.