In a loose sense they are both the same in English rendering. But if you look more critically insight (Panna) is the result of practising Vipassana. 

Great answer by Lee Hebditch. Following is to compliment. Your sub concious mind (Bhavanga) is the store of past Sankhara. They give results by "bubbling up". The area may have relationship to where the Karma effects. Since you get sensations tied to your eye faculty is perhaps (speculation here) you have done some Karma in the past relating to you eye like perhaps: making someone blind or maybe donating reading glasses. The resulting sensation can be either pleasant and unpleasant. If the sensations are unpleasant this means your past Karma has aversion as the basis. If you react with aversion you multiply this fabrication (Karma) by creating new Karma which will give similar results in the future. If the sensation is pleasant then this means your past Karma has craving as the base. If you react with craving, you you are again creating new fabrications. So best cause of action is not to react and be mindful and being eqaunimous while analysing the sensation. Stay with the sensation with for a while and them more on. When you stay with the sensation, there is a tendency that it might pass away. But not for too long as you: will miss more subtle sensation arising and passing away in the rest of the body, you might develop a attachment or aversion to the sensation. You can analyse this sensation in the following ways: the start (or from 1st time you noticed) to end of the sensation (if it is short lived), start from the boundary to the centre and then to the other side, dividing the areas into smaller pieces, if you can at the level of arising and passing. Again something additional to compliment Lee Hebditch's answer. 

One such instance was King Bimbisara giving freedom to Khema to enter the order. Many more may be found in the cemeteries and many may not even be documented! 

Deep rooted Sankara in the sub concious mind bubbles up during meditation (in your case thought a vision) there will always a sensation which follows (in your case when the image - frightful, lustful, etc. make contact with the mind sense door). Keeping you mind devoid of craving and aversion (with equanimity) towards this sensation, you are not creating any new Sankara for the future. There are 3 types of sensation that arise: 

know your might has gone to a distracting object know what sensation this has brought about mentally and physically and look at it dividing and dissecting it until you see the arising and passing nature bring bad your attention to the breath and look at if you breath is beep, shallow, long or short periodically, perhaps at the start, middle and end look if reaffirm or review (Paccavekkhana) if your attention (Manasikāra) is with the breath. (No verbal thinking should be involved just see it is with the breath) 

As a person taking the path you need not put aside any views as right or wrong to start with just because it is said so. Through logic and practice you start seeing things clearly then you can straighten your views. When you experience some thing sometimes even a a firm believer in Buddhism you would start seeing things in a new light and sometimes see your initial conceptual understanding differs from reality. Hence the Buddhist position would be that conceptual / philosophical understanding is flawed. Your understanding is right only with regard to what you see at the experiential level. Hence any philosophical / conceptual aspect of any religion including Buddhism cannot be absolutely right. 

You can consult them for further details. Also look directly at the source, viz., The Abhidhamma Pitaka which is available for from $URL$ 

Dhātu Vibhaṅga Sutta Regardless of that they are stimulating and pleasant or depressing you should not get averse or attached to them. 

Arammana is due to past Kamma. Vottapana decides on what is experienced or felt hence deciding what the future Karmic effects though the next 7 Javana process. You have free will at this point to decide on you convert what is felt into a wholesome state or not at this point. 

Mundane life is tough because of the presence of unwholesome roots which drive us. Will (chanda) to achieve a goal in the absence of craving hence there is no unwholesome root associated with it. [(Kosambi) Unnābha Sutta, Sangarava Sutta] So you should have the will to discharge duties and attain worldly goals without craving. 

This is turning away from the worldliness with a view to attain Nibbana. When you get input fro your sense door you are equanimous towards the sensation that arise knowing their impermanence. Reacting creates the conditioned existance. 

By taking refuge you are aspiring to build the qualities of the Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha in your self. 

The 1st Jhana is achieved due to the efforts you put into keeping your breath on the object, essentially the effort on keeping the object in focus is Vitakka & Vicara (initial and sustained application). There are times your mind may stick to the object of focus. Even then periodically check and bring back re affirm your focus. Also when it comes to what you focus keep it on one subject of either the 4 Foundations of Mindfulness of 4 Brahmavihara and also note everything is conditioned hence subjected to the 3 characteristics. [Saṅkhitta Dhamma Sutta] When you let go of distraction, you have to do it properly. A distraction becomes a distraction because the sensation if gives if it is bodily. Even memories and through that pop up has a sensation associated with it. If there is a notable sensation have a look at it, and wait a little while with it - about 3 breaths maximum, and then come back to your meditation object. This may have a damping effect on subsequent distractions. So you seem to be applying the effort hence you seem to be doing the right thing. 

Insight is causality (4 Noble Truths, Dependent Origination and Conditional Relations) at the experiential level. Another insight what comes before this is that of the universal characteristics. When your mind is not tainted by perversions (Vipallasa), i.e., your mind is in touch with the universal characteristics. Then you see clearly, i.e., see things as they are (Yathā Bhūta ñāna Dassana) which leads to the insight of causality. Just before this you understand the practice that brought you to the point which is the Noble 8 Fold Path which also is part of the 4 Noble Truths which is comprehended in full with insight. At a more mundane level seeing that everything arises and passes can also be considered an insight. This is one station to realise causality and the universal characteristics. If you means Insight Meditation by Insight this is a practice which aims at trying to understand 

Perhaps you can try walking meditation. Be mindful of the sensations due to body part movements and sensation of touch of the dress and / or air on your legs. 

Be expectant in life as a house holder but not when meditating. When meditating focus on the task at hand. With regards to ideal time for meditation, it depends, from person to person and time to time. For some people morning sessions may work well while evenings may not, but for the same people evenings may work well in some periods. Hence it is best to practice at least 2 times a day. The heating up and cooling experience you mentioned is normal. People experience certain persisting parters of experience like burning sensation, acute pains, vibrations, etc., but these also will change after some time. Do not dwell of give too much importance to the experience but use it to eradicate your past store of Sankara as in the Pahana Suttas (Pahāna Sutta, Avijja Pahana Sutta 2). Be equanimous to the experience knowing it is impermanent (arising and passing). 

In both cases the action is the same but what differs is the intentions. Hence it is the intention that counts. Now lets take another example. 

The Buddha taught on how to come out of stress. This is systematised in the 4 Noble Truths. All animals feel the fear of death. This also can be a source of stress. Vipassana is a an integral part of overcoming stress. So keep up your pratice. Anapana especially creates more calmness and relaxation hence you can try this also. Anapana contains the full 4 foundations of mindfulness hence you can use this as means to liberation. See: ANAPANASATI - MINDFULNESS WITH BREATHING Unveiling the Secrets of Life: a Manual for Serious Beginners by BUDDHADASA BHIKKHU, Right Mindfulness: Memory & Ardency on the Buddhist Path by Thanissaro Bhikkhu The cravat is to pratice the right way under proper guidance of a teacher. Then you can overcome stress. Wrongly practiced this might create stress. You can try some formally organised courses: $URL$ IMC - International Meditation Centre, World Buddhist Directory 

There are instances where painful mental states or experiances are called hell. [Patala Sutta] E.g. If I do something that might ripen in being born in hell you also get the hellish feeling here and now, [Maha Dukkha-k,khandha Sutta, Cūla Dukkha-k,khandha Sutta] and in case you are born in the human world similar pains will be experienced. [Maha Kamma,vibhaṅga Sutta, Cūla Kamma Vibhaṅga Sutta] A more vivid description of hell is found in Bala Pandita Sutta, (Yama) Deva,dūta Sutta and Deva,dūta Sutta. Neyy’attha Nīt’attha Sutta mentions that the Buddha uses direct and indirect languages. Though these destinations may exist some of the descriptions maybe parables so you can draw an analogy of what is there to a concept that you might be familiar with as Arana Vibhanga Sutta mentions that when teaching Dhamma you should use common and familiar language giving allowance to the audience or region they are from. This does not mean that the destination are only exist in the mind or they are parables to experiences in this world. Also the Wikipedia articles seams mix and match from multiple schools. Also it would be an idea to keep these descriptions as per the wording of the Buddha and let the reader infer its meaning. With regard to the descriptions in the Suttas many of the experiences in hell will not have a description in common language as language is developed to describe what we come across in this world. What is mentioned would most likely give the best idea of the suffering involved in these worlds. 

This is mainly use to change. Wanted things not happening. Not coming in contact with wanted things, beings and stimuli. Or desirable experiences coming to an end (partly in relation to the above as it is undesirable for a desirable experience to end). Resulting mainly, as the world and even ourselves are not what we expect or in our control and being in wanting experiences we do not get. This includes our form and cognitive process which which takes on a particular form but we it to be different. 

Cūla Vedalla Sutta Use this as the basis to understand the 4 Noble Truths as unsatisfactoriness is the 1st Noble Truth and the link where Dependent Origination (DO) can be broken. 

It is about vitakka and vicāra. This also concentrates the mind by cutting out distractions as you continuously return to your anchor object. To put it in another way it is developing vitakka & vicāra which also results in concentration. 

2 session of 1 hour each sitting meditation generally works well for many, but this is not the true meditative practice. 

It should be verified through pratice by what you experience at the experiential level. If you experience something you know for a fact it is true. Normal you should: 

I am not sure if any one would burst out laughing at any stages of insight. This looks like hysteria to me. 

There is nothing wrong with enjoying beauty. What you should remember is that when you enjoy you get a feeling then there is a chance to get attached to this sensation. Also conditional reaction of you mind creates proliferation of reaction to beauty. This is what you have to put right. Be pro active than reactive to situations than dancing to the carrot and stick input from your sense door. 

The mind's nature is to roll in the future or past. Nothing to get too upset about. What you have to train it is to live in the present moment. Only way you can overcome this is: 

Vitakka Saṇṭhāna Sutta Teeth clenched and my tongue pressed against the palate used to gain unremitting mindfulness in the 1st case during the Bodhisattva's self mortification. He finds himself only being exhausted by this, but in the latter case it is recommended as the last resort action drive out unwholesome thoughts. 

Unsatisfied desires is also a source of misery and stress. This produces additional karma which also result in stress. 

Positive vibe associated with the positive through having a positive externality on the person concerned The entity rejoicing at good action creating positive karma and betterment on its own 

One of the main tenants in the Buddha Dhamma it the verify by trying it our yourself (Ehipassiko) and open for scientific scrutiny (Sandiṭṭhiko). Hence you can develop the Jhanas and see for your self if this is possible or not. Self verification and experience is the most convincing than people arguing favor or against something like tthis. Having said this, there is much research in these areas under Parapsychology though this might be view as pseudoscience. 

In addition you should seek inspiration from the Triple Gem and develop confidance / refuge in the Triple Gem with a view towards developing the qualities in the Triple Gem to complete your 3 fold training and come out of stress. Lack of confidence / refuge in the technique and practice would entail you to not practice properly hence not getting out of stress. To come out of you should identify stress, the reason behind the stress, that you should overcome stress and the way out of stress which is the 3 fold training.