I suspect this mostly is a result of need, and antipathy. First of all I think your premise that humans can't identify individual animals within a breed or species is false. People who spend significant time with animals like pet owners, farmers, and naturalists can differentiate between "their" animals and new animals much easier than people who aren't familiar with these animals. People can not only recognize "their" animals but can tell when "their" animals' behavior changes. This goes to show that when people spend time with an animal they have the same ability that you feel the crows demonstrate. You have to realize that crows spend inordinate amounts of time watching people. Since they spend so much more time watching us then we do watching them it is only natural that they recognize us better than we recognize them. Furthermore, it is an essential survival trait for a crow to recognize which humans are dangerous and which humans are benevolent. Humans have this ability too. With the proper training people can tell the difference between a gopher snake, a rattlesnake, and a king snake. The researchers trained the crows that one mask was dangerous, and the crows reaction demonstrated that they can be trained. Also notice in the study it was the mask the birds keyed on not the secondary traits like gait, size, clothing, etc. This means that the birds keyed in on the important difference, the mask, and not the individual in this case. This is like the ability for humans to distinguish a king snake from a coral snake. In our case it isn't all snakes that are dangerous, just the coral snake. In the crows' case it isn't all humans just the humans wearing a specific mask. Finally, crows have a tactical advantage over us because they have the high ground. It is much easier to observe individuals and figure out patterns when you're looking down on your subject compared to when you are observing from down below. This is doubly true when you can observe your subject from behind foliage in a tree. 

First, a note on terminology. There are several groups of knots that have a certain what I call topology. When that topology in the rope is tied around a fixed object, the resulting knot has one name, but when turned around that object then tied around the standing end of the rope, it has a different name. Further, some knots can also be used to join ends of two ropes, and then it will have yet a different name. Examples include the pairs you listed: 

(This discussion ignores things like external keels and tracking channels.) As a paddler, you will need to learn how your craft handles, and will observe these characteristics: 

At the same time, it contradicts my thoughts above, as "plying to windward" is equivalent to beating, and the reference to yachting and the America suggests fore-and-aft rigs. I just can't wrap my brain around wanting flatness in this situation. Please help me understand the interplay between the various forces acting on a sail and how the amount of belly helps and hurts in various points of sail. 

I didn't take any of these photos but here are some I found online to give you an idea: Granite Lake 

Here is a pic of my old pack for reference. While I currently want an answer for this specific pack I'd prefer a more general solution. Also while I'm sure it would be the most accurate I don't know if I'd be able to handle the math needed to calculate the volume based on the complex curves and angles that make up most packs. 

Normally the shorter cross piece would slide up and down the length of the staff to allow you to measure angles. That is going to be too hard to calibrate, unless you know the angles between enough stars to calibrate it yourself. If you can calibrate the cross staff then you can pick the latitude you want, sail to that plane and turn east or west to follow it. If you can't calibrate it you need to sit on your boat at night and adjust (whittle) the length of the shorter cross piece so it lines up with the North star or the Southern Cross and the horizon. Once this is accomplished then you can maintain your current latitude by repeating the sighting and correcting as needed. 

Burn an ordinary paraffin candle. There are several claims floating around that describe how some well-intentioned people are actually increasing their total CO2 emissions, by turning off their electric lights in favor of burning candles. As most of these articles are politically motivated, it is hard to find neutral and scientifically sound sources. What is clear is that burning candles definitely do emit CO2; how this compares to an electric bulb gets lost in the rhetoric. I will refer you to our partners over at Skeptics SE, who have a thread about this topic. 

With that said, I think you partially answer your own question- the two half-hitches holds better under load than does the double half-hitch. This is easy to test for yourself- tie each one in a small piece of rope around a convenient table leg or something, then pull backwards. You will find the double half-hitch slips more easily than the two half-hitches. 

To expand on an earlier answer, and what the OP himself mentions, I will add a few more elements. First, the count of persons on the trip. The rescuers need to know when they are done. If they've found four people and five went on the trip, for example, that means they keep searching. Add notes of any relevant medical information about each person, such as diabetic, heart condition, mobility issues, and so on. Next, a broad inventory of what equipment you have, to give some indication of how well prepared you are to aid your own survival and rescue. If you went out for what should have been a day hike without a tent and only a small lunch, for example, it might indicate a greater sense of urgency then if you went out for a week long trip with full kit. Finally, it may be useful to provide a description of your vehicle(s), to include license plate numbers, and at what trail head you will be parked. As a former member of the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, we would request this information when receiving a report of an overdue vessel, especially if the boat was launched from a trailer at a ramp. We would send someone by car to that ramp to look for the tow vehicle and trailer, to verify the boat had not been recovered at the ramp. Even for a boat at a marina, we might call that marina and ask if the owner's car was still in the parking lot. The same concept applies to an excursion in the woods instead of the waters. The rescuers will send someone to the trail head parking area to verify you have not returned to your vehicle. For further guidance, here is a sample float plan from the USCGAux, and here is a similar form for hikers from Los Angeles County Sheriff Department. 

Assuming you're outdoors you could always use a drone to monitor the hunter by video. To capture the audio you could have the hunter carry a walkie-talkie with a constantly keyed microphone, or start a cellphone call and mute your end. Alternatively you could have the hunter carry a mounted GoPro, or similar camera, like a police body camera. Then you can watch the film afterward with your friend to talk about the hunt. I would think that the mounted camera would be intimidating for some people, so they might not want to interact with the chaser. Of course the camera could be a good hook for the hunter to explain the game and possibly draw people in so your mileage may vary. The drone would offer a unique vantage point and wouldn't be as likely to scare away people but it would limit the search area and require piloting skills. Either way if the videos are well done then you could upload them to YouTube, or even try to submit them to TV networks as a new type of game show. This is the reason why I think using some form of video is really the best option. Not only does it give you a way to experience the hunt, it also gives you the potential to turn your game into a bigger opportunity. At the very least this game has helped you gain and demonstrate some marketable skills. Another option is to follow the hunter surreptitiously for the first part of the hunt. Basically you will be copying/practicing the techniques demonstrated in innumerable spy/action/etc movies where one character sneaks in the shadows behind the other. This works because you don't really need to be in your spot until the hunter is close to discovering you. Of course you'll miss out on the final puzzle(s) but you will add an extra layer to the game so being the hunted is more involved and exciting. 

The other day, this question (Why did wetting down canvas sails increase the speed of a sailing ship?) was asked regarding the historical practice of wetting down sails. The current answer quotes several sources describing two factors. First, is to swell the fibers of the sail and to seal the spaces between threads so that the wind blows along the sail, not through it. This makes perfect sense to me. The second, per the quoted sources, is to "to flatten their canvas" or "likewise making the sails stand flatter." This lies almost in direct contrast to my intuition. I've been taught (and I admit I am barely a novice sailor, and mostly a power-boater or paddle-boater) that a sail acts similar to an aircraft wing, so to make it create aerodynamic lift, it needs to have a wing-like shape to it, called a belly. This article describes the concept and why it is important. At first glance it wold seem that flattening a sail would reduce the pressure differential between the windward and leeward sides, thus reducing the lift generated by the sail, taking speed away from the sailboat. Yet both quoted sources in the linked answer refer to either racing or pursuit, and the wettened flat sails aiding the vessel's speed. In trying to justify this, I wondered whether it mattered if one was dealing with a square-rigged sail versus a fore-and-aft sail, and also if the vessel is on a beat, reach or run. For example, the sail on a square-rigger on either a broad reach or a run is essentially using the wind like a pushing hand, so maximizing area of resistance is more important than creating a lifting surface. One of the sources tends to confirm this partially: 

As you can see they have the same type of cord directly above the tool loop like I'd expect to secure the end of ice tools. I think the apparent forward angle I saw in the OP's photo was an artifact, and the cord is for securing the end of an ice tool. 

In all honesty the breakage pro/con isn't a big deal as long as you take care of your gear. The shot weights are pretty hardy and are further protected by the pouches when in use. Another thing that isn't a big deal even though I called it out is precise weight placement. While this is true, in my experience having the right amount of weight is much more important than exact placement of the weight assuming you're generally balanced. Same thing with weights shifting. While I've felt it before while skin diving the only time I think it could be a factor is in heavier surf. Of course heavier surf generally means low visibility so you probably aren't diving in it anyway. The last caveat I have is in regards to coated vs uncoated weights. I don't believe uncoated weights have a significant affect on the environment while diving, but I added it for people who are concerned. Even though the pro/con list looks unbalanced, my general impression is shot weights are more convenient and comfortable so if you're investing in a new system you might as well go that route. This is doubly true since you've had problems with solid weights. On the other hand, if you're looking for something hard wearing, possibly more environmentally friendly, utilitarian, and/or cheap go for the solid lead weights. Personally I have solid lead weights on my dive belt. This is mostly because they were most common when I started diving and I have never felt like I had a reason to switch to shot weights. I do have a belt though with a single pouch for shot weights that I use when snorkeling and spear fishing (free diving). I went that route for the comfort factor, and the ability easily adjust my weight depending on if I'm wearing a wet suit or not. 

Yes, pretty much every Inflatable PFD is designed like this. To give some indication, have a look at this model: Mustang Elite 38 and its owner's manual. (Note: this answer is not intended to be an advert, just an illustration of the concepts. I needed a specific model to be able to point out these features.) Take note of the fact that in the photos, there is a mouth tube on the side, in addition to the CO2 cartridge. This allows you to add air after inflating, or to inflate completely without using the CO2 at all. On page 7 of the manual, we read: 

Like you said, there are probably a hundred classes of adhesives available today, each one totally unsuitable for the things the others excel at. So we need to take a diagnostic approach here. You need flexible, which rules out many types of adhesives, including CA (Super glue), epoxies and resins, polyurethanes (Gorilla glue and I think hot glue is in this category), and many others. You also have one of your surfaces being non-porous. This rules out PVA (white glue) and Aliphatic (wood glue) and a few others which rely on "creeping" into the surfaces before curing to acheive full adhesion. So what's left? To be honest, not much, but I still haven't ruled out rubber based adhesives. This class includes rubber cement, contact cement, the Liquid Nails brand, and their relatives. Of these, I suggest some type of contact cement. Go to your favorite hardware store and read a few labels, I expect you will find one that matches your criteria. This article may help a bit as well. Note the usage directions: Apply the cement to both surfaces, allow to dry for a short time while still separated, then place the surfaces together with pressure. I am perhaps only 70/30 confident that contact cement will work for you. But I am 95/5 confident most other things will not work. Good luck, and tell us how this turns out. 

According to this resource one technique is to cake mud on the tree trunk at least 2 inches thick and 6 feet tall. The mud will protect the flames from spreading up the tree. Throughout the whole process it is important to keep an eye on this mud, and replenish it as needed. Remember your goal is to fell a tree not start a forest fire. Once the tree trunk is protected you build a small fire up against the trunk of the tree on the side you want it to fall. The basic plan is to allow the small fire to burn for a little while. When the flames die down you knock the charred wood off the tree trunk. As you repeat this process the fire should burn a wedge into the tree analogous to the wedge you'd cut with an axe or a saw. Once the tree becomes unstable they recommend building a fire all the way around the base of the tree. 

The short answer to your question is yes you can get a stove to light and cook your egg on the top of Everest if you really wanted to do it. 

1 I assume the same is true for aviators, but I am a boater, not a pilot, so I write what I know. 2 I feel a little guilty about providing U.S. Government sources for a Canadian thing. Apologies to Canadian Readers. 

Another good source, though not official, for Great Lakes boating information is creatively named great-lakes-sailing.com. Their page for Kingston tells us: 

The OP provides an nicely detailed self answer, but I would like to add that when such areas exist, they are of particular concern to mariners1, and are therefore well-documented for nautical navigation purposes. I will use as my example an area at the north-eastern end of Lake Ontario, as it begins to meet the St. Lawrence River. The anomaly lies in the channel between the city of Kingston, ON on the mainland and Wolfe Island, in Canadian waters2. NOAA chart 14802 covers this area. If you follow this link and zoom in, you will read this annotation on the chart: 

Having provided this answer, I absolutely do not recommend an inflatable style for your intended use-case. These are good for fishermen or sailors who desire more freedom of movement of their arms to handle nets, poles, sheets, winches, what have you. Foam-kapok style PFDs are often a little bulky or restrictive, and a folded-up inflatable is far less so. Further, these users only expect to inflate the PFD if they happen to fall overboard, and will subsequently lay still until their colleagues haul them back up. If you wear this while inflated, it will be extremely bulky and very restrictive of arm movements. Further, rivers are full of sharp rocks and tree branches. While inflatable PFDs are made for rough wear, they are not puncture-proof. Finally, even though the test procedure suggests leaving it inflated for 24 hours to ensure it remains fully inflated, these do loose some air over time, and all the bouncing around will accelerate that. Find yourself a high-quality foam-kapok Type III designed especially for your activity, and try it on for comfort before purchasing. 

What constitutes “best and easiest?” I suspect you don’t want to pay for a proper boat lift to drive down to the beach and pick up the boat. If feasible that would be the best safety wise and easiest in terms of physical effort. I once watched a crew of Peruvian fishermen pull a beached fishing trawler all the way onto the shore. Like you suggested in your question with enough bodies pushing or pulling you could move the boat anywhere you want. If you don’t have the manpower and have plenty of time you can trench around and under the pontoons. Once the trenches are deep enough you can flood them and float the boat out. Depending on what lake this is and the regulations you might get in trouble for enacting your engineering project. Another option that might work is to load up the back end to try to lift the nose. Depending on the slope of the beach you might be able to swamp the back of the boat enough to get the nose free. Of course you might screw up systems that weren’t designed to be submerged or grind the back end of the pontoons against the lake bed causing damage and/or increased resistance. One final option would be to put a couple of old tires between one or both pontoons and the front bumper of your pickup truck. The tires will hopefully protect the boat and the truck as you use the truck to push the boat back in the water.