Until Japan made a strategically foolish decision to attack Hawaii which invited the US into the war, Japan was winning the war in China (Manchuria) and other South East Asian countries. The SU was very weak in the east at the time without much naval power. There was no reason for Japan to be afraid of Soviet invasion. Japan defeated Russia in Russo-Japanese war in 1905 and the main reasons for Russia's defeat were weak Russian naval power and Russia's internal political situation. Japan had confidence in its military power in World War II, too much of which led to its defeat and surrender. 

Strong European countries such as Great Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Russia and other countries were expanding rapidly in the uncharted territories such as Africa, India, China, the Philippines, and Japan because they need to increase their trade and plunder natural resources from weak nations. The US was a late comer to this ever-intensifying competition and East Asian countries (China, the Philippines and Japan) were the only territories left for the US to compete with other European nations. China, through two Opium Wars, was weakened significantly and had to accept Western countries' power and influence, which led to the collapse of the Qing Dynasty. 

3) Demetrius is the first Prince of Theodoro to be known by name. There is no historical record on when or how the principality became independent from the Empire of Trebizond, nor indeed of when the principality was established. Nonetheless, due to Trebizond's remoteness and relative weakness, Gothia's dependence was never very strong in the first place, being largely confined to an annual tribute. It is possible that the Princes of Gothia merely substituted nominal subservience to Trebizond for Tartar overlordship. If we look further back in history, prior to Trapezuntine suzerainty, the Gothic Climata were part of the Byzantine Empire. Imperial power was constantly in flux over the centuries, however. It has been argued by Vasiliev that Crimea in fact broke with Constantinople shortly before the crusaders sacked the capital in 1204, as it is omitted both from the imperial treaty with Venice in 1198 as well as from Latin partition of the Byzantine Empire in 1204. Within a couple of decades the former Byzantine possessions in Crimea fell under the control of the newly established Byzantine rump state in Trebizond, though. 

Of course not. They have their own names such as AK-74, AK-103, AK-105, etc. and the latest version is AK-12. Why would people call AK-12 AK-47 which is far more outdated than AK-12? 'AK' stands for 'Automatic Kalashinikov' and 'Mikhail Kalashinikov' was the Russian general who designed the rifle. According to the production history of the linked Wikipedia page on AK-47, AK-47 is still being produced. 

Because they needed Japan as a trading base and gateway to China, India and other countries such as the Philippines. Japan was one of the few countries that have not been technically colonized in East Asia. Its strategic importance was too great to be overlooked by any country, especially the U.S. 

Adding to @axsv177's great answer, you need to note that the Soviet Union (SU) had a very weak naval power compared with Japan as the table in the linked Wikipedia article on Naval history of World War II shows. Japan had 16 aircraft carriers while the SU had none. And much of the Soviet fleet on the Baltic Sea was blocked in Leningrad and Kronshtadt by Finnish and German minefields during 1941–1944 and maimed by mines and air attacks according to the following Wikipedia article on Russian Navy. 

Bookshops were certainly becoming more common in Victorian England. In fact, the entire printed world exploded in the 19th century. Most of it was concentrated in London, which by 1860 housed 812 booksellers, of whom 211 were also publishers.1 Edinburgh, the Scottish capital, was home to another 120 booksellers, with 30 also publishing. In contrast, the Universal British Directory listed only 988 booksellers for the entire country at the end of the 18th century.2 At the same time, bookstores still had a long way to go. By the outbreak of the Second World War, there was four to five thousand booksellers operating within Great Britain.3 From one perspective then, bookstores were not "common" in Victorian Britain, at least not to the same extent that they would become in the 20th century. Nonetheless, by the later 19th century bookshops had broken into the mass consumer market. Historically, books had been prohibitively costly to own. This was still true up in the early 19th century. Books were still a low volume business; booksellers did not maintain much stocks but instead treated assisting clients in acquiring specific books as a core business.3 Even subscribers to private libraries, which were touted as a cheaper format for readers, were typically from the more prosperous elements of society.4 From the middle of the century onward, however, readerships spread far and wide. While improved literacy played a part, important gains in that area were reached by the 18th century. Instead, most of the credit should go to the mass availability of low cost books.6 The Industrial Revolution was yielding dividends, and technological innovations such as better papermaking and printing techniques drastically lowered the cost of printed publications. Newspapers were the most widespread. With reduced publishing costs after the repeal of taxation on newspapers, they became affordable to even the lower class at merely a penny or two. Likewise, specialised periodicals catering to disparate tastes and demographic groups began to emerge.4 Apart from writings targeting the likes of farmers or homemakers, family friendly works such as those of Charles Dickens were also published in periodicals. These would often be read to the whole family by a literate member. Periodical literature supplemented but did not replace conventional books; indeed books became more accessible than ever. In the second half of the century, book prices fell precipitously thanks to increased competition between booksellers at the retail level.5 Decades of abortive attempts at price fixing finally broke down after 1852, and for the next few decades booksellers entered a period of intensive, unrestricted mutual undercutting. The destructive price war depressed profit margins and bankrupted many merchants, but also meant late Victorian readers could expect a substantial discount on the cover price of books. By the time retailers and publishers finally cooperated to enact the price-fixing Net Book Agreement of 1899, books were being read by far more people than ever before. 

After the Independence War, the US was not capable of invading or colonizing other countries due to the lack of leadership and resources (it was not as powerful as other European nations). Throughout the middle of the 19th century especially after slavery abolition (note that the slave trading and cheap labor provided by slaves were two of the biggest contributors to the U.S. economy), the U.S. had to find another way to increase its trade. After China's borders were forced to open, it was a golden opportunity for the U.S. that it could never miss. 

Even though other countries in East Asia were either opened or colonized by European nations (except for a few including Korea), Japan was one of the few countries (including Korea) that have never been opened by European countries. Japan was strategically very important to the US as it was the geographically closest to the US and it still remained closed without much influence by Western countries. The US had to force Japan to open up its border so that it could take a strategic position and use Japan's land and resources to improve its trade and economy. From Japan's perspective, Japan watched what happened in China and it could not risk weakening itself as China did through the wars. Japan needed Western technology and weaponry to defend itself. That's why Japan had to take the offer made by the US. Conclusion: 

That 14th century passage of Richard eating Saracens is fictitious, for reasons @T.E.D. has gone into. Richard Coer de Lyon is a romance, not history. In this story, King Richard first became a cannibal when he requested pork to cure himself of a malady, and was given a Saracen instead - as a practical joke by his knights. 

It being tainted by Nazi/white supremacist uses notwithstanding, speaking of an "Aryan race" is still almost certainly rubbish. The modern Iranic peoples reached an Iran populated by ancient peoples such as the Mannaeans and the Elamites. When the Indo-Aryans migrated to India, they encountered native Dravidian peoples. Their modern descendents might an Indo-Iranian language, but they are a mix of different lineages just like everyone else. 

Even those who argue that Edward has always wanted William to succeed him do not consistently deny that the bequest happened. Eric John wrote a famously pro-Norman article defending William's claims, advancing a couple of arguments on the topic of Edward's last wishes. The first is based on Norman sources: 

$URL$ The above page maintained by University of Massachusetts Amherst professor David Fleming should meet your requirements, although he is an English lecturer and that timeline is evidently only for his Classical Rhetoric class. You'll find no "official" source for this per se - the dates usually given are determined mainly by convention. To be really academically rigorous, you should probably be linking an book or individual articles to attest to the dates of each period. Which is pretty overkill for dates of periods, though. Something like the article on Wikipedia, or the timeline on Ancient History Encyclopedia, or even just a information site like this should suffice.