Battle of Dornach (1499), part of a contemporary woodcut. Note the wind instrument on the left side. As with the Romans, one should beware of assuming the use musical instruments in the middle ages solely in relation to marching. For example, 

Carriages weren't just for the rich - they had cheap seats too (a basket on the back or sitting on the roof). The average speed seems to have been around 4 miles per hour. Ox-drawn carts were mostly used to carry goods but perhaps they accepted the odd hitch-hiker too. I'm not sure if your musician would have been able to hire a horse - that would perhaps have depended on how much he was able to earn from his profession. You mentioned travelling from Milan to Brussels. One option would have been through the Alps which took 5 or 6 days if going via Mont Cenis, depending on the season. This had been a popular route since at least the thirteenth century. Another option would have been going from Milan down to Genoa and then taking a boat to Marseille. Jordan Girardin's PhD thesis Travel in the Alps gives more details on this, as well as options for travelling through the Alps. Once in Marseilles, the (modern) map below gives an idea of how someone might get to Amsterdam largely by River. You can find information on travelling up the Rhone on this Wikipedia page Rhone (History). 

Sources: $URL$ $URL$ One thing that made identification difficult is that most Antoninus Pius coins show him with beard. 

Spain relied almost totally on US-controlled oil, and the British action helped persuade Franco to negotiate on Spanish neutrality. In return, American oil exports resumed at 80% of what they had previously been, and this was later cut by a third. In short, the Spanish had very little to spare but, despite this, 

SHORT ANSWER Brahms most likely based himself in Vienna because of better opportunities there. The political situation in 'Germany' (Hamburg) does not appear to have had any relevance. DETAILS There does not seem to be any evidence that Brahms left Germany (Hamburg, to be specific) due to the political situation. In fact, 1862 was when Bismarck was appointed Minister President of Prussia, and Brahms was a great admirer of Bismarck: 

But where from? There is over 300 miles (482 Km) of 'south coast', from Cornwall in the west to Kent in the east, the latter being much closer to London than the former. 

Source: David Shotter, 'Nero' Nero wouldn't have to have been paranoid to believe that his mother was planning to dispose of him, perhaps in favour of Britannicus (which made him a threat as well). Nero and Agrippina's relationship deteriorated further, as related by Shotter: 

Given that Hitler disputed all the other borders imposed by the Treaty of Versailles, why didn't he contest this one? Denmark was a much smaller 'target' than either Poland or Czechoslovakia and thus potentially easier to bully. Did Hitler think it wasn't important enough, or did he perhaps think that Britain (especially) would object more strongly than it did over other claims which were geographically more distant from Britain? 

The section of the map below is from a nautical chart by the Portuguese cartographer Pedro Reinel (c.1462 – c.1542). On it, Scotland is shown with a red St. Andrew's Cross on a white background. 

Their primary task was to assist the cook but they had other tasks as well as this excerpt from The complete servant by Samuel and Sarah Adams explains (cited here): 

It usually depends on how well the revionist history is backed up by evidence and how this evidence is interpreted, but this is by no means the only factor. Any historical work which wants to be taken seriously by scholars must back up arguments with evidence and not obviously distort or deny facts (e.g. claiming that the earth is only 6,000 years old). Scholars often just ignore anything that doesn’t meet these requirements (this is what is often termed 'pseudohistory'). Much revisionist history results from newly available evidence (e.g. documents released by governments after a certain time period) and new finds (e.g.archeological), while other revisionist history is a re-interpretation of evidence previously available. There are also many cases where historians have a different viewpoint, often because the evidence is inconclusive, and will seek to counter the arguments presented by another scholar. This is often done initially through peer reviews and articles in journals. Scholars also check how evidence which may run counter to the revised history has been dealt with – was this evidence acknowledged (and if so, how) or was it simply ignored? The importance of bibliographies has already been noted by Kargathia. I would add that one should also pay attention to how extensive the bibliography is. If only two or three sources were cited, were they written by people with qualifications in their fields of study? Do they all support the same theories or interpretations, or do they present contrasting views? The extensive use of footnotes is also something to look out for (but they are rarely found outside the academic world). When writing a PhD thesis, students are expected to use footnotes to cite sources (among other things) – this makes it much easier to check specific evidence. One should also look at the evidence itself and consider if the person recording events had an agenda. Was he aiming to entertain as well as inform his audience (in which case expect at least some exaggeration)? Did he have a sponsor (in which case unpleasant facts about the sponsor will probably be left out)? Even the objectivity of the ‘Father of Scientific History’ Thucydides has been questioned. A document may have been written at the time an event happened but that does in itself necessarily make it reliable evidence. For example, 12th century chroniclers give a generally unfavourable impression of William II but, given that they were all monks and that William II’s relations with the church were very poor (they didn’t approve of his lifestyle either), is it any surprise that he got a lot of bad press? In recognition of this, modern historians have reviewed some of the previously held views on this king and come up with other interpretations. Archaeological finds, on the other hand, present a different set of problems. There have been some notable forgeries (the most famous perhaps being Piltdown man) and the significance of archaeological finds are often hard to gauge without supporting evidence or context. Be aware also that, while there are many great documentaries on TV and YouTube, there is also a lot of rubbish - everything from sensationalism and exaggeration (to garner more viewers) to outright fabrication. It can be hard to tell sometimes what's reliable and what isn't, but if you read widely you'll begin to gain the knowledge and insight which will enable you to judge for yourself. 

Other sources consulted: The Climate of Rebellion in the Early Modern Ottoman Empire (2011) Rumor and Regicide (2010) An Ottoman Tragedy: History and Historiography at Play (2003) Osman's Dream: The History of the Ottoman Empire (2007) Erdal K.Yalcin, Who Killed Sultan Osman? (2003 or later) Mehrdad Kia, The Ottoman Empire (2008) II. Osman 

However, it seems that the harsh policies towards Buddhists and the high level of corruption may have been a source of embarrassment for, in a 1963 issue of the Catholic Weekly, 

POSTSCRIPT After this venture into surveying, Keith does not appear to have pursued this career path any further. He held various other jobs, including one as a teacher, but spent much of the rest of his life in dispute with other Quakers. He eventually became an Anglican and died in poverty in England in 1716. 

A 1973 photograph of The New Inn, Gloucester—the most complete surviving example in Britain of a medieval courtyard inn. Attrib: Alan Longbottom [CC BY-SA 2.0 ($URL$ via Wikimedia Commons As to profitability (in the late medieval period at least), this abstract on Hare's book states: 

Rankin mentions the Greek city states here but he fails to note that Spartan women had more rights than those in other Greek city states, and that Spartan women could sleep with another man for the purpose of procreation if the husband agreed. As a consequence, Spartan women were regarded as being promiscuous by other Greeks, a point which actually lends weight to Rankin’s argument. We should also consider, as John King does, that 

Birmingham: In a BBC History article, An Air Raid Incident from World War Two relating the experiences of a Birmingham teenager during the Birmingham Blitz, the writer says (my highlighting): 

The Baylonians are believed to have been the first to discover what we might recognize as soap but their are conflicting opinions as to whether it was used to clean kitchenware (for example, see here and here). Other ancient civilizations such as the Egyptians also had soap. There were different mixtures, perhaps to suit different purposes. The ingredients of these mixtures included two or more of: animal and vegetable fats, ash, alkaline salts and oils. During the the Zhou Dynasty (1050 BC to 256 BC), the Chinese 

Ong Khan's realm bordered that of many rulers who were constantly seeking to expand their lands. The Tartars were on Ong Khan's eastern border and, as vassals of the Jurchen, may have been too powerful a force for to meddle with at the time. Ong Khan does not appear to have been a particularly capable warlord. Temujin's family were outcasts so Ong Khan may have been neither inclined nor able to help them. He may also have been too preoccupied dealing with family rivals (he had had several of his brothers killed and was later temporarily deposed by an uncle). According to Atwood, Ong Khan was not an especially admirable character: 

This (older) source gives different numbers, but the top two flag carriers are the same. Number of Slaves Transported by each European Country, 1440 to 1870 

However, despite the discovery in Vienna of the remains of a camel which was clearly used for purposes other than transport, the Ottomans do not appear to have used many (or even any) of these beasts for fighting on the campaigns in Austria. All of the sources I have consulted on the Ottoman army only mention camels as beasts of burden. The Ottoman cavalry was comprised mostly (maybe even exclusively) of horses, not camels, and one camel 'find' cannot be interpreted as evidence of a unit of camel cavalry – maybe this camel was simply ridden by someone in the Ottomans' multi-national army (which included Arabs) who was more used to camels than horses. Finally, it should be pointed out that the Ottomans didn’t just lose lots of camels in 1529. They also lost much of their artillery, many janissaries and thousands of infantrymen (but no one would suggest not taking any of these). The light infantry seemed to have fared best but, as the Wikipedia entry points out, they weren’t much in a siege. (all highlighting is mine, not the sources') Additional sources: D. Nicolle & A. McBride, ‘Armies of the Ottoman Turks, 1300 – 1774’ Daniel Goffman, ‘The Ottoman Empire and Early Modern Europe’ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$