This sort of entrenched social behavior is likely to be extremely difficult to tackle - especially since (from what you say) it's not exactly uncommon and if I read you correctly you would be approaching them as a subordinate. I'm not in any way condoning or supporting this sort of behavior but realistically I think bringing this up yourself is likely to result in them either going on the defensive or just not getting "it". Your best chance (and I think it's relatively slim to be honest) is to raise it in response to them if they bring up the question of why people leave. Otherwise I'd steer well clear. 

Hopefully this will make your manager see that the previous pattern wasn't helpful and was actively damaging team morale and inter-team cooperation and they'll be able to work with you to repair that. That's the manager's job. If you don't get anywhere I think you just have to do what you can to avoid saying anything that the other team will take as a criticism in the feedback sessions, if need be just give a vague answer about how you aren't too sure about the problems they are facing as your own team has it's hands full staying on top of things, it's not great but it might be the best you can do if your manager won't manage. 

While I think you actually have a pretty solid reason to be looking for a pay increase given the role you're doing requires additional skills to what you were hired on to do and have already demonstrated your "value" to the company by being the only current employee with those skills. I think the 90 day mark is probably too soon to realistically expect them to be making a change like that and while "budget" can be a convenient excuse to hide behind I see no reason not to believe it here. Salaries are often a significant portion of a companies budget and they often plan them relatively far in advance, and while it's not unheard of for employers to be able to squeeze some extra out in exigent circumstances this is finite and will only be used sparingly so I think for now you can take the comments at face value. I do think that raising the question was a good idea though - simply because it will be useful as part of a a longer term strategy, if the type of work you are doing carries on in the same vein (as they seemed to indicate during the review) then the next time a review rolls around you can say something like: 

There's a distinct possibility of this, even if this is allowable contractually it may be frowned upon and any customer looking to hire you away from your current employer would have to consider that it may have adverse effects on their business relationship with your employer and if they value that relationship higher than any potential gain from hiring you directly then they may well give your employer a heads up. 

When a technical test is given pre-interview it is often being used to narrow down the list of candidates to those that they wish to interview (it's how I do it when recruiting developers - check they have the baseline skills to do the job and then check "fit" for the job at interview) so a poor performance on such a test may well scupper any chances of getting to the interview stage. I wouldn't lose hope just yet though.. not every company will cull candidates at this stage and even those that do may still interview you as it depends not only on how you performed on the test but also how the other candidates did and it is very easy to fall into the trap of thinking you did worse that is actually the case - especially when you are unfamiliar with this sort of test. At this stage all you can really do is carry on with your job hunt as before and if they get back to you they get back to you. 

I appreciate that this is easier said than done but you need to convey your concerns about the potential outcome of the project (and your ability to impact it) while avoiding any explicit or implicit mention that you won't do it. If you can try and take a good look at where the project is currently and come up with some realistic goals you think can be achieveable, over what timescales and if there are additional things your manager (or anyone else) can do to help. Ideally write up something briefly documenting what you come up with. Then have a sit down with your boss: 

By allowing for uncertainty in your own recollection of events you are implicitly suggesting that lapses in memory aren't a big deal. Doing it this way the first thing that contradicts them is an e-mail which is not only harder to dispute from a factual perspective but also you can't exactly get in to a shouting match with an e-mail. 

The individual rules vary slightly between the different Schengen-zone countries but I'm not aware of any that specifically require a degree to qualify. That's the good news. The bad news is that they are an utter pain to get. It's the employer who has to apply for the permit and it's an expensive, excruciating, red tape-leaden nightmare that requires the company to put forward a convincing argument as to why they are hiring a non-European resident for the role rather than a "local" and unless you've got some very unique and desirable skills and experience most simply won't even attempt it. I appreciate that this probably isn't what you wanted to hear.. sorry! 

I'm assuming by this you mean you are worried about looking like someone who doesn't want to do anything? That being the case then this is precisely why I suggest the "keen and enthusiastic" approach above. 

I probably wouldn't advertise that you intend on only being there for X months but I would say yes apply for roles - if nothing else you don't know what the future will bring and you're best off taking care of yourself and your needs. Assuming you intend on working/studying in the tech industry then the experience will do you far more good than an unrelated temp job somewhere. Plus you get to earn some money as well so it's win-win. 

It's worth bearing in mind that a "guarantee" of a job isn't anything of the sort - an unscrupulous employer could say that they "guarantee" you a job once your internship ends and then immediately serve you a week's notice. Of course the same is true at company B so you either way you are carrying some risk. There's nothing wrong with asking though and you just have to make your own judgement on whether you feel they are trustworthy. Asking in your situation is complicated a little bit by the fact that you have already raised the question (and been rebuffed) but given the situation has changed for you since you last had the talk with your boss it's legitimate to raise it again and really unemotional honesty is your best approach here. Something like: 

Whether you are a manager or not is irrelevent - a notice period above the statuatory minimum may be put in place for any job if both parties agree. Notice though the key word there "agree". From your mention of "Brexit" I'm assuming you are in the UK, that being the case they can't change your contract without your consent. However you do need to make sure that they are aware that you aren't consenting to the change (remaining silent is generally seen as tacit agreement), if you want to fight the change then you have a few options: 

While a Masters is a fine achievement (disclaimer: I have one so I might be a little bit biased) and it does count for something when it comes to the job search it isn't even close to counting as 2 years of "work experience", it gives you perhaps a 6 month jump on equivalent non-masters qualified graduates and most of that comes from the fact that you're a bit older as a result. Academic qualifications are great and I absolutely think they are a good foundation for an IT career - they just don't translate into the same thing as experience. Generally if employers are asking for X years experience you might get away with a bit less than that if your CV and skills are impressive or if experienced candidates are thin on the ground. Still as the saying goes "you don't ask, you don't get" so you haven't really got anything to lose by applying, and occasionally the experience requirements are just job posting boiler plate! 

If this isn't just a bit of throw away hyperbole then this is a telling statement about how you are viewing things - this is not something that should be affecting you even remotely as deeply as it seems to be! How a form is implemented or how tasks are tracked are not things that are big moral issues and things that reflect on who you are as a person. It's not like you are being asked to perform cruel human experimentation! The ability to be flexible and to compromise is critical to working in teams so this could be severely career limiting if you can't find a way to reconcile the fact that sometimes when working with others you are going to have to go along with things that aren't the way you would do them. I don't mean this to sound harsh but I've worked with developers (and other tech disciplines) who thought/worked the way you did and they were, without exception an utter nightmare to work with. Don't be that guy/girl! 

Don't do this Yeah it's pretty unprofessional - and it probably gives your employer IP rights over anything you develop this way. Your contract should specify the exact details but even if there is no specific clause that doesn't mean you are in the clear. Did I mention not to do this? EDIT In a recent comment OP you gave further examples of the sort of thing you might do: 

If I were the supervisor I'd definitely want to know. I would arrange to have a chat with your supervisor just before you leave (ideally last day if you can manage it). If you have any evidence of the lie make sure you take it with you, if you don't have any evidence then make sure you report it as a suspicion only. Stress that you aren't wanting to throw anyone under a bus but you are just letting the supervisor know what you know. 

The first question that needs addressing is whether you are just looking to avoid getting fired over this incident or whether you genuinely feel that you have a drinking problem. If it's the former then don't go down that path, doing so would just be a dishonest attempt to weasel out of your current situation which is not only unethical (and disrespectful to those with genuine substance abuse problems) but would also likely become apparent to your employer that it's not genuine quite quickly and that could backfire massively! I think most companies would look more favorably on someone who made a genuine mistake and took responsibility for that mistake than someone who tried to make out it was a "disability" when it wasn't. As a general rule people who are alcoholics can't just "cut down a bit" (pretty much by definition) and have to stop drinking completely. If this was just a one-time screw up with having a bit too much to drink and making a fool of yourself then you need to be honest about that with your employer - apologise and make it clear that it will never happen again. I'm not judging here, I'd imagine that most people who drink have had a moment like that. I know I have (albeit not in the work environment) and I only drink alcohol half a dozen times a year max! On the other hand if you do feel that you have a genuine problem and this was just the incident that brought the problem to a head then I would say something like this: 

You can but I really wouldn't recommend taking this approach, especially since you were doing them before and it's only the increased frequency that is the real issue here and addressing that is perfectly reasonable. You should talk to your manager and focus on the increased frequency of Saturday working, not on anything else. You need to forget about what your other coworkers do or don't do and any notion of "fairness" and talk about what you are prepared to do. Something like: 

This would suggest to me that the boss might be the best person to talk to about your concerns rather than your direct supervisor. The approach I suggested above is still the same one I would take to be honest. You do need to be additionally careful however not to throw your supervisor under the bus in the process. Avoid saying bad things about them, even if the boss starts it. I've seen that sort of thing come back to bite people in the behind way too many times! 

and then have you ask the questions that could have technical answers - this should lead a candidate to the expectation of giving a technical answer. 

You don't mention where you are located but certainly in the UK (where I am) this would be pretty much unheard of. A company allowing a random person who doesn't work there, isn't interviewing to work there, and is neither a supplier nor a customer to come in and use up the time of their staff when they have literally nothing to gain from doing so is rather unlikely to say the least! And that's before you even starting thinking about the security/intellectual properties issues that sort of thing could open up if the company worked on anything even remotely sensitive. In a previous job at a web development shop I was tasked to provide some 1-1 coding tuition to an outside individual but they were paying for the time (in fact they were paying double our usual hourly rate!) and so they counted as a client. Honestly I think your goals are admirable but your idea is IMO a non-starter. You would likely be much better off looking into workshops, training courses, conferences and meet ups/hackathons. 

I would always take such a line at face value. It seems to be pretty standard in recruiter e-mails that I've seen and I've never had a problem with not replying, about the only times I would reply in this case would be if I had something specific to say such as if I know someone who might be. Honestly I think this recruiter is just struggling to fill this vacancy and figured it was worth a shot to re-email their contact list in the event that someone who would be interested had missed the original e-mail. For the side question I would generally treat it the same, if I had a reasonable rapport with the person sending the mail I might drop a quick reply back in the negative but I certainly don't think there is any obligation or expectation for you to do so.