Unquestionably Yes. Without a doubt Homo Sapiens is the most adaptable species on Mother Nature. Evolution Through the last 5 million years Homo Sapiens (latin: wise man) has toughed it out through (geologically) swift climate change, near extinction, and unbridled warfare. Unlike our cousins in the Homo Genus, we've adapted at every single turn or died off. As glaciation swept back and forth throughout Europe wiping out Homo Neanderthalensis (and potentially Homo Erectus), we survived. If the Toba catastrophe theory holds true, then 70,000 years ago Mother Nature's toying with the Toba Supervolcano failed to kill us. Yes we were reduced to 3-10,000; but like every other catastrophe and change in climate in the previous 5 million years, we persevered. As warm temperatures broke the spine of the last Ice Age, we swept forth. Within a mere 70,000 years we populated every unfrozen continent, learning to adapt to nearly every imaginable biome on earth. Desert, Ice, Tundra, Jungle? Nothing stopped our advance. Even the great pacific ocean couldn't hold back the ancient polynesians! Civilization Eventually we settled down, and began to build civilization itself. We mastered stone and mud, then copper, followed by iron. We learned engineering, astronomy, mathematics, and language. We passed the knowledge we learned to our descendants, first through oral tales, then through the precision of written language. We learned how to weather any storm, how to hunt, trap, or tame any beast. Eventually we learned to question our existence and environment. Such philosophy developed into inquiry, then science. Soon we learned how to break down Mother Nature into her constituent parts. All of a sudden, the unknown failed to hold us back. We created gunpowder, industry, and slavery. We learned, through revolt and diplomacy, to never underestimate the human spirit under oppression. We created guns and rifles, chemical weapons, and primitive bioweapons (small pox rags against Native Americans). Then we discovered nuclear science and rocketry. We developed the nuclear weapon and rockets. We extended our reach beyond Mother Nature's Bosom. Then we learned to fear our own existence. We learned to fear how easily we can wipe ourselves out; but, as with any inquiry, we learned how well we may endure such apocalyptic scenarios. Then in (not so) secret, we began to prepare contingency plans against such doomsday scenarios. We even included contingencies against the most far fetched of scenarios! The Transformation Every single animal on Mother Nature (save Homo Sapiens) has grown 8x larger. We'll take a beating initially for sure; but, we've prepared for far worse. We have tasers, pesticides, and floodlights. We have guns and walls, electric fences and ultrasonic weapons. We have airplanes and aircraft carriers. We have rockets and satellites. We have bioweapons and chemical weapons. And in the event where all bets are off, we have tens of thousands of nuclear weapons. 

Modern/Theoretical Why don't we begin with modern/theoretical science that we may discover within the 

What animals would pose an existential threat to mankind? When would the scientific revolution occur in this new world? 

Eeek. That seems to be the limit of what actually generated in those ancient times. But times has changed. Perhaps the imperium and democrats regularly generate and use antimatter, but in missile form. Science-Fiction Let's move forward to what has been proposed in science fiction! I'll use this list for simplicity. Akira's Orbital Laser (6.3E16J) No Energy shields? Satellite based orbital laser? Sounds promising; but, we're looking for BOMBS not awesome repeatable weapons we can attack to a cloaked fighter. Or are we? Photon Torpedoes (2.7E17J) Really just a high-tech antimatter torpedo. Illudium Q-36 Explosive Space Modulator (2.2E32 J) Created by Marvin The Martian of the infamous ancient Looney Tunes. Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device (1.78E48 J) As a physicist and developer, I have no clue how they calculated this one. Nevertheless, the principle is sound: Wormholes/portals. Create a bomb that creates a portal upon impact. Always ensure that portal is connected to something such as ... a star and the temperatures will strip away the ship. Hook up the portal to a counterpart orbiting a black hole... and you'll wipe out the entire fleet. The Little Doctor (9.8E58 J) Ah, The Little Doctor from Ender's Game. Upon impact it causes a chain reaction that rips apart molecular bonds, spreading to all nearby matter. A single one of these may destroy fleets or planets. Notable Mentions Singularity Bomb A popular scifi and high-scifi trope. Harness the power of a singularity (colloquially; black hole) into a weapon. Best example I can recall would be the Red Matter from Star Trek which annihilated a planet. Speaking more generally though, such a weapon, when detonated, would create a singularity. Immediately everything around it will be subjected to gravitational shearing and strength powerful enough to rip apart not only stars but neutron stars as well. Mind you, neutron stars have a density on the order of 1E17 kg/m^3 compared to the Imperium's and Democrat's 2.3E3 kg/m^3 armor. Suffice it to say that a single one of these will undoubtedly annihilate an entire fleet. Effectiveness: 1:1,000,000+ Oh. And I forgot to mention the obscene time dilation, and the pillar of light that would be left in your awesome wake. Who would dare to challenge thee? Warp Bomb You have warp drives. They expand and contract space to move your vessels across vast distances without accelerating them. More importantly, if your (my?) engineers were to construct a bomb that uses the same principles to chaotically warp space within a region around the bomb. This will generate shearing effects that rapidly expands and contracts space asymmetrically. Since spatial curvature produces the gravitational force and rapidly fluctuating spatial curvature generates gravitational waves it follows that this would create a rapidly fluctuating gravitational field that may be powerful enough to shear matter. Given it's gravitational in nature, no armor can resist or dilute the effect, only astronomical distances. Furthermore, given the strengths of your warp drives, and the intent for this weaponized use, we may easily leverage warp-physics to make the bomb more powerful than warp drives; after all, we don't care if it's unstable, in fact we'd prefer it that way. This gaurantees that it may destroy the target; but, even if we use unstable warp drives powerful enough to move planetoids (ignoring space and weight limits on our bombers), it's not enough to wipe out fleets of millions. Conclusion The most powerful of these are The Little Doctor, The Singularity Bomb, and the Warp Bomb. The first two are capable of wiping out entire fleets whereas the last is guaranteed to eliminate capital ships. In my opinion I believe the Singularity Bomb to be the most effective. It causes the most destruction (wiping out entire fleets and/or planetoids) while also being the most plausible in your universe. I say this because I've studied Alcubierre Warp Drives. Generating a warp bubble requires obscene amounts of matter and exotic matter (1E64 kg) to generate the field. Recent publications have theoretical shown that the this limit can be reduced dramatically; but, the warp speed is also reduced abysmally as well. Given your universe, I suspect either civilization is capable of working with a comparably obscene amount of matter. Answer: Singularity Bomb. 

The station's center of mass will move from the ring's center to a point off center opposite of the destruction (assuming the destruction uniformly affect a single area of the ring). This will cause the parent to induce a net gravitational force on the structure's center of mass which now orbits the parent several miles off the parent's center of mass. This force will induce angular momentum and precession of the entire station and cause the entire station to spin and orbit around the parent without stability. Example: Your station is built around Earth, but well below The Moon's orbit. Bombs destroy 10-20% of the station's ring closest to The Moon. The ring's center of mass moves from the center of Earth, to miles off center but opposite of the moon. Earth's gravitational force will then pull the entire station towards the moon, throwing it off its original orbit. The parts of the station opposite of the closest to the destruction will lift to a higher orbit while parts of the station on the opposite side (where destruction was the least or nonexistent) will drop closer to Earth. But, the ring already has a spin, so this center of mass will also spin around the Earth's center of mass. As a result, the parts of the station closest to the destruction will swing about a higher orbit while the parts of the station farthest from the destruction swings about lower orbits. Without quick action to combat the introduced precession, the station runs the risk of brushing to close to the atmosphere and causing permanent destruction. 

Magic as an essential tool for pre-industrial genetic engineering has been widely used in two franchises: Geneforge and Ravnica. Additionally, your description of women is reminiscent of the Bene-Gesserit. Geneforge The Geneforge series by Spiderweb Software follows a conflict between the Shapers and their creations. The Shapers are a sect of magicians who learned how to use magic to create and manipulate life. First they learned that magic applied to certain reagents (such as a reptile egg) would modify the embryos within. Through massive amounts of trial and error they learned which applications of magic produced optimized results such as breathing fire (Fyora), semi-intelligent servants, or entire ecosystems. Then they learned how to magically charge organic reagents into a universal reagent: essence. Eventually, they learned how to create a (magical?) microscope. In doing so they were able to view the fundamental 'scrolls' (DNA) in all living things. Then by mapping these scrolls and tracking what changed with magical application, they learned how to vastly improve their techniques in a targeted manner rather than through endless trial and error. This culminated in the creation of the Geneforge, a pool of essence designed to rewrite and augment the scrolls of a shaper or creation. Simic Combine In the Magic The Gathering plane of Ravnica, a city covers the entire plane and is controlled by 10 guilds. One of the guilds, the Simic Combine, was created to preserve the health of all life-forms on the plane. Eventually, one of its Guild Masters, Momir Vig, decided to lead the guild in a new direction: to improve life. Drawing upon their study of life, medicines, and biomancy. In particular their biomancers uses biomancy to mutate lifeforms or create new biotools such as the Cytoplasts. Bene-Gesserit In Frank Herbert's Dune Saga, the most active and prominent faction is the Bene Gesserit. They are a powerful and ancient order of women with a host of physical and mental abilities that earn them the moniker of "witches". In particular, by taking a poison that brings them to the edge of death, they gain the ability to control their internal biochemistry and access the memories of their female ancestors. The former enables them to create an antidote to the poison before it kills them. Those who fail this 'trial' die. In several instances it's pointed out that their biochemical control enables them to create poisons, or alter pregnancies up to and including determining the gender of their child. Your Case You state the following: 

By being considerate of their usage of the wood to honor the being it came from. Consider how when Native Americans hunt animals they pointedly make use of every part of the animal. This is both industriously efficient and a ritual. I would expect to see something similar for your population. At a societal level this would impart a mix of ritualism in construction and industry possibly similar that seen in Warhammer 40K with machine spirits. Consider the inverse If objects constructed from wood are 'honored', what would the destruction or ill-usage of such wood connote? 

The station uses a 24 hour time-keeping system split into 3 shifts, 8 hours each. Each shift is staffed by members of the countries facing the station during that shift. Typically this amounts to 1/3 of Earth's organizations. The station must orbit Earth in such a manner that it observes Earth's entire rotation. You expect that it must be stationary for this. 

This would depend on the culture in question. Modern vegetarians and vegans abhor the consumption or usage and consumption of animal meat and byproducts whereas Native Americans and Hindus are not as strict despite worshiping animal gods or spirits. 

Whenever terraforming Mars comes up, the subject of its magnetosphere inevitably arises. When that happens, someone is bound to suggest using nukes to restart the core a la "The Core". Assuming the following: 

The Great Wall of China had already been constructed in whole (by ~100BCE) and part (by ~700 BCE). The Romans had constructed aqueducts (312 BCE) and roads (~300BCE). The Romans had begun using hydraulic mining in NW Spain by 25BCE. The Romans and Chinese had 200 and 300 years of respective experience forging steel. The Chinese had 500 years of crossbows. Sun Tzu's Art of War was written by 500BCE. (though not a technology it was an impressive and lasting achievement nonetheless) 

Soviet RDS-220 (Tsar Bomba, Ivan, Vanya) Predicted maximum yield: 100 PetaJoules (1E17J) Antimatter Predicted maximum yield: 1.8E14 Joules per gram. Hmm. We have AI, warp, cloaking, and FTL Technolgy. Furthermore, we can construct ships up to 28km long and transform planetoids (Dwarf planets) into ships. Mind you, planetoids can go up to a diameters up to 2372km (pluto) or (if OP meant asteroids) 975km (Ceres). In that case, I (the noble) have the technology to construct particle accelerators that would dwarf CERN's LHC on the ancient earth. Furthermore, CERN had already successfully trapped antimatter in those ancient times12 and was nearly detonated 3! Oh, and best of all, that ancient machine was not very efficient at generating antimatter; but, I can build it BIGGER and BETTER with our technology. Thus, it shouldn't be too difficult to produce 1 kilogram of antimatter, let alone 10kg - 1Mg. In order, they'd have an effective yield of: