Once you have answered all these questions, and you have put the hours in on the bike, then you are ready for what will surely be an amazing adventure. 

From the knobs, that looks like a Continental X-King, but not the 'Protection' version as no checker pattern on the sidewall. What you show in the pictures is quite normal to see on X-Kings (and some other tyres), and its quite safe to ride. All that has happened is some of the very thin outer coating has worn off, but the structure of the tyre will be intact. See review from Pro rider for an even more extreme example. 

Yes, there is a small difference. It is more efficient to ride in larger gears as the chain wraps around them at lesser angles resulting in less friction. $URL$ 

Any of the trainers you mentioned should be fine for your needs - find workouts that work on either improving your lactate threshold, or improving the force you can apply to the pedals at low cadence. If you want to more closely mimic hill climbing, then put your front wheel on a tall riser block, ride with your hands on the tops of the bars, and concentrate on pedalling smoothly from the hips. For reference, I use the Fluid² you mentioned, and have seen good gains over the last 12 months doing 2-4 minute big gear intervals (60rpm) to build leg strength and get used to applying force smoothly. 

Well the short answer is No, this is not nearly enough. Long distance rides are a test of your bodies efficiency as a pedalling engine. This comes in terms of developing mechanical efficiency, muscular endurance and aerobic endurance. Spin sessions are fine for a general workout, but they don't replace getting out on your actual bike. For rides of this distance, there really is no substitute for getting out and spending time in the saddle. You need a good steady diet of 3hr+ rides at least once a week to build up to this. Most training plans advocate increasing the weekly long ride by no more than 10% per week, so you might build up something like: 

Well firstly, no, you are not getting flats because you are riding dirt roads too often - this seems like exactly the terrain the bike is designed for. Your punctures are most likely just a result of bad luck, however the cheap tyres common to entry level bikes are often very thin and puncture prone and may also be the culprit. The best solution would be to change to a heavy duty touring type tyre with a thick anti puncture layer, however in the short term at least this will also be the most expensive option. If you get tubes with removable valve cores you can inject any brand of well regarded sealant (Stans/Conti/Bontrager/OrangeSeal etc) - this is more hassle, but should resolve your problem more cheaply. 

The good folks at Bike Radar have already covered this in pretty good detail in a two part article: Part 1 and Part 2 There's also a chunky thread on the Pinkbike forums that has pictures and descriptions of loads of different setups: Pinkbike - Basic Full Suspension Types / Reference With Pictures In regards to price, it is not the suspension setup making the difference, it is the quality of the components. 

Fuel/Nutrition How are you planning to fuel? You'll need to figure this out too and incorporate it into your training to find out how your body responds. 

Yes, this is absolutely normal, and yes, its also trainable. Basically, from the information you have given, you have just tried to do too much too soon. You did 5000km last year which averages around 100km/wk and you have now asked your body to do 340km in the space of 4 days which is a massive leap. Since you are already able to complete a 200km ride, i'm sure you know a lot of the following already, but hopefully you find something useful. From a training perspective, you need to build your volume and your endurance up slowly. Aim for consistency rather than going on massive rides then spending long periods recovering. For your stated goal, I would be looking to incorporate back to back long rides into your training. Maybe start out with 80km on consecutive days and add ~10% per week. (Easy/rest week every 4th week). It'll take a few months, and it'll be hard, but once you can do around 140km on back to back days you will be ready. Try to combine this with shorter rides on 2 other days of the week. During the training rides, pay close attention to your effort level and how you are feeling, try not to push too hard, except in the last week before rest week when you can afford to dig a little deeper. Consistently doing long rides at a hard intensity is likely to result in overtraining (more later). Make sure to fuel your ride correctly with 240-300kcal of carbohydrate per hour, and take on 500-750ml of fluid per hour. When you get home from the ride, fuelling is also really important. The first thing to do is get a recovery drink in. 250-300kcal with a 3:1 carb/protein ratio. Your body is most receptive to the nutrients for the first 2 hours, but particularly so in the first 30 mins. After a shower, take another small carb/protein based meal (eggs on toast for example) and have a short nap if possible. This allows your body to focus on recovering, and allows your immune system to return to normal levels. Over the course of your training, especially when challenging yourself to progress quickly, its important to pay careful attention to your body to watch for signs of overtraining. If you notice lethargy, unexplained muscle soreness, mood swings, general grumpyness and/or apathy(towards the bike and/or other things) lasting more than a couple of days you probably need to back off a little and allow the body to recover. 

Heavy riders that are held back by their weight and lack the muscular endurance to sustain a high power output over a long period Weaker riders who lack the raw leg power to push the pedals round. 

Fat bike tyres (3.8" or bigger) are unlikely to fit in the frame or fork of your BSO. In addition, such large tyres require wider rims (typically 50-100mm internal width) which you are also unlikely to have. Finally, fat tyres have their advantage in 'floating' over sand or snow, however they won't grip on ice as well as a studded tyre. 

Cadence - mostly down to personal preference, but the most common advice is actually to aim for 90-100rpm. I honestly wouldn't worry too much about it though. Food - don't try out something on the day that you didn't test beforehand - when working hard, this can lead to unfortunate emergency visits to the bushes! Clothing - Similar to above, don't try something untested on race day - the last thing you want is to get 50km in and find your shorts have rubbed all the skin off your thighs. Helmet - I don't know the rules for your particular event, but many rides operate a 'no helmet, no ride' policy, often sticking your timing chip to your helmet as proof you have it Repair kit - Multi-tool, spare tube and pump/co2 as a minimum. Pacing - Don't get overexcited and chase faster riders for the first hour - this can lead to the rest of the ride being quite a miserable experience. 

If you have checked everything external as per Criggie's answer, then the problem could be wheel bearings. I had the same issue as you describe last year and it was resolved by replacing wheel bearings (fair enough after 8000km). 

It's impossible to be 100% sure as the link you provided does not provide the internal width of your rims. However since you are going to a smaller tyre there should be no problems with frame clearance which makes it extremely likely the new 2.0 tyre will be fine 

The specific problems will depend on your current road bike. You can use clip on aero bars and a nice set of deep section wheels to make a considerable performance improvement over a normal road bike setup. It will never be as fast as a proper tri bike, but as an intermediate step its a good compromise. The 2 main things you will miss are aerodynamics and shifters on the aero bars. When you do come to upgrade, as noted by @Frisbee, TT and Tri bikes are not the same thing, Tri bikes can offer better aerodynamics since they don't need to conform, to UCI regulations. 

No, you do not need a road bike to train correctly. What speed you travel at is irrelevant to the training effect, what is important is the duration and intensity of the workout. It is very common practice for cross country (XC) mountain bikers to do a large quantity of their aerobic base training on road bikes. And likewise many road pros choose to do some miles on MTB during the winter. You will need to get the bike you plan to use for the event (or at least one with the same geometry) around a month before the event to get the fit dialled in and get used to riding in an aerodynamic position. 

It is easy to contaminate your pads with spilt brake fluid It is likely to result in overfilling your brake system. (resulting in pads not fully retracting and rubbing on disk).