The simple, fundamental answer: "Logic" is fundamentally just mathematics. A + B = C. But our ideas as humans are so complex and so subjective, they don't fit into any math equation. Our brain has developed in such a way that can calculate the logic of these ideas, but it's not by any means a truly logical calculation, but more of a rough estimate. Engineers working to develop Artificial Intelligence, I'm told, are having a big problem figuring out how to get their algorithms to work because they can't figure out how to teach a computer to make the "correct decision". They're trying to calculate "right and wrong" in binary and it wont work. To solution will be to stop trying to calculate "right and wrong" because it doesnt exist. Only our personal emotional interpretations exist. As a society, and as cultures, we have had to unify our "personal interpretations" of right and wrong in order to live in harmony, but logical decision making will always be just a rough estimate, a very imperfect calculation because logical thinking is purely relative. 

"God exists" is similar to "an electron exists", because neither claim is completely falsifiable nor is its negation. For example, imagine the sum total of all scientific data that has ever been collected to support the existence of an electron. Now suppose every single experiment was affected by an improbably large (but still possible) amount of experimental error. So it is possible that all future replications of those experiments will fail to establish the electron's existence. But it is also possible that at some point the experiments will start working again, and it will then be believed instead that it was the experiments disproving the electron's existence that were affected by experimental error. Neither "an electron exists" nor "no electron exists" is truly falsifiable. The existence of the electron is ultimately dependent on shared intuition, experience, and belief. Likewise, so is the existence of God. If God came to Earth and demonstrated his existence to every person in a way that all persons could understand and communicate effectively, then there would be no difficulty accepting "God exists" as a scientific statement. And if God then left Earth, and many persons were no longer able to be convinced of his existence, then "God exists" would cease to be considered a scientific statement. For a claim to be a valid scientific claim, it has to have precise and agreed-upon definitions, and there must be a convincing argument that it is extremely likely to be true. 

Maybe this can't and shouldn't be altogether answered in a "yes or no" format without pulling from subjective opinion, but perhaps there is or is not invalid logic or circular reasoning or perhaps it's a perfectly acceptable logical argument, so far as structure is concerned. 

Obviously copyright infringement, under every main stream school of thought is wrong. You put work into creating something, such as a video file that is a movie that you spent millions of dollars to produce, and you therefore have, according to every main stream school of thought, the right to sell that video file for a profit. I'm clarifying that I understand this, and that I realize it's common sense, but I have the sneaking suspicion that if I were to question one of the leading proponents of copyright infringement, for example an operator of The Piriate Bay, and member/founder of a pro-copyright-infringement religion, Kopimism, I would receive some form of very thoroughly thought out philosophical reasoning for supporting copyright infringement. Unfortunately, I dont have the privilege of being able to have a discussion with such a person, in order to poke and prod for logical, fundamental reasoning for such support. I'm very curious though, to discover and dissect the arguments behind this school of thought, so I ask: Does anyone know what philosophical arguments / logic copyright infringement supporters, use to defend and promote their position? 

Given any concrete and realistic definition of "absolute" the answer must be no, there are infinities which are undefined. π is undefined as a ratio of integers, and the rabbit hole never ends. One example is Chaitin's Ω constant the knowledge of which would give the ability to answer all questions of computation. Also consider inaccessible cardinals which set theory can discuss although there is no accepted basis on which they can be proven to exist. 

If positive outcomes are equated with action and negative outcomes are equated with inaction, then I think the two views are consistent with each other. The four criteria of discreet information gathering are also satisfiable in general: for example, at random times, I give you a dollar, because "I think you should have this now"; defining "random time" in any specific way such as a Poisson distribution violates the third condition of not providing information, but there are mathematical probability distributions and physical interpretations of time which don't. God does not speak of what he does not know, and he does not act when unnecessary. Tautologically, if God acts, action was necessary, and if God speaks, he knows. This view is compatible with God being all-knowing and all-powerful, as long as "all" is limited in an unknown and unknowable way, which it seems to be, effectively. The reason we should praise God for positive outcomes is that his action has given us an example of how to achieve these outcomes and a guide for making them ever better. On the other hand, God's inaction is of no help in understanding negative outcomes, and we are left alone wondering why bad things happen. In that sense the question is a variation on the problem of evil. 

I'm not enough of a philosopher to properly analyze this particular argument, but I'm curious about it and I'd like to see it dissected and explained. 

I've been thinking about government assistance, and on one hand, I dont want to let people die, but on the other hand, I dont want to let them live by taking advantage of my generosity. For example, if a capable person refuses to work, what would logic in favor of humanitarianism suggest that we do? Let them starve? Feed them anyway? Both choices seem to lead to frowned upon results. If too many people take advantage of a system in which all people will be fed regardless, it seems that the society may weaken or collapse. And then there's a matter of fairness, in regards to the people who work, and have their earnings taxed to feed those who wont work. Is there any philosophy which addresses this problem? I'm looking for a citation of any philosophy on the subject which wouldn't be considered "highly" controversial. I'd narrow my question to a single philosophy, but I haven't heard of one which covers this problem. 

A dictionary defines words in a language, in terms of other words in that same language. An English dictionary is not the same as a Spanish dictionary, simply because the sets of English words and Spanish words are not the same. Dictionaries are revised over time, new words are added and old words are discarded, and we may have two dictionaries of the same language which are not identical to each other, the differences roughly proportional to distance in time and space. So a particular dictionary is distinguished enough to identify not only its language but in some sense even itself. Does a dictionary completely describe its language? Is it possible for a person to learn a language by reading only a dictionary of that language, without any other sources of information? Initially I guess it would be something like solving a cryptogram but can learning progress from that point onward? 

The conclusion "it is either true that if switch A is closed, the light is on, or if switch B is closed, the light is on" can be interpreted as equivalent to the premise. Anything follows from falsehood, so if one of the switches is open, one of "if switch A is closed, the light is on" or "if switch B is closed, the light is on" has a falsehood as its premise, and is therefore true. The paradox arises from the ambiguity of language, because we commonly use the same logical words "if", "either", "or", "is", "true" with informal meanings. Consider the statement: "it is either true that closing switch A causes the light to be on, or closing switch B causes the light to be on." It uses almost the same words as the conclusion. If the premise is also restated in terms of "causation", a non-logical term, then the entailment will no longer hold, and we should not expect it to because the meanings are no longer the same. So one intuition is to try and replace logical connectives with non-logical words and see if it still makes sense. I speculate that this works because in communication it serves no purpose to have two logically equivalent statements of different lengths: we interpret the shorter statement formally to mean what it says, and we interpret the longer formally- and tautologically-equivalent statement more liberally; when persons seemingly use more words than necessary to say what they mean, then we often rightly assume that they mean something else. 

From my interpretation, religion is a school of thought that encourages or rather demands that we believe in something on faith. Faith is to believe in something because we have been told that it is true and we must believe it without any proof of its existence or proof that it's the right way to think. Our parents teach us this, our society confirms that we must follow this teaching. I think that's all common knowledge, nothing to argue about there, but this next thought is an idea that I'd like to question. I'd like to know if my following idea makes sense logically or not, and why: 

When you're raised from childhood to believe in faith, its unlikely that you will grow to think outside of that faith, especially if your religion implements a system of repetition where you verbally confirm that faith daily and weekly. You constantly repeat it, everyone around you confirms it, it makes you feel at peace, makes you feel safe, why would you want to think in any other way? My thought about this is that there's a fundamental problem with this way of thinking. Because it seems as a society, by condoning this kind of thinking, we make our population as a whole highly susceptible to extremist and non-tolerant ideas derived from religion. An example: Islamist Extremism, where women and homosexuals can be put to death for pursuing their personal freedoms, and people believe certain cultures should be attacked, that certain people should be killed. If people were not raised with a religious background, I don't see this issue as being possible. It seems to me that this is proof that religion or "believing without proof or logical reasoning" is problematic, that it damages logical decision making in society. Is this an accurate and logical assessment, or am I looking at this information the wrong way?