My best advice is to accept that you will have some days that are better than others, and not beat yourself over it. In various sports, even the best players go into "slumps" -- times when their performance is far below their usual standards. For the few that don't, I suspect it is more an inherent quality than execution of a strategy for avoiding it. That being said, if you notice you're in a slump, it's probably a cue to break up your routine. If the last time you've hit "compile" you have a page-full of compile errors from typos, it's probably time to take a walk or maybe pick up a non-coding task for a while. Trying to grind through it is likely only going to produce similar results. More important that avoiding bad days is not letting bad days dominate your vision of yourself (or those around you). You (I suspect) are a good developer who occasionally has bad days, not a bad developer. You have this in common with almost everyone else in the world. 

The best managers talk to their people regularly and let them know when there are performance issues or what they need to do to get promoted. However 90% of managers are not in the top 10%. So you need to learn how to manage your career when your manager is not the best in the world. First, if your manager does not talk frequently to you about performance, then ask questions. Ask what you need to be working on to get to the next level or how you can improve your chances of a bonus. Some bosses are cowards who won't tell you that you are not doing well without a pointed question. And different bosses want different hings. Some love it when their employees go to them for every decision and others prefer the more independent types. Some like people who make suggestions and others are insulted that you are disparaging the system that they set up. Some bosses only reward close friends. Get to understand what your particular boss is looking for. If he won't be forthcoming about what you can do or change to move to the next level when you directly ask or is angry at you for asking, it is probably time to seek out a new boss who cares more about his employees. You can never get ahead with a boss who is determined to make sure you are not given an opportunity to shine. This is especially true if you are in a group traditionally discriminated against and only people in the white male category seem to get the rewards or reward-inducing assignments. Next be aware that not all bosses have the same budget for or the same political capital to get those things for their employees. Many companies decide this through a process that involves all of the managers through the company and especially the senior managers. If your boss has not pull, he won't be able to successfully argue for your raise without some help from you. People who are known (positively of course)outside their own organization have an easier time getting rewards because the people giving them out know of them or know them personally. So you need to be proactive about letting people know your accomplishments and you need to make contacts outside your own group. If you have a chance to be on special project that is cross-functional, take it. If you have a chance to be in the company newsletter, take it. If you have the chance to write up something for a company email, take it. The other thing you need to do is to not make senior managers hear your name only in the context of something bad. You don't want to be the one who has to be hounded to do their timesheet and appears regularly on management reports of late submissions or the one who always seems to have escalated issues without any countervailing positives. They are not going to believe your boss about how wonderful you are if they have only heard negatives even seemingly minor ones. Finally observe what your coworkers are doing especially the ones who did get promoted. Do they talk to the boss more frequently than you do? Do they sit on their hands when a task is completed and wait until the boss notices that they need more work or are they proactive about finding the next task? How do they act in meetings? Do they ask questions or suggest ideas? 

The main purpose is to avoid wasting both the candidate's and the company's time if the candidate would not accept an offer at a certain level. If the position is for 60k, and the candidate's lifestyle demands 80k, it's better to know that up front than to go through the whole interview process only to find this out in the end. It's a pre-filter. EDIT: Of course, that's the good, or benign reasons they might ask you that question. The bad, or malevolent reason would be to get you to commit to a lower salary than they are willing to pay. 

See above, and my disclaimer -- I have never ordered room service in my life, regardless of who's paying, since I am viscerally offended at the idea of paying $18 for scrambled eggs. But this may not be the norm. -- I'd say the biggest variable is how your actual interview went. If you did well, then people probably won't be looking for reasons to knock you down. If you did poorly or fair, then submitting questionable expenses could make you the butt of water cooler jokes at the company for the next several years. Remember that guy who couldn't even code fizzbuzz, then expected us to pay for his room service and airport lounge and a replacement for the bus ticket he lost? 

It's only worth it to keep persistently following up if a) they will pay you and b) they are a dream client for you. But in any case, what you're currently doing is probably not getting heard. Edit: Since they are local, you can also try what Rolazaro suggested and stop by. You aren't likely to get a meeting immediately and might not even see the person you are trying to contact, but it may get them closer to making a decision one way or the other. 

For this question, let's assume I needed to send an important email to a potential customer. Because of a problem with my email client, which rarely happens, two copies of the email are in my Sent folder (both there and on my webmail client). It looks like the message has sent twice, although I'm not 100% sure about that because I can't see the recipient's inbox. I am wondering if I need to send another email to apologize for this or if that would just be adding more noise to this person's inbox. Is there a business/workplace etiquette convention for this? 

Your employer almost always has the right to turn down individual days off. What they do not have is the right to is to always refuse your time-off requests so that you do not get to use it before it expires. the CA Government says this on their website about time off (dir.ca.gov/dlse/faq_vacation.htm ): 

First, the sooner you talk to this person the better. When this behavior has gone on a long time it becomes harder to correct. Prepare for your talk with documenting specific instances of the problems and specific expectations for future performance. You can't expect someone to fix a problem until they know what it is and what the expected performance level is. Talk to your HR about any processes they have to deal with inadequate performance so that you will be informed before this discussion as to what steps to take and in what in order. Know what accommodations you have the authority to make if someone is having a personal problem. You can make this a general talk as this is something every manager should know. Once you have gathered together your research, ask the person to a meeting in a private place. If you work in an office, you can use that, otherwise, schedule a conference room. Privacy is critical, you cannot have this discussion in the open for others to hear. Start by telling him that you have notice a drop in performance and a disengagement and ask him the reason. He may or may not choose to tell you. If the reason is his child has been diagnosed with cancer or some other major life issue, help him with some time off and a trip to HR to help him with insurance issues and possibly point him to a company EAP (employee assistance program) where he can get counseling. Talk to him about possibly adjusting his schedule to get through the treatments, etc. Your steps may vary depending on what personal issue is interfering. If he might need to leave on little notice, make sure he understands to keep his work in a state where someone else can pick it up and check with him daily about his progress so you can help someone else take it over. If this is something that will require a change in his workload temporarily, you might need to find out specifically what information you can tell the co-workers that you will be asking to take over some of his duties. Some people will let you tell others and some will not. Respect his privacy and if you need to remove some work from him and give it to someone else, all that you really need to say is that he has some personal/family issues and needs some time away. Others might be more willing to help out if his mother is dying or his wife is in the hospital, but you can't give that information out without his permission. Before you say anything to anyone in your group about the problem, check with HR. They will keep you out of trouble on this. If it is a work issue, the critical thing right now is to not get defensive and have an argument. Listen to what he says and see if there really is anything you have the power to adjust or at least have the power to try to influence in the organization. There may or may not be. The steps depend on what he says. Be awre that if something has gotten to the point where performance has dropped and he hasn't come to you about the problem, it may be past the time when you can fix this. But you should at least try. He may not answer at all and that is of course his right. It will make it harder to fix whatever is wrong or offer support. In that case, focus only on what has to change. After listening to what he has to say, then it is time to have your say. If is is possible (and if he showed a decent attitude in the talk so far), express understanding of the problem. Then point out that acceptable performance is not optional. Clearly express to him exactly what you expect to see change in his behavior and by when. If there is an HR process by which poor performers are let go, explain to him what the process is and what he can do to avoid getting caught up in it. Be very matter of fact about this. Don't call him names, don't get angry. Set a date for a follow up meeting if you think you will need one. Consider following this up with a written copy of what you expect and when. If the attitude is good, try to keep him out of the HR process until he has had a chance to improve. If the attitude was bad, then you might consider starting the process after this talk. 

It is an interesting balancing act. Against my egalitarian instincts, I do think some degree of "star treatment" is warranted if you want to achieve the highest levels of success. Success should bring with it some privileges, and the smartest companies are willing to look the other way on certain things in order to attract and retain the most talented people. The workday starts at 9, but the star engineer needs to drop her kids at school and can't get there until 9:30? Maybe let it go. Or you can say "rules are rules" and accept that you're going to hover around the average. I don't think it's a coincidence that the NBA Finals features 4 of the top 10 players in the league.* Think they might be difficult at times? Think they get treated differently than their teammates? You bet. I think this also applies to having some reasonable level of control over work assignments. Mike Scoscia shouldn't ask Albert Pujols to lay down a sacrifice bunt*, or bat him eighth in the lineup without having a conversation with him first. And if he does, he should expect some friction. But here's the other side -- with star privileges comes star accountability. If Albert Pujols can call his own hit-and-runs, then he needs to answer questions when it fails in the World Series. If the team fails, the star is going to take a good part of the blame. I have been on teams where some members were given star treatment, allowed to go off and work on something outside the team's normal processes. This wasn't a big deal until they essentially tossed the resulting project over the wall to another team and declined to stand behind it. Then the real resentment came in. This is where the parallels with sports start to break down a bit. Because in sports, the star players are paid more and are generally more famous than coaches/management, so fans and the media have no problem holding them accountable for the team's results. In business, managers typically make more than even their best employees and are the ones accountable to management for the success of the team, so ceding some of that to a star employee is not seen as a good move. But it may be the best way to go. This also has to be balanced with the reality that star players are typically de facto leaders, and play a big part in setting the tone and culture for the entire team. If that tone is non-cooperation and defiance, then you're in some trouble. But I think that can be avoided by getting them on board in private as much as possible. Good luck. -- 

The fact that your boss is rarely in the office complicates this. Normally I would suggest in person discussion, but in this case, you might want to start with a call if he is reachable by phone and then a detailed email to followup (write it before teh call, so you can send it out after talking to him). If you want to make this a easy for everyone to handle as possible, before you talk to him or email him, make a list of exactly what is behind and how far behind it is and try to prioritize the order in which you should do things. So when you contact him, you have a plan for how this backlog is going to be cleared. He is already aware of your situation, so just tell him straight out that this was affecting you more than you realized and these are the things that are going to be late. Then apologize for not bringing it up sooner. Then show him your prioritized list and get his agreement as to the order in which you should do things and the new deadlines. If you can commit some extra time to get the backlog cleared, then tell him that you will do that, but in your current situation, you may not have that luxury. Also consider if now would be a good time to get set up to work from home some. Yes you probably need to be there during the work hours, but if you could do a little in the evenings while you are still able to check in with your dad, it would be easier to get caught up again. I hope your dad gets better soon. It is hard to deal with a full-time job and a personal emergency. So don't beat yourself up about this. Life is not so good sometimes and it does affect us at work even if we wish it didn't. Just be up front about the effect and have a plan for how to work through the problems. 

I would say that once you have established yourself in your career (with a few notable exceptions) where you went to college will not count against you. On the other side, I was lucky to have attended a college with a good reputation, that have had several alumni in decision-making positions in the town in which it was situated. It would not be completely honest of me to claim that having the name of the university on my resume didn't mean it got a more generous look than it would have otherwise, and that this never meant the difference between me getting past a certain level of screening and not. I have even been told before an interview that a manager likes graduates of my school. It really shouldn't matter, and I really would like to be able to say that it doesn't matter. But that's not entirely how the world works with human beings. A hiring manager is more likely to trust someone from his alma mater or a similar school than one that he doesn't know. 

Since management is pushing this, you need to immediately go to your doctor and have him put in writing what you can and cannot do. I suspect he will tell you that even working remotely is not acceptable. Follow your doctor's orders in this case. You need the documentation from your doctor in case they get pissy about you not working remotely. In general your management is unacceptably out of line to be pushing you to do this. No you can't work remotely when you are in pain and on pain medication and it is cruel to even suggest you do so. Depending on the strength of the meds, you might not even be able to work effectively at all and will just cause the project to get further behind. A year after the deadline on the project, no one will care that it was missed, but you could still be in pain for the rest of your life if you don't follow the doctor's orders. Don't risk your health for a short-term goal, ever. 

I'll expand on MelBurslan's comment. I'm answering this from the perspective of a full-time freelancer/consultant who used to work in the corporate world. If you were not an employee of this company, you are an independent worker (with or without a contract, though ideally with one). You can just put self-employed in that case and not say which periods you were actually working for this client. It is common for freelancers or consultants to put who their client list includes. This is generally acceptable in the world of freelancing because freelancing is inherently feast-or-famine. For example, I know of an independent web designer who I read is considered one of the best web designers in the world; he said even he goes through periods where he has no work. This is generally more credible if you see your freelance work as a business and have a business structure for it. This could be a corporation (probably overkill if it's just you), LLC or equivalent, or even a sole proprietorship which has a name. For example, I own an LLC for my consulting business. In the work I do, there are sometimes some stages of a project where a client doesn't need very much (or even any) of my time. I'm not "not working" during those periods, because I just use the time that I am waiting for the next stage of a project (where I am needed again) to build my business and work on side projects. (Edit: and I still have that client even if we're currently working 0 hours a week together.) So my résumé lists that I have owned a consulting business this whole time and describes what I have been working on, both with my clients and on my business. Building a real-life business (even if it's only one person) and studying how to do that helps me bring more value to companies that I work with in the future because it allows me to understand more about how they operate. Some sources: 

Please is something that should be used whenever you ask for something. But in reality, it doesn't matter if that is a common courtesy (even though it is) because your boss specifically asked you to do it and there is no argument to be made for not doing something that costs nothing but a second or so. It would be a bad move for your career to ignore this guidance. It will also get you into a good habit for after you move on as please is important to a lot of people. Courtesy smooths many interpersonal interactions and it is good to get into the habit of using phrases like please and thank you reflexively. 

Why would you even think that people in technical roles don't have to be able to handle stress or deal with people regularly? I have never seen a senior position where you did not have to. I talk to clients and our client facing people all the time. I have seen lots of technical roles that are very stressful and I've done hiring and you don't want people who will blow up if the slightest thing happens. Most competent interviewers want to get a feel for how anyone in any position handles stress. (As to whether those questions are the best way to do it, that is another entirely different subject). The personal side of the interview and whether you think this person will be easy to work with based on your corporate culture and your other employees is as (maybe even more) critical than the technical skills which are easier to learn. Developers aren't some unique brand of employee who don't have to be able to handle the same things as other employees.