There's quite a bit of evidence to support that at least part of the climate system is chaotic. According to the IPCC: 

Yes. Primarily, severe storms tend to have very few cloud-to-ground (CG) strikes. Thus, the ratio of IC:CG is likely going to be very high.1 2 However, some severe storms do produce a significant amount of positive CG strikes. They would still have a high IC:CG ratio, but they would distinguish themselves by having more positive CG strikes. However, both of these types -- low-CG and some-positive-CG -- are potentially severe.2 It is important to note that the amount of CG strikes can be dependent both on where in the lifecycle a storm is, and the physical location of a storm (CG characteristics appear to be region-dependent). In tornadic supercells, the total amount of lightning seems to decrease during tornadogenesis, and the CG rate appears to increase after the tornadic stage of that supercell ends.3 There doesn't appear to be any existing literature on amplitude as a measure of severity. Perhaps, through this work, you might be able to identify whether this is an area which should be studied further. References 1 Donald R. MacGorman, Donald W. Burgess, Vladislav Mazur, W. David Rust, William L. Taylor, and Brenda C. Johnson, 1989: Lightning Rates Relative to Tornadic Storm Evolution on 22 May 1981. J. Atmos. Sci., 46, 221–251, doi: 10.1175/1520-0469(1989)046<0221:LRRTTS>2.0.CO;2. 2 Timothy J. Lang and Steven A. Rutledge, 2002: Relationships between Convective Storm Kinematics, Precipitation, and Lightning. Mon. Wea. Rev., 130, 2492–2506, doi: 10.1175/1520-0493(2002)130<2492:RBCSKP>2.0.CO;2. 3 Scott M. Steiger, Richard E. Orville, and Lawrence D. Carey, 2007: Total Lightning Signatures of Thunderstorm Intensity over North Texas. Part I: Supercells. Mon. Wea. Rev., 135, 3281–3302, doi: 10.1175/MWR3472.1. Further Reading 

Now, this seemed strange to me. The NAM (which goes out to only 84 hours) outputs forecasts every 3 hours. Indeed, with the exception of very short-range models like the RAP, HRRR, and SREF (WRF), no models output data hourly. Since the NAM is intended fine-tuning shorter-range forecasts, and the GFS for longer-range patterns, why did the NWS upgrade the GFS to hourly output out to hour 120? 

The snow density, which is the "conversion function" you are looking for, of fresh fallen snow varies with atmospheric conditions, vapour saturation and temperature since these parameters determine the snow grain morphology (See this figure from SnowCrystals.com; I leave it as a link for copyright reasons). Densities can vary from as low as < 100 kg m-3 for cold conditions to maybe > 400 kg m-3 for wet snow. This essentially cover the spectrum for a normal snow pack. If you, by your question, are thinking about weather services reporting how much snow will come from a snow fall it is by no means a an easy thing to predict since you may "know" the amount of precipitation from a model, but you will have more difficulties knowing the density of the fallen snow unless you device a classification based on the atmospheric conditions during snow fall (based on snow crystal structure as in the figure). Hence for most purposes, the snow pack thickness is of little value and most will want the water equivalent of that snow, i.e. how much liquid precipitation it corresponds to. If snow is falling during drifting conditions, the density may become higher than the falling snow itself would have resulted in. This is because with wind drifting, snow crystals are reduced in size by crushing and can hence be more densely packed. With time the snow pack will densify due to metamorphic processes. This will cause the snow to decrease in thickness with time. But that is perhaps a different question since yours were about fresh snow. 

Ice can grow up from the ground in the form of needle ice. The formation requires sufficient moisture in the ground. According to the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) site needle ice can grow up to 40 cm in length. Needle ice are thin crystals of ice and has a very distinct look. A search on Needle Ice provides a wealth of examples of needle ice, note that all pictures are not relevant! Needle ice can also form from plants if suddenly subjected to very low temperatures and where moisture in the plant has limited escape possibilities. The picture in the post is, however, not needle ice, it is clearly a form of icicle. In fact the common icicle is reminiscent to a stalactite forming from a cave ceiling. Corresponding to the stalactite, a stalagmite forms on the floor. The ice form on the picture is a stalagmite form, created by water dripping from a structure down onto the ground in sub-freezing temperatures (credit to geotheory). 

See NH++. In this configuration, NH summer is at perihelion. Thus, during NH summer, earth is closest to the sun, and therefore Northern hemisphere has a strong summer. During NH winter, earth is farthest from the sun, therefore Northern Hemisphere has a weak winter as well. Thus in this precessional configuration, the earth has extreme seasons in the Northern Hemisphere. Now see SH++. In this configuration, SH summer is at perihelion. Thus, during SH summer, earth is closest to the sun, and therefore the southern hemisphere has a strong summer. During SH winter, earth is farthest from the sun, therefore southern Hemisphere has a weak winter as well. Thus in this precessional configuration, the earth has extreme seasons in the southern Hemisphere. Now coming to your question of how landmasses affect climate. If the earth was symmetric, even then ice-ages would have occurred at same times in the earth's history. However, their intensity would have differed due to the Northern Hemisphere land bias. 

See NH++. In this configuration, NH summer is at perihelion. Thus, during NH summer, earth is closest to the sun, and therefore Northern hemisphere has a strong summer. During NH winter, earth is farthest from the sun, therefore Northern Hemisphere has a weak winter as well. Thus in this precessional configuration, the earth has extreme seasons in the Northern Hemisphere. Now see SH++. In this configuration, SH summer is at perihelion. Thus, during SH summer, earth is closest to the sun, and therefore the southern hemisphere has a strong summer. During SH winter, earth is farthest from the sun, therefore southern Hemisphere has a weak winter as well. Thus in this precessional configuration, the earth has extreme seasons in the southern Hemisphere. 

"Does that mean the earth's sea-level was much lower than it is now? If this is true, then are we experiencing a lower level of gravity?"\ There were indeed periods in the Earth's past when sea-level was was lower than what it is now. One of the main reasons for this is the Earth's glacial-interglacial cycles. During an ice-age, there are huge ice-sheets on the continents. The water for this ice comes from the oceans, thus the sea level gets lower when there is a lot of ice on the land. 

As I see it there are no clear differences. There are, however, processes that are not compatible with a superposition principle. In geology, it is possible for layers to be folded and result in inverse age relationships. Packs of sediments can also be pushed over other layers during, for example mountain building, so that sequences are out of order or even repeated, almost like shuffling a deck of cards. It is also possible for, for example, magma to penetrate into rocks and generate much younger layers within an older rock mass. A depth, mass is added to the crust by melting and solidification while cooling such that rock units of different age can be found parallel (in a stratigraphic context) to each other. Hence the superposition principle only applies in sedimentary rocks and unconsolidated sediments that has not undergone and significant tectonic activity. But, I can also imagine that archaeological material can (although not extensively) be subject to disruptions in certain environments where active tectonics are at play or for example where glaciers act to push material forward and generate repeat sequences. To expand on the second part of the post. Geological stratigraphy is established from physical exposures and by measuring structural shapes such as the strike and dip of strata (a branch of geology called Structural geology. Very little is gained from created exposures such as open day mines, mine shafts of other dug pits. It is also possible (as in archaeology) to use geophysical methods to infer layer by ground penetrating radar, seismics etc. It should be mentioned here that methods and possibilities vary between bedrock and unconsolidated sediments, where I would venture to say that archaeology and studies of the unconsolidated sediments are very similar using test pits and coring with the addition of understanding transport mechanisms to understand how and why certain sediment layers exist where they are. Visualisation pof geological data is usually done in sections or logs of boireholes with attempts to connect between observed sections. In bedrock where there is not only vertical variability but also significant horizontal, such as in igneous rocks, obtaining a precise image is very difficult