When someone or something you love & are attached to dies, you suffer. This is because the mind previously took 'birth' ('jati') via becoming ('bhava') as a 'self-identity' ('sakkhaya') attached ('upadana') to the sense object ('ayatana') that passes away ('marana'). For example, you identify yourself with a sense object that is a woman that you call 'my wife' & you call yourself 'her husband'. If your wife physically dies (by physical death) or the legal status (convention) of 'wife' socially dies (by divorcing you), your self-identity as a 'husband' also 'dies', which is suffering. Or when you look into a mirror & see your skin wrinkling, your hair becoming grey, your teeth rotting, etc, you suffer due to the thought: "I am aging, I am going to die". These thoughts produce suffering because those five aggregates that appear in the mirror the mind regards to be "I", "me", "mine" & "myself". For example, you may watch TV and see 10,000 Chinese people die in an earthquake but suffer more if you see your pet dog, pet cat or pet goldfish die. You may suffer more if your favourite pen is stolen. This is because the mind identifies with & is attached to the pet dog, pet cat, pet goldfish or pen but not attached to the 10,000 Chinese people. The death of 10,000 unknown Chinese people do not cause suffering but the death of a pet cat causes tremendous suffering. Aging-&-death in Dependent Origination refers to the aging-&-death of 'beings' ('satta') and the various orders of 'beings'. 'Beings' ('satta') is defined in the suttas as states of attachment & identity (rather than physical life forms). 'Satta' is merely a 'view'. The relationship between the nidanas of birth (self-identifying) & aging-&-death (suffering due to loss) is explained simply below: 

It is normal or expected for metta practise to bring up underlying mental states of non-metta. Also, in Buddhism, to understand the quality of our 'friends' or 'associates' is also important (refer to "foes in the guise of friends" & "warm-hearted friends" in the Sigalovada Sutta). Many people in the world may appear 'superficial' to us, particularly if we are 'crisis oriented'. If these 'associates' pose no inherent danger to us, we can let go of our expectations towards them and show friendship in a less-personal & more detached manner. Most of your anger appears to be related to expectations you have towards these people that those people cannot fulfil. If so, your expectation towards them are unreasonable. If your lifestyle has changed & you wish to associate when them less, simply say so to them. This does not mean you cannot be there for them if they need something important from you. 

The most accurate records of what the Buddha taught are the Pali suttas however it is these very suttas that are subject to different interpretations. For example, the idea of "past lives" is a combination of mere interpretations of what the Buddha reportedly taught in the Pali suttas plus later literal teachings introduced into Buddhism, such as the Jataka Tales, written hundreds of years after the Buddha. For example, the Pali sutta SN 22.79 is the only sutta that explains what is meant by recollecting past "nivasa" (often translated as "lives") yet this sutta obviously does not refer to past lives but to past states of egoism/attachment. Similarly, the idea of "other-worldly-disembodied-deities" is a mere interpretation of the Buddha's teachings about "deities", which can be simply regarded as the rich, powerful (eg kings & queens) or meditation mystics & psychics of other religions. If you wish to learn about how to interpret or understand the language of the Pali suttas, without falling in materialistic religious superstition, I recommend books by the old Thai monk Bhikkhu Buddhadasa, such as: 

A core teaching of Buddhism is 'anatta' or 'not-self'. Does the word 'atta' refer to both 'self' & 'soul' or can these two ideas (self & soul) be different in Buddhism to give them different meanings? In other words, are the ideas 'self' & 'soul' (be they used in Buddhism or non-Buddhism) necessarily synonymous in Buddhism? 

In summary, the practise of "recollecting manifold past abodes" is only described in the Khajjanīya Sutta. If the Khajjanīya Sutta is read, it will become apparent that "pubbenivāsā­nus­sati­ñāṇāya" is unrelated to recalling past lives but related to recalling when in the past the mind ignorantly attached or adhered to one or more of the five aggregates as "self". 

The hindrances (sensual desire, ill-will, restlessness & remorse, sloth & torpor and doubt) are just more elements ('dhatu'). To quote MN 115: 

'Mindfulness' means 'to remember' the Dhamma path (MN 117). It does not mean to 'observe'. Therefore, if the asuba path is your goal, it is not possible to masturbate mindfully. If you are really dedicated to this asuba path, when the sexual urges arise & is difficult to control, possibly consider doing some exercise, such as jogging. Otherwise, just scream out the urges into a pillow or, otherwise, let the thoughts run (but do not act upon them) until the thoughts lose their energy. In summary, to have a successful relationship & marriage in Buddhism, what is required is a strong understanding of why sexual fidelity is important. Generally, masturbation occurs with sexual fantasies. Try investigating & analysing those sexual fantasies, to discern how their content is not really moral (harmless) since such fantasies are based on self-indulgent erotic behaviour rather than long term commitment to a woman. You already had a girlfriend with many problems. Try to discern with wisdom how sexual objectification of women results in women accumulating emotional problems. If you think more about what loving a woman truly means, your sexual energy may become more pure. It sounds like you are doing very well, practising with courage & integrity. Best wishes. May you fulfil your aspirations for a truly happy, humane & purposeful life. 

The above analysis is supported by the traditional depiction of the Wheel of Life (below), where the antidote, solution or practice for each realm given by the Buddha is depicted as follows: 

(iv) this type of activity is cult activity; trying to engage in mind control. (v) in the Pali suttas, being "captured by non-humans (devas)" is one of many reasons for not reaching the ocean of Nibbana, as follows: 

The method of the Buddha is based in 'letting go' (vossagga), as stated at the end of the Anapanasati Sutta, which states mindfulness & other factors have a quality that results in 'letting go' (vossagga). This 'letting go' is most clearly stated in SN 48.9 & SN 48.10, which state the noble disciple reaches jhana (meditative absorption) by making 'letting go' (vossagga) the meditation object. When 'letting go' is properly established, the breathing in & breathing out will become the primary meditation object and will accompany the arising of other primary objects, such as pleasant feelings (vedana), mental states (citta) & the ultimate truths of the three characteristics & cessation (dhamma). Goenka's primary method is based on body scanning of mental sankharas or stress, which Goenka mistakenly calls 'vedana' or 'sensations'. These 'sensations' are mental formations of stress born from greed, hatred & delusion rather than 'vedana' ('feelings'). In reality, 'vedana' are pleasant & unpleasant 'feelings' rather than mental formations stored in the physical body. The Buddha's method is summarised as the development of samatha-vipassana (tranquility & insight) in tandem (MN 149). The Goenka method seems to not have enough scope for the development of tranquillity & the resultant rapture. The Buddha's method aims for the four jhanas, because they are pleasant abidings (with rapture). The Middle-Way of the Buddha is a way of happiness of pleasant feelings from meditation, avoiding sensual pleasures & self-torment. The Goenka method has elements of self-torment, where it focuses in unpleasant or painful feelings (rather than aims for pleasant feelings of jhana). The Buddha taught meditation in all four postures, namely, sitting, walking, standing & lying down. The Goenka method seems to mostly or only focus on sitting meditation. 

Meditation is not an easy path & does not bring guaranteed happiness. Generally, meditation requires lots of time & intensive retreat practise to develop well. My personal opinion is reading the suttas without meditative realisation will result in many misunderstandings of the suttas. However, there are suttas for laypeople, which are about skilful ways to live ordinary life. If you want to look at some suttas, In The Buddha's Words may be good (however, the translator's commentary footnotes may not be accurate representations of some more complex teachings). 

In Buddhism, the key or essential meaning of 'nirodha' is in the same context of the 3rd noble truth & dependent origination. Here, it refers to the 'cessation of suffering' & the cessation of mental defilements that cause suffering (rather than 'cessation' per se). The etymology of the word can certainly be examined however this may not satify every use of the word in the suttas. It is best to examine context in the suttas, such as the Upaya Sutta, Iti 44 or MN 38: 

In the modern West, most so-called Buddhist meditation for lay people is about accepting defilements rather than rejecting defilements. 

The sutta excerpt is a translation. It may sound harsher in English than in Pali. Regardless, what was spoken was truthful speech, namely, the monk "misunderstood" Dhamma and the monk "misrepresented the Buddha" and the monk "undermined his own future" if the monk continued to hold those wrong views. Also, the monk was repeatedly advised by the other monks his view misrepresented the Buddha's teaching but he would not change his views. Importantly, unlike today with monks who seek to create the own cults with their own interpretations of Buddha-Dhamma, when the Buddha was alive He maintained a script purity of his teachings within his monastic community. Also, monks are subject to strict discipline and communal confession. Even today, if a senior monk commits a serious offense he is demoted temporary to a junior, even novice, status, and must tell all monks, including visiting monks, of his transgression. I think this is better than Catholic priest who engage in pedophilia and the Church covers it up and forgives them. In summary, in the Buddhist Monastic Sangha, censure & confession occur publicly (communally) and thus what could ordinarily be perceived as "humiliation" often occurs.