A recent thread touched on the question of whether Slavic aspectual pairs should be considered part of the same lexeme or not. I wonder if the same logic can be applied to the principal parts of Latin or (especially) Greek verbs. For example, take the following array of verbs from Greek: peítho: (present active) "I persuade", pépoitha "I trust, rely on" (perfect active), pépeismai "I believe, trust" (perfect passive) Is it really clear that these forms constitute the same lexeme, any more than a Slavic aspectual pair like Slovenian postavljati / postaviti ("to place") are the "same" lexeme? Can "lexematicity" be viewed as a measure of the degree of linkage between forms, rather than a matter of "either-or" connection? 

Armenian (at least Western Armenian) seems to place stress mainly on the final syllable. From the little I've read about Georgian, it seems to prefer penultimate stress. Overall, Armenian sounds much more "lilting" when spoken than the Georgian I've heard in various video clips (and more lilting than standard English, for that matter). Also, I think that Georgian has far more words that start with consonant clusters (CC-, CCC-) than Armenian does. Armenian tends -- again, based on the Western Armenian I've heard -- to break up initial consonant clusters with a schwa vowel. For example, տխուր "sad" is spelled as if pronounced [dxur], but is actually pronounced [dəxur], and գծել "to draw (a picture, etc.)" looks as though it would be pronounced [kdzel], but is in fact pronounced [kədzel]. One other thing: you will probably hear a lot of words ending in -ner from Armenian speakers, as it is the plural suffix for nouns, perhaps the most common suffix overall. (I know that the question is over 3 years old, but I thought I would answer anyway.) 

I realized that French may also qualify as an answer to this question. Although indefinite singular countable nouns are marked with un (un canard, une voiture, etc.), I think that indefinite mass-nouns and indefinite plurals are marked with de "of" plus the definite article: e.g., du lait "(some) milk" is (at least historically) made up of de + le + lait "of the milk", and des voitures "cars" is composed of de + les + voitures "of the cars". Although nouns without articles are not interpreted as definite in French, this does seem to be a case where indefiniteness is formed on a definite foundation of some kind. 

The older consonant cluster sn- loses its s in Latin: nix "snow" vs. English snow cēna "supper" vs. older Latin cesna Two questions: 1) Since word-medial -sn- was clearly lost within the history of Latin, is the same thought to be true of word-initial sn-? (I'm pretty sure that sn > n is not pan-Italic, as I think there are attested forms with initial sn- from some of the non-Latin Italic languages, but I don't recall any examples of initial sn- within Latin.) 2) Is there thought to be any link between the changes sn > n and gn > n in Latin? I ask because the latter change also seems to have happened within the history of Latin (gnōtus ~ nōtus "known, recognized"), although it does not seem to have extended into word-medial environments at all (ignis "fire", lignum "wood", etc.). Thanks 

In Russian, there are two forms of the formal 2nd person singular pronoun: lowercase вы (vy) and uppercase Вы (Vy). If I understand correctly, the latter is used in situations where the speaker and the addressee ("you") have more strictly defined roles (for example, in formal business negotiations). Are there other languages besides Russian that have "pairs" of pronouns distinguished only by capitalization? Thanks for any info 

I think this has something to do with different traditions associated with a language, i.e. the different traditions of the people who maintain the language's prescriptive standards. In some cases, "gaps" are considered valuable features of a language's uniqueness, whereas in other cases, more value is placed on logical completeness. In the case of French (or at least this particular verb), the first option seems to have won out over the second. (Just to be clear, this is not an explanation of why gaps exist in the first place, but rather of why a gap would be maintained by prescriptive authorities rather than "filled in". Gaps are probably originally caused by factors such as semantic likelihood and usage frequencies.) 

There are some situations in which grammar precedes language (if I understand the sense in which you are using these words). E.g. I would venture to say that modern-day literate people pay a lot of attention (on average) to whether their speech conforms to what is prescribed in the dictionary, or to the grammar rules they have been taught. For example, if I were to learn that I had been using a certain word with a different meaning than the one listed in the dictionary, or that I had been conjugating a verb in a way that differs from the canonical pattern (English doesn't have a lot of conjugation patterns to learn, but this situation might come up for a language like French), then I would probably adapt my usage to conform to these norms rather than persisting in my earlier habits. I think quite a lot of English-speakers, and speakers of other highly-codified modern languages, would do the same in this situation. 

I think that you are right about the reason for the term "remarkable": because the English term (wretch) is pejorative, whereas German Recke refers to a figure (a warrior or hero) that is likely to be praised. Whether this contrast is objectively remarkable -- i.e. whether such a semantic development is improbable or statistically rare -- is a different question. But, I doubt that the person who made that statement (in the dictionary entry) was trying to be objectively precise. 

admitir is not the inherited form of Latin admittere in Spanish (i.e. it has not undergone the normal Latin > Spanish sound changes), but a later restoration based on the Latin form. If admittere had come down from Latin to Spanish without restoration, it would probably look something like "ameter". (Compare Sp. atenerse "to adjust (to something)" < Latin attinere se.) By contrast, Italian ammettere is either inherited from admittere, or was restored and then adapted to the expected Latin > Italian sound changes. Many other common Spanish words (perhaps more than in Italian, overall) are restorations from Latin, and they often co-exist with a more obscure word that has the same origin, but has developed through the Latin > Spanish sound changes: for example, rápido (raudo), regla (reja), quieto (quedo), etc. 

The assimilation you mention is a special case of more general consonant lenition: e.g. täti ("aunt") has genitive singular tädin. This process of lenition only occurs in closed syllables. The standard Finnish essive case suffix (-na/-nä) is of the form -CV, which cannot close the preceding syllable, because the C- is the onset of the following syllable. Therefore, the essive suffix does not cause lenition: only suffixes that end in -C (like genitive singular -n) or that contain a -CC- cluster (like elative -sta/-stä) can cause it. I am not sure what the usual formal notation is for the feature "closed/open syllable", and (if I'm not mistaken) you would need to include that in the formulation of this process of nasal assimilation. So, I'm afraid I can't answer that part of your question. 

I think you are focusing too much on European IE languages here: if you look at the more eastern branches (Armenian, Indic, Iranian), postpositions are quite common, and may even predominate over prepositions. For example, in Armenian, the basic way to say "in", "for", "upon", etc. involves an oblique case-form of the noun followed by a postposition. Although Farsi (Persian) prefers prepositions, most other Iranian languages don't, as far as I know. The preference for prepositions in European languages may simply be an old areal feature, to which there are still many exceptions (cf. German Schau mich an! "Look at me!", literally "look me at"). 

I have seen both the word "fusional" and the words "inflectional"/"flectional" used as the counterparts of "agglutinative" when describing a morphological process. 1) Is there a distinction between fusional and (in)flectional (as it relates to morphological types), or is fusional simply a more modern terminological equivalent of the latter? 2) Does the term fusional include the concept of "stem classes", or is there a separate term for that? For example, Latin has a different genitive singular ending for consonant stems (e.g. hominis "of the person") versus a- and o- stems (agricolae "of the farmer"), but to call these affixes "fusional" would seem to suggest that they combine (i.e., fuse) different morphological functions, when in fact they seem to constitute a "splitting" of the same morphological function (genitivity) into different forms, based on the final stem-vowel (or lack thereof) of a given word. By contrast, an affix like the Greek genitive plural ending -ōn (as in andrôn "of the men", etc.) seems more appropriately described as "fusional", because this ending combines the two categories of genitivity and plurality but is not separable into two distinct morphemes. Would the term "fusional" nonetheless be used to describe the variation in the Latin genitive singular between -is and -e/-i? Thanks for any help 

In Finnish, attributive and predicative adjectives have different agreement patterns when they are modifying mass-nouns and (most) plural count-nouns. For example, valkoinen lumi "the white snow" (mass-noun) pitkät ihmiset "the tall people" (plural count-noun) Here, valkoinen "white" and pitkä "long, tall" are in the nominative, just like their head nouns. But, when these adjectives are used predicatively with the same nouns, they appear in the partitive case: Lumi oli valkoista "The snow was white" Ihmiset olivat pitkiä "The people were tall" This pattern doesn't apply to singular count-nouns: valkoinen lintu "white bird" Lintu oli valkoinen "The bird was white" 

As I understand it, the [h]-sound in Latin words (habere, prehendere, etc.) was lost before French became a distinct language. But French also has many words of Germanic or onomatopoeic origin that begin with the letter “h”: holà ”hey!”/”stop”, hein “eh”, haler ”haul”, haïr “to hate”, etc. Is it thought that the “h” in the latter group of words was ever pronounced as [h], or is it simply an etymological spelling (in the case of the Germanic-derived words), or used to indicate hiatus or a glottal stop? Thanks 

Palatalized consonants usually seem to exist as part of a larger system: if, for example, a language has a contrast between [k] and [kj] then it will probably also contrast [p] and [pj], [t] and [tj], and likewise for all other widely-occurring consonants in its inventory. Are there any known cases in which a language only has a palatal/non-palatal contrast for one (or some other limited number) of the consonants in its inventory? For example, a language with [k] and [kj] but only non-palatal [p] and [t]? Thanks 

PIE * p has widely become h in Armenian (e.g. հարց (harts) "question" < * prsk-, հուր (hur) "fire" < * pur-, etc.). However, some have claimed that the verb փլիլ (pHlil) "to fall in, collapse", which begins with aspirated or "fortis" p, comes from IE * pHol- "fall", i.e. a root with aspirated p. Regardless of whether this etymology is correct (I know that there is some debate around whether PIE had voiceless aspirated stops to begin with), I would have thought that aspirated [p] would be at least as vulnerable as unaspirated [p] (if not more so) to becoming [f]/[ɸ] and subsequently [h]. But, even if there was no intermediate stage of [f]/[ɸ] in this case (I'm not sure how probable p > h would be without such a stage), is there any reason to think that aspiration would make [p] more rather than less resistant to the process that leads to [p] becoming [h]? Thanks 

Some think that the Romanian substrate was a language related to modern-day Albanian, but I'm not sure how solid the evidence for this connection is. For example, Romanian viezure "badger" and Albanian vjedull "badger" seem to be related (neither is clearly of Latin origin), but it is unknown if they are from a common substrate, or if the word came to Albanian from Romanian, or some other possibility. 

The English indefinite article comes from the word for "one" (Old English ān), which, because of its semantics, is somewhat resistant to pluralization. (This resistance is not perfect, however, and pluralization has happened in various cases: cf. Spanish unas personas "some people", Finnish yhdet ihmiset "some/certain people", where unos and yhdet are plural forms of the word meaning "one".) By contrast, the English definite article comes from a demonstrative pronoun meaning "that", which can be used in the singular or plural, just like most other modifiers. Therefore, the article-free indefinite plural (people, things, etc.) may be a leftover from the era when English had no articles (a stage that is still partly seen in Old English). Once the definite article became entrenched in English, the indefinite interpretation of article-free plurals may have become automatic (more-or-less) through the process of elimination. 

I'm not an expert on Indic, but one possible answer to #2 is that, if a language already has fricatives from other sources, this may discourage the spirantization process that would turn aspirated stops into fricatives. For example, I know that Indic already has back-fricatives such as [h]: e.g. the Hindi word for "hand" is haath, cognate with Greek kheîr, Armenian dzerk "hand", etc. [f] may have entered the Indic languages via the influence of Persian and Arabic vocabulary; it seems to be listed as a phoneme for Hindi, Gujarati and Bengali at least. As far as the dental fricative [Θ], it seems fairly rare even in languages that have spirantized their voiceless stops. Despite its prominence in English, [Θ] seems to have a tendency to become other sounds, whether through reversion to [t] (as in mainland Scandinavian), voicing/hardening to [d] (German, Dutch), fronting to [f] (dialectal English), retraction to [h] (Gaelic), and so on. 

Metonymy (from a Greek word meaning "change of name") is the best term I know of for this type of semantic development. It means that the meaning of a word transfers or extends to something that is closely associated with the original meaning. In this case, the meaning of the term curious expanded from describing a mental state (inquisitiveness) to describing things that cause that mental state. I know that metonymy is not quite as specific a term as you are looking for, because it does not refer exclusively to the change "mental state -> causer of the mental state". But, I am not sure that such a specific term exists (yet).