Carnap was a comptabilist. From the Carnap's "Philosophical Foundation of Physics" as quoted in the "Cambridge Companion to Carnap" p 303: 

There are two different schools of thought on the possibility of freewill (barring the third school which says we don't have freewill at all): 

Thus he states, I think, therefore I am. Only after establishing that, does he go on to elaborate on the mind's essence and finally arrive at his famous substance dualism. 

Hegel's world spirit is usually described as way of philosophizing about history, more so than an actual mind. Yet when describing the world spirit, he ascribes intentionality and agency to it, blurring the lines between metaphorical mind and ontologically real mind. Now take the bundle theory of self, subscribed to by Hume, William James, and others, and which says that there is no independent "I" or self, but merely a bundle of interlinked perceptions and memories, which through their continuity in time, give the illusion of there being a central ego. If the bundle theory is correct, then Hegel's world spirit is a real full-fledged mind embodied in human society, and not just a useful metaphor for philosophizing about history. 

For the Nazi case, note that per Quine, science can never be separated from the interpretation of science either. 

To add to Virmaoir's answer The Rig Veda is estimated to date from at least 1100 BCE, possibly earlier. Although mainly a mythological and religious text, it contains passages such as this one: 

You don't have to go so far down as the laws of physics. Most classes of life exhibit intentionality without consciousness (amoebas, viruses, plants, etc...). Daniel Dennett talks about it in many places, but I specifically read about it in his book "Kinds of Minds". See also Dennett's intentional stance and his idea of free floating rationales (described in his paper Darwin's “strange inversion of reasoning”. 

A compatibilist would answer "Yes it does", while a libertarian would answer "No, what is being described is not freewill". 

It seems straightforward to argue that if the variables of one physical (or biological) theory A are shown to be uncomputable (in the Turing sense) as a function of the variables of another physical theory B, and the Church-Turing thesis holds, then A is not reducible to B, and we would have a strong argument against reductionism. But what about the case where the quantities of A were computable in terms of quantities from B, but such that they were computationally intractable (as in NP-hard). This is the case for certain spin-glass problems and for protein folding problems. Assuming P != NP holds, does this computational intractablitiy amount to a refutation of reductionism? My questions: 

Most relevant to your question is the difference principle. As enunciated by Rawls in "A Theory of Justice": 

That being said, most solutions to the demarcation problem (the problem of what constitutes science and what doesn't) tend to limit science to that which is applicable to the real world, almost by definition. 

Reductionism is the idea that any scientific theory can be eventually reduced to the laws of physics. For example the laws of biology can be reduced to chemistry, which in turn can be reduced to the laws of physics. Implicit in this is that there is a hierarchy of theories, and to reduce a theory to the laws of physics, all one has to do is reduce it to a theory that has already been reduced (which would then be considered lower in the reduction hierarchy). In a larger sense, reductionism can be seen as a form of positivism: Anything that can be explained or discussed rationally can be eventually broken down to mathematical, logical and empirical statements, which in turn can be broken down into laws and statements of physics. There are 2 opposing positions to this one: 

Now for the answer. In what follows, I am describing arguments against functionalism as a physicalist theory of mind (i.e. ignoring other types of physicalism besides functionalism and ignoring Searle's argument that functionalism is in fact a form of dualism): The main argument against functionalism is that it leaves something out, namely an explanation of subjective experience. Those who oppose functionalism maintain that it is not a complete description of the mind, that it fails to account for how or why subjective experience occurs. For functionalism to be a complete description of the mind, it would have to account for subjective experience, but in fact functionalist account cannot distinguish between a conscious being on one hand, and a being who has all of the functional and behavioral features of an intelligent human but doesn't have any subjective experience such as an intelligent AI robot or a Zombie that behaves outwardly like a normal human but in fact has no conscious experience (see the SEP article on Philosophical Zombies). Thomas Nagel describes the problem in his paper "What's it like to be a bat" (Nagel, Thomas (1974). The Philosophical Review 83 (4): 435–450.): 

So I don't think he would have worried too much about male dis-empowerment, and it is safe to assume that Marx would have sympathized with liberal feminist identity politics. Marx has made some dubious statements about race and slavery, but I think that had he lived in a more cosmopolitan environment (i.e. one like modern U.S society were class and ethnicity correlated strongly), he would be sympathetic to ethnic identity politics as well, if only by extrapolating from his position on women and capitalism. 

I have been trying to poke whole in the following apparently naive argument against materialism/physicalism: 

This is not accurate. Gödel's theorem is about formal languages (which are abstract mathematical structures) and has nothing to do with the physical universe directly. It is not related at all to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. That being said, there have been philosophers who have tried to establish a connection between freewill and consciousness on one hand, and Gödel's theorem on the other. In particular Lucas (Lucas, J. R. (1961). “Minds, Machines and Gödel,” Philosophy 36:112-127.) argued that human consciousness is different from machine intelligence for its ability to recognize the truth of a Gödel sentence, while a machine can never do so using any algorithmic process. Closer to your idea of their being a connection between Gödel's theorem, consciousness and physics, Penrose presents a modern version of Lucas' argument, which he takes on step further by infering a connection between the Gödel's theorem based argument and quantum mechanics (Penrose, R. (1994). Shadows of the Mind. Oxford: Oxford University Press. p 395). In particular, he posits that this additional ability that human minds have over computers stems from quantum mechanical phenomena happening in the brain. Penrose, together with biologist Stuart Hamerhoff, has developed the Orch-Or model of how consciousness arises at the quantum level inside individual neurons, as opposed from the connections between networks of neurons (Hameroff, S; Penrose, R (March 2014). "Consciousness in the universe: A review of the ‘Orch OR’ theory". Physics of Life Reviews (Elsevier) 11 (1): 39–78.) Max Tegmark disagrees with Hamerhoff and Penrose, and thinks that their arguments about consciousness being based on quantum mechanical principles (Tegmark, M., 2000, “Importance of quantum decoherence in brain processes,” Physical Review E 61, 4194–4206.) are mistaken. Roughly speaking he thinks that the brain is "too warm" for it quantum states to last long enough to be the source of consciousness. His objections are purely physical and are not related to the Gödel/mathematical side of Penrose's theory.