But you probably mean one symptom apart from death. Such a symptom should ideally be one that makes the disease more infectious. So coughing, skin rashes, maybe cysts or boils that break and spread the disease agent on touching them. Things like that. 

The more innocious the better of course, ideally that symptom should be indistinguishable from other, pretty harmless, conditions in your universe. So if there's regular dust clouds that have people sneeze, sneezing is not seen as a sign that you're infected with that disease, allowing the disease to spread unnoticed until the victims start dropping like flies. 

Let's see what happened in Europe in 1940. While the Dutch, Danes, Belgians, and Luxembourg had some armed forces, they were woefully inadequate, underfunded, and very poorly equipped. Other countries (Germany in this case) who were on paper friendly to them saw this as a golden opportunity to do a bit of expansion of their territory, gain new workers for their industry, and new raw materials as well. And yes, these countries were not in any way hostile to Germany, non-agression agreements were in effect that had stood for something like 50 years in case of the Netherland, Denmark, and Germany. There was a lot of trade, exchange of arts and science, etc. etc. No reason to believe the same wouldn't happen in other places. 

imaginary? They're actually doing trials with exactly such systems... Ostensibly to make it easier to find alzheimer patients who wander from their retirement homes, people are being implanted with RFID chips and other devices on a trial basis. 

Several classic examples of defeating a well equipped and trained adversary without destroying their armed forces exist, even post-WW2. The most obvious one is the Vietnam war, where the US were soundly defeated through the very clever and successful use of propaganda. This turned the American public against the continuation of hostilities so much that the US government was forced to effectively admit defeat, turn tail, and flee the country, abandoning the South Vietnamese people to occupation by the North. Another case that comes to mind is the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. This was turned into a bloody stalemate by attrition warfare, causing it to become economically unsustainable for the USSR, as well as the high losses being impossible to hide from the civilian population, causing trouble for the government who at that time were incapable (due to unrelated events) to suppress dissent with the ruthlessness they would have used not a decade earlier. Then there is the defeat of Dutch colonial forces in the East Indies, brought about by political pressure, increased losses, and declining popularity of the idea of holding on to the colonies at home. While the local rebel forces had little to do with that changing sentiment and increasing political pressure on the Dutch government to grant them independence, a smarter opponent (like the NVA in Vietnam) could well have brought that about. To summarise: Yes, you can do it by manipulating public opinion among the enemy civilian population and international politics to the point where the opponent has no option but to withdraw. 

If the laser's on earth, just about impossible due to the atmosphere messing with your lasers, causing them to bloom terribly. This would make the projection on the moon be a blurry spot larger than the moon itself. If in space, that goes away but you're left with the projection needing to be large enough that when the reflected light reaches earth it's still distinguishable as more than a bright dot on the surface. That means it needs to be projected to a size roughly the size of one of the larger mares on the moon. Technically feasible I guess, but the power requirements to make something that big that far away and have it bright enough that it reflects back to earth bright enough to be visible with the naked eye would be massive, probably so much so that even were it technically feasible to create a satellite large enough to contain the laser banks and their power source it'd be prohibitively expensive, especially considering the estimated return on investment in added sales of the product being advertised. 

whose utopia? That of the sun loving, beach going, party animal or that of the obsessed snow boarder who likes the peace and quiet of a mountain cabin in winter? Or anything in between. One person's utopia is another person's nightmare. Myself for example, I love quiet islands and hate crowds and noise. My sister loves crowds and goes stir crazy when it's quiet for a while. My utopia is her hell and the other way around. And that's just 2 people from the same family. I've a friend who is a militant vegan, I'm on a strict low carb diet that depends on meat for most of my nutrients for medical reasons. 

Whether either could have worked in reality I'm not the biologist or bio war specialist to be able to say, but to the layman both scenarios sound plausible (which in fiction is really all that matters, isn't it?). 

The rings would be visible from the surface in reflected light, reflecting from mostly the primary (star). To get an eclipse event light falling towards the ring would have to be blocked by another body, probably a moon in combination with the planet itself (though another planet of significant size in an orbit close to that of your planet might work as well). So you need a conjunction event. Those happen in reality of course simply due to orbital mechanics and are nothing special, they can be calculated (if the orbits are known precisely enough) a long time in advance. The problem which arises here is your requirement that the eclipse lasts for several weeks. Realistic conjunctions and eclipses last a few minutes to hours at best. To get the event you want you'd need to have a large moon around your planet that circles it very slowly, so slowly that when you have a solar eclipse that eclipse lasts for a week or more, and large enough that such an eclipse is not just total, but more than total (it needs to block light not just from striking the planet but also the ring around it which tends to be several times the planetary diameter in size). When your natives get struck with such an event, them not seeing the planetary ring would be the least of their problems. The sun has been eaten by a space monster, eternal night is coming, the world is coming to an end! Mind that I've not done any of the calculations about what such a system would look like, whether it could even exist (the gravitational equations might make a moon that large impossible, though its existence could well be the cause of the rings). 

This concept has already been well explored by Tom Clancy in his Rainbow Six novel (and at least one other). 

And of course every time we shoot a rocket into space, that's tons of material leaving the system as well. 

In parts of Spain (and no doubt elsewhere) people perform above ground burials because the ground is too hard to dig in without heavy machinery. Using power tools like pneumatic hammers graves can be dug into the bedrock but in the past, without such, they couldn't so they were forced to build above ground burial sites. Tradition now dictates above ground burials even though technically they're no longer needed (though it might still be more economical). This is no doubt quite similar to the practice of "sky burial" in Nepal and other mountainous areas. 

THAT is impossible. Quite apart from the fact that lowering the constant of gravity being impossible as far as we know, having it have a discontinuity would be even more impossible. 

Whether that can happen or not is going depend heavily on what happens after they leave earth. If they in the process cut off all contact with the mother, eventually memories of earth will fade and turn into mythology. If they leave earth under some religious or political pressure to leave, they may well start out thinking of earth as an evil, corrupt, place with everything children are taught being shaped by that vision. If they maintain contact with earth, diplomatic relations, trade, travel back and forth, memories will be retained much longer and more accurate (though they probably still will turn towards some kind of rose coloured glass image of a far more perfect and desirable place than it really is). 

The spine is not a single bone, even if you could rip it out of your first victim you'd end up with a floppy piece of sinew and tendons with some bits and pieces of bone in the mix. Even were that pointy enough to break skin, you could never impart enough force on that pointy bit to actually do so and drive it through far enough to cause any serious harm. You'd have more luck cutting down a tree with a herring. 

Where they could have gained some benefits maybe is favouring submarine production over the production of surface warships in the pre-war years more than they did. Then again, this would have allowed the western allies to focus their efforts on ASW assets rather then weapons to fight against the likes of Bismarck and Gneisenau earlier on, fitting out more ASW escort carriers and destroyers instead, which would probably have more than negated any benefits the Germans could have gained rather quickly. 

An earthquake can be triggered by a large enough landslide, but the investment in time and resources would almost certainly be better spent elsewhere. Especially since an earthquake is not easily controlled and may well hurt your own forces as badly as those of the enemy, and because you likely have to trigger that massive landslide inside enemy territory. 

If the atmosphere is thick enough, the projectiles fired will just slow down from friction very rapidly and end up falling to the ground harmlessly shortly after leaving the barrel. Can still use the gun at short range, say a pistol at near contact range, but at longer ranges they'll be all but useless. 

In neither case is there much fear of the bearer trying to remove the chip, but some thought has gone into that too. The most secure way would be to bond it to the spine or another major bone structure, the removal or serious damage to which would cause death or permanent disability. doing this while the victim is still growing would allow the bone to grow around the chip capsule, making removal without destroying the bone itself nearly impossible. 

A combination of in plain sight and invisible. A novel I read some time ago talked about pretty much just that. The good guys/bad guys (the protagonist changed allegiance in the middle of the book) had a front company in New York with a legitimate office building. Their secret facility was located in an artificial cave several hundred feet below the city, with an elevator shaft running down from the office building. The story didn't explain how all this was constructed without anyone noticing, but one can imagine the rubble being carted out during the construction of the New York subway and water/sewage tunnels by just mixing it with the rubble from that construction work. What they used for water and energy supplies wasn't explicitly mentioned, but they appeared to have access to large quantities of natural gas so a small generator powered by that could work, the exhaust gasses vented into the subway tunnels where they'd rapidly disperse. Similarly, sewage could be mixed into the city sewers through hidden valves opening only after making sure there are no people in the sewers, or directly into the East River. If you can dig a large cavern like that unnoticed you can also dig a sewage tunnel to some way outside the city of course, making detection even less likely. If you want more secrecy, James Bond movies have several secret lairs, ranging from underwater cities to caverns in extinct volcanoes with covers over the crater that can be made to swing out to launch rockets from them. All of those of course eventually exposed by Bond, but secret for a long time until our hero tracks them down through mistakes by the minions of an overly confident evil genius (and you're of course smarter than Mr. Blofeld, right?). Then there are the existing conspiracy theories about secret CIA and Nazi bases under the Antarctic ice cap. Exploiting those to create a real base there, then reinforcing those conspiracy theories to ensure that anyone talking about your base gets branded a conspiracy theorist and never taken seriously could very well work as well (this was in fact how the US government kept secret what really goes on at Groom Lake AB for decades, the conspiracy theories about aliens at the facility made anyone talking about secret research there appear laughable at best).