[I have asked a variation of this question already on the Judaism Stack Exchange, but am offering a broader version of it here.] According to US National Library of Medicine, the first recorded instance of a mother and child surviving a C-section is from 16th century Switzerland, but is a somewhat dubious tale. Maimonides, who for a time served as one of the court physicians to the Sultan Saladin in the 12th century, writes that the possibility of even the mother surviving such a procedure is exceedingly rare (Commentary on the Mishna, Bekhorot 8:2). I would like to know under what sorts of circumstances surgeons even attempted this procedure in the ancient world. There are explicit references to C-sections in the Mishna (such as the passage on which Maimonides is commenting, above), so I know that it at least happened as early as the 3rd century, but what I don't know is why. Did surgeons only perform this procedure because the woman was already dying and because they wanted to save the baby? Or were there enough situations in which women survived as to allow surgeons to risk operating on healthy mothers as well, in a case where the baby was not expected to survive normal delivery? 

There seem to be two parts to your question: did slaves owned by Jewish masters ever adopt the Jewish religion, and has it happened in recent years that African slaves owned by North American Jews became Jewish. The answer to the first part of your question is an unequivocal yes. A close reading of the Pentateuch's slave regulations would suggest two different types of slaves: Jewish and "Canaanite". Jewish slaves are effectively indentured servants. They worked for the length of time that it takes to pay off a debt or make good on theft, and either go free automatically at the end of seven years or with the arrival of the jubilee year (the fiftieth year of the fifty-year agricultural cycle) - whichever comes first. Canaanite slaves, on the other hand, were property. When their owner died, they were inherited along with the rest of his property, and only went free if they were deliberately released. It's pretty ugly, but was very much a reality of the time (in fact, it was only relatively recently in Jewish history that people stopped thinking of slavery as a natural human condition - around the same time that people stopped thinking of it this way in general human society). I mention all this because it is a clear precept of the early rabbinic literature that non-Jewish slaves ("Canaanite slaves") who are owned by Jews are to be considered Jewish to the extent that they are partially bound by Jewish law (such slaves are often classed together with women and minors in this regard) and that if they go free they are to be considered entirely Jewish, and are entirely bound by Jewish law. Where the early rabbinic literature speaks of freed slaves, it is referring to people who were not Jewish by birth, since Jews cannot be owned by Jews and remain fully bound by Jewish law even as indentured servants. In more recent years, there were some cases of Jewish slave ownership in North America, but assessing its prevalence is complicated. Jews were primarily concentrated in the north of the country, and their voices feature prominently amongst abolitionists, but there were at least some southern slave owners who were Jewish. This Wikipedia article contains some good information, as does this review of a rather controversial book. As to the number of former slaves who became Jewish after their emancipation, I do not know of any studies. Somewhat anecdotally, there are some African American Jews with Hebrew surnames or with Ashkenazi customs, who can trace their Jewish heritage back to the 19th century. Whether or not this is because their ancestors had been "owned" by Jews (as deplorable as that verb sounds), I do not know. 

Obviously this isn't exactly what we looking for, we need something like this found on timetoast and a way of building a list of historical persons in order to complete a search, some food for thought: a better history search engine is required, one that can search for missing historical persons, presumably, dead. Here is a link to a good article on livescience. 

Macel de' Corvi literally means Raven slaughterhouse; according to a source quoted by Vasi during the siege of Rome laid by the Gauls in 390 BC, thus the crow could also be a raven Raven Dragon Must say, there are some choice quotes on the net involving the word "Draggard" if anything, this deepens the mystery for me: "Instead he abandoned his sword and jumped high into the air as the blade barely missed him. He backflipped over the impaled Draggard and landed behind it" from Whill of Agora Bundle (Books 1-4): Legends of Agora By Michael James Ploof Doing a search on NDXOX brings me to a page on cyphers (easycyphers) Caesar cipher, is one of the simplest and most widely known encryption techniques. NDXOX is Amoro in the Affine Cypher (If you want to pursue this line of inquiry, perhaps there is something more to the whole phrase in terms of advanced cryptography see www.dcode.fr/affine-cipher for a reasonable decryptor, trouble at the outset is finding the exact alphabet and keys to begin with) 

NDXO is Amor (Thus two entirely consistent meanings, as a latin abbreviation, Nostrum Dominus (our Lord) or Nomine Domini, and Love of Christ, a Christian concept, brings up issues to do with swordplay, wordplay and weapons) I found a good introduction to classical cryptography and the Affine Cypher used by Caeser here Amoro could also be an anagram, a love letter perhaps, or just simply Nomini Domini Omni Orvi In the name of the Lord of all the earth Love Mr Raven Dragon Thus my initial intuition that this phrase isn't a language as all, but rather a cypher, and a rather clumsy one at that, appears correct, since it readily appears to reveal part of its content. See below - How to recognize an Affine ciphered text? It is doubtful whether the blacksmith forger of the sword actually sat down and encrypted a message. Rather I believe, having looked at the evidence above, that the manufacturer, rather crudely (some may still perceive it elegantly), inscribed the phrase using a guild code that alludes to the ownership and purpose of the weapon, hardly a distinct language, rather a rough-hewn mercantile secret. Having said this, imagining a world in which the "password" to a particular sword was a closely guarded secret, necessitating a cryptographic industry, makes for a good story, is steampunk about to be replaced by cryptometal? How to recognize an Affine ciphered text? The ciphered text has an indice of coincidence similar to the language of the plain text. Lets do some exercises on the "formula" NDXOXCHWDRGHDXORVI Times that each letter appears: N = 1 D = 3 X = 3 O = 2 C = 1 H = 2 W = 1 R = 2 G = 1 H = 1 V = 1 I = 1 Big question in my mind is do we have a complete alphabet? Word of caution when dealing with the period. This is not a time of great reading, one may thus over-analyse the phrase expecting to find a third text, avoiding the practical problem, that the phrase for all intents and purposes, merely contains meaning transferred from one realm to another. Look up the meaning of secret: 

Chamberlain was certainly wrong in his appeasement policies. And no, he wasn't buying time with it. It is clear from his statements from the period that he believed that it was possible to stop Hitler with diplomatic concessions. In this, he was certainly in accordance to the general public sentiment, which was, as other answers and comments point, against war. Certainly, Britain was rearming during the period, but the point of Chamberlain's politics was to avoid war, not to postpone it to a time when Britain was better equipped. It is important to remember the course of German demands and acquisitions in the 1930's, to understand that those demands were not unreasonable or demented. Germany reannexed the Saar in 1935, through a plebiscite that was provisioned by the Versailles Treaty. It was a region with a majority of German population. Then Germany remilitarised the Rhineland, which was, and never ceased to be, metropolitan German territory. That put an end to a buffer zone between Germany and France, but it can hardly be called an absurd. Then Germany demanded four other things: 1. the Anschluss of Austria (which had an overwhelmingly German population, that gave strong popular support for the idea), and the annexation of 2. the Sudettenland, 3. Memel, and 4. Dantzig/Gdansk. All those regions were German-majority regions; so, as an abstraction, such demands did not offend the sence of justice of most people. The fact that these apparently reasonable demands were part of a German strategy for war and domination of Europe was not immediately apparent - and was in fact the kernel of the debate about appeasement. Those who thought that the demands were reasonable and fair, and that Hitler, albeit being a tyrant, was a tyrant of the old kind, with limited strategic goals that could be negotiated, favoured appeasement: to give Germany its reasonable demands, with reasonable assurances for reasonable protections of the rights of the ethnic minorities in those regions. The fate of political oppositionists in Memel, Gdansk, the Suddeten, or Austria, was of minimal concern - after all, those people were in great part already subjected to brutal dictatorial regimes, like those of Dolfuss/Schuschnnig, Bock/Pilsudsky, or Smetona, and that was considered pretty normal. Those who thought that the German demands, reasonable as they were, were just a part of an expansionist strategy, which could be much more ambitious than the mere political reunification of German ethnicity, opposed appeasement, and proposed stronger diplomacy - of which, of course, threats of war were an integral part. Those people were not visionaries - Hitler himself had extensively written about his strategy, and made no secret of the fate he intended to impose into the Slavic or otherwise non-German populations of Eastern Europe. And so, the Sudetten crisis was to be the watershed moment that finally cleared which of those political currents was correct. Austrians were for the most part happy to be anschlussed - and those who weren't, either were, like Communists and Socialdemocrats, already being repressed under Austria's own national government, or, like Schuschnigg's loyalists, didn't attract much sympathy, as they were the ones doing such repression. Czechoslovakia was different - it was a democracy, and its inhabitants weren't German or happy with German domination. Hitler promised to annex the Sudetten but to otherwise respect Czechoslovakia's independence. He broke that promise and invaded and subjected the Czech part of Czechoslovakia, showing in practice that he wouldn't be stopped by diplomacy and that his politics wasn't merely a politics of unifying ethnic Germans. Now, Czechoslovakia had a quite formidable defensive line in the Suddeten. While they obviously could not counter-attack and invade Germany, they could have set up fierce resistance, much more than Poland did. The terrain is difficult, not the plains and prairies of Poland, and Czechoslovakian fortifications were strong and modern. This point shows, I think, the extent of Chamberlain's mistakes. If he was intent to rearm Britain for a future war, then he shouldn't allow the Germans to remove the Czechoslovakian defensive line, leaving the poor republic defenceless when the following, predictable, onslaught came. He was really deluded about Hitler's intentions and strategies. Only then public opinion turned against appeasement. That would be the precise moment when Chamberlain could have been ousted. But Chamberlain himself recognised that we was wrong, and changed his mind on the possibility of containing Hitler through diplomacy. He was weakened by the blunder, and Churchill, who had opposed the policy, was strengthened. But it didn't cost Chamberlain his leadership within the Tories, and he remained prime minister. The moment of his possible fall had passed. When the invasion of Poland came, Chamberlain was no longer defending a policy of appeasement - and indeed his government immeadiately declared war on Germany, as it had promised before. And so, there was no particular reason why Chamberlain would be ousted in September 1939. He survived the crisis of March, when Hitler occupied "Bohemia and Moravia"; he was not to survive the crisis of the failure to defend Norway. But there was no particular British internal crisis due to the invasion of Poland. What ensued was the drôle de guerre - the inaction of the allies in the Western Front, while the Wehrmacht slaughtered Poland. This was another wrong policy, but it cannot be blamed upon Chamberlain alone; any action would have to be started from French territory, and the French government, not Chamberlain, was the main culprit of the drôle de guerre. His fall came with the invasion of Denmark and Norway, not because the British public opinion realised that war was unavoidable, but because it realised the war was iminent, and that the invasion of France, and probably Belgium and the Netherlands, was a matter of days. Thence Chamberlain lost his position, not directly as a punishment for appeasement or drôle de guerre, but because it was consensual that all main parties should be included in government, and Churchill was by far more acceptable to Labour (and Liberals, though that probably didn't matter as much). Luckacs' two books on the subject (The Duel: 10 May–31 July 1940: the Eighty-Day Struggle between Churchill and Hitler and Five Days in London, May 1940) are a good read, mapping quite well the positions of Churchil and Chamberlain (and Labour's. And Halifax's - whose dellusions seem to have been more persistent than Chamberlain's) during the crisis that lead to the fall of France. 

PASSWORD TO THE SWORD SOLVED NDXOXCHWDRGHDXORVI could also be NDXOXGHWDRCHDCORVI The difference is the first C is exchanged with the second G In fact I would say both C and G are disputed letters could be either one once I started shifting the C around, it fell into one of the placeholders, revealing the following: ND XOX GHW DRCHD CORVI ND XOX CHWDRGHD CORVI 

The inscription is thus a formula or prayer, known to the few, but certainly no longer a secret. Thus a good weekend puzzle. As Alfred North Whitehead might also have put it, close enough. I am sure there is a lot more to it, but lets deal with what we have got here first. Nomine Domini XOX CHW/GHW Draggard Corvi The exact same combination of letters CHW appear in the footnote to a similar inquiry on a brass strap tag C.H.W. (1834). Ancient Brass Relic. The Dublin Penny Journal. Vol. 3, no.119. Dublin: P.D. Hardy, mere coincidence? 

Find words made from DRCHD DRCHD could be Welsh or Gaelic Most likely Dragon Draggard As in "His mighty axe found the Draggard's chest and tore through the scale armor and sunk deep, bringing down the vile creature but also Roakore." GHW I would say are the mans initials or rank Started doing this without reading the British Museum blog: "Let's compare the River Witham sword to the sword from Alphen: both start with some sort of invocation. On the River Witham sword, it is NDXOX, possibly standing for Nostrum Dominus (our Lord) or Nomine Domini (name of the Lord) followed by XOX. On the sword from Alphen, the starting letters read BENEDOXO. Quite likely, this reads as Benedicat (A blessing), followed by OXO. Perhaps these letter combinations – XOX and OXO – refer to the Holy Trinity" So initially had arrived at:- ND as in Notre Dame or ND as in NB, not Note Bene but Note Domino, some such latin Take heed: "In our opinion parts of the long letter sequences could be solved by means of the traditional Latin abbreviation system based on initials, contractions etc. In this context, the so called nomina sacra are most important because we assume that the inscriptions might be some kind of invocation or religious motto." Thus the phrase reads: Pay Attention, This is the sword of GHW Draggard Corvi Either way, the man must have been quite important since his sword tells a story. So lets start with a personal mythology. Either he has killed a legendary dragon, thus making him the rightful heir of Corvi, or he is about to kill a dragon, which might entitle him to said property and so on. It is pretty safe to assume, the inscription had another aim altogether, on the part of the manufacturers, it was intended to strike terror into the enemy, and "God forbid" its user was killed in battle and the sword was picked up, it would continue to unleash its spell, hence one might want to give the sword back to its owner's family, after having done battle with it. So my best guess is this has something to do with an Italian or possibly a Catholic, and the manufacturers guarantee the item good for killing Olde English Dragons. Another rational view, and just to be on the safe side. Let's look and see who the Draggard of Corvi might have been, since the sword may have been forged with an express purpose, perhaps in a war involving the Draggard of Corvi who might be an historical character, so I will definitely do more research along these lines, after my earlier fanciful meanderings into this tale, which have lead me here: In Rust we Trust Dominic Dragonvial Goade Tres Corvi INC. Is this all just an elaborate plot concerning a persons Eve Online character? Let's investigate a bit further. There is an Island of Corvo in the Portugese Azores. Imago Corvi or Sign of the Crow is the name of a dealer specialising in Celtic Art, could the sword be Celtic, or related to Celts in some way? Artcyclopedia lists Domenico Corvi [Italian Painter, 1721-1803] A paper offprint by Handl, The Moralia of 1596, Part 2 Handl: Qui cantum corvi Jacob Handl Qui cantum corvi More on linguistics of Corvi: