The obvious answer is to use as much in space as possible! There are relatively easy ways of producing large quantities of metals and other materials from asteroids using space foundries; these are just large thermal focusing of the sun's energy using simple aluminum mirrors to melt the asteroids. Add a small centrifugal force and a melted ball can be separated by molecular weight for purification, then used for either further purification or recombination. I think in space you could manufacture the same kind of heat-resistant ceramic tiles we used on the space shuttle to protect it from re-entry. You should be able to easily make very large (tanker sized) steel canisters to hold highly compressed, liquefied gases, hydrogen and oxygen, for example. Transport those to Earth, shielded by tiles and with a parachute splashdown, and use them as fuels to power electric generators. They burn clean, and the containers are non-toxic, and perhaps can be constructed in shapes that are even useful in their own right. To be clear, I am not talking about a few, but a production line of millions of them per year, or however many Earth (or a country) needs. 

I am not a language researcher; but I have read (New Scientist, I believe) that linguistic researchers have observed divergence that apparently occurred in a single generation, as the result of a revolution: As I recall, a population had a civil war; split in two, and the "rebels" intentionally modified pronunciation, gender assignment rules, and some fundamental words like for family members (son, daughter, father, mother). Man, talk about being pissed off ... we don't even want your stinkin' language! 

Like Humans Are: I'd expect them to be rather weak and inept in the wild, former prey for bigger, stronger, more vicious animals, big brained that gained their dominant status through better insight, building protections, planning (like hunting, farming) and invention. They don't need opposable thumbs; but they do need ways to grasp natural objects and transform them. Sticks, rocks, dirt, hair, bones and fur, to start. They would almost certainly require sight and hearing; these are too ubiquitous and useful to imagine they don't evolve independently. 

You are being rather vague; I don't know what "consistent with the lore of 1787" might mean. Many realistic things, like radio transmission, magnetic effects (and especially electromagnetic effects in which the field can be switched on and off), remote hearing (what 'telephony' means), remote viewing (what 'television' literally means), a self-moving machine ('auto-mobile') and so on would be considered magic in earlier ages. Music from a cell phone would be considered magic. added: As far as a potion is concerned; something like an oral antibiotic to cure an infection, or a hallucinogenic like LSD, or a knockout drug could be considered 'magical'. Drink it and you pass out for twelve hours, but wake up rested without any hangover or other ill effects. Heck, even an oral topical anesthetic to "cure" a toothache might be considered a magic; just the ache returns when the magic wears off. Most pills could be dissolved in liquid to make "potions", how about nitroglycerin to alleviate chest pains? Concentrated aspirin (salicylic acid) to relieve other aches and pains? Again, if you can be more specific about the magic component you wish to introduce, we might be able to help you more; I will revise this answer. 

I think people, for many centuries, would just refer to Coordinated Universal Time, or UTC, similar to Greenwich Mean Time. It won't make a difference that it is Earth Based: There is no standard that will make sense on all planets, so it might as well make sense on one, and the natural candidate for that is Earth. Locally, it would make sense to use orbital fractions: The planet rotation, from one high noon to the next, is 0% to 100%. On earth that is 24 hours, and 1% is 14.40 minutes; but universally, 50% is 'midnight' and 0% or 100% is "high noon". However, that said, our "seconds" and "minutes" and "hours" would probably continue in use; they are arbitrary divisions that correspond to no natural phenomenon. The other orbital fraction is the percent of distance around the sun, measured from perhaps the closest approach: Again 0% is probably the height of 'summer' and 50% the dead of 'winter'. On earth, 1% is 3.65 days, and 2% is about a week. This gives them a somewhat consistent frame of reference for local time of day and year. To get precise and talk about hours, minutes and seconds for interplanetary transactions or interactions, everybody does what we already do: Refer to UTC +/- whatever. I routinely have meetings with people that reside in other countries, and conference calls that may involve people in six countries. Sometimes that means I have to be up and online at 3:00 AM, my time, or 9:00 PM, but everybody manages whatever their job requires. And certainly in a high tech future; computers will take care of all those local-to-global conversions for us very easily. For example, a voice command and exchange like: "I have a conference call with the build team at UTC plus eight next Earth Thursday, what time will that be?" Computer: "55% of a rotation, in three rotations." "Shit. Alert me before dinner that day, and I need a wake up call 90 minutes before the call." 

If women are in charge of everything, the have a great deal of control over what men see and how events are interpreted. They are probably the soldiers and managers of companies, the military, and government agencies. Just because they are not the CEOs of those operations does not preclude them from wielding significant levels of power to shape their society. 

Rogue Planet. Jupiter is far enough away, and isolated enough, that another Jupiter-sized planet (or larger) flung out of it's solar system, which would necessarily be traveling in a straight line, could pass close enough to lift Jupiter out of its orbit. Note that the straight line could be from any direction; not all systems are oriented to spin in the same direction as ours happens to be spinning. So the rogue can come from "above" or "underneath" the flat plane most of our planets are in (convenient way to avoid collisions with any other planets). If it comes in to close to our own plane of rotation; you would have to worry about any other planets in its path. As I said, we are not affected by any tides caused by the gravitational pull of Jupiter; Heck we aren't affected if all the other planets are aligned with us. So a rogue planet passing through close to Jupiter won't have any noticeable effect upon us either. That said, the rogue entering and exiting our Oort Cloud, and our Jupiter exiting, could cause major disturbances there that ultimately result in many tens of thousands of asteroids being deflected into the inner solar system. When those have hit us in the past, most recently about 65 million years ago, they have caused Life on Earth a bit of trouble. 

No, it does not prohibit it, but it makes it extremely unlikely. For one, it is easily divisible; the same way gold was: A "bank" that has many rats can issue a promissory note in rat fractions that becomes money. They can also have something difficult to reproduce or fake on their promissory notes; much like our own money: Special paper, ink, and an extremely intricate design hard to reproduce particularly with late 19th century technology. Remember, our own early money IRL was a promissory note redeemable in silver or gold. Your is just redeemable in Rat! But it takes (for example) 100 single notes to actually get a Rat. For lesser denominations, they are still good for trade: The baker knows that he needs to sell 100 loaves to get a hundred singles, but at the Bank he really could trade those 100 singles for an actual Rat. If he wants. But he might prefer to let the Bank take any risk of accidental Rat death, and just keep the stack of promissory notes that are just as exchangeable. It is safer. This is the flaw in your system, I think. It will be replaced by promissory notes almost immediately. It is a misconception to think Scarcity is important for a currency. It is not exactly so. Money must be difficult to forge, and difficult to just find lying around in nature. The scarcity of gold and silver just meant it was hard to fake, and hard to just go on a hike and get some. In real life, our currencies are hard to fake, but are not themselves made of anything scarce. And they don't just occur in nature, so it is hard to just hike in the woods and find some growing on a tree. But that said, not everything scarce and hard to find makes a suitable currency: Consider Truffles. They can be extremely expensive, they can't be faked, they are hard to find, but they are an unlikely currency. The defining characteristic of currency is widespread trust that it can be exchanged for equal value of goods, labor or services. Now "equal value" is nebulously defined, a fuzzy definition. Still we know what it means; that if a guy gets paid 100 singles for a day of labor, he knows what else he can buy for that 100 singles, in food, in entertainment, in tools or travel or transportation. He trusts that the five Twenties he was given are going to be accepted in trade for almost anything he wants to buy. The money does not have to be backed by anything as long as effectively everybody believes it will be accepted in trade; that is why vendors take it, and workers accept it as pay. So the biggest concern about money is forgery and theft. If your Rats are very difficult to forge and not easy to find ; and no easier to steal than modern currency, then they can be a basis. But like Gold and Silver, IRL, they would likely be replaced by promissory notes, and then just replaced by hard-to-counterfeit paper products. Added: This occurred to me later: You provide the perfect reason that Banks for rats would arise, how it is in their self-interest and why people would use them (in their self-interest): The rats sometimes reproduce. So the bank, in return for ensuring the life of your Rat (the promissory notes they give you, upon deposit, are redeemable for any Rat, not just your own), also keep any new Rats your rat may produce. Instead of our massive vaults for holding Gold and money, they have massive guarded rat gardens; with the rats in trays, perfectly sunned, watered, cooled or shaded, provided medical care as needed to optimize reproduction: That is their profit; it minimizes rat death and rewards them for being custodians of the rats. Like our own first banks, they can "loan" rats, by producing promissory notes collateralized by real property; e.g. a mortgage on your farmland so you can purchase animals, equipment and seed to farm it. Interest bearing loans, of course. People use the banks because they provide free (or low cost) life insurance on their rats, in return for the rights to offspring. Like life insurance, it is better to give up the rare lucky chance of offspring, to be protected against the unlucky chance of losing a rat in an accident, fire or assault.