To my knowledge this is not part of the Gnostic tradition at least, not part of the Syrian-Egyptian and Persian schools which I am familiar with. I would suggest googling counter-apologetic sites for a review of this kind of argument. Its certainly a fascinating idea. In solving the problem of God's origins inherent in classical arguments like the Cosmological Argument, the author has managed to torpedo the idea of a prayer answering god because any god that doesn't know what it is like to be inside the universe would have no idea how to interpret the messages. 

Marxism talks of proletarian revolution arising out of the class conflicts in the society and to be led by the working class. Maoism talks of a protracted peasantry revolution by eliminating the class enemies by guerrilla warfare. Maoism believes in extreme violence as the only weapon to seize power. The key differences are in the Maoist focus on an aggraian rather than industrial society and the degree of violence to be employed in the revolution. Marx advocated strike action and other basically peaceful demonstration with escalation to more violent forms of protest if this proved uneffective. Examples of this can be seen in the labour union disputes of 1970s britain and the early days of the actual russian revolution. Maoism goes much further, advocating extreme violence and guerilla warfare of the sort the viet cong engaged in in the Vietnam war. 

Aquinas's third way falls down because he is observing time and the universe from the inside. he postulates a universe that must be contingent on an infinite, uncaused, prime-mover or it would have ceased to existed under the pressure of time and entropy. This is pretty much in line with current physical models that suggest the universe will eventually experience a heat-death. Aquinas simply couldn't concieve of the timescales involved. he thought in terms of hundreds and thousands instead of trillions of years. He didn't account for the possibility that the universe he was describing was non-contingent and in the process of dying. 

The phrase you are looking for is the "beatific vision". It is the idea that our perceptions of beauty, truth and goodness in this world are a glimpse into a deeper reality which is accessed through the soul and self knowledge. The first occurrence I know of is in Plato's Republic, which explains how seeing the Forms frees a person from slavery and teaches them who they really are, and uses the city as an image of the soul in order to understand a correctly ordered soul. This theme is picked up by Christian philosopher theologians such as Boethius, Augustine, Justin Martyr, Bonaventure and Aquinas. It is also a standard hermeneutic principle during the Middle Ages, where the deepest meaning of religious scripture is how the soul achieves the beatific vision. In fact, it is the defining pursuit of philosophy and theology during this time. The best popular expression of this idea is the Divine Comedy by Dante, which is a story about the escape of the soul from a false understanding of self to achieving the beatific vision. 

At the national level it doesn't really make a difference. However, at the local level it does, and the politicians selected at the local level can have a larger influence. 

Law of non-contradiction is part of Cogito ergo sum. Other similar logic principles, where it is self defeating to doubt them. Such as saying "there is no absolute truth" which is itself an absolute truth if true. Finally, you can't prove that uncertainty means lack of knowledge. 

Notice that the starting premise is that God is not evil. Anselm's ontological argument underlies this notion. If God were evil, there would be an even greater being than God, which is a contradiction. Therefore, God is not evil. So, the theodicy is derived by eliminating possibilities, and the only logical possibility left is that humans and other beings with free will are the authors of evil. The problem with other theodicies, such as your own, is that denying any premise #1-3 is philosophically problematic. It isn't that there is some conspiracy to avoid saying God is evil or the author of evil, as that suggestion has been proposed many times (e.g. Homeric gods) and is actively believed by certain Christian and other religious sects today. Each premise was arrived at independently from the theodicy, and when you put them together you get the theodicy. That being said, it doesn't quite make sense to me either. Being able to choose evil is not a necessary condition for having free will, as God can't choose evil yet has free will. The same goes for heavenly beings in general. If I were God, I wouldn't have given people the ability to be evil. However, it seems to be the only logical possibility once you accept premises #1-3. 

Newtons work is hugely important but it has been improved upon and largely superceded by that of Einstein and Hawking once you leave the field of classical mechanics. In Einsteins model, the three Euclydian dimensions of Space and the fourth dimension, Time, combine into a single four dimensional continuum known as Minkowski Space. This makes it possible to desribe supergalactic and subatomic processes in a more complete and uniform way. The mutable nature of space-time is observable in the way that it is distorted by the gravity of massive objects such as stars and planets. This effect is known as gravitational lensing and is well proven with observational evidence. 

This is invalid but sound. All the premises are true but the conclusion is false. Socrates could be an animal or a strangely named woman. 

This is unsound and invalid. At least one of the premises is false (P1) Socrates may be a woman (we only have Plato's word otherwise) and even if both premises were correct, there is nothing to infer that being a woman makes one mortal. This is an entire field of study in itself with a lot of bearing on Mathematics. If you are interested, check out Matt dilahunty's YouTube video Foundations 1.0 on the Logical Absolutes for a beginners guide. 

OK, after wading through some of Karen Barad's work I'll give this a shot. I'll put a disclaimer right here that this is largely educated guesswork. As the OP says, Karen's writing style is very opaque, especially when she leaves off a direct discussion of her field of expertise (quantum physics) and starts trying to apply physics to sociology. Barad proposes a theory she calls Agential Realism in which the world is made up of Phenomena which are (I think) the Entanglements you are asking about. They are the inseperability of agencies (subjects and objects) in an interaction. In Barads view, the universe can be thought of, not as a continuous flow of causality, but as an infinite series of 'snapshots' or 'slices of time' each of which is preceeded by the various factors led to that exact state of affairs and is followed by an infinity of possible universes that resolves into one determined future when a descision is made. Example: I pick up a coffee cup. Under Agential Realism Theory the moment at which I pick up the coffee cup is not just preceeded by my descision to take a drink. It is also preceeded by my descision to make coffee instead of tea, my choice of cup, the fact that I came to work this morning instead of staying in bed etc. It is proceeded by a variety of possibilities inculing my spilling the coffee on myself, taking a drink or dropping the coffee on my computer and dying in an electrical fire. In this model the entanglements are the connections between past, future and the agents involved in the interaction (in the example, me and the coffee cup). To utilise this in a programming language the entanglements would be the commands you write to the object model with the agencies involved being the Object Model and the Compiler. I would imaging that such a programming language would look somehting like the self-learning code that the google-brain and other neutral nets use to teach themselves based on external input. They aren't based on a traditional Object Model but instead rewrite their own command sets on the fly as new information is presented. 

Well, your very question has the same dilemma...Billions of people think they can know things, many others think they cannot. Many in both camps are very smart, well educated, etc. If your premise is correct, that smart people on both sides of an issue means the average person cannot have confidence in a position, then it must apply just as well to your question. Therefore, if your premise is correct, then you cannot know whether your premise is correct. On the other hand, if your premise is incorrect, then you can know it is incorrect. So, no answer here in the affirmative can be correct, as it would be self refuting. Now, if we say the only two possible answers are yes or no, then by disjunction elimination the conclusion must be that you can indeed know things. This is a sound/valid deductive argument. 

God is moral, and logically cannot be the source of evil Evil exists The only source of evil is free will 

It may appear to be possible to write an algorithm writing algorithm. In actuality, such an algorithm does not exist, due to the halting problem. While you can write an algorithm that outputs a list of instructions, the output is limited by the original algorithm, and only applies to a specific pre-defined goal. So, you cannot write an algorithm where you give it an arbitrary goal and it constructs an algorithm to reach the goal. 

While not a logical proof, this appears to be a practical disproof of AI. If it were possible to replace programmers, with all the brainpower and sheer quantities of money directed at computer science we'd have discovered an algorithm to replace programmers by this point. But we haven't. Instead, the number of programmers is increasing rapidly. Therefore, programmers can solve a class of problems that algorithms cannot. Since AI is a kind of algorithm, true AI that replicates human intelligence is impossible. Is there any evidence to the contrary? NOTE: Giving credit where credit is due, this argument I took from the following paper where it is argued much better: $URL$