A teardown of a fake charger shows why these can be dangerous. As pointed out by Rob in a comment below 

So any data reported by the DfE (and presumably by it's predecessor) would have included all ethnic groups. Since parents and pupils have the right to refuse to provide this information, one ethnic group category is "refused". The department's Common Basic Codeset currently includes the following ethnic groups (as well as a code to indicate the source of the information). 

Mechanical Resonance Certain types of bridge are susceptible to mechanical resonance effects even when marching soldiers are not involved. Mechanical structures usually have one or more frequencies at which some part of the structure oscillates. A tuning fork has a well-defined natural frequency of oscillation. More complex structures may have a dominant natural frequency of oscillation. If some mechanical inputs (such as the pressure of feet walking in unison) have a frequency that is close to a natural frequency of the structure, these inputs will tend to initiate and, over a short time, increase the oscillating movements of the structure. Like pushing a child's swing at the right time. London Millenium Bridge One example is London's Millennium Bridge which was closed shortly after opening because low-frequency vibrations in the bridge were causing large groups of pedestrians to simultaneously shift their weight and reinforcing the oscillation. Dampers were fitted. 

See A CRITICAL STUDY OF THE WORK “VYMANIKA SHASTRA” by H.S. MUKUNDA §, S.M. DESHPANDE § , H.R. NAGENDRA §§ , A. PRABHU § , AND S.P. GOVINDARAJU § Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore ‐ 560012 (Karnataka) 

So there were women working on important jobs, but the accounts all make it seem they were a minority of those doing (arguably) the most skilled work. 

No. The archetypal pirate in your picture is based primarily on one memorable pirate film based on a work of fiction. The meme springs almost entirely from fictional sources and not from shared characteristics of notable historical (or modern) pirates. 

2002 Study Large numbers of birds die every year from other causes, turbine-related deaths are currently alleged to be only a very small proportion of these. According to a 2002 study A Summary and Comparison of Bird Mortality from Anthropogenic Causes with an Emphasis on Collisions "funded by DOE, with direction and support from the Wildlife Working Group of the National Wind Coordinating Committee" 

Conclusion For all the reasons given above it seems unlikely that Tesla provided experimental results that demonstrated commercial feasibility with the technology of the day. 

You can easily find old tales of the preacher of Dubno For example: God Laughed, Friedman & Friedman, 2014: 

From Opinion of the Scientific Committee on Food: Update on the Safety of Aspartame (expressed on 4 December 2002) 

The claim is true but possibly only applicable to a very small range of situations. Upshot Knothole In 1953, as part of Operation Upshot Knothole, tests were carried out on miniature buildings to test the effects of extreme heat on the buildings. They did find that wooden buildings surrounded by dry combustible material were more likely to catch fire than clean white-painted buildings lacking any large quantities of loose combustible material. 

Conclusion The claim is false (or at least misleading) in almost all respects. However, as is often the case, it springs from a kernel of truth. Albeit a truth which is altogether rather more mundane and unremarkable in character. 

(The newspaper doesn't state whether this is one example of a larger sample) The study was also reported in 2009 by Nature and Medical News Today 

So the basic idea is sound. But the foot in use today has much more recent definition (example) and likely differs from the actual length of any appendage of any particular English monarch. The most you can say about the current length of a foot in relation to an English monarch's body is that it probably hasn't been redefined very many times since Henry I implicitly defined it as a third of the length from his nose to his outstretched thumb. His actual feet were probably not involved in the definition. 

In antiquity it was common to use human body parts to measure lengths. The foot as a unit of measure predates the establishment of England as a country - and hence predates English kings. Wikipedia cites Oswald Ashton Wentworth Dilke (May 22, 1987). Mathematics and measurement as saying that the Romans and Greeks used the foot as a unit of measure. 

Note that the MCB advance the idea that these national groups may be an indicator for muslims in the UK. The figures for "cannot speak English well" are 18.8% and 24.7%. It seems conceivable that the government's figure of 22% may be some kind of weighted average of these or of similar or overlapping data. The MCB also published an Infographic that contains this 

The Bronze Age in Britain started around 2000 BC and lasted until the start of the Iron Age around 650 BC. Ref - So I believe this covers the period in the question. 

What manufacturers Say According to an "engineering-based company specialising in turbocharger and supercharger design, replacement turbochargers, and manufacturers of specialist machinery and turbo components used in the turbocharger repair industry." : 

Large numbers of women worked at BP. The most highly skilled parts of the decryption effort were mostly carried out by men. The Film 

So a 12-inch foot predates England. However the exact length of a foot has varied over the centuries. At times, there are records that indicate that the length of a foot was redefined based on the physical size of an actual foot of a ruler such as an emperor. For example: 

Effects on endangered species Deaths for some bird species may be more significant than others: Scientists study wind-farm risks to birds 

Independent reports The BBC has video which looks like the same lightning strike from a slightly different angle. 

source unknown, allegedly 1983 A meeting between Rumsfeld and Hussein did take place in 1983 but the alleged photo of Rumsfeld+Hussein is almost certainly not a true record of that encounter. Iraqi TV coverage shows Hussein in army uniform. The (then secret) reports of the meeting describe Hussein as being in army uniform. Personally I think Photoshop may have been involved here, look at the "shadow" round Hussein's head, consider Rumsfeld's true appearance in 1983 and 2011. 

The image of the moon is strikingly similar to an Alamy stock Photo taken in Westphalia Germany on September 28 2015. It is also similar to one taken of a blood moon (total eclipse) by Karen Bleier in Virginia in 2010. 

There is at least one study that is supportive of the general concept. Effectiveness of video as an instructional medium in teaching rural children However there are almost certainly important differences which may have a bearing, for example the availablity of a teacher, familiar with the material, with whom the student can interactively discuss any parts they do not understand. 

Conclusion It was most likely Newton who first demonstrated that white light consisted of various rays of coloured light. He demonstrated that white light could be split apart into coloured light which could then be recombined to re-form white light thus proving that white light consisted of a mixture of coloured light. I've not found any evidence that anyone prior to Newton was reported as having reached this conclusion and provided convincing proof. There is some evidence that Al-Haytham did not. From the works he published and from the references to him by later scholars and scientists it is evident that Al-Haytham was a fine scholar and scientist. There is no need to attribute to him discoveries that he did not make. 

Diet coke By contrast we can see that the company follow FDA requirements for a product known to contain Aspartame: 

The Istanbul Museum of the History of Science and Technology in Islam have a work on optics that states 

The people named by Welchman in connection with work inside Hut 6 were all male - from what I've read (though I may have missed something) 

However this is a modern definition and the Convention referred to is a more recent one. Chemical Weapons Convention 1992 Although produced 47 years after the date of the events in the question, this convention defines chemical weapons and so has some relevance. White phosphorus does not appear in schedule one of CWC 1991 US View re phosphorus A Declassified report mentions 

Daily Mail Of course, this doesn't rule out battery-powered radios, but it does support the notion that some N Korean homes might be too poor to own their own radio. 

Depth Another way to distinguish the two may be the depth of the seismic event, as detected by seismographs. See Determining depth. Normal earthquakes have a depth of 0 to 700 Km. I believe nuclear tests are not so deep. The Bam earthquake was at 5 km - 8 km depth (quite shallow), Nuclear tests are usually at depths less than 1 Km, The deepest borehole ever dug was 12 km and took 24 years to dig (it was not related to nuclear testing). 

Acupuncture and dry needling in the management of myofascial trigger point pain: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Tough EA, White AR, Cummings TM, Richards SH, Campbell JL. 

These photos are real but highly staged. In particular, water droplets don't stay on the heads of jumping spiders for very long. 

"Radio Frequency Hearing" There are some studies that suggest this is a real phenomenon (or at least taken seriously by some researchers). 

Per small installation Some individual wind-turbine operators think even ten deaths per year per turbine is too many: Primary school forced to turn off wind turbine after bird deaths 

Tentative conclusion: In terms of feline welfare, TV is no substitute for environmental support for a wider range of more normal cat activity. 

Update: In Investigation of Contamination of Wild Rats (Rattus rattus) from Tehran City to Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae in 2009 says 

Times of Israel, February 17, 2013 It seems unlikely that either source would be motivated to underestimate Iran's capabilities to the extent that Iran could in fact have detonated a nuclear warhead ten years ago. 

Yes, if the cause of the blindness is "hysterical" If you have a detached retina, cataracts, nerve damage, missing occipital lobe, eyeball trauma or other causes, lightning may be unlikely to effect a cure. 

At least some agencies charged with ensuring the safety of foods say not. It is possible that these notions arise from studies into the effects on pesticide residues of washing and cooking of fruit. For example a 2006-2009 UK Study. The report looked at how detectable levels of residues were affected by washing, peeling and cooking fruit. However in the summary of that report there is no suggestion that residual levels in unwashed fruit were actually unusual or harmful. Europe In western countries at least, National and international organisations set maximum residual levels (MRL) for pesticides and national and regional organisations perform regular tests to check levels on fruit and vegetables. MRLs are set at a level that young, old and pregnant women can eat daily for the whole of their lives without appreciable risk to their health. 

It doesn't seem that any cancer victims have yet been identified. The probabilities are low and are assessed over the whole lifetime of people in the worst affected areas. It won't be possible to identify specific people whose cancer is attributable to the Fukushima Daiichi accident. At best, large scale studies may be able to measure the small increase in the actual numbers of cancer victims compared to the numbers who would normally develop cancer. According to a World Health Organisation report in 2013 on the 2011 accident.