It is very likely that future civilizations will keep different time measurement scales for different events in spacetime. For religious ceremonies each religion would need to decide if the ceremonies are to be performed as per local time of the person, or as per the time of some specific location such as Earth. Note that we already have discrepancies here on Earth now, for example the Muslim year is shorter than the Gregorian year by I think 12 days. Thus, when a Muslim tells you that he is 65 years old, he may have been born only 63 years ago by the Christian way of counting years. The marking of anniversaries such as independence days, birthdays, remembrance ceremonies, and marriages would likely be done by the local time for the places or the people. Titan may celebrate 2 independence days for every 120 times that India celebrates its independence. However, an Indian on a spaceship to Alpha Centari and back may need to celebrate 15 Indian independence days during his 700 day voyage due to time dilation. During that time, his parents only celebrated their child's birthday twice for the 15 years they were waiting for his return. Legal privileges and responsibilities such as drinking age and driving age will need to be coordinated with the time dilation experienced by the person. Perhaps national ID cards will have a timekeeping device, similar to how radiation workers wear dosimeters today. Activities that must be performed on a schedule will need their time computed as per the location where that activity takes place. The seasons of a planet do not change just because the farmers travel to other star systems. The planning to return to some planet in order to tend to the crops in season there will have to be coordinated to happen once each time the planet revolves around its sun. I imagine that we will need computers to help us calculate when the events take place, and when we must leave our current destination in order to get to the proper location at the proper time, taking both distance and expected travel velocity into account. 

Although I won't presume to understand the mathematics, there's a problem with the stability of highly-inclined orbits if there are other bodies close enough or massive enough to perturb the system, namely the Kozai mechanism. 

They will have the ability to develop an oral language much like ours, but the details will depend a lot on the precise anatomy of the mouth, especially the lips. Unless they cannot close their mouths completely due to their tusks (which is highly unlikely), I think they will have no trouble producing bilabial stops (/p/, /b/ and nasal /m/). Even if the lips cannot seal the mouth, if a reasonable length is closed, the "popping" effect of a bilabial stop can be achieved. It may be that these sounds will not be distinctive enough, though. The same goes for labiodental fricatives /f/ and /v/, which don't need full closure of the lips. Indeed the tusks could conceivably function as a secondary fricative articulation. They might run into trouble pronouncing rounded vowels (such as /o/, /u/ and the front rounded vowels of French and German) and the consonant /w/, if the lips are not flexible enough or the tusks are too close to each other. As for new sounds, I'm picturing maybe a bilateral fricative or approximant made by letting air out the corners of the mouth, left and right of the tusks, while the lips are pinched in the middle. You can do this yourself if you pinch your lips right behind your nose using your index finger and thumb and forcefully blow some air. 

The two cores would coalesce due to gravity. You cannot have an "orbit" in an environment with friction, i.e. in a planetary body. One solution would be to have the magnetic i.e. ferrous cores suspended in a super-core of non-magnetic material of higher density than the ferrous cores. The material would need to have the following properties: 

When the aliens were led out of bondage in Misr, their deity killed off all the first-born children of Misr. So how would a deity know which house had children to be spared, and which were to be killed? The aliens simply dabbed a bit of ruminant blood on their doorposts to inform the all-powerful that this house has children to be spared. To this day the aliens celebrate how their children were spared by placing not blood, but a parchment, on every door. Tradition dictates that they honour this parchment each time they pass through a doorway by placing it close to their heart. And since it would be such a pain to take down the parchment, hold it to the chest, and place it back again each time they go through a doorway, instead they simply touch the parchment with the sixth finger of their left hand, which conveniently has an artery coming directly from the heart. Since the aliens use their left hand to honor the parchment, they must always go through the door in a specific direction. The parchment must always be on their left. 

I've often wondered if the X-gene doesn't just "read" the other genes and try to make sense of them and interpret them in its own way. Like an English speaker picking up a book written in a foreign language (say, German) and attempting to read the book in English, except that rat in German doesn't mean a rodent. (Rat in German means advice, counsel, or council.) For example, say you've got some junk DNA in there that the X-gene reads as "start power" and some more further down the line that the X-gene reads as "cognitive predictive ability 1000%" and a little further down the line the X-gene reads "end power." In a person without the X-gene, that's just junk DNA and it doesn't mean diddly. With an X-gene, that person can predict the future. There would also be people with X-genes who did not have any combinations where the X-gene made sense of it (inactive X-gene) as in the case of Mystique and Sabertooth's son has NO powers, although ostensibly he has to have an X-gene, who joined Friends Against Humanity. It would mean at least one of the "non-mutant" parents of mutants have the X-gene but no viable combinations of DNA. Genetic Recombination during Meiosis: "Genetic recombination is the production of offspring with combinations of traits that differ from those found in either parent. In eukaryotes, genetic recombination during meiosis can lead to a novel set of genetic information that can be passed on from the parents to the offspring." It would explain why mutants may always be a minority. It would explain why similar or the same powers are more inclined to run in families yet entirely unrelated powers can still belong to close kin. Ideally, as we saw more mutants getting married and having children (rather than saving the world) we would also see more non-mutant or non-powered offspring of mutants. (Won't that fuck Magneto up? Teehee.) Anyone have any thoughts on this? 

Actually, for the most part, your world should look like Earth at first glance, because Earth looks flats from its surface. You'll only notice its curvature if you're looking at a ship a long way away at sea, for example. It says here that 

If your planet and your moon have roughly the same masses as our Earth and Moon, respectively, then your moon cannot be "much closer" as you requested, if its orbital period must be 20 days, because the orbital period is not a free parameter. From Kepler's third law (with some help from WolframAlpha) you have: $$a = \sqrt[3]{{T² \times G(m_1 + m_2)} \over {4 \pi²}}$$ where 

Having no atmosphere and a night side guarantees extreme cold simply because space is cold. If a planet has a dense atmosphere, extreme heat is relatively easy to achieve as well; Venus, being farther from the Sun than Mercury, is hotter because of that. But a dense atmosphere prevents heat from escaping during the night, which is why Venus is hot all around. If your planet has a thin atmosphere it's possible that you might have something a bit like Mars: freezing, sub-Antarctic temperatures on the night side and balmy, temperate spring-like temperatures on the day side (on the equator, at midday, in the summer). If you want to have poles with the same temperature all year round, you could posit that the planet has little or no tilt, thus eliminating seasonal variation. In any case, as I said, atmosphere is your enemy if you want temperature extremes. It would also work against the idea of a prison or punishment planet, unless it's a crushing, toxic atmosphere like that of Venus. 

1) What do the gods want from the people? What can they gain from the government being aligned with them? 2) What do the people want from the gods? What can they gain from the government being aligned with a god? Maybe not atheist government but possibly anti-god government? Less about "Do they exist?" and more about "Are they really the good guys?" You may get someplace where anyone who worships any god is persona non grata with the government. Which I can see some gods being pissy about, unless they only need belief and not necessarily worship. I guess the question is whether your gods need support from nations/governments or only individuals? I seem to think an institutionalized religion, taught in public schools and so on, would benefit a particular god enough to have them putting it on their wishlists. What benefits do the gov/nations get from having an institutionalized religion or worship of a particular deity? In D&D the way it works is believers or priests or whatever offer worship and faith (belief) which for lack of a better word the Gods consume or eat to gain power or strength or whatever. Why do they need power? The same reasons as humans: to fight with each other and because they have an built in desire to survive. Gods with no followers or priests are considered dead gods and cannot have much effect on the world. In return, the God gives the believer or priest divine power in the form of spells or miracles or what have you. The government might be anti-gods (a tax on all churches and worshippers!), pro-gods unilaterally (don't care what faith you have but you must have one or pay the tax), or pro-/anti- particular gods for reasons of special contract (what do we get for making yours our official religion, rewarding your worshippers and punishing your detractors oh Goddess of Puffy Clouds?) or grudge (you killed 10,000 people, Great God of Necromancy, so we're outlawing your worship in our nation because you suck). Off Topic: Honestly, I want to see a God of All Undead in a country run by super old vampires, built by hard-working zombies, pestered by ghouls, et cetera. Maybe some humans in that nation would be little more than cattle. But what if the vampires were long-term breeders of humans with excel charts of who was bred from whom to best boost rates healthy children? They might offer bonuses for marriage, maternity leave, stay-at-home moms, and so on. What if they only killed the elderly or the terminally ill or something? What if they had a national version of the red cross where they offered the surplus to help the sick or injured? Blood donations required from all eligible citizens every ninety days? Guaranteed food to make sure citizens are healthy enough to make regular blood donations? They might end up being a better place to live in a lot of ways than some of the human nations run by despots who aren't as reliant on the populace living long and healthy lives. In that set up, a dead relative might serve a year or several as a menial zombie before being permanently put to rest. You'd be surprised what people can get used to in a couple of generations. (Trying to be an ambassador to that nation from the other human run nations would be terrifying. I'm assuming cultural bias against the nation would be strong.) Plus, even though you don't like your human nation's homeless indigent population disappearing near the border of the vampire nation (publicly at least) it would make some things easier for you: A) what to do with the homeless or the poor and B) getting rid of your enemies. See National Geographic's article called "When Death Doesn’t Mean Goodbye" for an interesting real life example of how that might work. 

An island with no natural harbors, with steep cliffs all around (such as Rockall in a previous answer), in choppy waters and with at least seasonal bad weather, should do the trick, at least statistically. There's no place that can be one-hundred-percent-guaranteed unreachable but there are many places that most people don't consider it worthwhile enough going to great trouble trying to reach in the first place. If your island has no safe place to land a boat, and the weather around it is usually bad, and the island is away from the main seagoing routes (so that getting there takes a lot of time), and there's nothing there of great value (that you know), then only very determined people will even thinking of trying. That in itself will also contribute to the island's legend of inaccessibility. 

Repeated glancing impacts by a steady stream of dwarf planets (larger asteroids? Kuiper belt objects?) should do the trick. Needless to say this would risk missing the target every time, and it would certainly make a hot mess (literally!) of the Moon's equator, where the impacts would be directed. I visualize a temporary ring of ejecta around the Moon, too, though whether they would achieve (short-lived) orbit is not clear to me. I'm not sure how much mass and at what speed you would need. I'm also not sure how much it would take for tidal acceleration to turn things back. Consider that the Moon is pretty far away already, so tidal acceleration is not as strong as it was a couple billions years ago.