I fear that you won't be able to replace the wheel with exactly the same thing since they seem to be generic wheels built for this bike. You can try the dealer you bought them from, they might have a replacement available or you can look for a different set elsewhere. In that price category you might have to buy a set (front+rear wheel) thought, but at least that means they will match. 

One thing that can help is training on rollers. It's kind of dangerous at the begining, because the bike reacts a lot to little imbalances, but as you get more experience on them you will feel much more stable on the bike and this might help in feeling the bike better on the road. As for bike handling, ride it and ride it more, I don't think anything beats experience. You can look up techniques for cornering or decending, but you will have to try them a little faster each time to know your limit. 

If you can afford gears, buy them. Having an uphill section at the end you will want to shift up in order to make it easier. Going the oposite direction you will also like the ability to go to a smaller gear to get a little more speed downhill. Looking at the pictures linked, it seemed the that the single speed have a rather small rear cog compared to the geared bike. If you can't handle shifting rapidly you can always leave it your geared bike in one speed, but at least you'll have the option of chaing it for those morning where you feel weaker or have less energy. 

I've recently been shopping for headsets and now believe you don't need to go all the way down, but longer is better. 

I've just had a quick read of the BB7 / 5 service manual. The only reference to not using barrel adjusters is for pad wear on page 11. Mechanical disc brakes have a pad wear adjustment, usually on the outboard side of the calliper. This should be used to account for pad wear and not the barrel adjuster. 

As far as physically attaching the thing, that's easy, any shrader pump should fit as long as the head is small enough to clear anything in the way. I've used a minipump to fill forks in an emergency, but it's not easy. Shocks run at much higher pressures though and I'm not sure you're going to be able to get high enough with most pumps. Some quick Googling says Fox Shocks have a max of 300PSI, that's a lot. A cheap shock pump can be got for $15, just buy one. The right tool for the job is usually the best way to go. 

In almost every slope you will hit a speed "sweet spot" where the gravity pull and drag from the wind will cancel each other out, this can be at 70 km/h for a 8% slope in aero position or 15 km/h for a 2% slope on an hybrid bike. 

I really enjoy gummy type food (e.g. PowerBar Gel Blast or Cliff Blocks). They have multiple flavors and taste OK. It won't replace a full meal, but it does keep me fueled up for longer rides. These gummies usually have an expiry of +1 year and can take the sun and heat without melting. Some of my packets did a 6h ride in full sun in my back pocket without melting and still being eatable. 

Even if the error is 5%, it's still a power meter. I would get it fixed either to use personnaly or to sell it. 

Strava has the option of using "Popularity" to create a route. This means that if more people use Route 2, it should make you go that way. The problem if that if a lot of people are training using Route 1 it might skew the resulting route the other way. Usually I start by checking where other people are going by when I plan my trips, then I can do adjustments based on riding it or by talking to the locals. There is also the option of manually creating the route using Strava or RideWithGPS or other mapping sites, but that would mean that you have previously know which one is the best. 

There's a special tool that matches those notches so you can dismantle the whole thing. However, yeah, you'd be better off with a new rear hub. You can reuse the rim, if you get a hub with the same number of holes, but you'll need new spokes. You're going to need to know the spacing of the rear dropouts on your frame and find a track hub that matches that. For mountain bikes this is usually 135mm, 130mm for road bikes, and 120mm for track bikes. 

The Alfine has a chinaline of 42.7mm for a single crank and the Ultegra 43.5mm for the double and 45mm for the triple. For the double the chainline is measured halfway between the 2 rings so the outer ring will be even further out, but the inner further in. Sheldon says "With typical 5 mm chainring spacing, this puts the inner at 41 mm, the outer at 46 mm". 1.7mm or 3.3mm both sound like a long way for a belt drive to me. But I'm not an expert there. You my be able to use the BB spacers to offset the whole crankset 1.7mm towards the drive side, but I'd rather not go down that route. This is all assuming there's no extra molding on the cranks or rings to get in the way. 

All else being equal (power output, weather, wind resistance, etc.), how much faster will I be if I lose 10kg (going from 100kg to 90kg) while riding? Acceleration and climbing might be much different, but while riding steadily on a flatish road outputting the same power as before, how will my cruising speed change ? 

Maybe you can use a shipping service from the US to re-ship the new keys to you, but I'm assuming that you have to send the lock in, and have them ship it back ? If that's the case, a new lock would probably be cheaper. 

So you might check those dedicated lanes. An other option would be to use Strava's Global Heatmap where you can see where people are cycling the most. You can't really see what you want exactly (dedicated lanes), but coupled with Google's map, I find it's a good start to plan a ride. 

I thankfully never was in that situation, but if the driver doesn't let you go or is getting out of the car, use the bike's advantages over the car : 

It's a little more than 100$, but you could have a Garmin Edge 20 for 130$. Maybe wait a little for a special or something*. According to the post it's a good little computer and I personnaly enjoy using their Edge lineup. (* the website has a 10% anything coupon with their partner, might be worth a look, that would bring the Edge 20 to 117$, might not work for everything thought) 

This Shimano tech doc has the relevant part numbers for you. Y3CZ98040, I think. You may want just part of it though. It also has a handy interchangeability table, that tells me a freehub body from an M985 or M775 would work too, but might be the wrong colour. You can look up more here. 

The British Cycling Technical Regulations make no mention of limiting in section 3.3 Gear Restrictions. However BC themselves give instructions on using the limit screws in this explanatory leaflet. I suspect it's up to your charm and the mood of the commissaire. 

The length of the cage on the bottom of your derailleur that holds the two small cogs is what decides the size of cassette you can use on your bike. There are 2 numbers that matter, the max size and tooth capacity. Max size is is the largest cog the derailleur is designed to clear and the capacity is the largest difference between the small-small and big-big gear ratios that it can take up the slack in. -- Since your bike came stock with a 11-26, I'm going to guess it has a short cage derailleur, the largest cog this can accept is 28. SRAM road derailleurs come in short and medium cage, and have a max cog size of 28 & 32 and a max capacity of 33 & 37 respectively. You may also need to change your chain, not a bad idea anyway with a new cassette. 

What type of flats do you suffer from ? Punctures ? How much do you ride ? How often do you have flats ? How much pressure do you have in your tire ? If it's too low it might be the cause of your flats. Tires will lose pressure over time so you need to re-inflate them periodically. How old are your tires ? If they are too thin they will be prone to flats, try to check if you have wear marker. With tubeless people usually put some sealant in the tire, so you might try that, this will prevent/repair puncture flat. 

One big difference is where the force is applied. In a conventional pedal, you press down using the ball of you foot. In a foot-long pedal you would have to center the axle so the pedal stays level, but that would mean that the force would be applied by the middle of your foot. You would be losing the power and flexibility that your ankle can bring. Being clipped in the pedal also has many power and security advantages. Does your footlong pedal in your scenario has a way of being clipped ? In that case you still need strong shoes with a sole, so why have that big of a pedal when you can have a single smaller point of contact ? 

Changing cassette shouldn't require you to pull the axle (4) from the hub body. To get all this put back together you're going to need at least 1 15mm or 17mm (depending on hub) cone wrench and a little bit of know-how. I would assemble what you have there as 4-6-9-6-5 starting from the inside. The tricky part is getting the locknut (5) tight against the rest without upsetting the load on the bearings. 

This is your stem. As you can see, it is the whole unit from the bars to the top of the fork, including the adjustable bit in the middle. Most dan't have this and I think this is where the confusion is coming from. To remove your bars for packing, it is usual to remove the 4 bolts on the face plate on the stem. That is the part immediately touching the bars. After you've removed the bars, you'll want to tape or strap them to the frame somehow so they're not dangling and pulling on the cables. You shouldn't need to remove anything else. Do not remove the bars by undoing the 1 bolt that adjusts the angle, as you have already, I can't find any diagrams of how it all works. Do not remove the bars by undoing the 2 bolts that hold the stem onto the fork as this will remove the forks as well. 

I don't think they are related and I don't think clip-less pedal will change anything. It's probably age or lack of running training that make it harder to run. Anecdotal evidence : my friend is running and cycling pretty fast, but I can only cycle fast, I'm an abysmal runner. He runs multiple times a week while I rarely run more than once a month. Think of triathletes who run and cycle pretty fast, if cycling would be bad for running, they wouldn't be able to do both of them at that level. 

All these are hard for a car to keep up, sure you might annoy some pedestrians and might be illegal in some places, but it's still better than having the crap beat out of you. 

The big thing is : you have a very subjective human riding the bicycle. Even if a study shows that for X leg length you need Y crank length, if the person riding the bike think that Z cranks feel better or feel faster, what can you do? That is mostly why there is so much debate, because everybody is different. Also people want different things from their bike, some want minimum maintenance, while other want minimum friction. Some people want light wheels, other want stiffer wheels. Some people don't mind lubing the chain after each ride, while other will do it one a season. 

I've respaced a steel road frame from 130mm to 120mm for a track hub. It's super easy, although Mr. Brown recommends not doing this for a change as small as 5mm. I'd try a 135mm mountain disk hub with a 700c cross rim, this gives you the most correct breaking surface on both setups. The advantage here is that when you come to put the 130mm road wheel in your cross bike, it still fits. Although your cross bike MUST be steel and not aluminium of carbon. One last thought, this whole scheme is going to be a bit of a bodge however it's done. I'd be more tempted to have a pair of shared road wheels, where the stresses are much lower and a dedicated pair of off road for each bike. A 120mm/700c cross set, a 135mm/29" MTB set and a 135mm/700c shared set with slicks. 

Could be one of a number of things. Hub If you grab the wheel and shake it from left to right is there noticeable play? If you hold it by the axle and spin it does it feel gravely or gritty? Does it make any noise when you do that? Brakes Are the brakes dragging on the rims? Is the rim buckled enough for the brakes to drag for only part of it? Is it worse in the wet? Wind Is it the wind in your ears, helmet or frame. Unlikely. You Are you going too fast ;)