I have just been reminded of another good reason why this should not be intuitive: It results in Curry's paradox. Curry's paradox is: If this sentence is true, then all sentences are true. But of course not all sentences are true. So Curry's sentence is not true. But if falsehood implies everything, since the left-hand side of the implication is false, the sentence is true. Nothing directly equivalent to a paradox should be considered intuitively obvious, only naive. 

That is not a definition at all, really. IQ is measured with various instruments that do not all agree. And those instruments are based upon specific theories of intelligence, which share some common aspects (e.g. thinking speed matters, not just the quality of the outcome; creative approaches are not essential, consistency is; etc.) But if they all measured exactly the same thing, they would merge and we would stop having multiple competing versions. That is a goal. Defining the goal by the current state leaves one navigating without a compass. 

We want to frame the world in terms of law vs chaos and reason vs emotion, but those are false dichotomies we have inherited from the nature of our politics. You are starting from an extremely biased interpretation of art. Many artists have been well-balanced people. Passion is not a mental disease, and mental diseases do not constitute genuine passion. The art done in Jungian Art Therapy is not high art that speaks to the world, unless it already would be with all the mental torture absent. We want to see those who would alter the dominant order as alternately 'creative' and 'crazy', because we both honor and resent our domination by social convention. So we create an imaginary correlation between the two. But history just does not bear it out. We have great crazy innovators, and we have great sane innovators. We have a lot of totally uncreative mentally ill people, and a lot of totally uncreative sane ones. Being a visionary may be hard on one's emotions, but it does not necessarily affect your mental health. And seriously imagining that the world could be different does not make you crazy by default. These are just two narratives that forgive massive hypocrisy involved in a highly structured society that both wants and hates change. 

Dualism is the other extreme, it is 'best of both, ignoring conflicts' rather than 'this, but not one of those thises'. Deism is just 'God but not religion', so I am not sure it is a separate case. And I am not sure the middle case is parallel -- it is not clear moral realism traditionally relies upon divine command since it goes back to the Stoics, and includes Kant, and both of those schools reject the notion that we need a source of directives outside ourselves. I would put this among the lot of edge-cases where theories have been specifically derived with the aim to accept the main part of a school of philosophy but explicitly disclaim the parts that cause all the conflict. Often the issue inserted is intractability or irreducibility, while the main goal of the philosophy is kept in principle. 

Moral realists like Kant surely think so. And from a more naturalized Kantian position, we can accept the basic argument in a modern framing -- we get something like Freud. Humans have a certain fund of expectations which come down to us genetically and through the shared layer of culture that hold the species together and keep it functioning. Respecting those and allowing them to do their work will be seen by most people as a reasonable definition of good. The remainder are lying. Something like the thoroughgoing empathy of Kant's Categorical Imperative is hard to see as evil, or even neutral. One has to work very hard to make situations where one wishes to ignore it, and even then, there are always slightly more productive paths out of those staged dilemmas, which respect the rule. We resent the degree to which such a notion would constrict our behavior, but we cannot really claim we do not expect the principle to be followed by at least the people most important to us. We expect those we love to be fair, and although we play with contextual details, we do have an overall sense of what fairness is. Any applied theory that works is still going to be negotiated on top of some shared base. Its underlying notion of good is still ultimately going to trace back to shared opinions that arose over time out of these principles. So disowning the idea that a few basic principles are not always good is just casuistic evasion. If there were no basis to morality, different cultures could not make peace on a regular basis, which they simply do. At the same time, we have a strong tendency to focus on only one side of human nature as good, the one that works longer term, and accept more basic competing drives as necessary evils. But there is not really a place for that bias. Conflicting drives that are productive and universal should be seen as competing good impulses to be reconciled, and not viewed in terms of good vs evil drives. It is this intricate balancing act that makes morality seem baseless, because we are too firmly attached to the simplicity of negation. Morality may not be, in and of itself, logically consistent. That does not mean it does not exist or have structure. The same can be said of all forms of taste, but overall, we have not seen the basic nature of things like food change in thousands of years. 

OK, but everything with mass also exists only alongside 'its field', the gravitational field its mass creates. So it seems many particles come with fields. Is there an objection to the electric field that does not apply to the gravitational one? Further as I understand it, the strong force is also a field, and a separate one. So a better question, then, is why this one of the three (or more) fields is absent for specific particles. Rather than considering it special, it seems to me that we should assume everything comes with all of he fields, but that a neutron happens to be an electron and a proton overlaid, canceling out this particular one of the fields. And this is the only field which we happen to be in the position of seeing both the positive and negative versions of. (Since we are not allowed to get near antimatter.) From this perspective, (which I think is close to Maxwell's approach to electricity), then, there is a consistent model where spatial forces are prior to particles. In that model, particles are not really objects, but, instead, inflow/outflow points for the fluids that make up the lines of force for the fields, the same way lines of current make up a laminar flow between a source and a sink in a conformal field. Particles then have mass (or not) because one of the fields they 'source' or 'drain' is gravity. The have the ability to localize because they source or drain the field for the strong nuclear force, and they have charge because they source or drain some electromagnetic 'substance'. 

It has been a long time since I read the Analects, but as I remember it, for Confuscianists what we translate as 'duty' is something quite different from what Western philosophy usually calls duty, (judging from those who used it most clearly -- The early Utilitarians and Kant.) Aristotle's 'virtue' is something some individual develops or inherits, and Kant's 'duty' is something everyone must do regardless of who they are born or what office they fill. But in a world of expectations as dense as China of the time seems to be the Confucian 'duty' falls to you because of who you are, like Aristotle's virtue. And for the Taoist successfully navigating all of those control structures requires the 'virtue' of casting off the excessive leverage of human expectations and acting in accord with nature beyond humanity, something like Kant's duty to respect autonomy or Bentham's duty to increase happiness. The 'duty' is to specific groups to which you owe your existence. It differs in content between individuals, only the gentleman incurs this duty and serves in this way. Western philosophical 'duty' is to God or Humanity, and is either uniform or chosen. So even though they are translated the opposite way around much of the time, I see Taoism as deontological, and this as virtue ethics, the virtue being obedience and freedom from arrogance. 

Dying is the most proximal efficient cause of death. In one sense it is a process, and someone can be dying, but get rescued before arriving at death. So in some sense, there is a logical point here. However, we do not tend to consider efficient cause a cause very often in modern thought, because we have a largely Alchemical/Newtonian view that conflates material and efficient cause -- the way things are is an immediate consequence of the way they just were in the preceding instant, and natural laws. From so strong a notion of physics, someone is dead when they are dead, and to declare them to be dying before then is misreading their current state. You can never rescue someone who is dying. Intuitively that last sentence seems wrong. So I am in favor of Aristotle's four causes (final, formal, efficient, and material) over Alchemy's three (correspondingly: mutable, cardinal, fixed (and even more fixed)). I would assert that for philologic reasons, you are unlikely to care about this point if you are a modern English speaker. We have sets of triads of modal verbs (will, shall, and can; would, should and could; might, may and must) borrowed from the Germanic family, that map nicely onto the three causes (mutable, cardinal, and fixed). So we have trouble thinking of the fourth one, (the non-modal indicative?) as being separate from the third, and our traditional view of physics makes it redundant anyway. (It may not be coincidental that Newton was an Alchemist, or that both he and Maxwell were English.) 

The scientific process never generates anything that "will not be falsified". However small the odds, you always move forward on the condition that any of your premises might prove false. So strictly taken, this is fallacious. But to insist it matters would cripple the process of normal science. To quibble with this is simply not productive, and to insist upon more precise handling of the language puts one outside "the game" in the sense of Wittgenstein. "The game" of science involves knowing what would change one's mind, not avoiding the risk of being wrong. Falsifiability as a principle is meant to challenge the imagination of the community to make sure it is not accepting ritualistic nonsense, rather than addressing the specific problem with the progress of a given programme. As many people in the generation after Popper (Kuhn, Lakatos, Toulmin, Feyerabend) have pointed out, based on solid historical fact, actual literal falsification is often not enough of a reason to reject a theory, when all the alternatives are too weak to replace it. 

Adopt a Kantian or Rawlsian perspective of 'limited interchangeability'. Since any of us might have been any other one of us, humans are ends-in-themselves and not mere means. Therefore circumstances that reduce them to mere means-to-an-end should be avoided altogether when possible, and otherwise shaped so that status can be embraced willingly in a way that allows the person in question to value themselves as highly as any other being. First of all, I am going to define sex very narrowly as unprotected, potentially reproductive activity. The rules for all related activity are generally derived by reference to that narrow definition. But they are not the same thing, and rules about them do not necessarily have the same moral basis. From that perspective, you can argue that forbidding sex entirely is unacceptable because extinction is not a desirable outcome. Even if the nonexistence of humans is a neutral state, achieving it by gradual attrition would be a painful lot for the last survivors. Since none of us would want to be one of those people, and we can prevent that suffering, we should. Some people should breed. None of us would want to be a rape victim, or to be faced with the choice of giving up a child we had just invested nine months worth of effort into producing, (unless we had willingly decided to do so from the beginning.) To the degree that these states can be avoided, they should. We also would not want to be an unwanted child. To the degree this can be avoided, it should. So sex should take place in a way that maximizes the odds the parent or parents who end up with the child will not resent it. This implies that they accept responsibility for the child freely, (or that they find it more suitable parents.) Biology and the psychology of bonding can take care of this. But by not establishing this decision before risking producing the child, one is needlessly increasing the risk that it won't. Romantic love tends to make selfless obligation more tolerable, so although it is not absolutely necessary, it is clearly helpful. So, from this perspective people should breed. They should endeavor to do so in a way that does not produce rape or abandonment or resentment of their children. This is most likely when they accept commitment to form a family, and is best maintained in the case when they appreciate one another. This is not equivalent to any version of what is asked, but I think it may be the closest fit that I would not declare either offensively false, or just plain meaningless. If you want more restrictions, you are commanding someone as to what use they can put their body, without adequate warrant. Almost any additional logical restrictions make the person into a means-to-an-end, with that end being the stability of tradition or manipulating the odds in a game of biological determinism. If you want greater coverage, you are treading on forcing values derived by the straight culture for its own ends, during a period when women generally did not live to menopause, onto everyone else. There is no particular reason for the sterile, by nature or contrivance, to avoid sex without commitment, especially if it is a variety of sex that does not spread disease. The bad fit of the advice to the audience then just makes it meaningless. 

You mention that you already considered Intuitionism, but this is my specific favorite take on Intuitionism. Mathematics is the oldest branch of psychology. It identifies and classifies intutions -- things that humans have a hard time not accepting once they encounter them. And it does so empirically, by looking into the minds of humans for things they automatically assume, given previously identified intuitions, and testing the new against the established. Of course, all basic intuitions are not consistent, so mathematics is after a maximal consistent set of simplest expressible principles, much like any other empirical science. We like our inventories of scientific facts to be parsimonious, elegant, compact and reducible. The contentious quality of refusing things like completed infinities and double negation comes from this assumption that things will be inconsistent, and that the mathematics we have might already be inconsistent. We may have to back off from things we currently know, the same way we backed off from infinitesimals, or the Pythagorean assumption of universal commensurability. So we should not assume otherwise by relying upon facts we have not yet investigated. Brouwer and Kleene do not put things this way, but they have a thoroughgoing pyschologism, starting from Brouwer's derivation of the initial intuitions from the study of time, and his insistence that Heyting's formalizations were pointless and missed the central aspects of mathematical discovery. You can reinterpret the experience of mathematics as a free creative activity, the focus on constructivism, the search for alternative intuitions of infinity, etc. consistently in these terms of searching the mind and correlating what we find between individuals. So yes, it comes out of thin air. It is full of baseless assumptions, exactly because the interaction between assumptions that arise naturally in humans is its subject matter. This vindicates Formalism in a new and interesting way, while acknowledging that its ultimate stated goal is pointless. Sets of axioms are baseless assumptions -- all you can reasonably do with them is determine how the ideas fit together. But we don't want to study all possible axiom sets, that would be a waste of time. We want to identify the ones that we can get a good grip on, and combine productively.