Rand is making a comparative judgement. If corporal punishment is practised in the US, this by her own standards is a defect in the US recognition of individual rights as sacred since it involves physical force against the individual and she disapproves of that. But other countries may be more defective - violate more rights more drastically. The US could - just could - be the greatest country where human rights are sacred in the sense that it has the best record. That doesn't imply - and nor need she - that the US is perfect in its respect for individual rights. If corporal punishment is a blot on the US's rights-respecting record, the US's record may still be the best. So Rand is not necessarily caught in a contradiction, legal or moral. This is not to defend her position. It is just to indicate how she could coherently make her claim - support her belief - about the rights-respecting pre-eminence of the US despite its ongoing use of corporal punishment. 

1 The two can be brought together in the requirement of equal liberty for all, a principle we find in Rawls' Theory of Justice (1972). 2 To the extent that there is economic liberty - a market economy - in which free exchange takes place, there will be winners and losers and economic equality will be a vanishing quantity. 3 The flipside to this is that to the extent that economic equality is introduced and preserved, economic liberty will have to be curtailed since free exchange will produce economic inequalities. 4 Equality has many dimensions : economic equality, 'physical' equality (of age, health strength), political equality and others besides. The same holds for freedom : freedom of expression, freedom of worship, freedom of association, freedom to marry, freedom of movement, freedom from constraint or arbitrary arrest. It is not at all clear that there is any general relation between all the dimensions of equality and all the dimensions of freedom. Freedom of movement can go easily along with economic inequality; 'physical' inequality can co-exist with political freedom. 5 There are dependencies, however : political freedom can be undermined by economic inequalities. We may all have one vote but institutions with economic power may by means of massive wealth (economic inequality) exert undue political influence and subvert political freedom. Just some connexions and tensions you might care to consider. 

REVOLUTIONARY TERROR VERSUS REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE 1 When Marx used the phrase 'revolutionärer Terror' ('Neue Rheinische Zeitung', 7 November 1848) he almost certainly had the French Reign of Terror in mind. He also had not thought politics through to the depth of his later years. I suggest that while Marx never repudiated revolutionary violence, he came to see the Reign of Terror in a different and unsympathetic perspective. Revolutiomary terror he later turned against, violence he never did. 'Marx' should often read 'Marx and Engels' since their views on revolution were jointly developed. This is important in para. 7. I set violence and terror apart : REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE 2 Marx's references to violence are fragmentary. There is no extended, detailed treatment anywhere in his work. 3 Materials are to hand, however, for revolutionary violence. In 1844-48 (roughly) Marx envisages 'total revolution, 'the shock of body against body' in the attempt to gain control of private property and the state. This means 'combat or death, bloody struggle or extinction' (Marx, 'The Poverty of Philosophy', Moscow, 1847/ 1975, 161. ) 4 1848-70 : the key event here is the Paris Commune. Marx did not approve of the Commune's tactics in many respects but he wrote that : 'Collisions proceeding from the very conditions of bourgeois society must be fought out to the end, they cannot be conjured out of existence' (Marx, Collected Works, Moscow, 1977, 144, 149. 'To the end' suggests the kind of 'combat or death' scenario of the 1844-48 period. 5 1870+ : At the London Conference of the International (1871) Marx said : 'the governments are opposed to us : we must answer them with all the means that are at our disposal ... We must declare to the governments : we will proceed against you where it is possible and by force of arms when it may be necessary' (cited in D. McLellan, 'Karl Marx : His Life and Thought', London, 1973, 406. 6 The language varies but Marx seems to regard revolution as inevitable, possibly peaceful but more likely to be violent in the sense of the phrases I've quoted. TERROR 7 As said at the start 'terror' came to Marx's mind because of the experience of the last great revolution - the French Revolution with its Reign of Terror. It was the young Marx, not the mature Marx, who spoke readily of 'terror'. There is reason to believe that he came to reject 'terror' in the sense of the 'Reign of Terror' in France, 1793. Engels, whom we may take as speaking for him, says (1871 - after the Commune) : 'Thanks to the endless small terrors of the French, we can now have a better understanding of the Reign of Terror. We take it to mean the rule of the people who inspire terror. On the contrary, it is the rule of people who are themselves terror-stricken. Terror implies mostly useless cruelties perpetrated by frightened people to reassure themselves. I am convinced that we can attribute almost in its entirely the reign of Terror anno 1793 to petit-bourgeois philistines who soiled their trousers from fear, and to the dregs of the population' (see G Fabian, 'Karl Marx, Prince of Darkness', Xlibris, 2011, 524 for ref.). 8 Marx, then, endorsed revolutionary violence but saw it, so I read the quotes, as marking a time of drastic conflict in which private property and the state apparats would be taken over by the revolutionary class. He did not envisage the revolution as being followed by an extended period of terror such as occurred paradigmatically in Soviet Russia. 

Boycotts are non-violent and in that sense do not involve force. However, they are a form of coercion or attempted coercion - the moral equivalent of force. And looked at another way, a boycott is the use of coercion (by economic or other sanctions) to force a person, group, institution or state to act as the boycotters want. So a clear line between the boycott and force cannot be drawn. One point against the boycott is that it intends harm. There is always meant to be some direct injury to the interests of the party the boycott is directed against. Incidentally there is always likely to be some incidental harm - harm to persons or groups whose situation makes them suffer along with the boycotted party even though they may themselves oppose that party and have no complicity in its actions and policies. For convenience call them non-players. It strikes me that a boycott, if it is justified, is only justified after argument has failed - repeatedly and decisively failed. It should be a last and not a first resort. Against (say) state actions and policies that are plainly wrong - wrong by the standards of international law or the universal declaration of human rights - the boycott is justified if the harm caused to the boycotted party is no worse than the harm it is causing and if the incidental harm done to non-players through the boycott is no worse than the harm the boycotted party is causing. That's my theoretical position. I am willing to revise it but not until I know what the objections to it are. You are perfectly correct to say that there is a qualitative difference between an individual's deciding (say) not to buy from a company or a state because s/he has moral objections to company or state actions or policies. This inflicts no harm and probably isn't meant to; the scale of impact is minimal. When a mass boycott is organised, or a state imposes a boycott on another, harm is intentional, real, serious or even disastrous. This poses the question of what could justify such a scale of intentional harm. I can only safely rely on the criterion hinted at above : state actions and policies that are plainly wrong - wrong by the standards of international law or the universal declaration of human rights. Other criteria are not being dismissed; I just think of can't them. Your question shows serious moral sensitivity. Tentatively I think boycotts can be justified but not all are; and I have tried to indicate conditions and constraints that might justify some of them and by implication rule out others. Others may have better, deeper, more incisive points. I have offered what I can. REFERENCES (1) Margaret Doxey, 'Oil and Food as International Sanctions', International Journal, Vol. 36, No. 2, Food and Fuel (Spring, 1981), pp. 311-334. (2) Ruth N. Reingold and Paul Lansing, 'An Ethical Analysis of Japan's Response to the Arab Boycott of Israel', Business Ethics Quarterly Vol. 4, No. 3 (Jul., 1994), pp. 335-353. (3) 'Protest Boycotts under the Sherman Act' Source: University of Pennsylvania Law Review, Vol. 128, No. 5 (May, 1980), pp. 1131-1165 Published by: The University of Pennsylvania Law Review. (4) Gordon M. Orloff, 'The Political Boycott: An Unprivileged Form of Expression', Duke Law Journal, Vol. 1983, No. 5 (Nov., 1983), pp. 1076-1094. 

At most, people happen to be born in specific nations, they are not forced to be born. They just are born in some nation or other. You are not strictly talking about nations but about states, nation states maybe but still states : state-organised societies. ▻ JUSTICE If you do choose not to leave then it is still the case, except in seriously imperfect societies, that you receive the benefits of membership - of citizenship - of your nation-state. You receive the 'public goods' which that state provides to all citizens : defence, security, welfare, safety legislation, contract law. If you are a recipient of these benefits, and decline to move to a different state, then it seems a requirement of reciprocal justice that you should keep the rules that enable the state to operate. This includes paying taxes. If you accept the benefits, when you could avoid them by emigrating and the costs of emigration are not disproportionately high compared to the benefits received, then you owe the costs. In the matter of the military draft, it is not an inherent fact about the state that it imposes a military draft. Not all states have such a draft; and those that do have usually an exemption for conscientious objectors. The United Kingdom, for instance, knew no such thing before 1916. And it recognised conscientious objection when the draft was introduced. There is no draft in the UK now, or the USA, or Canada, or Australia, or France. Do you live in a country with a military draft ? ▻ TACIT CONSENT Conditions are imaginable in which I should live quite happily without the state. I don't see it as an intrinsically benign, permanent fixture of political life. But as things are, if you accept the benefits the state provides when - to repeat from above - you could withdraw from them by emigration and if the costs of emigration are not disproportionately high compared with the benefits you receive, you tacitly consent to pay your dues. 

WHAT DO WE DO WHEN WE TREAT HUMANITY ACCEPTABLY AS A MEANS ? When I buy something in a shop, I use the assistant as a means. When I purchase something on the internet, I use the seller as a means. When I ask someone to take me to hospital and they oblige, I use them as a means. Kant has no objection to this. You will already know this, I guess, but what conditions are met in this acceptable kind of use of others as means ? 

1 A. Quinton, 'Political Philosophy' (Oxford Readings in Philosophy), was published in 1967 and showed how political philosophy, which in the years leadng up to its publication, had been much neglected in mainstream philosophy was a proper and respectable part of the subject. 2 Mary Warnock, 'Existentialist Ethics', London : Macmillan, 1967, gave me a first clear idea of what existentialism was. 3 Pamela Huby, 'Greek Ethics', London : Macmillan, 1967, widened my knowledge of Greek ethics to other philosophers besides Plato. Hope this helps. 

A substance cannot be produced by another substance [or anything else] (I Principle 6) A substance is self-caused (by 1) Therefore, the essence of a substance necessarily involves existence (by 2 and ld 

I think you raise two separate issues : (1) the place of rationality in the acquisition of morality, let's say moral principles; and (2) the place of rationality in the application of moral principles. But first a word about rationality. ▻ RATIONALITY We aren't helped by the fact that 'rationality' is polysemous - many-ways ambiguous. When I think of rationality I think of having beliefs or sets of beliefs that are internally coherent and avoid self-contradiction (call this 'consistency'); of respecting inferential validity; of not asking inherently undecidable questions; of doubting and questioning and not accepting everything on authority or because it comes from a particular source; of looking for proof or evidence for what I believe or think I know; of matching the strength of a belief to the strength of the evidence; of ordering my preferences transitively (so that I do not prefer A to B, B to C, and C to A and that if I prefer A to B and B to C, I choose A over C in a situation of choice); also of adopting the means best calculated on the evidence available to me to achieve my goals or at least those goals to which I assign priority ('instrumental rationality'). ▻ ACQUISITION OF MORALITY If this is at least roughly what rationality covers and includes, I can't see that it has any direct relation to morality. How can morality be deduced or otherwise derived from it ? You would have to draw out a strand and show that, for instance, immorality involves a kind of self-contradiction. (Kant is in the wings here.) But any idea that morality is straightforwardly, without conceptual elaboration and argument, a 'consequence' of rationality doesn't seem to stand up. I do not deny that such elaboration and argument cannot be supplied - my point is that, if the idea is to be maintained, they need to be. ▻ APPLICATION OF MORAL PRINCIPLES Now here, I think, your case is much stronger. Consider how, from the concept of justice (of treating like cases equally), we arrive at the idea that women and men should have equal pay for equal work and that women should have the same right to vote as men, that reverse discrimination might be appropriate (the favouring of groups which have been disfavoured in the past), that the demands of justice apply internationally and not only within the nation state. All these extensions of the application of justice have been driven at least in part from the rational requirement of consistency. If justice involves treating like cases equally, then we cannot consistently deny equal pay for equal work between women and men. Or to look at it another way, to deny this is to deny a valid inference from the principle of justice. This is irrational since respect for valid inference is, no less than consistency an element of rationality as set out above.