I doubt that very much. Pecunia non olet, remember? Money doesn't stink, said Vespasian to Titus, when the latter complained about his father for raising tax on urine. Urine was a valuable ingredient for making leather and as an ingredient for cleaning. Urine was collected wherever possible. Shopkeepers kept jars ready for passers-by and customers relieve themselves in, then to sell the contents to leather makers. That's why Vespasian taxed it. Apart from that, have you seen how high viaducts are? It's a pretty steep climb for a prank. Roman justice was harsh. I have absolutely no idea what a pissing prankster would get, but 20 hrs community service had to be invented yet. The very least one could expect was a severe lashing. Probably a lot more. Certainly by the population who would not be amused if someone pissed into their drinking water. Rome didn't have a formal police force. There were the vigiles, a corps of firefighters and night watchmen formed out of slaves and ex slaves (that should give you an idea how low this public service rated into society). Even a formal office for prosecution did not exist. Justice was handled much more handled by individuals themselves. Being arrested by the vigiles would be the least of your worries. If the crowd caught you in the act, you could expect some real hard justice. More than enough to stop most modern pranksters. 

They didn't because of the Soviet–Japanese Neutrality Pact. The Allies agreed (in Yalta ???) that the USSR should as soon as possible attack Japan, which they did in August 1945. By then the war was already lost for Japan. Before that Japan got a bloody nose at the Battles of Khalkhin Gol in 1939. Japan decided to go south to Pearl Harbor as the result of that border conflict instead of going east into Siberia. 

The eradication of Christianity in the Middle East comes to mind. In fact, it's history in the making, as it continues to this very day. I noticed people find my answer incorrect. Probably because it's happening right now. That is not history, is it? 

It had everything to do with it. Constantinople was the linchpin and western terminal of the silk road. Once the Turks took it, they controlled it. They were far more interested in conquest and religion than commerce, so prices went up enormously. European nations (Portugal, Spain) were already exploring the coast of Africa, but now it became economically very attractive. One returned cargo load would cover all the cost involved and then some more. Ships can carry far more cargo than a caravan anyway. Traveling over land was no longer possible/too dangerous/too expensive. So an alternative had to be found. One way was around the coast of Africa, crossing the Indian Ocean. Another was crossing the Atlantic (Columbus). A third way was going north (the Dutch tried that, but never succeeded). Technically speaking the age of exploration had already begun before the fall of Constantinople. But that event made it economically feasible. 

The word 'sabotage' comes from the act of throwing a clog in a machine, to make it malfunction/destroy it. So yes, people in the early industrial age were not at all happy being replaced by machines. 

This is a history what if question. Likewise I can counter that reinforced concrete with +15 cm artillery and machine guns trumps both adobe and palisade fortresses. One builds a fortress with what is on hand. In dryer areas that can be adobe, in more wooded areas probably palisades. One isn't necessarily better than the other. They are what is available. Not only that, it's the men defending that do the job. not to mention their commander. The fortress is there to assist them. 

One cannot look at history with the morality of today. Antisemitism as we know it today did not exist back then. 

"War is hell." Why do think this expression came to be? Invading armies lived of the land. That is, they pillaged what they needed from the enemy. Two birds with one stroke: every cartload taken from the enemy was a cartload less for the enemy and multiple cartloads that didn't have to come from the motherland. Even Sun Tzu recommends to pillage of the enemy for that reason. The villagers were left with little or nothing at all. How (and/or: if) they survived wasn't a problem for the invading army. As far as I know there were very little rules with regard to warfare, pillaging or the treatment of prisoners. Some rules were adhered to (ransoming rich POW's) others much less so (churches and temples were often looted anyway). 'The environment' is a fairly new concept. It didn't exist in ancient times. The effect of ancient (Roman, Hunnic and other large armies) were close to zero on the environment. The burning and pillaging didn't last long enough to affect the environment, and the depopulation was (from an environmental point of view) only beneficial for the environment. Care for wildlife was completely absent in ancient times. The Roman army had hunting on its peacetime roster, to supplement the legionary meal. In ancient times meat was expensive and anything with legs was edible. This was on campaign of much more importance. A few roasted sparrows or slice of badger can liven up your hard tack considerably. With regard to Napoleon: his logistics were totally incapable of supplying the army, long before Moscow. Even if he had taken the coastal route and took St. Petersburg, where his army could be supplied by sea, that was totally insufficient either. By land towards Moscow: too silly to even speak of. Which makes me wonder why a) he decided to invade anyway and b) why he was/is considered one of the greatest generals of all time. The entire Russian campaign isn't a credit to the man. But that is a very different question. 

Most African nations became independent around 1950-1965. That is almost 70 years ago. Blaming all problems on colonial powers who left them to fence for themselves is a pretty weak argument by now. At the same time Asian countries became independent and they've done a whole lot better. Add to that the almost limitless development aid western nations supply. Thailand, for example has never received anything, and they do pretty well. So, what reasons can I give? 

The Portuguese were the first westerners to reside in (then) Siam (now) Thailand. The Portuguese embassy is the oldest embassy in the kingdom, and now a monument. Do mind that the relations go back 500 years. As such they enjoyed, at that time, a special status. By the time this treaty was signed, it was purely honorary. By then Portugal was no longer an important power. 

The main reason was that the allies were prepared to fight WW1 all over again. The Germans had very different ideas. The allies were ready to fight a static trench war in Belgium. Problem was that Belgium had declared neutrality. Allied officers were not allowed to coordinate with Belgium before hostilities broke out. Then they discovered that the positions they were supposed to occupy weren't ready. Even worse: the Germans also violated Dutch neutrality, which caused the allies to (try) to set up defenses - for which they weren't prepared - much further north into Holland. French troops were moved to Breda (North Brabant) but never even got there. General Gamelin set up his HQ in Château de Vincennes. FAR behind the front. In Paris itself, actually. With almost no communication with the outside world: only a few (I thought one) telephone lines. Allied communications were based on telephones with cables. The Germans used radios extensively. Allied planning was hopelessly behind actual events. Every time the French set up a defensive line, it was already bypassed by German troops. The Germans initially planned to use the von Schlieffen plan again. Until a German plane made on 10 Jan 40 an emergency landing in Belgium with their plans. Von Manstein made a different plan, Fall Gelb (plan Yellow) which was adapted by Hitler (he presented it as his own idea) very much against the will of von Mansteins superiors. The allies were about as strong as the German army, perhaps a few divisions stronger. A big difference was combat experience. The German had it (Polish campaign), the allies not. They had also more and better tanks, but they employed them wrongly. The Germans concentrated their armored forces into strong units with which they spearheaded their attack. The allies spread them all over they army. German air power was vastly superior to allied air power, both in machines, experience (Spanish civil war, Poland) and tactics. German tanks, by the way, weren't very good. Later on in the war much better tanks were developed. The PzKw I and II were too small, too lightly armored and armed. But they were employed in the right way, had radios (most allied tanks didn't) and that made all the difference. Gamelin was very old (73), not very popular with the troops (he rarely visited them) and his political masters. Premier Reynaud tried to sack him many times. Eventually he was replaced by Weygand who was even older... Replacing your commanders during a battle you are already loosing is never a good idea. The only general that stands out positive during this campaign is Lord Gort. He made sure the BEF retreated to Dunkirk and wasn't wasted in spoiling attacks to hold the line. The Germans did use a lot of amphetamines to get the most out of their troops, but with mixed results. Yes, they could fight much longer. But once the stuff stopped working, you had to rest. There and then. And very long, several days at least to recover. It was very useful on limited targets, such as the capture of Fort Eben Emael. Giving it like Oreos to advancing infantry units wasn't a good idea. Fortunately (for the Germans) the French high command was bad enough so it didn't matter much. The Germans weren't surprised that their plan did work, they were far more surprised it worked so well. For example, Von Rundstedt's infamous Halt order at Dunkirk showed the German high command got cold feet. He was sure the allies had prepared a counter offensive or a big trap. 

Yes, I've seen many movies made on board U Boats in which the crews were enjoying themselves on deck. Obviously this happened a lot more in the tropics (which were relatively save waters for U Boats) than in the icy waters of the Arctic and the north Atlantic (which were also highly dangerous waters for U Boats to be in). It happened, one can assume, only when the tactical situation (and the weather) allowed for it. At night would be out of the question. Far too dangerous. Besides, U Boats preferred to work in the dark. They had other things on their mind. Those movies were made by the crew themselves or a member of the propaganda ministry. I've seen people swimming, sunning, do some games (jumping in bags, biting for sausages). You can watch many of those movies if you do a search on Youtube about U Boat documentaries. 

You made a common error amongst miniature war game players: you fight according to the rules, not to the historical situation. I've played a lot of Napoleonic miniature games, where cossacks - due to the rules - were almost invincible. In real life they were good, but definitely not supermen. Otherwise every army would have had cossack units. Some players learned the rules by heart and build an army to make the most out of it. Often they would win, but not because their army was historically better managed, but because they build an army that would work best with that particular rule set. That very same army could be trashed with a different rule set where other units had different/better advantages. The Romans were very pragmatic. Whatever worked, they used. If something didn't work anymore, they tossed it away. The Romans used the checkerboard formation ... because it worked well for them. Very well. There isn't a a game that simulates combat 100% accurate. It's always a toss up between realism and playability. You can add some extra realism to any game, be it a board game or a computer game: First march 25 km in full gear. Then do 50 push ups followed by a 100 meter dash, again, all in full gear. Ask your friends to paddle you with sticks while you have to play the game with specific short time limits to make your decisions. -- And even that is not real combat. ;-) In the army I had to do just that to qualify for a shooting badge. Minus the paddling, of course. Shooting a pistol at 25 meter on 5 targets is not very difficult. But it is with the above extras. It was still a heck of a lot easier then real combat as the targets didn't shoot back. 

As far as I know it still very rarely happens. I had several uncles who skipped a year, in high school. Not straight from primary school or first year high school to university. And that still happens too, though very rarely. At least in the Dutch educational system. It is rare enough to hit the news when it does. I recall such a promotion happened last year or the year before. A student went from pre university (atheneum or gymnasium in the Dutch system) to university. I can't give any links, but it does happen. Don't know about the US system, so I can't help you out there. It certainly wasn't common. My uncles skipped classes in the time period given (1910-1940), it happened more often on primary schools. Back then it wasn't unusual (but certainly not common) if a gifted child skipped a grade in (a Dutch) primary school. 

Hitler did anything to avoid war with America, up to a limit. Effectively, the USA was already at war with Germany. They extended their coastal zone of control to half way the Atlantic ocean. US warships interfered with U boat actions. Position of U boats were transmitted in clear text, so convoys could act on it. Sometimes that lead to open warfare. When Japan struck at Pearl Harbor Hitler probably thought open war was preferable to armed US neutrality. Given the effectiveness of operation Drum beat, not really a bad decision. $URL$ $URL$ 

A drinking horn was not a regular cup. Vikings had plenty of those, they weren't living in the stone age. A drinking horn is a contest, a drinking game: who can empty the whole horn in one go, without spilling the content. We did the same in the army, with a glass boot. Source: me, under the table. I wasn't very good at it. 

It's technically not impossible, but extremely unlikely. Thor Heyerdahl proved Polynesians could travel to South America. It still is an open question if they ever did that. Claims of mohammedans crossing the Atlantic I take with a grain (read: ton) of salt. Claiming is easy enough. Proving those claims is a very different matter. There is absolutely no proof at all they ever did. That doesn't say it didn't happen. We have found evidence the Vikings did set up camps in Newfoundland. So far that is only evidence they visited America. Not that they settled down permanently. Until that proof of mohammedans visiting America is found, I don't think they ever went there. 

I think an (not: the most) important reason for the crusades was exactly that: to give non-first born nobles a good opportunity to carve out a fiefdom elsewhere. Check out the various crusader counties and principalities. You'll see that the vast majority were set up by second/third/etc sons of noblemen. Wikipedia about Godfrey 

No, they didn't. There is no evidence of human occupation in Iceland before Irish monks and later the Vikings settled there. Eskimo technology wasn't bad at all, kayaks are pretty nifty boats. But not suitable for migration. 

It looks like a cutlass or klewang to me. I can't see the actual length, but it seems too short for a cavalry sabre. Unless there were pony regiments somewhere. ;-) Google on 'Dutch Marechaussee klewang'. They seem quite similar, but no fancy decorated blades, with a different point. Otherwise, very close. 

Japan could expand in two directions: west and northwest or south. First they wanted to go west (China) and northwest (Siberia). China wasn't a problem, but going northwest was. The soviet army was much better than the Japanese expected. They were soundly defeated in the battles of Khalkin Gol. One of the commanders on the USSR side was Georgy Zhukov. Those battles were extended border clashes, but more than enough to show the Japanese army it wouldn't be a walk over. So they stopped there and then. One of the reasons likely was that Siberia had a lot of minerals, but you need to extract them. That's pretty hard, and would take many years. As to the Axis treaty: it was a very nominal treaty. Just about nothing was done in cooperation. All they shared were some signatures on paper. There was no coordination, conflicting interests and very little else. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour was as much as a surprise to Hitler as it was to Roosevelt. A bigger surprise for Hitler, because the Americans could read the Japanese code. Going south was much more profitable for the Japanese. The oilfields in the Dutch Indies were huge and in production. Malaysian and Thai rubber were for the taking. All they had to do was knock out the US fleet in Pearl Harbor. Yamamoto warned against it, but not so wise heads prevailed. With hindsight you can win any war, this is a clear example. It's even worse for the Axis. Richard Sorge was a Soviet spy in Japan. He could conclusively prove to Stalin that Japan wasn't going to attack in Siberia, and he could safely withdraw the Siberian troops and use them for the defense of Moscow. That was even worse than not cooperating and not supporting each other.