There is boundless faith in second-order logic, because people do not realize that testable second-order theories are almost always really sorted first-order theories in disguise. So science that is not 'spooky' is basically first-order. People in the 1980's were still trying to prove that some second-order theory of the reals was consistent and complete. (I was a (largely uninterested) student of Gaisi Takeuti (of second-order cut elimination), and Lou van den Dries (of Real Closed Field theory), both of whose work even at that time could be seen as advancing different paradigms trying to converge in that direction.) Once you leverage logic out of the first order, you get infinite computation and tons of infinite regresses trying to relativize Godel. So folks had a reason not to attach to it strongly. It may be the first post-modern fact, but it also the easiest to dismiss. Reductionists will take the out to wish it away, even though dismissing it burdens one with all sorts of infinities that would otherwise just annoy them. At the same time, most people of the contrasting bent would really like all that stuff that the theorem does not apply to, to be real, maybe even more real than the science. So it kind of loses either way. 

But in first-order logic, this is really a template for an infinite number of additional axioms. We do not have variables available to us that enumerate potential predicates. So we need to spell out all possible instances of p, each in a separate axiom. That requires allowing any particular instance of p to have arbitrarily many parameters, beyond the parameter n that we are trying to do induction over. (We cannot use 'Currying' to state the axiom with a single parameter, as we did above, because, as a rule about partial functions, it can only be expressed in second-order language, itself.) The only way to have arbitrarily many variables, in arbitrarily many different instances is to presume infinitely many to begin with. 

Pragmatism in philosophy is much like behaviorism in psychology. So I like to think of this in terms of a behaviorist bird box where a pigeon gets food for learning to peck a given button under given circumstances. Do you honestly think the bird attaches meaning to the buttons, and thinks of itself as communicating the wish for food through the button? The odds are that the bird is doing something less conceptual. And in fact, in responding to language, so are we. But we have a built-in sense of meaning that reinterprets what we are doing in terms of representation because we as humans have learned a theory of mind. We think of language in terms of representations because we experience life in stories, so that we can share it more readily. But we know from physiology experiments that the representation comes alongside rather than before the act. We start acting before we are done forming the representation. The two processes happen in parallel, rather than representation happening and then meaning being ascribed afterward. Therefore, our activity is not a result of representational manipulations. Unless it is really complicated, it is basic response, like the bird's. This means there is something below the level of representation that makes language work. We do still form and store the representation, anyway, describing our own action to ourselves in case we need to share it or reprocess it later. But the representation is really just about storage and communication, and is not a basic aspect of meaning. This means that our words 'attach to reality' not to interpret the world to ourselves, but to render it communicable. And again, we learn communication and interpretation by success and failure, and not by parsing. We impose that later, and it is a separate refinement process. Think about how many turns of phrase you use that make no literal sense. If you needed to have the language parse out right and find representations in your mind for the respective parts in order to use it to listen or speak, those would disappear from the lexicon. And from an "ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny" point of view, look at how languages evolve from more complex grammar (like Sanskrit and Attic Greek) to more analytic grammar (like English and Chinese). This tells us that the process of rationalizing and representationalizing language progresses over time from a muddled parallel process (where the meaning is distributed over many words via endings or combinations) into a more linear one (where words more and more stand alone and take the same consistent, uninflected form). Languages get richer in vocabulary and connotation over time, but less complex and nuanced grammatically. If we really relied upon representationalism to base our use of language, we would need to start simple and build. 

Eliminating guesses about the free will of genies and other obviously irrelevant aspects, this is just a reiteration of the Lair's Paradox or the Cretan Paradox where some Cretan says all Cretans always lie. It does not add much, so why not stick to the original? 

The most symmetric possible answer is from the point of view of convergent pantheism (a' la Terrence McKenna, but clearly already present in the Hindu notion of reincarnation.) The answer is 'For the same reason you do not experience the whole of your own life all at once -- the illusion of time that makes the whole thing comprehensible.' From that POV, you will experience all of these, just not right now. 

Some of the central lessons that 'culture' feminism has had to inject in other places (e.g. Gilligan's criticism of Kohlberg, or Fox-Keller's of abstraction as dominance) are that: 

Theories of meaning that rely upon central aspects that remain in existence by directly or indirectly referring to themselves are seldom as simple as Hoffstadter's notion of a strange loop. But you can see Lacan's version of signification theory as being the same thing writ large. The central concepts around which everything is organized are not fixed, but are maintained by continual usage, because the definitions of the less central concepts are all in terms of those central concepts. Take the notion of 'Father'. It can be seen as the source of a concept of hierarchy. We cannot shake our social notion of male superiority because our notions of hierarchy are so embedded in our related notions of Father, Name, Deserving etc. are tied up through circular references back to their source in our experience of realizing we are in some way 'owned' by something of which we are not and have never really been a part (to our mind as an infant). But, in fact, it is a legal fiction maintained only by usage. One need to be the biological offspring of one's father. You will make others into a father if you are born without one, (If you are deeply gifted you might invent a transcendental father that shapes several cultures for the next two millennia ;) etc. Paternity suits can be based on genetics, but also on established obligation to the mother unrelated to genetics. It is all part of one big multilayered strange loop: I am a father because I own this child, and the assignment of this ownership and its concomitant duties is a legal feature of my nationality which is defined in terms of bloodline and negotiated obligation, the former is directly related to fatherhood, the latter is an aspect of being partially owned, ownership is modeled on fatherhood, so both, I ultimately understand most basically in terms of my relationship to this child. Even if you reject all this psychoanalysis, the theory of meaning remains compelling. Ultimate references are empty, and are refined by their dependent notions which are nailed down by their daily uses, which are identified by filling the roles in relation to other notions, which are defined in terms of the ultimate references. One can continually 'descend' because containment and reference are dual ways of anchoring meaning, each is more basic than the other in different ways. Moves that feel 'down' can really move you 'up', and moves that feel 'lateral' are almost always really moves 'up' or 'down'. And if you try to consistently move 'up' or 'down' you end up at the same heavily-referenced points over and over again. 

That is looking at one part of the loop as the basis. A feedback loop has no most important or most stable part. So this is really a non-well-founded structure. Imagining that there must be a foundation, you can claim they have given you one. But you are projecting your viewpoint onto them. Yes, there is no foundation to a foundationless structure. This is not a paradox, it is a definition. If you have a problem with it, deal with the insufficiencies of some foundational system and elevate it into a foundation. Unfortunately, folks have been trying that forever, and Quine kind of proves this just can't happen. 

I can't actually follow a logical arc in this succession of questions. But I can venture to answer each question individually. One psychoanalytic answer to your first question (part of Jung, but particularly strong in Kleinian object-relations theories) is that we all have parents, and we are genetically prone to depend upon them. We are used to the idea that an identifiable person is the source of order in our lives, without which nothing would make sense. This belief sets in so early that it constitutes an Archetype. Once they fail us, we automatically replace them with another infallible source of everything, over and over if necessary, and eventually with something supernatural and therefore unassailable -- be that the Flying Spaghetti Monster, or the idea of Natural Law. Being logically aware of this dependency, and the damage it can cause, can be enough to shake loose our attachment to this idea, but it does not come naturally. You can then see agnosticism as a triumph over a natural weakness, or as a trauma symptom that rejects a natural feeling, depending upon what see as its effects. The wisdom behind ignorance, from this point of view, is that Mommy and Daddy often don't fight fair, and they often fight over stupid things. Not everything needs to be decided, and it is often best not to take sides in a pointlessly destructive argument. Agnosticism is a form of peace through evasion writ large. But peace is valuable, and both of the other sides are just as evasive. Maybe it is better to have peace through evasion than to have either enemies or allies with unquestionable delusions you cannot abide. The idea that belief in the supernatural is a natural force does not challenge the idea that it is also unnecessary and may be dangerous. Lots of things people naturally do are stupid. At the same time, fighting a natural force, especially addressing it directly, is generally pointless. So the answer to your second question, from this starting point, would be 'no'. The theory of why people choose to believe or disbelieve is not at odds with the reason to choose the middle ground. I am not exactly sure what the third point means. A few of the strong arguments for agnosticism are themselves paradoxes. We get to questions about omnipotence or omnibenevolence and find the idea creates paradox: the boulder God can't lift, the evil that turns out for the best, the way supposedly loving cultures are constantly at war... They are not really false, they just don't have to make sense. So maybe the positive value of paradox is one thing that could be a lynchpin for an agnostic worldview. The idea that not all statements have truth values is a value worth upholding, and facts about God is a good place to start. Then this position would be strongest if it was itself logically paradoxical. But I don't see where it is. Agnosticism, even based in the positive notion of paradox is not skepticism outright. Things might have meaning, but that meaning is not tied up with solving any one particular riddle, much less the idea that riddles all have answers. This does not have the implicit reliance upon a negative principle as a base, so it does not create the paradoxical states sought out by true Skeptics. 

No, injecting the social position skips over those theories to a place of greater relativism. If qualia are socially negotiated like values, then you do not need the notion of a functional state -- first person experience is a representation back to yourself of your interpretation of your experience through the social medium of storytelling. (That is why it takes time. A functional state should be achieved instantaneously, and conscious experience does not seem to be so.) 

Georg Polya calls this 'plausiblity', and attempts to lay out rules for keeping arguments plausible in his book "Patterns of Plausible Reasoning". Mathematics, science and logic would, each in its own way, like to think they are about facts, but they are in fact about psychological models of the world at different levels of abstraction. And there are therefore psychological observations that identify patterns that encourage the discovery of good proofs, convincing theories and of plausible arguments. I would take Polya's lead and refrain from combining scientific and plausible reasoning into rhetoric because their goal is still ultimately logical, if only statistically so. A poorly presented plausible or scientific argument is often no less effective, upon adequate reflection, due to its presentation. But a rhetorical one is. (Otherwise computer people and every-day scientists would have to learn to write in a convincing, and therefore an easily read, manner.) 

The most straightforward way out of this conundrum is to localize logic. There are a lot of variants of this (my favorite being neo-Intuitionism) but most of them can be captured by the notion of Mathematical fictionalism. The idea here is that reality, in particular math, as the elaboration of basic intuitive logic, (though it is really just an example) may not be a pure and consistent whole, but it has large consistent pieces that apply in a broad range of domains, as we witness when we actually do it. So only use the large consistent pieces, and retain isolation from the paradoxes. Don't allow your logic to make inferences too close to a paradox, by limiting how the effects of a paradox would 'spread' and contaminate your consistency. This involves abandoning various aspects of classical logic, and which aspects you choose becomes a very interesting question, but one that is hard to find agreement upon. (After all, it involves violating a strong and appealing intuitive system in favor of choosing which intuitions we should apply where. The obvious answer, that all intuitions should apply everywhere, failed, and, as you note, that leaves us kind of at sea.) The Intuitionist form looks at mathematics as the oldest form of psychology: Starting from the Kantian base that space is an aspect of human understanding, and not of reality, the subject matter of mathematics in general is not what is real, but what we as humans can readily understand, and what we find interesting about the patterns in our world. 

The question, now that we have a notion of how neurons work is "Where would it put the memories?" I think our understanding of the brain, incongruously pushes us toward Kant, and the idea that any non-physical being would have to be 'eternal'. Memory is an exothermic chemical process, so anything non-physical should not use it. It would instead have fixed beliefs independent of time. So Kant's God and his angels make sense, but a learning by ghosts does not.