$URL$ As a native speaker of Croatian — a South Slavic language — I think possessives are quite productive, but there are other strategies too: 

For example, all Slavic languages use aspect heavily — almost every verb is either perfective or imperfective; however there are tenses, and even a lot of tenses in some languages (seven or more). 

I can tell you about my language (Croatian, or BCMS): such arguments are simply subjects and they are not marked in any way. There's no dummy pronoun. But the verb still agrees with the subject: it's in the third person, singular, and the phrase has neuter agreement (the same holds if the subject is an infinitive of a verb, and in impersonal constructions). For example: Živcira (annoy-pres.3.sg) me (I.acc) [ da (conj.) ljudi (people.pl) još (still) čitaju (read.pres.3.pl) tu (that.fem.acc) knjigu (book.acc) ] In the past tense it would be: Živciralo (annoy.past.neut.sg) me je (aux.3.sg) [ da ...] The auxiliary for the past tense is in the 3rd person: the clause is the subject. The clause doesn't change (there's no tense shift). The interesting question is: what if a clause is an object? Again, nothing happens. The clause is unmarked. But a clause can be an indirect object, or an object of a preposition. Then, a pronoun 'to' (actually, an adjective which functions as a pronoun as well) gets inserted before the clause and it inflects: Razmišljam (think.pres.1.sg) o (about) tome (that.dat/loc.sg) [ da ...] lit. 'I'm thinking about that people still read that book.' 

Indeed, reuersio is what you want to look up. Here's my first-order approximation of why this is so — I trust that it is not too inaccurate! The classical Latin alphabet had only the letters A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, V, X, Y, Z, where I represented both /i/ and /j/ and V represented both /u/ and /w/; by the Middle Ages, the Latin alphabet had also acquired more-or-less the now-familiar lower-case forms a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, t, u, x, y, z. However, j and v only appeared still later, as allographs of i and u, respectively, and it wasn't until after the Renaissance that i and j systematically represented /i/ and (what had at least been) /j/, respectively (e.g., cujus for cuius), and u and v systematically represented /u/ and (what had at least been) /w/ (e.g., vos for uos). At any rate, since the Latin orthography of classical antiquity only knew I and V (which originally gave rise to the lower case forms i and u), many modern editions and references use only upper-case I with lower case i and upper-case V with lower-case u, (I presume) in order to adhere as much as possible to the original orthography whilst allowing for the normal use of upper- and lower-case letters. 

There are some similarities between Slovenian and Slovak, but even more similarities between some so-called Kajkavian dialects in northern Croatia (which are overall similar to Slovenian) and Central Slovak dialects (which are the basis of Standard Slovak). It's first -me in 1st pers. pl, Kajkavian imame "we have". There are overall similarities between Slovak and South Slavic dialects (including Slovene, of course). One similarity is -m in 1st pers. sg. of most verbs, just compare forms of "I bake": 

Here the difference between Slovak and South Slavic languages is just in spelling: Slovak ľ is spelled as lj in the South, and southern spellings don't show that a is long (it is), while the Slovak spelling shows it. There are more similarities, in phonetic development, etc. 

To clarify: V-T movement would be a type of movement of the V head (verb phrase) to I (or T) head (inflection phrase). Some languages, like French, allow for this movement. But during my syntax classes I've been told that such movement is illicit in English. However, in a book on syntax (A. Witkos 'Movement Rules. Foundations of GB syntax of English' p. 252) I came across this sentence: 

Now, as I'm reading my question, it seems that there's simply no "space" to do such an inversion. "Who" is in [spec, CP] and auxiliary after inversion occupies the C-head after head-to-head movement. Sure, according to Rizzi's proposal there are other functional projections above CP, but it'd seem too convoluted to even resort to that. So, in conclusion, for SAI to take place, either the subject (wh-element) would have to stay in its EPP position, or the auxiliary to move to an unnatural (for him) [spec, CP] position. Given it's a head, such movement would be illicit. [Who [read this book]]? 

What you're describing is the Neo-Štokavian accentuation, the characteristic innovation of the Neo-Štokavian dialects of Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian (including all the current literary forms), which apparently dates to no earlier than the 16th century. Very crudely speaking, Neo-Štokavian falling accents continue earlier accents on initial syllables, whilst Neo-Štokavian rising accents result from a shift where accented inner and final syllables retained their higher pitch, but had the actual stress retracted to the preceding syllable. By contrast with the marked accentual innovation of Neo-Štokavian, the pitch accent of the Čakavian dialects is apparently an extremely rare (if not unique) partial continuation of the accentual system of Common Slavic, and as such has attracted considerable scientific attention from Slavists. My apologies if I have bungled any terminology (or even worse, facts)--I'm afraid I'm a mathematician, not a Slavist! EDIT: I also see, to my embarrassment, that slavist has already said all that needs to be said on the matter. Had I the reputation, I'd have simply added a comment to his answer. 

In questions where a wh-element refers to the object, we can observe SAI (Subject-Auxilliary inversion). [Who did [you see]]? As far as I'm aware, C-head has a [+Q] feature and it's occupied by a null bound morpheme that needs a verb to attach to. Since V-to-C is impossible (for the previous step, V-to-I is illicit as well) in English, only auxiliaries have the power to raise to C. But why is it so that wh-elements pertaining to the subject of the clause do not trigger SAI? The C-head still has the [+Q] feature and do-support is available in English if there is no other auxilliary present. [Who [read this book]]? 

I don't think having two adjectives for a single noun is really productive, since colloquial words often lack it, e.g. cura "girl" -> curin "girl's" (possession) only... 

At least for the Standard Croatian, possessive adjectives are the default way of expressing possession. There's even a "language advice" given by the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics, saying: 

The problem with possessive adjectives is that you cannot make them out of nouns with adjectives in Croatian, e.g. moja baka "my granny". Some nouns have two adjectives, one for real possession, other for broad relation: dječak "boy" 

Is 'himself' still an anaphora (and thus violates Principle A)? Or does it become a cataphora (referring to something that comes after)? If so, why Principle A does not account for such sentences? 

Is the verb "be" in this sentence: "I am". copular with an implicit predicate "here" or "now" or non-copular, as the predicate of the sentence? 

The key distinction, where Spell-Out is a point in the derivation rather than a true level of representation is still rather obscure to me. Can you explain why Spell-Out is something different, rather than a different name for the same thing?