God brought and sustains into being everything which exists outside Him, i.e. the entire universe and any other universes He might have created. (To note, the multiverse hypothesis, even though it is not science because it is unfalsifiable, is not strictly incompatible with Christianity.) 

Jesus Christ, according to Christianity, is the Son of God Who assumed a created, finite, human nature. Before and after assuming that human nature, the Son of God Is eternally the same and only Subsistent Being as God the Father Is. So the Incarnation has nothing to do with anthropomorphism. 

The main source would be The Critique of Pure Reason, but an accesible book is his Prolegomena which goes straight to the point. Aristotle had stumbled upon the structure of the syllogisms and invented the traditional logic, which alone was in use up until modern times. Kant in turn wasn't arguing against or trying to outperform Aristotelean logic, but was instead arguing against the empiricist view, that experience alone counts on the one hand - and on the other against the metaphysicians, who opposed to the empiricists, held reason in high regard. The former group led by great philosopher David Hume, who was close to willing to abolish fundamental concepts such as causality, was a serious threat to religion, ethic and science as Kant saw it. The latter considered reason as an all to valid source of knowledge - Kant is trying to justify how metaphysics itself can be valid at all and why. Kant wasn't trying to modify the Aristotelian logic itself as mentioned before, but grounded it's source as a active process, where the brain has the ability to schematize what ever goes through it like a stamp, producing judgements. His major insight was that the logic stems from reason itself, also termed the Copernican revolution. Thinking itself involves judging in Kant's regard. Judging is an innate ability, which is why reason and logic are so closely intertwined. To ease it up, a judgement is simply a sentence like "This is a horse". Let's analyze this sentence, which surely involves some forms of judging. "This" is something particular, "is" refers to existence, and "a horse" refers to one or more of the pool of horses. Simply gazing out, dozing off or experiencing without giving thougths to it, does is contrast not necessarily rely on judging things. The oneness or particularity of the horse may or may not exist in reality, it could be a fatamorgana or not, but the distinct logical concepts themselves is no longer up for questioning in the way the empiricists had done. Kant limited and narrowed the scope of reason and in turn the nature of metaphysics. 

From a purely mathematical-logic point of view, if we take for granted that "not X" is true, then any implication of the form "if Y, then not X" is also true, regardless of what Y is - or whether Y is true or false. So, if we take for granted that wheeled animals don't exist, then any argument will suffice to demonstrate the fact, and the argument will be valid. If the question is, instead, about arguments leading to the conclusion that the existence of something is impossible... the situation becomes much more difficult. It's not at all clear that wheeled animals are an impossibility, for one thing. In fact, it seems hard to even relate such a question as the one you propose to this interpretation: the original argument assumed that the existence of wheeled animals was possible. If it isn't possible, there is no basis for the other argument. Now, you may object to taking false Y as reasons for X, a known truth. This could be justified by a broader understanding of "reason", which requires that the reason be sufficient and necessary. In that case, any true Y will suffice, since Y iff X holds for true X in exactly the case that Y is also true. To summarize, I guess what I'm getting at in a roundabout sort of way is that if we take for granted some claim, there's no difference between a reason, an explanation and a description. Only as long as the possibility exists that not X can there be reasons given supporting the likelihood, or even necessity, of X. 

According to this very detailed entry in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, the crucial passages related apperception is "blindingly difficult". In the Stanford article it is also disputed, that we can equate apperception with self-consciousness. 

It's a part of how we think about or answer the question "what is it"? Aristotle asked the question and tried to answer it in the Categories, an important foundation of classical logic. Hegel is basically answering the same questions, but with the insight from Kant's transcendental idealism. For example: this thing (substance) over there, it's a horse (a good example of existent determinateness, being a horse is a defining quality). We could also say: it's fast (existent quality). Or: it's never afraid (negative determination, i.e. the non-existing quality is helping in determining what kind of horse it is). And: I'd wish this horse could live forever (where immortality is a non-existent infinite quality). References: $URL$ (a few examples with water) $URL$ (Hegel's logic is in many was a continuation of Aristotle's line of thought in Categories) $URL$ (Kant/Hegel: positive/negative, but also infinite judgements) 

Yes, the Son of God could also assume an instance of the nature of another rational species living on another planet. Which, for a Christian, is an argument for the unlikelihood of the existence of such species, on grounds of economy of Incarnations (and of Passions, if the members of that species have sinned). 

It is not just that "it seems", it is indeed the case that Russell's Paradox starts with something logically invalid in the first place, namely a logically inconsistent universe, as seen after (3). An alternative way to perceive it is by noting that Russell's Paradox is plainly incompatible with the axioms of a logically self-consistent universe. A logically self-consistent one-tidy-and-respectful-barber universe is based on these two axioms: 

I think the answer to the question, as asked, is much simpler than it appears. The existence of lots of arguments for mutually exclusive positions has no bearing on the defensibility of some other proposition mutually exclusive with the first two. If you have a balance with a napkin over it, and one side is lower than another, good arguments might be made that the lower side has one egg on it, or no eggs. People may use lots of convincing arguments. However, the position that the napkin precludes any knowledge of why the balance is in the observed configuration is a position which can be defended. It doesn't mean it's correct, but defensibility is not the same as correctness. 

I interpret that the intended question, when accurately stated, is "how has He chosen ONLY the earth", because otherwise it does not make sense. Thus understood, the question is equivalent to "Why did God create so many billions of galaxies if He was going to create life in only one planet of one galaxy?" This can be answered on a strictly scientific basis, encompassing the fields of biology, astrophysics and relativistic cosmology. From biology we know that life requires a certain concentration of heavy chemical elements. From astrophysics we know that present heavy chemical elements were produced by past supernovae and neutron star mergers. From the previous two points, the appearance of a planet with a chemical composition which is suitable for the development of life requires that the time elapsed from Big Bang be greater than some minimum value, since Big Bang Nucleosynthesis produced only hydrogen, helium and lithium. From astrophysics we know that both ultra high energy (> 10^18 eV) cosmic rays and gamma ray bursts have extra-galactic origin. Therefore, a higher large scale matter density, since it means closer distances between galaxies, would imply a higher incidence on Earth of these highly dangerous particles and radiation. Thus, the good of living beings requires that, at the time of their appearance, large scale matter density should not be higher than some maximum value, which we can safely take to be the current value. From the Friedmann equations of relativistic cosmology, assuming a closed (i.e. finite) universe with cosmological constant whose expansion starts to accelerate at t=ta, we derive the following inequality, where Rho_m(t) is the combined density of dark and baryonic matter and a(t) the scale factor: Rho_m(ta) a(ta)^2 > c^2 / (4 pi G) In general, at any time, if large scale matter density cannot be higher than a certain value, then the scale factor cannot be lower than a certain value. If we add the requirement that the scale factor at time t_life when intelligent beings live is 1,78 the scale factor at time ta when the expansion started to accelerate, so as to enable those intelligent beings to conclusively discard cyclic cosmologies when they become scientifically and technologically advanced [4] [5], we eventually derive this inequality: a(t_life) > 1.18 a(to) sqrt[-Wk(to)] Where a(to) and Wk(to) are the current actual scale factor and curvature density parameter. Thus, for Wk(to) = -0.001 (Planck 2013): a(t_life) > a(to) / 27 And for Wk(to) = -0.0001, the smaller magnitude which can in principle be observationally distinguished from zero (Planck 2015): a(t_life) > a(to) / 85 So, you cannot even in principle say if the universe is actually more than 85 times larger than the minimum size it must have so that: 

When the empirical apperception functions, it allows you to conceptually recognize this or that particular object, as a unified object. You sense a manifold of stuff, but are able to combine what you sense into a object (say a unique, specific cup of coffee). Kant argues that this presupposes the transcendental apperception, that in itself can have no objects, but conditions and apply rules, that allow you to recognize an object as a an object. This entry from G. J. Mattey's Kant Lexicon seems to make a clear differentiation. I highlight parts of it: 

"Discover" in both flavors of Platonism and "build" in fictionalism is just the same activity viewed in different perspectives. Everyone agrees that mathematicians can develop only those self-consistent formal systems that can exist, and in that sense they may be said to "discover" them. However, for an atheist those formal systems existed nowhere in any way before being "discovered", and therefore they are strictly "built" by mathematicians. Further, both Platonism and fictionalism can be "plenitudinous" [1], meaning that all self-consistent formal systems are on an equal standing, so that 

Whoever those "we" may refer to, they certainly do not include Christians. The God that Christians believe in is the Subsistent or Absolute Being: one, absolutely simple, absolutely infinite in every perfection, spiritual, eternal and immutable. That's hardly an "anthropomorphic" conception.