I am not sure about the Law. But in Sri Lankan culture tattoos are quite looked down upon. As a result when you have a tattoo of Buddha it is considered as disrespecting Buddha. But as long as the tattoo is not exposed (covered with clothes) while you are in public places, you are fine. Most probably air port will be the only place that you get directly in trouble with law enforcement with related to a tattoo. As far as what symbols get you in trouble, I think anything that can be interpreted as a Buddha would do. 

As I keep looking myself, this seems to be less well-specified than one might hope. But a couple of useful things so far lead me to one option being something like: 

Physics is talking about physical reality. The "planes" of Buddhism aren't (necessarily) physical planes. So you don't (necessarily) have to choose between them. You can believe both, either, or neither. But "should I believe" implies you have control over what you believe. Is that really true? Can you actually choose to belief any specific thing? Isn't it more the case that you find yourself believing something, depending on what you experience, read, hear, how you act, and so on? Given that, one approach is simply to get on with life, practicing as you are willing and able, and see what you find. As the Buddha is reported in Maha-parinibbana Sutta to have said, "Strive with earnestness";similarly in Philippians 2:12 of the Christian New Testament, "Work out your salvation with fear and trembling." 

This is a misunderstanding. True benefits are realized now. At the present moment. Anyone who wait for next life or even tomorrow are simply in a state of suffering. 

Mercy killing is bad simply because it is unskillful. You may be helping to spend some one elses karma, but what you really doing is bringing it upon your self. You have to be very careful when you get yourself involved in solving other beings problems, not to bring the same problems upon yourself. 

Only the five heinous crimes are guaranteed to manifest their results. According to what I have been told, others need a suitable environment/conditions to manifest at percent/future. But this is not entirely in your control. Ex:- If you have in the past get involved in fights and beat up people, you would build up karma to eventually get beaten up in a fight. Because it is only natural and fully inline with dependent arising that you will over time keep increasing your abrasive nature and eventually meet your match. However if you stop getting involved in fights, that probability will be greatly reduced. But it is possible that someone from the past who held a grudge against you, plot revenge against you and succeed at a moment that you are weak. 

I noticed that when I engage in a task I am very able until I reach my limit, namely the point where I had enough, where effort and suffering kicks in. I noticed: 

I know that this is mainly a Mahayanist view. Nevertheless, my questions are : (1) Should I conclude from this that faculties can really be different between practitioners? That, some individuals have greater facility for the dharma, and that enlightenment is not always feasible in one lifetime? (2) Does this imply that following a Buddhist path doesn't always result in great compassion? Can one follow a Buddhist path while neglecting compassion, and end up lacking it in the end? Or, can compassion always be developed, even at some later point? 

Debate in the worldly sense has no much purpose in buddhism. What is there to win in a debate in Buddhism? If I debate you and win you over, what does it mean to me? I would debate only if there is something for me to learn out of it. That would be debating to loose. Can you call this debating? Another thing would be digging deep on a teaching with another person using debating as a tool. This is two people trying to understand something deeper But that's not really debating ether. To my view only situation it may work debating in the worldly way is if you know the other person is misguided or being misguided and you know for sure that you can help them see the truth without confusing them any further. This is primarily what Buddha debated for. 

I recommend the following, and in the following order. You won't blow a gasket if you do things out of order, but I've placed them as I have for a reason: 

To me that bears a striking resemblance to instructions for Buddhist meditation. The main difference -- the idea of God -- is a difference only if, as I say, you take very literally the typical anthropomorphic view of "God". But if you see past that -- and surely whatever God is, if indeed God "is", then "he" is certainly not an old white dude with a long beard sitting up in the clouds -- my view is that there is often actually very little difference between Buddhist prayer and Christian prayer. This is, of course, a minority view! (Which doesn't, on the other hand, make it wrong.) 

Non of your suffering is based on bad karma. Suffering is something you do. Not something that happen to you. Enlightened person realize this and stop doing it. You may have a back pain, which may or may not be karma from past life. But you don't have to suffer it. 

From my understanding they are called aggregates not necessarily because they are made of something. Its because they are described in plural. For example 'Foam Aggregate' is translated from Rupa Skandha, meaning the aggregate of Rupa or aggregated rupa. Same goes for other 4 as well. Also asking what they are made of in general sense might not even be correct. Because some are not things, example feeling is a process/action/event so as perception. And when you take all 5 together, what is described is an ongoing process, which we incorrectly perceive as an object (self). 

No, they're not describing the same kind of thing. Stream Entry (i.e. the thing which a Stream Enterer achieves) is a particular achievement en route to full enlightenment. Devoutness, then, is merely one aspect of living that may help one reach that achievement. Another analogy is weight lifting. Someone can be "devout" in the sense of being serious. committed to going to the gym, faithful to the pursuit of increasing weight capability, and so on. And then "stream entry" is something like "can clean and jerk their own body-weight". In other words, stream entry is a specific, well-described set of "objective" criteria in terms of attainment. Devout, on the other hand, could represent a way of approaching practice so as to achieve stream entry (i.e. to become a stream enterer). Going back to your Catholic analogy, consider St Thomas Aquinas. He was, by all accounts, a devout Catholic. However, towards the end of his life he is recorded as having had some kind of spiritual experience which led him to say that all his prior work (the Summae etc) was "like straw". I suspect that he may have been referring to something like a Stream Entry experience, but it came along towards the end of (although maybe because of) a devout Catholic life. 

I think in my answer I expressed the three dimensions involved in the Mahayana Buddhist path: aspiring to liberation, bodhicitta, and the insight into emptiness. I think, in fact, that we even conceive we'd be happier shows us the nature of delusion. We can imagine we'd be happy with intense pleasures, but the reality is otherwise, showing the discrepancy between our perception and reality. Nothing within this world shows us this discrepancy, and the proof is that many people do live in this way, seeking pleasures. Only the transcendent understanding from insight provides immunity from this misapprehension, and dealing with reality in a worldly way -- as in with your example of Cockaigne -- will hinder such insight. 

It is a misunderstanding that Buddhism can cure sickness, or end pain. Sickness , Physical pain and suffering are realities of life. Being enlightened will not end that. Even after full enlightenment your body will still be fragile and subjected to forces of nature. Even Buddha got sick and was in pain. However there is an incorrect expectation in mind, that I shall not get sick, I shall not be in pain, which is not in sync with reality and cause you to always battle with reality. This create additional mental stress/pain on top of your physical suffering. Through Buddhism, you free your self from this mentally created suffering. 

Given those really basic definitions, and assuming we take them more or less literally (very important; see later) there is simply no way to pursue both approaches. Absolutely front and center of Christianity is the dude Jesus, his death and alleged resurrection, the fact that those constitute atonement for sin, and so on. You cannot be a Christian without regularly getting down on your hands and knees, literally or metaphorically, and worshipping Jesus. Accepting Him, being saved from sin, etc, and absolutely not meditation and resulting insight into the three marks of existence, etc, are what count. And that is in stark contrast with Buddhism where Jesus doesn't really come into it, and breaking delusion etc are vital. Of course I can't see a problem with a Buddhist believing, just as Muslims do, that Jesus was a spectacularly important and awesome guy. But even if so, that's all he was, and as I said that's not remotely enough for a Christian. HOWEVER... (there's always a however...) All of that -- and it's pretty mainline exposition; I didn't make it up -- is only clearly the case if one takes those definitions literally. In particular it's if one interprets the meanings of the various terms in the context of contemporary scientific naturalism (sometimes manifesting as scientism) and essentially discards metaphysics (by which I mean the formal, philosophical type, as opposed to New Age fluffy stuff) or even modern philosophical systems such as phenomenology. With the much more sophisticated conceptual structures that those systems of thought provide, then the question as to exactly what Christianity or Buddhism (or many others) mean by any give concept needs more thought and so has more scope for compatibility. I reckon that anyone with any degree of openness of mind, and willing to put in the work, cannot fail to see potential connections between what we got from the Buddha, Nagarjuna, Dogen, the neo-Platonists like Plotinus, scholastics like Aquinas, and so on, all the way to the present day. So given all of that, I'll balance my earlier answer of "simply no way" with an alternative which is, "You're just going to have to try it out and see" :-) And to back that up, I'll offer two quotes (my italic emphasis in both):