Climbing is full of little surprises like this (force multiplications, the physics of pendulum falls, the zipper effect, factor 2 falls... to just name a few.) I am all for figuring stuff out myself, but with climbing I highly recommend learning from a climber with several years of experience, or taking a class. Just reading a book or post on a Q&A site is not going to be enough to stay safe until you have a very thorough understanding of everything involved. 

I haven't done that specific trip, but I went from Bremen to Bremerhaven on the Weser river, and thought I would chime in with what I learned on that trip that might be applicable to your itinerary. 

Doctrine and strict rules create resentment. Children are a prime example of this, but most adults are sadly not immune either. The importance of Leave No Trace is coupled to a place. Yes, ideally we would all try to minimize our impact on this planet, but some places are more fragile than others and one individual can have a much more lasting impact on an ecosystem. An example are alpine meadows, where growth cycles are short, food is scarce, and living for the local fauna is harsh. Your options also heavily depend on the situation. If you are teaching your children you can have a different approach as if you walk up to a stranger camping on fragile vegetation 10 feet away from an alpine lake who is enjoying a camp fire in a no-fire zone. What it takes for people to take care of wild places is for them to see the importance of preserving wilderness in the first place. Someone who doesn't understand why a certain rule is in place is not likely to adhere to it. A good first place to take someone who is new to the wilderness is a place that is more resilient so they can begin to feel a connection with nature. A trip to Yosemite National Park for example could spark an interest in exploring the backcountry, and the impact that humans have had on the place can lead to a discussion about why it is important to protect certain places from human impact as much as possible. A sense of awe often goes hand in hand with wanting to preserve what one is in awe of. If you are in the presence of one of the rare human beings who just don't get it, don't take them to places that need our protection. 

I had a huge problem with smelly climbing shoes when climbing in the gym or on long multi-pitch days. The single most effective thing I have come across is taking the shoes off between climbs/pitches. This seems tedious at first, but once you make it part of your routine it's not that bad. There still is some smell, but the situation has drastically improved. Bring a second pair to reduce smell even further. 

The general advice I have heard for surprise lightning storms when climbing is to retreat. Since retreating quickly is not without danger itself and often is not even all that quick (I personally have spent two hours plus retreating), I was wondering if there are any other well tested strategies. I was thinking leaving most metal gear behind on the route and just waiting out the storm on a ledge could work? Are there any reported incidents of climbers getting struck by lightning with that strategy? Are there other strategies that have worked for people? 

I can also think of a couple of reasons why there are certain situations where this minght be the smaller of two evils: 

I have heard that skiers and snowboarders can do a lot of damage to an ecosystem. I am interested in the following backcountry wintersport activities and would like to do them responsibly. 

I have been given conflicting information for how to minimize the impact of traveling in small groups in wilderness areas. For groups traveling off-trail in areas where it is appropriate I have heard the following: 

This is not a direct answer but more of an extended comment about safety when rappelling on overhanging terrain. When rappelling over an overhang or an overhanging wall, make sure that you are certain that you will be able to reach the ground. Ideally you know that both ends of your rope are touching the ground. If your rope doesn't reach the ground you will have to down-aid by placing gear to stay close to the wall in order to set up for another rappel. If you rappel over an overhang and you end up at the end of your rope, you will have to ascend your rope. If you don't know how to do that, or you didn't bring prussics or ascenders, you will be stuck. Sadly this happens more commonly than one would think... If you are not certain that your rope will reach the ground, triple check that you tied backup knots at the ends of your rope. Rappelling is dangerous. People get killed every year. Seek instructions from a trained professional and know your and your gear's limits. 

Small addendum to the excellent answers already present: Never release a tourniquet unless you have received expert instruction on doing so. If the patient who received a tourniquet does not receive medical attention within a few hours, it is likely that the patient will loose the affected limb. Therefore, before applying a tourniquet, make sure that a high likelihood of loosing a limb is a better outcome then not applying a tourniquet. 

Figure eight-knots are not directional. Once the knot is properly tied and dressed, it doesn't matter if you passed the rope through from the top or the bottom, it is purely a matter of preference. Things to watch out for when tying your figure-eight: 

A quick safety notice: When tying in this way, it is standard to use two locking carabiners. Never use just one non-locking carabiner! 

Carabiners always attach to the belay loop. Attaching carabiners to the tie-in-points causes them to get loaded incorrectly. Carabiners are designed to load the spine, which is the side opposite the gate. Attaching a carabiner to the tie-in-points causes the gate to be loaded, since three strands get loaded (the tie-in loops and the rope end). An incorrectly loaded carabiner fails at much lower forces. 

The other day we were waiting in line for a popular 200 foot single pitch climb in the valley and the party in front of us was using two 70 meter ropes they had joined together with a double fisherman's as a top-rope. I had never seen or heard of this being done before and I can think of a couple of reasons why I wouldn't be comfortable doing this myself: 

Does anyone know if using two ropes as a top-rope is condoned or discouraged by professional guides? Also, has anyone heard of any accidents or close calls that have happened when using two ropes in this manner? Does anyone know of any testing that has been done on this technique? Feel free to add benefits or disadvantages that I have missed. 

I am looking for sustainable alternatives for carrying out human waste. WAG bags, though convenient, sadly have to end up in land-fills. I am looking for a system where the non-biodegrading components can be reused hygienically, and the biodegrading substances can be disposed of in pit toilets or composting toilets. In addition to sustainability and hygiene, weight, bulk, convenience when used on multi-day trips, and longterm cost are also of concern. Poop tubes (either the PVC or dry-bag version) strike me as a good starting point. Sadly (possibly due to the sensitive nature of the topic) I found it difficult to find useful first-hand information on how to make that system work with the criteria stated above. 

Learning the munter is absolutely not optional. It has saved my behind a couple of times when I have cast off without a belay device. I wouldn't recommend using the munter though unless for practice or in situations when absolutely necessary, since it turns the rope into a twisted mess. 

I have a small summit pack that has loops on each side of the backpack, which your's seems to have as well. My pack advertised those for "securing overloads," meaning you can drape stuff that doesn't fit inside (like a rope), over the pack before you close the lid and secure it with the straps to each side of the pack. On each side of the pack I thread a loop, pass the stap over the item I want to secure, thread a loop on that side of the item, and repeat until I run out of loops. Then I do the other side. 

Under-camming and camming angle are two very different things. The camming angle is constant for the whole range of the cam and is defined by the shape of the cam-lobe and can range from 12.5 degrees to up to 21 degrees (Black Diamond's C4s for example have a camming angle of 14.5 degrees.) An undercammed cam has the same holding strength as a cam in its sweet-spot. The problem with undercamming is stability of the placement. An undercammed cam is likely to walk out of the crack with little tugs from the rope as the leader moves past the placement, and it will pull out when the direction of pull changes slightly. A good cam placement will not walk and can adjust to angle of pull. If the only possible placement is an undercammed camming device, extending the placement with a sling can prevent the piece from walking out, but proceed with caution! To answer your question: An undercammed cam has the full holding strength the cam is rated to. Edit: I just looked at DavidR's link in his comment and I agree that it describes the workings of a cam very well! 

I don't know what your situation is exactly, but my advice would be to instead invest in a good down sleeping-bag. Or bring someone to cuddle with. A good sleeping bag will provide that pocket of still air you are looking for and is going to be much more compact and lightweight. For about a year and a half while at college I lived in a three-season two-person tent which was inside a cloth-teepee. I only had a 20 degree (Fahrenheit) sleeping bag and it got pretty cold (I slept in my boots some winter nights). I perceived the main benefit to be peace of mind that my stuff was protected a little more in case the elements misbehaved while I was gone. It worked for me in my situation, and, without having collected any data to quantify, felt more comfortable than just the two-person tent, but I am not sure you would want to do this where you have to carry both tents. 

Since it has been a year and some of this has not been mentioned I felt compelled to do so. I know you were concerned about your own equipment, and I know this advice can be found all over the internet, but I think the following needs to be said whenever climbing gear safety is discussed: 

A final note on stretching: If stretching is your thing (I personally haven't really stretched much in the past 10 years), make sure you do it right. Stretching can lead to little tears that don't hurt but prolong the time to recover. Stretching should be done as statically as possible. "Bouncing" can lead to injuries. Also, make sure you actually stretch you muscles instead of mostly compressing your disks. On your trip don't do any stretching you haven't done hundreds of times before without injuring yourself. 

Short answer: Climb lots of other routes in many different areas and have lots of other people climb your routes. Let me get into why you opened a can of worms with your question: Ratings for routes are almost always in a greater context both historically and in respect to their location. The people who created the Yosemite Decimal System for example had anticipated a ceiling of what is humanly doable, and when climbing rubber got better and better, harder and harder routes received the same rating (5.9) since that had been deemed the upper limit. This kept happening until the system was turned into an open ended one. Therefore, if you climb in the US and see a 5.9 that was established half a century ago, you are looking at a broad spectrum of difficulty. Some of those routes have received a grade-upgrade in the past decades. Another phenomenon that occurs quite commonly is that locals perfect a certain technique, and to them a certain type of climb becomes much easier. This results in what is called "sand bag ratings," which means that outsiders might be in for a surprise if they only look at the rating in the guidebook. Yosemite national park can be an example for this, since the slick granite can be very different from what people are used to, and because slabs without much protection are quite common, especially in Tuolumne Meadows. Outsiders often need a couple of days to adjust before they climb at their grade. This brings us to routes that require one very specific technique. If you don't know how to do a knee bar, a 5.11 climb might be 5.14 for you. Sometimes even years after a route was established someone finds a sequence that can downgrade a climb even by several grades. Technique (or lack thereof) also is a major reason why rating a climb is much more variable when done by beginning climbers. Sometimes ethics play a role in the difficulty of a climb. Some routes are much easier if climbed with a knee pad, or with tape gloves. Now enter the difference between gym and outdoor ratings. In my local gym I can climb one full number grade higher (YDS) than what I would be able to climb outside. To make the concept of rating even more confusing, add different rating systems between climbing communities. The English for example take into consideration the difficulty of protection and the amount of exposure when they rate a route. Under the Yosemite Decimal System, a route has the difficulty of the hardest individual move, no matter what the rest of the climbing is like. The V-grades for bouldering is an even stranger animal, since the routes are so short. Rating climbs occurs through a highly subjective consensus process, influenced by a multitude of factors, many of which I probably forgot to mention here. I hope I confused you enough that you forget all about it and instead just go out and climb. 

What kind of mementos am I allowed to collect from State and National parks in small quantities, if any? I am especially wondering about: 

Regular climbing ropes are 200ft, which is the maximum distance you can rappel with two ropes. If by "stages" you mean pitches, this makes for at least 9 pitches. I would call that a big wall. You might spend days trying to climb back up if you get into trouble. 

Does anyone know of any credible sources backing either of these contradicting approaches, or even advocating a third? 

Single use water bottles are nice, like Steed mentioned. I use those a lot. The downside is that most filters don't readily attach to those bottles, which means I often wish I had a third hand when pumping water. Whenever I have space in my pack, I like to use a hydration bladder. You don't have to take your pack off to drink or ask someone else to hand you your water bottle. There are some filters out there (like the MSR Hyperflow) that connect directly to the drinking hose (you just take the mouth-piece off), so you pump water directly from the source into the bladder in your pack. One other advantage is weight distribution; Most packs have a separate compartment for the hydration bladder close to your back, which is where you want the heaviest items to be. This makes your pack feel more balanced, as opposed to strapping bottles to the outside. I have a 10 liter bladder that is similar in weight to a nalgene. Most of the time I fill it up with 2 to 3 liters, but if I have to, I can carry water for 3 days in the desert. The downside to hydration badders is not knowing how much water you have left while you are drinking, and of course the fact that they take up space in your pack.