The Nanaue (there is no wiki link) is a Hawaiian creature of myth. It is a shark with arms and legs. It can live in both the ocean and on the land. So how do I create the monstrosity that is, the land shark? A list of all of the Anatomically Correct questions can be found here Anatomically Correct Series 

One of the strangest and most effective weapons in the wonderful world of arthropods in the proboscis of the famed assassin bug, with even the head of the insect working as part of the weapon. 

Quadcopters are cool, I don't think anyone can refute this. While Drones use a simplistic boring version of their design, these versions are often used in science fiction, but is this powerful, flying vehicle feasible? 

A while ago a question was asked about the benefits of having sex with an alien and while it brought up some excellent points, there was a problem I had found. That question had made the assumption of plastic forehead aliens, aliens that are practically human, which made me wonder, could you have sex with an alien? Considering the fact that a alien would, to a human, basically be a super intelligent alien mixed with the obvious note that human and alien reproduction is infinitely unlikely to be the same, I find it hard that not only could one could not have sex with an alien, but they would be unlikely to feel sexual attraction. Is it even possible to have intercourse with an extraterrestrial? 

Is it possible that these wing fingers could evolve into arms? What about legs? What pressures would lead to such an evolution? 

In a species I am designing, they have eyesight similar to a cats, their vision at a distance is excellent, but the closer you get, the blurrier the vision is. One solution I had for this was for them to have whiskers, akin to felines. But of course, being a crazy person, I couldn't stop there, I had to wonder if antennae would work? What evolutionary history would support a mammal having antennae? 

Some Background The government is really, really good at catching people as we learned here and here. But as logic would dictate, there is always someone better. In this case, an invisible man. Unlike Dave or Eden, we know almost nothing about this new threat. After catching Dave and negotiating with Eden they have made the world aware that there is a third one; an invisible man named John. The united nations agree that he must be stopped, but how do you catch what you can't see? A Few Details on the invisible man 

In an answer to this question Cyrus suggested that pre-technology merpeople might use shrimp or prawns in lue of maggots to eat away rotting flesh. Similar to how plants and (in some cases) animals were used to heal ancient people in our own world; Opium poppies (from which comes morphine), Honey (which helps sooth sore throats), marigold (I think this helps heal infections, if I'm wrong let me know), leeches (blood letting, not successful but still used) and maggots. There are freshwater and salt water variants of the merpeople, so answer involving salt and fresh water life would be helpful. My merpeople live in medium and shallow levels of water but can go to deeper areas if they need to. So for example if they were bitten by a shark, 'stepped' on a sea urchin, or cut on coral, what underwater life would be used to aid the injured in a merperson culture? 

No The reason that Jupiters Red Spot has lasted so long is because it is a gas giant, literal just wind and gas. This allows for a ton of hurricanes to exist, but on a terrestrial planet, this is impossible. The Hurricane picks things up, which slows it down and it already is doomed to fail; this problem would be even worse on an ocean world. In perfect conditions you might get a hurricane that lasts a month, but you are not getting a 100 years and you are definitely not getting a Red Spot scale Hurricane. 

Multiples realms are a feature in many religious system both fictional and real, they are what allow the gods to seemingly appear out of nowhere and explain how hero move across time and space, think midgar in Thor or Heaven in Christianity, neither of these are physical places in our universe but instead their own realm. How can they be explained them without using magic? 

In my world, automation reaches a new level with the introduction of androids. Robotic human beings capable of doing any job a regular person can. The concept of these androids is that they can be used in a wide variety of jobs as opposed to simpler robotic workers. Justifying a humanoid body plan was fairly easy, but how do I justify going further than that? I want the androids that inhabit my world to appear human in every way, from life-like skin, to body hair and genders; preferably making each android appear unique. How can I justify the addition of these purely aesthetic human features on an android built for work? 

Having a slime like exterior Having a firm shape Moving around via hopping. Having eyes and having mouths 

In countless science fiction series, mainly the more popular ones, almost all of the aliens appear humanoid, that is bipedal with 2 arms and two legs. Is it a bad idea to include this in worldbuilding? Is it just a lazy excuse, a way of humanizing the alien or is there a good reason for an alien to be humanoid? 

In the media myth of King Kong, there exists a gorilla; 50 feet tall. The largest great apes ever to exist were Gigantopithecus Blacki which, stood up to 9.8 ft, and weighed up to 1,190 lb. While this is good, it is much shorter than the 50 foot goal we want to achieve. How tall (or heavy) can I make a great ape? Is the legendary 50 foot ape possible? What would the evolution of a massive ape look like? A list of all of the Anatomically Correct questions can be found here Anatomically Correct Series 

At an average of three feet, may seem too small, but keep in mind that mammals scale up in size rather well, escpecially when compared to lizards. ALso as an insectivore that feed on massive colonies we have a base for a large stable diet, though for the desired size (minimum of a hippo) we need to edit its diet to include leaves and fruit, this altered diet may have even caused the gigantism. The Mokèlé-mbèmbé is almost always described with a long neck, which is why I almost quit this Mokèlé-Pangolin endeavor until I realized that by including fruit as a staple within its diet, I have an double excuse for a long neck; it allows for the creatures to easily grab at higher up fruit and leaves, much like the giraffe. In case this didn't tickle your ''Of course'' Fancy, its habitat also lines up with sightings of the Mokèlé-mbèmbé; 

We have discussed the Railgun and the Coilgun, I'm fairly sure we've even talked once or twice about magnet guns. But could a centrifuge gun exist? For those who do not know, a centrifuge rifle is exactly what it sounds like, at the pull of the first trigger the hollow, donut shaped barrel spins the bullets until they reach terminal velocity and then when the second trigger is pulled, the bullet fires out of the barrel. I see three obvious problems with this theoretical gun; 

Do you consider any of the above animals (which are in the same kingdom as you!) to be sapient? Do you consider them to be people to? 

Knowing that species with smaller sizes have a larger population density, we can assume aliens live on smaller worlds and exist in smaller groups, due to the fact that being larger is more likely.