In a sense, that's right, but I think not in the way you propose. The Golden Rule was proposed within a particular context. 

For some actions, it is the intent that matters. One example would be the situation described by Herodotus: 

The pendulum, while exhibiting interesting behavior, is not "complex" by any of these definitions. Usually when I've seen people say that something is "more complex," it is defined in terms of one system being able to simulate another system. So, again, taking the pendulum example, by any of the three above definitions it cannot simulate a "complicated" example. So, it is not violating the principle you suggest. 

(emphasis added) From this passage, it seems that free-will requires the ability to act rationally, not randomly. Furthermore, one would need to consider what for Thomas free-will is: it is not the freedom to make arbitrary choices, but it is the freedom to act in accordance with God's will or contrary to it. 

"(Many people think) meat is delicious." That is a debatable reason against veganism, but it is a reason. The "vegan philosopher" saying there are no "good" arguments against veganism is potentially (although not necessarily) begging the question - dismissing arguments that are logical because they disagree with a preconceived notion that he is trying to justify in the first place. There very well might be good arguments against something, but one may not know them out of ignorance of the matter. 

This answer attempts to explain from a believer's perspective what the difference is. Obviously, for an atheist, the answer is: "there is none." 

Since your question is inspired by what Chesterton thinks about poetry, lets look at what Chesterton says about poetry in Everlasting Man: 

For a very easily understandable discussion of the Pre-Socratics, I would check out the first dozen-or-so episodes of the History of Philosophy podcast, or refer your students to them. Each episode has a list of further readings that would also be useful in putting together a lecture. 

(As translated on Wikipedia's article on Cardinal Virtues, taken originally from De Inventione). Thus, if virtue is a habit of the mind, clearly actions alone do not suffice in being virtuous. My understanding is that this line of thought was also held by Plato and by the Stoics, although I'm short on time to dig up further examples. 

The word "πονηρός" can be translated in numerous ways, the Greek dictionary on the Perseus project gives a few of them: 

Chesterton offers one alternate reading of Oedipus Rex. In his book The Soul of Wit, Chesterton compares Oedipus to Macbeth, saying that Oedipus is the supreme pagan Tragedy because of its focus on fate, whereas Macbeth is the supreme Christian Tragedy because of its focus on free-will and sin. This theme of fate is the point of Oedipus Rex for Chesterton, and not our hidden sexual desires (as Freud would say), nor is it about reason defeating the gods (as the Wikipedia author says without citation). 

Philosophically, the professor obviously was being causal - there is obviously no such thing as a "meaningless symbol" as a "symbol" by definition "a thing that represents or stands for something else, especially a material object representing something abstract". Here, x is a symbol that stands for something, the question then is what does it stand for? In this abstract setting, x is called an indeterminant, with no value in particular (as opposed to x being a variable, that is, an unknown quantity to be solved). What he probably meant to say is that x, being an indeterminant, has no particular value, but the point is that this is a polynomial in one variable. This polynomial could just as easily be expressed (as they often are) in t, but it is distinguished from a polynomial in two variables. To address the question of whether the thing x points to exists - it clearly does, but it's hard to say what that thing is, other than using a circular definition as the thing which lets us talk about abstract polynomials. 

The intent of both the Greek and Indian actions was to honor the dead, but they had the opposite views on how to best do that. So, in that example, the intent is the thing with the moral weight, not the action. However, I think many philosophers would agree that actions themselves have moral weight in general. To be moral is to be virtuous, and the coordinating virtue is Prudence. Acquinas gives the following summary of prudence: 

In these three examples or in any others one could cite, it is important to note that these take the form more of a trial or a historical inquiry, and not a scientific experiment. Since (at least, Catholics would claim) miracles are non-repeatable historical events, it seems appropriate to take an approach more similar to asking a question like "Did Caesar conquer Gaul?" rather than "How long does it take for this object to fall?" 

Ephesians 1:4-5 (There are many other passages used by Protestants as justification for the idea of predestination, but many follow the pattern of not just being chosen, but being chosen to fit into the mold of Jesus). So, to be of the elect means that one is empowered to behave in a Christ-like manner. So then, the protestant work ethic is ethical to the degree that one believes to act Christ-like is ethical. While usually considered a "Protestant" idea, within Christianity the (Catholic) Benedictine Monks also have a tradition of taking work ethic seriously: 

I think Alanf mostly got it, but something additional: while it is likely that anything "computable" is computable by a Turing machine, it is possible that this is not the case. As the Wikipedia article mentions, there are two classes of problems ("BQP" and "BPP" - for the technically inclined, you can look up what they are) that if one is a proper superset of the other, the Church Turing Thesis would be invalidated. 

Some great answers already, just a point not yet raised: In many of the disciplines you raised, introductory courses do present a particular person's work, but often not the text from that person because the field has gotten better at explaining the result and context of the result. To say though that science classes avoid the "big names" doesn't seem true: every biology student learns about Watson and Crick, every economics student learns about Keynes, every physics student learns Newton and Planck, etc., and every student learns the main contribution of each of the above, even if not read in the original. As an example, while physics students might not read Principia, they would learn . 

Dawkins offered a rather challenging reason for this: information theory (I believe this was in "God Dilemma"). If you put the parts that make up a chair into a large bag, and shake it, it is unlikely that they will assemble themselves into a chair. There is some possibility, but it is very small. One way of looking at why is because a chair is a complicated object that requires a good deal of information to assemble properly. In your question, given that the universe came from nothing "is it not possible that we can live once again from nothing?" a similar argument can be applied. Taking the fact that the universe "came from nothing" as a given, we can ask what that means. The universe took a while to organize itself - in the mean time there was little "information" there. It took a long time for that "information" to be present by the rules of physics organizing things into place. If all one admits is the laws of physics as know them, then this makes arguing for a "life after death" based on the Big Bang quite difficult. It's worth nothing that those who claim that there is life after death probably wouldn't claim that that life comes from "nothing" either. Many religions believe in the existence of the soul that can survive bodily death (a soul, since it exists, is not "Nothing"). Since the soul is not nothing, it wouldn't make sense to say that an afterlife comes from nothing. So, there are at least two ways of thought that address your question. 

Considering moralities as a point in some geometric space, this is most likely, but it could also be that the standard is precisely one of the two things being compared. This minor point doesn't seem to invalidate the rest of the argument though. The rest of the paragraph is a restatement of the two above points. So, it seems most likely that one who disagrees with the conclusion would find it logically consistent but only vacuously true. 

As a math major, it caused me great pain when my family thought I was just learning how to do addition really well... Generally, pure math (i.e., excluding applied math) can be thought of as having two three main branches (although, this is likely an over-simplification): 

Let's start taking the Protestant work ethic as an example. First, where does the Protestant work ethic come from: 

I don't know of any specific philosophers that have written about this, but a few thoughts: 1) Are there limits on intelligence? This seems to be the case. We live in a universe that had a distinct creation time, and which will only last a finite amount of time. Further, there are a finite number of atoms, which prevents the possibility of a created intelligent being of finite life but infinite size. So, any created being has the obvious upper bound constraint of all of time and space. For any single being, the constraint is significantly shorter - a single person cannot use all of time and space, he or she can use at most his or her lifetime. One interesting aspect of your question is that "a created being" cannot get very far in understanding its environment - no one person has gotten very far at understanding even how to make a pencil. It is easy to forget, but much of our understanding and ability to manipulate things is due not to individual intelligence but network effects of many people. 2) Can it understand the hardware which it runs on? Yes, at least in some sense. Software can emulate/virtualize hardware. However, trying to extrapolate this to the point of your analogy, this doesn't seem knowable with respect to if we can understand the underlying "hardware" of the universe if it turns out there is something beyond the material universe. 3) Is it possible for the program to comprehend the motives of its creator? The point of this analogy is whether humans could possibly understand the motives of some Infinite Creator or something along those lines. The analogy strikes me as interesting but of limited use: if we created a robot or computer program with some self-awareness, it would be finite just as we are. However, an Infinite Creator is infinite where we are finite. So it seems possible to build a program that understands our motives and still not be able to understand an Infinite Creator's. 4) Will it able to understand the physical world that the computer exists within? This seems very possible. It would only require sensors for detecting things in the physical world (which is easy), a method for sampling the physical world (harder, but still doable), and a way of taking observations and constructing a model of the physical world (harder still, but still possible). By analogy, is it possible for us to understand something of the "container of this universe?" I think your analogy here is good - a computer program can only begin to understand things in the physical world for which it has sensors. Likewise, we could theoretically only understand a world beyond us to the extent we have been given the ability to sense anything about it. 5) Is it then pointless to ask the question "where do we come from"? It seems that approaches to this question can be put into two groups: 

I think there are many important points that the otherwise fine answers have not raised yet. Here are two: 

Sensitive to initial conditions The Church-Turing hierarchy Wolfram's classification of cellular automata 

Again, Robert Barron has a post about this where he sums it up as "existence (unfettered freedom) precedes essence (who or what a person becomes)". In other words, we first exist as something, and through the choices we make are core is defined. This is again in contrast to religious views, for example, about humans being made in God's image (and so our essence precedes our existence). 

First, let's look at the phrase itself. The phrase, "The War on Terror" is a rhetorical construction that follows a long tradition in America: 

The question seems to really be about why one should believe the Abrahamic religions, rather than belief systems in general. Since Goblin asked, here's a stab at providing a few predictions they (particularly Christianity) make that turn out to be correct. Original Sin The term original sin was first coined by Augustine around 400, but Christians point to their scripture as the source for this doctrine. The general idea is that each of us shares a sin that dates back to our origin, and whose effects persist throughout our mortal lives. One prediction that this theory makes is that all people, no matter how wise they are inherently, will make bad decisions. This of course disagrees radically with much of earlier Greek thought. Take for example the "Gold Soul" people in The Republic: Plato (through the voice of Socrates) claimed that as long as we put this small group of people in charge, we could achieve a perfectable society. Which of these two models do we think is right? Most well functioning governments today are based on a system of checks and balances, which seems necessary if and only if the doctrine of Original Sin is true. Benefits of a Virtuous Life One tenet of the Abrahamic religions is that to be happy, it is necessary to be virtuous. Specifically, the virtues are: 

I exist. My existence must have a cause. The only possible ultimate causes are (a) myself (b) my always having existed (c) my parents (d) something less perfect than God or (e) God Not a. If I had created myself, I would have made myself perfect. Not b. This does not solve the problem. If I am a dependent being, I need to be continually sustained by another. Not c. This leads to an infinite regress. Not d. The idea of perfection that exists in me cannot have originated from a non-perfect being. Therefore, e. God exists. 

I would point to a specific example that says it is possible to be by one's self and practicing philosophy: consider the philosopher Boethius, who did his work in the early 6th century. His most famous work, Consolation of Philosophy, was likely written alone in a room while he waited his execution, yet few philosophers or historians of philosophy would consider the work to be anything other than "philosophy." See also the History of Philosophy episode on Boethius.