I was led to believe that falconers (in Europe?) always used a glove on the left hand to handle birds of prey. However, this image show Mongol with birds on their right hands. So, how has the the handness of the falconry glove evolved? 

The major change from the Republic to the Empire was the decision to keep for life as the head of state first Caesar then Augustus. Thus it put the top job in the hands of one man as long as that man was alive. There was no peaceful way to remove the Emperor at this point and since they controlled the army (or they would not be emperor) they had military power over the rest of society. The change from Kingdom to Republic was maybe more subtle but put two men in charge instead of one. Thus allowing for a balance of power at the top. Again, this is a break with the previous regime. In a similar way, you could say that the 4th of 5th French Republics are the "same": president, prime ministers, ministers, parliament, elections, yadda. Or that the French and English prime minister have the same function. Overall, you would not be too wrong but the devil is in the details. Thus why we refer to the Roman Empire, the Holy Roman Empire and the Byzantium Empire as different beasts even though they are all called "empires" and come from the same root. 

The lines on the Western Front were not by any stretch of the imagination "short". The Western Front ran all the way from Switzerland to the Atlantic Ocean. Side attacks? Well the Race to the Sea ($URL$ was in fact an attempt by each Army to outflank each other until a continuous front stretched across all of France. 

So whilst there may not have been large scale tank battles, there was a lot about the conduct of the campaign that was "blitzkrieg with Pacific characteristics". Certainly there was use of armour facilitated envelopments during the campaign. However, the terrain simply did not suit the use of massed armour for large scale operational or strategic envelopments of France 1940, or Western Russia in 1941. Those battlefields were comparatively wide open compared to the terrain of Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, the Solomon Islands or New Guinea, which was densely forested and often mountainous. Indeed if you read Panzer Operations: The Eastern Front Memoir of General Raus, 1941-1945 you'll the Germans ran into problems in this kind of terrain during their drive to Leningrad in 1941. Likewise, the Italian campaign demonstrates the difficulties inherent in large scale armoured movement in mountainous country flanked by sea. The other thing previously mentioned is that in the Malayan campaign for example the Japanese were able to facilitate strategic surprise/operational encirclement by landing from the sea. We see this similarly in the Philippines campaign. It was easier for the Japanese to open new fronts by conducting amphibious landings on a different part of the island or archipelago. There are also logistical and economic factors to consider. By 1942 Japane had prioritised producing naval and aircraft assets. The effects of the oil embargo would have likely constrained protracted large scale armour campaigns. It's also pertinent to note that moving large numbers of tanks across an ocean requires enormous amounts of shipping. It's important to remember that 1940/1941 campaigns of maneuver were devised as expedients to strategic problems faced by the German Army: achieving a fast victory over the French, after they were cornered by the British-French declaration of War in '39 that would've ultimately resulted in German economic defeat (much like in World War 1) unless the French were defeated in a decisive contest. The Japanese didn't face the same strategic or tactical challenges. The conflict was ultimately decided by air and naval power on the battlefield, and by the economic weight of the United States. So on the face of it I would say 

During the Japan Sengoku-jidai, several clans of shinobi were recruited by various war lords to help their military campaigns. What were they primarily used for? Was it covert espionage, assassination, or scouting? Or was it something else? I am particularity interested in primary source. 

Torture is best and most effective in getting immediately verifiable information and as a tool in the fear arsenal of an organisation. The SS and Gestapo used it to great effects during the Nazi regime. Those are well documented in any history books. Note that Russia and the Soviet Union used torture as well as part of its repression and control methodology but arguably is not in "Western Europe". The East German Stasi used torture on a similar model to the Soviet. What torture is not effective at is to give you long term intelligence on an organisation that the victim belongs too. Too much bias enter the questioning making it useless. However, fear of torture (or rendition) may prompt the suspect to be more cooperative. Note on terminology: I have seen "showing female breasts to a prisoner" defined as torture. Many interrogation techniques used by Police forces could be described as coercion or torture depending on your agenda. Some things, everyone will agree are torture: electric shocks for example. 

The Russians also viewed the Balkan states as a buffer against Austrian influence. This is why they supported Serbia in the weeks leading up to the outbreak of World War One. The Tsars had also long held designs on Constantinople and the Bosphorus, which would further serve as a bulwark against incursions from powers like Britain, whom was its greatest geopolitical rival. The Russians also slowly dismembered Ottoman control of South-Eastern Europe as part of their aims to reducing the Ottoman Empire to that of a petty vassal state. Thus we can conclude that Russian Balkans policy was driven by a goal of territorial expansionism and imperial ambition. This is a policy that continues to this day. 

Well we can infer a couple of things regarding Russian cryptography in the early 20th century (the inter-war period.) The Austro-Hungarians were able to break the Russians version of a Viginere Cipher (A poly-alphabetic substitution cipher) during the First World War to great effect. What Wikipedia does tell us about Russia's level of encryption sophistication during World War One is that they were at least capable of developing poly-alphabetic ciphers. 

They are still wealthy, here is an up-to-date business insider article on Rothschild's descendents. The reason they are not on the Forbe's list is because their wealth is diluted amongst many people; Forbes makes an effort to focus on individual wealth. Here's is a comment by Forbes employee Luisa Kroll: 

According to Wikipedia, the Vikings sometimes tied their boats together in order to provide a stable battleground and to make it easier for the crew of other boats to help each other. Despite the fact that these 'islands of boats' had no mobility at all (even the sails were furled), making them extremely susceptible to fire (as seen in the Battle of Red Cliff), I was unable to find any records of Vikings burning each other's boats. Presumably this was because the intent of battle was to capture the boats themselves. According to Hurstwic: 

I found a few articles, here and here. The historical inaccuracies are quite extensive, ranging from anachronisms like tomatoes, to conspiracy theories regarding the knights templar. 

Lars Andersen was able to fire off 10 arrows in 4.9 seconds by holding several arrows in his right hand. As a comparison, medieval archers were expected to shoot 12-20 arrows per minute, or 0.98 to 1.63 arrows per 4.9 seconds. This technique allows him to fire off the arrows using fewer movements, and it allowed him to break a world record by firing off 11 arrows before the first arrow hit the ground. A picture of him demonstrating this technique can be seen here. A video of him performing the aforementioned feats can be viewed here. According to him, this was an ancient technique used by Saracen, Chinese and Native American archers. However, I am unable to find any sources that depict them using the bow in such a manner. 

Well for starters, the United States has not been the world's "most dominant" power for 75 years. It was in competition with the USSR after the Second World War. There's an argument that the U.S might have been the stronger of the two powers, but it certainly did not "dominate" - which was pretty the basis for Cold War competition between the two powers. What was naively referred to as "the end of history" or a period of global U.S primacy really only stretched from 1991 to 2007. (The dissolution of the Soviet Union to the Lehman's brother collapse). This depends on how far we are willing to stretch the definitions. We could say Rome was the longest surviving "world" power. But in reality the Roman Empire went through a few incarnations, and by today's standards was really only a regional hegemon. It never truly possessed what could be described as a 'world power' status. I mean, the Romans never even kept a foothold above the Rhine. There were other Empires in existence that the Romans didn't really have much awareness of such as China, whom it could never hope to dominate. The only real candidate here is the British Empire during the period mentioned. But then, we run into semantic difficulties with the term "dominate". The British Empire was powerful militarily, but it used its economic power rather than its military to protect its vital interests. The British still had a number of near peer competitors militarily, and it was not able to unilaterally impose its will on other nations through the use of either lever (see the Crimean War). So I would say the British Empire, but it's murky.