How about "Aries", plural form of "Ares" (pronounced the same) , which is the Greek homolog for the Roman "Mars" 

Some people honestly enjoy others' suffering. All that compulsory experience sharing would do is intensify existing issues. A sadist would simply get a stronger "fix". A serial killer would get a fuller sense of his victims lives slipping away. The rapist would gain a stronger sense of power by experiencing the victim's helplessness. Another question is that this does not address is physiological deficiencies that express themselves "socially". For example, scarring on the corpus callosum can result in the physical inability for a person to experience emotion (called alexithymia ), which leads to an inability to process many normal social signals. While this might enable physiologically normal people to experience what the alexithymic does, the converse would not hold true. 

In Weiss and Hickman's "Deaths Gate Cycle", they had a coral like creature that built calcite foam shells around hydrogen bubbles, and then a lot of handwavium to avoid questions like "where did the calcium originate? " and is this mathematically feasible? " 

A wormhole is essentially a black hole formed into a ring. If you can build that, you could build anything large and massive. 

Loss of status to an entire family due to the actions of one person is common in history, and even in modern life. Abrahamic cultures - "The sins of the fathers are visited to the sons to the third and fourth generation" - Exodus 20:5. Modern day - relatives of Adolf Hitler, Oscar Wilde, Albert Einstein, and other famous (or infamous) people have changed their names to distance themselves from the social stigma of their ancestry. 

The total "character points" are determined by the length of time of the conjuring. The allocations of points are essentially random, but can be influenced in a broad way by the conjuring. In order to conjure a really strong familiar,it may take a significant portion of a mage's lifespan. Most mage's are limited in the amount of time they can continuously (money, starvation, etc). Conjuring a really strong familiar requires dedication from a team, supporting the master conjurer with food, drink, and other means through the duratiin of the ceremony that can last years (reminder: open a Starbucks franchise in the magic quarter). 

Rather than a direct answer, this is a tangential observation that my 7 year old son came up with after watching Avatar the Last Airbender. All bending is energy bending. The bender changes the kinetic or thermal energy of the targeted medium. Based on events depicted in The Legend of Korra, all bending is mediated through a common structure in the brain (a water bender is able to disrupt any benders ability by manipulating the brain). While Nickelodeon didn't care to get scientific about it, and your world isn't theirs, this may stimulate discussion. 

The ancient Medes and Persians had a solution. Take the children if the regional governors to the capital and give them the best education and training, preparing them for governance. The children serve as both hostage and replacement, and guarantee the governed people's feel they have a stake in the empire. Read the book of Daniel for a record of four such captives and how Daniel in particular was more central to the empire's operation than the four governments he served. 

When I was growing up I had a friend who, from a birth defect, had webbed fingers. It never stopped him from doing anything I did with about the same level of effort. I never saw him shoot a gun because his family wasnt part of the gun club circles, but I can't imagine him unable to do so. 

Steam describes the medium for translating heat energy into mechanical energy. Nuclear power is often actually steam turbines heated by fissionable material. We'd probably call it a nuclear or atomic train, but it is still a steam engine. 

For starters, "muscle memory" is a misnomer. It all happens in the brain. In the 1980s (I think) I read a study where the researchers trained mice to perform a task. Afterwards they harvested rna from the brains of the trained mice and injected it into untrained mice. The untrained mice exhibited the "trained" behaviors very shortly thereafter. Of course, this meant that the trained mice were sacrificed in the process. 

From my 7 year old son - in all universes, all magic comes down to manipulating energy through some system such as psionics, ritual, familiar spirits, link to nanotechnology left over from a prior civilization, divine (or not) grant, etc. Metals are good conductors of energy (electricity, heat, sound, etc). Metal armor interferes with the mage's ability to control the energy they are manipulating by shorting it out. However, properly formed metal tools and implements can actually aid in the manipulation of energy (ever seen a radar dish? ), so the same should be true of magic. (Edit) I suddenly get an image of a mage with a parabolic metallic reflector cowl behind his head. 

As we enter the glass age, top labs such as Corning are beginning to develop glasses that have flexibility of plastics and the durability of metals. Since obsidian is glass with impurities, the first challenge would be to purify the glass so you had a good starting point. The second challenge is to infuse the right impurities to give the glad the potential for the kind of toughness you need, which will be a feature of how the ions are suspended in the Silicon matrix, not the starting material. The third challenge will be to establish the right heating and cooling cycles for tempering the glass to the right kind of toughness. The fourth challenge is to do that with the awkward 3D shapes of armor, arms, and implements. Overall, it's a little beyond today's technology, but very remotely plausible with a little handwavium, to someone who has exactly the right kind of eclectic interests 

Not really, unless the ai controls the manufacturing of all of the parts. An LED display is essentially a couple of sheets of glass with interesting impurities. The amount of electricity you describe would fry the led display, and drilling holes in it even with nanotechnology would leave the screen surface obviously disfigured (frosted). 

Have redundant infrastructures with no single points of failure, managed by simple failsafes. Avoid complexity (think BP gulf of mexico). A few city blocks can be leveled and the infrastructure under them destroyed, but disruption of service ends at a point just outside the area of total destruction. To cause a massive disruption, the entire city essentially needs to be demolished. Build with rugged but cheap modular units so they are resistant to damage but easily swapped out after the supers are done playing rough. My apartment got trashed, insurance covers replacement. The contractor comes in shortly after the event du jour, cleans up the mess, extracts the broken module (s) for recycling/repair, then inserts the replacement module (s) which can be brand new or recycled and refurbished. 

David Eddings Belgariad and Malloreon series explore multiple modes of "magic", although only the use of rituals to control demons was actually called Magic. The disciples of Bel used "the will and the word", a combination of knowledge of the physical sciences with telekinetics, the gods operate in yet another mode, effectively rewriting some natural laws in a manner that is undetectable to other modalities, and finally the universal Principals can use any of these modalities, plus a few that are only hinted at. 

Edited for clarity When travelling in large masses, armies use formations to simplify the logistics and manage the risks of contact with the enemy. Due to differences in their anatomy, human and naga formations would differ somewhat, but not hugely. Human formations are typically organized as a grid in ranks (rows) and files (columns). The spacing between soldiers in a rank is called "dress". A normal dress is established when the front rank of formation members can touch the shoulder of their nearest neighbor with the finger tips of one hand. "Full dress" is when the front ranks can touch only the fingertips of their neighbor with either hand. When travelling in a column on land, naga could be close packed in each rank, like similarly sized humans, but the ranks would be sufficiently far apart from each other to allow for the tail. If for any reason it was desirable to make the formation more compact from front to back, the spacing in each rank could be increased up to full dress, allowing the next rank to come up part way between the tails of the rank ahead. Due to the geometry of the formation, naga would be able to execute a wheel maneuver, but a turn would be more difficult (imagine getting whipped with the tail of your 200 lb neighbor in a quick turn). Their fancy parade drills would have some maneuvers that would be difficult for human formations, but be geometrically incompatible with some executed by their human counterparts. On land, they would use many of the same formations that humans do, with appropriate modifications. Porcupine, Turtle, Phalanx, are all reasonable. While backing up is not a preferred action of snakes, it has been filmed in nature, so we can assume the full standard range of mobility of these formations. A flying V (or wedge) is used to smash enemy formations. It started out as an infantry formation, but is still used by modern aircraft and tanks. For the naga, it maximizes their ability to bring weapons to bear and to defend each other, while avoiding entanglement of the tail with one's neighbor. Cadence, which is important for keeping members of the formation from tripping over each others' feet/tails, would be different and more subtle for naga than humans, but not less important. Humans marching in cadence can collapse bridges. Unlike humans naga would not have to break cadence when crossing bridges. Edit for new information from @G0BLiN re black mamba's Based on a naga having the same weight as a human, their mobility on land may be limited. If 50% of their weight is in the human torso and head, then Naga would not be able to go long distances because their weight distribution acts as a natural brake and limits the amount of traction their tail can provide. However, if only 30% of their weight is in the humanoid torso and head, they could move quite efficiently. In open water, their formations would be swift and efficient. For long distance open water treks they would use a flying V formation that minimizes hydraulic drag on the formation as a whole and allows the tailing members to rest in the wake of the formation. Ranks would normally be rotated so that everyone has a chance to rest in the wake of the formation. However a commando action might use grunts to lead the formation the entire way, keeping the commandos fresh for lightning strikes and deadly efficiency.