NSNoob's answer addresses the dating of the Declaration of Independence well enough. My answer will touch on why early July 1776 was distinct from the other dates in your post. The disagreement between colonials and the British had already resulted in shots fired and battles fought in the previous year, such as Lexington in April of 1775, Bunker Hill, the seige of Boston (April 1775 - March 1776), Knox and Arnold's successful raid and artillery haul from Fort Ticonderoga in mid-1775, and so on. Despite all of this action, it was not yet definite as to whether this was an armed insurrection, a civil war between Britons, or an outright split. Indeed, the thought of colonial independence from the Crown had been generally unthinkable despite the couple decades of disputes, scuffles and high-minded statements made leading up to 1775 (The Glorious Cause: The American Revolution, by Middlekauf). After all, statements of independence was still treason during this period and there was still a close (and yet also distant) relationship between Britain and the colonies during this time. Political movements and some public sentiment gained traction by 1776 to specifically address how this relationship between Britain and the colonies now stood, and the Declaration of Independence was the result. The Declaration was the Official Notice from the colonies to the Crown that they were now independent. With that statement made, there was little chance of going back without serious repercussions, since the Continental Congress was now liable for high treason. The later victories during the Revolutionary War defended that notice of July 4, 1776. It took even longer to form the first government and evolve it into the government we generally recognize today. But it was that date when the irrevocable Official Notice was served, and that focused the colonial's desired outcome for the rest of the Revolutionary War. 

A good parallel to what you are talking about are US submarine tactics during the same period. A good book about this is the book Wahoo: The Patrols of America's Most Famous World War II Submarine, by O'Kane. It is a great glimpse into how complex and intense submarine operations were during that period. The parallels to your questions are: 1) Submarines spent most time surfaced and running on diesel engine power. This required constant and careful watch, but it kept the batteries topped up and they had better speed on the surface and that helped long cruises to patrol areas. If a target was spotted, they would usually run fast on the surface to get in a good position and then submerge get final position and attack. Some German and US captains preferred night attack while surfaced, for better situational awareness and speed. 2) Highly rare. Usually a sunk ship would have had an escort not far away, and the submarine was very interested in getting away before the escort got involved. It was not safe to linger close to the scene of an attack. As mentioned in other posts, this was also a war crime. But it did occur in some instances. 3) Deck guns were used for smaller targets that were alone and undefended. Wahoo's patrols actually had quite a bit of deck gun action, but only against lone vessels without equivalent guns and were not big enough to warrant an expensive torpedo. I think German subs during this period began counting their deck guns as a AAA battery due to the air threat at the time. 4) As mentioned above, the main deck gun was mounted forward and was not meant to fend off chasers. A turn to bring the gun to bear would allow it to be used, but the gamble would be lost if it couldn't stop the whaler from ramming them, which was fairly likely. A medium-caliber deck gun firing from low and forward was probably not going to stop a decent sized ship. 

The Relief Operation By the time the German Relief operation got started, it was essentially a 2 Pz division attack. When the Soviets noticed this concentration, they diverted forces earmarked for a further offensive (Operation Saturn) to the area between Kotelnovko and Stalingrad. The offensive, now dubbed "Little Saturn" jumped off right around the time of this counterattack and destroyed the Italian 8th Army, threatening to cut off the relief forces and the forces in the Caucasus by taking Rostov. When the Germans met this reinforcement, they were stopped cold and quickly the alarming breakthrough of Little Saturn led to an abandonment of the relief. Even with additional force near Stalingrad, this still would have been the case. So what about Torch?? Torch doomed the Afrika Korps in Cyrenacia, no matter what the result of El Alamein. That's pretty good. It also enticed the Axis to send at least 250,000 additional forces to Tunisia, all of which were eventually captured in by May. It also gave a secure launching pad for the subsequent invasions of Sicily, Italy, and South France. That's a pretty good haul for one operation. It doesn't need Stalingrad added to it. 

First of all, the Missouri Compromise was not a law. It was a working agreement to avoid sectional strife over the extension of slavery into the territories. The pairing off of states meant that the balance in the Senate between slave and free states would not be upset for a time as well. The Mexican cession added new land, and the question came up on how to handle the new land. California was a difficulty, but cutting the state in half and introducing slavery into a currently free zone was repugnant enough that the South didn't really press for it. Instead, the Compromise of 1850 let California in as free, in exchange for a Fugitive Slave law that the South wanted, but soon turned out to be something of a sour deal, since the enforcement made for provocative news that irritated both South and North. The Missouri compromise was then extended over the rest of the Mexican lands. This was something of a second sour deal for slavery enthusiasts, as few thought the barren lands of Arizona would suit the plantation lifestyle. This 'peace' didn't last long. Stephen Douglas wanted to get the two territories of Kansas and Nebraska organized and did some horsetrading with politicians from Missouri. The prime slave land in the state was directly opposite the new Kansas land, and slaveowners were not keen on having free land a short distance away. Popular Sovereignty was the fig leaf to cover up this concession, and Douglas, who was tone-deaf to the extreme on the moral and political aspects here, went along. Far from being any type of moderate position, this was a direct violation of the 'deals' going back a generation and much of the North exploded in fury. Even most Southerners didn't see the point of a slave Kansas, seeing it as an untenable position. To make matters worse, Missourians poured across the border not to settle, but to fill the ballot boxes of the "Popular Sovereignty" elections with thousands of fraudulent votes. One district with a few voters turned in a ballot with 1800 or so votes, all in the same pen and copied from the directory of Cincinnati Ohio. The free-soil settlers, soon far outnumbering the actual pro-slavery settlers - repudiated these votes and soon actual civil war erupted between the bulk of the settlers and the Missouri "Border Ruffians". This conflict led to the creation of the Republican party, dedicated to the restriction of slavery into the current limits - a 'Free Soil' major party. The Democrats managed to tamp down the fighting before the elections of 1856 and won that election, but now the opposition had firmed up considerably and would likely win in 1860. While the actual line was more or less arbitrary, it did more or less include all the territory that most people thought suited for slavery in the nation, and its extension really didn't add much more. Westward extension was geographically a dead issue due to the deserts, and expansion North or into other lands such as the Caribbean would provoke a fight to the finish with the Northern majority. The South needed to accept the situation that slavery would not be extended, or pick a fight. In 1857, with the Dred Scott decision and the Lecompton battle, they chose to fight, and broke up the Democratic Party. 

In Alexander the Great's time the region of Afghanistan was known as Bactria. Alexander overran this region but had trouble managing it. Nominal ownership remained that of the successors of Alexander's empire, eventually phasing into the Macedonian-based Seleucid Empire. During my time in Afghanistan, old architecture could still be seen dating back to Alexander's conquest. There is a claim by Afghans that they were not defeated by Alexander because they maintained an insurgency during the foreign ownership. As with so many other foreign invaders to the region (including Genghis Khan and the USSR), the Afghans claim to have always resisted and outlasted the outsiders. In other words, "We were here before they came and we were still here after they left." 

It's hard in history to prove that something did not happen, which is along the lines of the "impossible to prove a negative" concept. However, I think most historians do not believe Lenin was poisoned. This article is a nice and quick write-up of the issues Lenin dealt with, which included infections and an assassination attempt. Beyond being a megalomaniac, he was also a workaholic and forming a government that was under siege from all sides, yet trying to revise almost all aspects of Russian life. Given the standards of health care for Russia in this period, Lenin's medical history, age, work habits and a guess at his stress levels, it's not surprising that strokes hit him when they did. The article above also provides a bit of conjecture about the poisoning scenario but I think it is simply conjecture. The article talks about the rivalry between Lenin and Stalin, but I believe a lot of historians misconstrue it. When Lenin's strokes started to occur, it sidelined Lenin who would have otherwise been front and center in all decisions. This created a large power vacuum that had to be filled if the Soviet movement was to put the civil war in the bag and move on. The vacuum had to be filled and Lenin didn't want anyone else to fill it, and so he chafed when moves were made to fill the void without him. I believe his Testament was to lash out at those who were closing out his involvement with the government and to still exercise the control he was used to wielding. Also, Stalin at this time was not one of the central figures in the Party or government yet, although he was an up-and-comer. I don't think Stalin would have made such a move against Lenin either - Stalin didn't have the coalition to challenge Lenin while Lenin was alive and had such a plot been discovered, he would have had no effective coalition to save himself. Stalin didn't assemble the ruling coalition as we know Stalin's regime today for several years later after Lenin's death. 

From an economic perspective, you can question the effectiveness of the march, despite the waste and destruction at the time, and the difficulty of repair afterward. What the March did do was show that the Government of the CSA was a sham that could no longer defend itself, outside of the Richmond entrenchments. Sherman said it himself: "This may not be war," he said, "but rather statesmanship." The effects were clear: from the reported calls by Georgians to go and do the same to South Carolina, from the increase in desertion in Lee's army as Sherman marched to the Sea and then north nearly to Richmond itself. And a final effect might be in the willingness of the South to disband the armies and give up rather than to try and find a redoubt to fight on in. Sherman had already showed that his army could go anywhere it wanted to. 

A quick look at the Bible text names two known rivers (Tigris and Euphrates) and two unknown, one of which (the Pishon) flows from this land of Havillah. According to the text, Eden is at the headwaters of all four, which would put it somewhere in Anatolia. A Google search for "Havilah and Pishon River" brings up some interesting maps, most of which discard the headwaters concept and put Eden and the missing rivers in Modern Iraq, near the Perisan Gulf. They then postulate two lost rivers flowing in from Arabia or Iran. So one of those could be the area spoken of. Some others equate it with the Nile, which has the gold for sure but does not flow anywhere near the Tigris and Euphrates. Even if you knew the right area, Gold is often deposited by rivers in alluvial banks, which could well be exhausted in the subsequent millennia, so ancient Havillah presumably would have no more gold to find. 

This is from 1904 and probably is from another ship entirely, as the ship would be 60 years old. But on the other hand, a warship might be sold out of service and used for a long time in private hands. 

Even the legends make no such statement. Aeneas and his followers travel to Latium, the area near the site of Rome and mix with the population. Later, Romulus and Remus, of the line of the Kings of the Latin town of Alba Longa found Rome. According to myth, the Kings of Alba Longa are linked to the Trojans. Julius Caesar's family traced their heritage back to Aeneas himself, and was proud of that link to the God Venus. 

Consumption appeared to rise enormously after Prohibition was ended. After looking at several graphs, this one seems to agree with most: 

Japanese submarines did come to the American Pacific coast. I know of one bombardment while visiting Fort Stevens on vacation. The attack did no damage, but appears to have helped foster fears of further attacks. In the strategic sense, basically nothing happened on the American Pacific coast to change the course of the war, but one could argue that the defenses were a huge diversion of resources to guard against a threat that in hindsight was fairly marginal. However, had Japan won the Battle of Midway, then strong Pacific coast defenses would have been an even higher priority. 

The "Hitler militia" was the Sturmabteilung. Reading the Wikipedia entry is enlightening on this organization, since it has no parallel in the modern Western World that I'm aware of. To describe this organization in my own words by using the Wikipedia and other texts as a guide, I'd say this organization was based of ex-military members who are either unemployed or underemployed and have tightly organized themselves in a political group. This is different than modern gangs or organized crime, which are usually social or economic in purpose. As such, it could be described as a militia. In the early 1920s and indeed into the early 1930s, politics in Germany was explosive and street fights went from bad to worse in terms of severity. For example, if a political group was having a meeting, it was highly likely that opponents would arrive and try to disrupt the meeting (shouting, fist fight, etc). Since police were ineffective at this point, the political group needed its own security, and also a quid pro quo - they needed their own members to disrupt the meetings of their opponents. So as they get organized, you have units in the militia for bodyguard, security, disruption, "street fight on demand," and so on. Note that you could describe this group with a range of adjectives ranging from "paramilitary" to "drunken louts." Such a group is also powerful for social persuasion, such as Kristallnacht. It is from this kind of group that you'd use "soldiers" to post in front of "undesirable" locations (like Jewish stores) and tell people to keep moving. The atrocities committed by your own militia would be used as propaganda to show how your group is fighting for what you define as the common good. The atrocities committed to your group by your opponent is your rallying cry and evidence of evil on the opponent's part. The Sturmabteilung was therefore used to engage in these ends, and their staunchest opponents were the Communists. For an upstart political organization like the Nazis, it was an important part of their structure and survival. However, when the party reached national power, the violent or "disagreeable" nature of the Sturmabteilung had to be dissolved, yet its more organized and refined successor was the Schutzstaffel.