Yakov Stalin is not Anna Karenina. There is another version. $URL$ $URL$ June 24, 1941. Yakov took command of the 6th artillery battery of the 14th howitzer regiment of the 14th Tank Division. July 16, 1941. Yakov's orderly - A. Kovalev: Yakov got the task of moving the battery closer to the front line. The column was bombed by the Luftwaffe. The horses, Yakov and the adjutant fell from the explosion of the bomb. However, allegedly, "Yakov" quickly recovered. This is already a lie. Mikhail Grigorievich Grigoriev, Colonel-General, commander of the first combination of ICBMs (Plesetsk Cosmodrome), First Deputy Commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of the USSR. He said that he saw Yakov died on the battlefield. Perhaps he did not see personally, because he fought 30 kilometers from Yakov. Stalin's adopted son, General Artem Sergeyev, claimed that Yakov Dzhugashvili had never been a prisoner, but died in battle. The Germans interrogated "Yakov" between July 11 and 13 (the real Yakov was still at war)! The Germans did not know in which regiment Yakov fought! This is absurd! The name, rank and regiment are allowed to speak to any prisoner of war. Doctor of historical sciences Sergey Devyatov: "There are about 10 photographs of Yakov Dzhugashvili in captivity. Specialists of one of the Defense Ministry's centers analyzed them. This is a very competent photomontage. ... when the photos were over, they made a mistake by giving a "mirror image" of one of the photos - on it there is a clasp on the jacket on the other, "the female side"." "In German documents, it is said that Yakov Dzhugashvili - the son of Stalin owned three languages: German, French and English. " The real Yakov at the institute and the academy did not study German and English." Total: There are no photos (10 photos-it's not many) of the prisoner Yakov. Traces of photomontage 10 photos of the prisoner Yakov. No audio record of the prisoner Yakov. There are no video records of the prisoner Yakov. The note of the prisoner Yakov does not match. Witnesses in the camp never knew Yakov before the war. The Germans burned the body of the prisoner Yakov. 

THE Question is mostly wrong, the Allies DID use stamped machine gun designs. Both the US and Britain did produce an effective stamped weapon. The British certainly produced a lot of Sten guns their main sub machine guns. Millions produced during the war. The US had hoped to replace the Thompson submachine gun with the M3 "grease gun" but various production problems, design changes meant it didn't quite happen but still 1/2 million guns in ww1 (Thompson 1.5 million) so still a quite significant gun. $URL$ $URL$ 

The Rise of the IBM PC was very quick. The Apple II had done well and blazed a path but many as a hobby computer more than a business machine, and it was tagged as cute rather than practical. IBM had huge brand clout in Business an businesses looked at the IBM offering favourably just because it came from IBM. The Apple II had an open architecture but had limitations as a computer. It was not a great architecture to support computer languages over assembler. Generally you added a CPM Z-80 card if you wanted that. It was too hard to develop applications in assembler. The IBM-PC 8086 based PC was close to the old 8080 and CPM Z-80 cpus and was easy to rapidly port software from theses architectures. The IBMPC thus was a technically better platform for software development that the Apple II. Ot was easier to write software for. Timing was good the IBM PC entered the market just as business was looking for a computer, and many software companies were starting to write software applications. The IBM PC intent was to quash apple, IBM were offended that by the notoriety of apple, the success actually was a surprise to IBM. Really Really awful mistakes by their Competitors, the Apple III was a badly botched project. Incredibly badly delivered machine that saw Apple get the IBM PC the opening. The Earlier incredibly short sighted dumb more by DEC to castrate their micro-11 computers, the most advanced machines with the best existing suite of software (afraid that it would eat into their successful mini computer pdp-11 sales, they hamstrung the professional series of computers , perversely tis was what the Russian home computers of the early 1980s were based on, technically the Russian PC's were actually superior architectural, sure they stole the design, but they stole the best) The Macintosh was an overly ambitious design and when it was delivered it was clunky slow computer to use, It just did not have enough memory to support a speedy windowing interface, sure the Mac had great design and the new interface (actually developed by Xerox PARC) would be a winner, but without enough memory it was too slow. It also was a big jump for software developers, Apple consistently produced bad systems software (Operating Systems) while much of the apple libraries were great the operating system architecture was poor. (Eventually apple solved this in OSX by just putting their own layer on top of unix, the world's best OS, remains so even though designed in the 70s, Windows remains a toy by comparison) Developing a computer system and delivering it to the market is complex, and a lot of companies have failed even with basically good products. IBM delivered at the right time, their architecture was very close to existing 8080/Z-80, Hal was right about those code warehouses) which made them an easy and relatively familiar development environment, the IBM PC was a slighter more advanced design that had the ability for more memory and support languages that made application development easier. Previous machines like the apple II just were a little tight for that. After the IBM PC most companies delivered very ambitious designs (Mac, Atari ST, Amiga etc) which just were slow, clunky or buggy early and they were coming into the new IBM dominated markets with radically different software architectures that took a lot of work to conquer. But the tim the Macintosh was competing with Microsoft (MS-Dos, Windows) Microsoft already had a very dominate position, and apple had chosen to go down the closed system path after it's experience with Apple II clones, Apple was much more closed with the Macintosh, this meant the Macintosh was going sell at a premium and not benefit from competing third party hardware suppliers. Once most software companies had already moved into supporting the 8086/Intel/Microsoft world, it was amor effort to write software for the Mac, which didn't have enough Market share, the Mac was always fighting from a minority share. Microsoft was able to use it's monopoly position to effective tax the manufacturers of hardware. With a large demand for ms-dos/windows, Microsoft insisted to get OEM versions of their OS software you had to install them of ALL the hardware produced, so even if the customer just bought the box and installed a non Microsoft OS the cost was already paid to Microsoft, if the producers did not play by Microsoft's rules they were just cut out of the Microsoft OEM. Microsoft had an established dominate position that it used. Apple having the smaller maker went for point of difference and become as smaller cult machine that people were willing to pay a premium for. 

You read a very correct article. Unfortunately, we are very few. I read a whole book about this moment - "Иной Сталин" ("Another Stalin"). You understand history better than others. My regards. 

The western bank of the Volga in Stalingrad distracted attention and dispersed the strength of the Wehrmacht. In the same way, strikes from the north of Stalingrad distracted the attention of the divisions. Wehrmacht was forced to destroy the bridgehead and defend Stalingrad from the north and south. As a result, all the shock divisions concentrated in one place. Checkmate. p.s. "shock divisions" - 4TA. 

Germany already fought on two fronts. This is the first world war. And Hitler fought in this war. He was not an idiot. Germany in the 1920s is an outcast country. The same outrage as the USSR. Germany and the USSR helped each other. But... The USSR is the single socialist country in the world. But the "problem" was that this single socialist country was developing rapidly. Industrialization, free medicine, free education, free land, autarky. This is a threat to the entire capitalist world. It is a flag, a symbol for all Communists in the world. Stalin said that "either we will become an industrial power or we will be destroyed." All the Bolsheviks understood that the USSR was the number one target. The question was: who, where and when will kill the first country of people's democracy. The choice was perfect: Germany. In one moment a friend turned into an enemy. Hitler - huge assassin. Hitler received Czechoslovakia. Hitler received Poland. France did not want to fight and actually gave up. Even the Poles defended the capital. The French applauded the German troops. When Hitler became strong, he attacked the USSR. Because Hitler is a hired killer. The USSR is a victim of a hired killer. Everything is very simple. By the way, there is one more "strange" moment. "Idiot" Hitler did not mobilize the economy. If you are at war, you must mobilize the entire economy. I suppose the master just kept his dog on a leash. The owner was afraid that Hitler could get out of control. The owner put on a muzzle - he forbade the mobilization of the economy. When the hired assassin missed, the customer organized his destruction. p.s. In 1941, Hitler controlled more factories and engineers than Stalin. Mobilization + technology = thousands of Panzes, Stugs, Ganomags, aircrafts, artillery, divisions, corps, armies. The USSR could lose, but the German shepherd had a short leash. 

Oslo was Israel recognising that Palestinians have some rights that the PLO were entitled to negotiate for them, agreeing for the Palestinian Authority to be set up and giving it some autonomy and control over parts of the west bank. The Palestinians recognised Israel and the 1967 borders while agreeing to negotiate a permanent border. Basically both sides signing up to the Two State Solution. Some Israelis did not accept handing over any of the west bank, some Palestinians against recognising Israel. There was a lot of criticism on the Palestinian side that the framework let all the power in the Israeli hands. there were meant to be serious negotiation on permanent issues and further hand overs of areas of the west bank. there is a strong perception that it enabled the creation of butu-stans isolated Palestinian enclaves while Israel continues to expand it's settlements in the west bank. (100,000 before Oslo 350,000 now not counting Jerusalem another 300,000) Both sides had a lot of internal propaganda for years building up a following for no compromise at all. Oslo came out of the blue part of the reason the talks worked is that they were hidden and the wider leadership let alone the publics were unaware of the talks or their substance. the solo agreements were a surprise. there were strong groups on both sides which were opposed. 

Reaching the Middle eastern Oilfields which are on the Persian Gulf is a lot harder than it looks, and getting the Oil back even harder. The railways don't go all the way and the Turkish railways were pretty low volume. Shipping just forget that the Axis dint have the tankers and RN would just sink them (too many bases not enough escorts). To rail the Oil back to Germany, the problems are no rails and the years it would take to build them, and the lack of rolling stock and the years it would take it build them. Going for the middle eastern oil would require years of investment before any return would be realised. Berlin Moscow 1836km, Berlin Stalingrad 2783km, Berlin to Baku 3066km, Berlin Basrah 3709km. Turkey has a large badly equipped army. Given large Allied support the campaign could drag on for quite some time, the Turks are pretty stubborn and can't see them rolling over just because the Germans captured Istanbul and Ankara, the country is pretty hard work logistically and the Germans would struggle to get their power to ground (they have a large army but only a small force cane supplied and maintained in turkey) The Logistics are much more difficult than first appears. 

The Japanese emperor said that Japan received an elementary school on Hassan and a secondary school on Khalkhin Gol. For this reason, the Japanese were in no hurry to receive a "higher education". Japan decided to start a war against the USSR if it was occupied by Leningrad and Moscow. Guaranteed victory. 

You will long search for a black cat in a black room. Because it is missing. Russia fought with different nations. The Far East - the Chinese, the Caucasus - the Chechens, Finland - the Swedes :) , the Baltic - the Germans :). But after the "occupation" this territory received bonuses. Finland is captured - maximum autonomy, the Caucasus is conquered - resorts are built, Asia is conquered - the first railways, the Baltic states are annexed - industry is built. Russian joke: hordes of Russian barbarians broke into peaceful Asian auls and left behind factories, theaters and libraries. Do you want a black legend? In the Far East, the Russian Cossacks (Gurans) brutally fought against the Chinese. China still remembers who are the Gurans. 

It is very difficult to compare different concepts of the army. Wehrmacht is a Western system (special forces + specialization + logistics). The Red Army is a Soviet system (universal soldier + autonomy). It is absolutely not correct to compare KV-2 and any German tank. The role of KV-2 is an assault tank against the pillboxes. In the Wehrmacht a Stug was this role. Absolutely not correct to compare tanks. No separate tanks are fighting. War - this is not separate tanks. War - this is a confrontation of Army structures. Already in the first days of the war, Soviet KV and T-34 attacked the German infantry. The result: burnt KV and T-34. You can compare the Soviet and German tank company yourself. The Soviet tank company have a 10 tanks. The Soviet company has no other means of reconnaissance. After the battle, the Soviet tankmen repairing the tanks themselves. The Soviet tankmen themselves are digging tank trenches. Soviet tankmen themselves guard tanks at night. The German Tank Company had a 2 platoons of tanks and supply units. There are motorcyclists in a German tank company. Excellent scout. There is a repair truck in a German tank company. Crews are resting. There is a separate supply truck and other tanker-soldiers who repair and refuel tanks. As a result, the German tank company is more mobile. The German tank company rebuilds the tanks more quickly. It does not matter what tanks are in the Soviet tank company (T-34 or T-26). The Soviet tank company is slowly rebuilding tanks. Soviet tank company "blind" on the march. Very often the Soviet tank brigade had one repair truck. You can compare yourself to the German tank battalion. The Soviet mechanized corps consists of 4-5 types of tanks and 4-5 types of fuel. It is impossible to properly supply this monster. The main force of the Wehrmacht is not tanks. The main force of the Wehrmacht is the infantry. But the German infantry had the support of artillery, tanks, aircraft and trucks. During the war, the ratio of infantry and tank units changed. In 1942 the Soviet tank brigades received a lot of infantry. Later, the Soviet tank brigades received a lot of artillery and good supplies. As a result, in 1945 the Tigers and Panthers could not stop the outdated T-34.