But why then does the Buddha at other times say that we have to see the impermanence, the unstability (non self) and the unsatisfactory nature of thoughts, feelings, emotions etc? Isn't that "right view"? And isn't it an antidote to the craving and attachment, which the second noble truth defines as a condition of dukkha? Should we do both approaches or mainly right effort? I think that the noble eightfold path (of which "right effort" and "right view" are two) is meant to be all practiced -- not one or the other, but together. Or perhaps successively: I think there are also explanations which say you practice one after the other, or that one leads to (or is related to) another somehow; like when a wheel is rolling, the weight is supported on one spoke then another. Some definitions say that right view is the primary, that everything else follows from right view: that you have right intention, for example, because or if you right view; or that right view defines what "right" intention is. Did someone say that the four noble truths is a doctrine taught more to monks than to laypeople, though? According to a different analysis, the eightfold path can be viewed as the threefold training. According to that classification, I think everyone agrees that virtue is primary or most important, foundational. There are definitions of "right effort" on this page. Those definitions make it seem to me that that is foundational, perhaps a sine qua non (i.e. a factor without which the other factors don't exist). 

My "science" education teaches me that different theories are used for different reasons, to explain different phenomena. For example, the "theory of gravity" explains why things fall when you drop them, but the "theory of gravity" doesn't explain why water boils when you heat it. So, part of understanding (or using) a theory is to know when and why to use it, what it's "useful" for, and what it isn't useful for. I think the theory of reincarnation has some uses, for example: 

it avoids to give an explanation how in the first place ignorance arise I like the parable of the arrow, I see it as an example of Buddhism's being practical and admirable. If the Buddha said, 

You may be thinking of the Fire Sermon (SN 35.28). It says that the senses and so on are aflame ... aflame with lust, hatred, and delusion. In more detail, it says the following are aflame: 

Although, furthermore, beware that self-views (conceptualising a theoretical "me" that is suffering or not-suffering) are themselves not skillful (i.e. they're "a thicket of views" and cause of suffering). 

Hence the question about whether the speech is "with a kindly heart, or inwardly malicious". Secondly I think that people often respond better to gentle input. Here we are still talking about this one bit of harsh speech, thousands of years later! Also, consider the words you're using. I think "abuse" for example is when you're "mis-using" a relationship. The Buddha has some duty (as a teacher), as well as authority, and even a supernatural ability -- to correct one of his errant monks on a matter of doctrine isn't exactly "abuse" (of their relationship). Whereas most forms of verbal bullying, that I might imagine in lay or family life, maybe is more abusive. 

Because of the context. Are you saying that the chariot has a permanent soul? That the soul of the chariot is the sum of its parts? Because the chariot was being used as an analogy for Nagasena: Nagasena's parts, Nagasena's name, whether or not Nagasena had a soul, and whether "Nagasena" is just a name. 

If you're like me then "no attachment" and "no dukkha" are too much to ask. You can do it by (by definition) being fully enlightened. :-) If you're less than fully enlightened then what you might hope for is "less attachment" and "less dukkha". Less attachment might make it better while it's happening. If you want your partner to be other than as they are (or able and willing to be), that's a form of attachment and a cause of suffering for both of you. Less self-view might make it less bad when it eventually ends (when you're alone and suffering it might begin to seem clear that the problem/cause of that suffering is the sense of 'self'). And, the Mahayana aspect of Buddhism makes it clear that "you're now alone" is also a false impression. 

Newton's laws are simple, they model of a simplified universe. They describes the relationship between "force" and the motion of a single object in an otherwise-empty universe. If you consider two objects in the universe then there are a bunch of other laws: the law of gravity, laws of electrostatics, etc. If you consider three objects in the universe then it cannot be generally solved by an equation: 

I don't know but maybe writing hadn't been invented there yet (or not introduced from elsewhere), or at least it wasn't common. Wikipedia says, 

I could suggest you try to make some personal contact with Buddhists. I think that joining a monastery isn't an all-or-nothing, black-or-white things: for example you can visit a monastery, stay for a while, before you ask to become a monk. To try to answer your question, here are some quotes from Plum Village (which is, apparently, Vietnamese Zen), 

I think there's an extent to which all activity is habitual. I think that Buddhism teaches, though, that we can (and should) be conscious of our action, and control (or decide) our actions and change (or choose) our habits (at least, change the bad habits). Having a daily schedule (including specific times for meditation) might be described as habit. "Addiction" is also a pejorative word, people wouldn't usually use it to describe a habit which they think of as a virtuous habit. 

Even though what I gather generally is that Science and Buddhism are consistent in approach, is Science's relentless search for answers bad for people as well? Buddhism doesn't try to answer everything. Science tries to explain why the gravity on the moon isn't as strong as here; why chemicals react with some chemicals but not others; how photosynthesis produces oxygen; how the universe began and whether it will end; etc. Buddhism is more like a single scientific procedure, a (repeatable) experiment, or a recipe: i.e. Buddhism is a way, teaches a way, to end suffering. Within that context, and assuming that you want to end suffering, questions or view which don't lead to the end of suffering (which includes 'attending to' those views about the self) are called "unwise". 

My understanding therefore is that "frogs" is what the villagers shared, as alms. Wikipedia's Thai Forest Tradition article talks of a morning alms round (and not of monks catching animals and killing them and cooking their own food). Other Google search results say things like, "Thai forest tradition monks cannot handle money or cultivate, cook or store ...", and "The monk does not store or cook food but daily enters the nearby village ...". 

I Googled briefly to try to understand what you wrote about "talks about people on the Bodhisattva path developing karuna by doing a 3 part ritual that is a repentance ritual." Could it be that repentance is needed to earn (i.e. to become the object of) compassion, rather than to generate (i.e. become the author of) compassion? Or that one hopes to attain the object of repentance (i.e. removal of affliction) as a result of enlightened compassion? Which, may eventually amount to the same thing, if you remove self-and-other duality? Included in the PTS dictionary definition: 

... is immediately after the bit you quoted, and isn't translated. See also Ayatana on Wikipedia, and/or another translation of MN 38 like this one: 

Note that that sutta is talking about "Nibbāna", not about the Buddha; but the suttas teach that Nibbāna is the state which the Buddha attained. 

If you're trying to have a conversation with someone who is grieving, maybe that's good to remember. A person might get bored if the topic of conversation is too distant ("why is Buddho trying to tell me a story that happened to someone else a long time ago and far away?"), but uncomfortable if the topic is too intimate ("what do you mean, 'how do I feel?' I feel terrible, what do you expect?"), so adjusting that to find some topic in the middle might be skillful. I guess my mum enjoyed a couple of things I did for her, over the next months, she said: one was practical help, like helping her use her computer, helping her count her money (her budget); and the other was my acting silly sometimes which made her laugh. 

Well, yes: for as long as he's alive. It's assumed that once he became fully enlightened then he will no longer (or not again) become unenlightened. Because being unenlightened means wanting the wrong thing, wanting the kind of impermanent thing that will cause unhappiness: and the Buddha knows better (is wiser and has more discipline) than to do that. There is a bit in the literature where people asked what happens to a Buddha after he dies, and the Buddha says that's one of the questions that not worth asking. 

The metta-bhavana practice (i.e. thinking of someone dear to you, then of someone who is less dear) is I think trying to develop metta (the same metta) towards all: so I see no benefit, see it as counter-productive, to create/view/distinguish two categories of metta, one for yourself and another for others. 

Buddhists should recognize desire for death as one of the many (wrong) "cravings" to be overcome: a craving which (by following the Buddhist way) you can be not attached to. 

In the same way that "hatred is allayed by non-hatred", perhaps sudden distress (instability) is allayed by stability. It seems to me that Dharma is fairly stable: always the same. For example, 

The first thing that the story (i.e. "not got a particular position she rightfully deserved due to a conspiracy") reminded me of was verse 3 of the Dhammapada (i.e. "he robbed me" etc.). 

I expect that both "virtue" and "mindfulness" can help with sadness (for example, one of the suttas says that "skillful virtues" leads to "freedom from remorse", which leads to "joy", etc.). I want to say a bit about "wisdom", how knowledge of the four noble truths might help with sadness: 

... instead of letting the OP edit their question after it was answered. Some other Stack Exchange sites have strict rules, like, 

However for me bit hard to identify how to make a life with satisfaction I think that the word dukkha is sometimes translated as dissatisfaction. Is it OK if I say that? You say you've read a number of books regarding Buddhism; so maybe you know about dukkha and the Four Noble Truths already, and so I can just refer to them without explaining them? Anyway, perhaps "a life with satisfaction" might mean "a life without dukkha" -- and, well, I think that's the foundation of Buddhist doctrine -- how to live without dukkha. It involves the cessation of "craving", apparently -- perhaps even cravings for "spirituality", if that makes sense (I don't know what you mean by "spirituality", but maybe you're "craving" it). An opposite to dukkha is sukha (not an exact opposite, but nevertheless). Various forms of Sukha are supposed to be available to lay house-holders -- being ethical, fulfilling all your responsibilities, good friendships, and so on. I might recommend this book for more details about that. Other schools of Buddhism maybe emphasise that it's satisfying to try to help (save) other people. I think that some people summarise the doctrine[s] as saying that what's "satisfying" is one's own ethical behaviour -- for example: 

Didn't Siddhārtha Gautama live in his father's palace after he married (and before he went forth)? But I haven't heard a suggestion that that was immoral (only that it was impermanent and not ultimately-satisfying). It seems to me obvious what "protected" means. For example, in contemporary Western society when my girlfriend and I started "dating" each other as teenagers, that was with our parents' permission ... it's for example when you're living with your parents, and when you're going to be "out" you tell your parents where you're going, and who with, and what time you're going to be back, and who will be driving, and the parents can say "yes" or "no" or set conditions. Also I guess that when you're married and living with your parents, parents have already said "yes". Also I guess that "living with parents after marriage" is pretty normal, not modern -- maybe in a new house on the same land. I'd guess that rather it's the nuclear family that's relatively modern (and not altogether a good thing). 

That sutta then goes on, to talk about "joy", and so on. But when you mentioned "feel better about myself" I interpreted that phrase as meaning "freedom from remorse" (because conversely any practice that you may feel worse about is, I presume, somehow associated with remorse). But the tripitaka mentions happiness too (see the Pali word sukha). If it is, then why would anyone start to practice at all unless they had been brought up in that tradition and it was a cultural thing. Well for me I suppose the reason "why" I started to practice at all was because I found the first noble truth was evident: including for example friends and family dying, with Buddhism being the more plausible-seeming method to try to cope/live with that. I think it's to its credit that Buddhism can find anything at all to be happy about in these circumstances, yet I think it does: for example AN 7.49 mentions gratification and joy as maybe the second-best reason (not quite the best) reason for doing something. Different people (or different forms of Buddhism) have different reasons though, see e.g. the answers to How to explain what Buddhism is?. 

IMO Buddhism is supposed to help you in this life: when you and your friends and family are poor, sick, and dying. Self Another reason to worry, is that statements like "I do not suffer from rebirth" implies that you think there is an "I", i.e. a "self". Saying that the "I" is destroyed at death might imply that the "I" exists before death, which may be an example of a wrong view. Fruits In the Samaññaphala Sutta the King listed to the description of Annihilationism given by Ajita Kesakambali, but did not find it satisfying ... found it fruitless. 

There's a sutta (MN 22) in which the Buddha says that, "I, too, do not see any doctrine of self that would not arouse sorrow, lamentation, pain, grief and despair in one who clings to it". But what's quoted in the OP isn't a view-of-self nor a doctrine of self: instead it's a view of nibanna. The suttas say especially that it isn't proper to view the skandhas as self (but perhaps what's quoted in the OP isn't viewing the skandhas as self, for the same reason as 1. above). The usual/conventional grammar of language[s] requires a subject (i.e. a noun or pronoun) with a verb in a sentence. If you say (or write), "Buddhaship have attained." that sounds like an incomplete sentence fragment, ungrammatical -- the "I" is an artefact of communication. See here for explanations of "conceit". The Bhikkhuni Sutta mentions benefits of "conceit" in training: 

Do you mind an unreferenced answer? I think the answer is "generally, no"; but that you're asking after any examples, however rare, where the answer has been yes. Also I guess that gifts of wealth are usually made to an institution e.g. a monastery (as opposed to less-easily-taxable gifts of food and other requisites, given to a monk). 

My characterization of it is that when you don't see the whole Dhamma, then hearing people each describe one portion/aspect of Dhamma sounds as if their descriptions might be mutually contradictory. IMO the fact that they sound contradictory doesn't prove that they are for sure, because Dhamma is complicated (albeit skillfully summarized in the four noble truths). Another important aspect to the sutta is I think that we should try to avoid this kind of behaviour: 

There is an example or a restatement (or an original statement) of that here, in the Uposatha Sutta, 

So far as I know (I may be wrong), "priest" is only used of Japan. I've read three different theories for that. 

What would they mean by "intense discipline" there, for example ... is it the routine in a monastery? More centrally, to this question, what is the role of "spontaneity"? Is it a goal? A means to the goal? A side-effect or symptom of having reached "the goal"? Is spontaneity practised somehow, or is that a paradox? Is there famous (written and translated) Zen doctrine on the subject ... an explanation by someone? Does it (or something like it) exist, as a value or as a goal or whatever it is, in other schools of Buddhism (e.g. Theravada, or ...)? Is it spontaneity but within some limits? For example, within the limits of "ethical rules" ... or within the limits of, I don't know, calligraphic and/or other arts, for example? Assuming it's a well-known concept, is "spontaneity" the right word, the right translation for it? What could be other translations? What's the original (pre-translated) word or words? 

I think you can see there all three meanings of the word "professionally" -- i.e. "well", and "with training", and "as part of a cooperative social contract". 

... and says that Schopenhauer referenced work by Isaak Jacob Schmidt. Wikipedia's article for Isaac Jacob Schmidt says that one of his publications was titled,