In his book Beyond the Limits of Thought while talking about Russell's solution of paradoxes Graham Priest writes (text made bold, footnotes and references omitted), 

I have recently read about the Frege-Hilbert controversy regarding the axioms of Euclidean Geometry. In Chihara's book it is written (under the subsection Hilbert's criterion of truth and existence) that, 

Now, let me explain how I came to this seemingly paradoxical idea. Please correct me if my argument is wrong. 

In his article The Pernicious Influence of Mathematics upon Philosophy (see Chapter 12 of this book) Rota says (my emphasis), 

"Take, for example, the law of excluded middle: every proposition is either true or false . Since this has a quantifier over all propositions, it cannot be expressed." - I don't understand why "this" has a quantifier over all propositions. So far in any modern representations of (Classical) First Order Logic, I haven't seen (nor can I remember) the LEM being represented as such. Indeed, after what Conifold says here, I don't understand what Priest means when he claims that "it cannot be expressed". How is he able to claim so? "Or, closer to home, consider the Axiom of Reducibility itself. This is supposed to hold for all functions, f. Russell's very statement of it (above) therefore violates the theory of orders." - How exactly does Russell's statement of Axioms of Reducibility violates the theory of orders? "Even decent statements of the VCP cannot be made without violating the VCP since they must say that for any function, f, any propositional function which 'involves' f cannot be an argument for f. Such statements are impossible by Russell's own admission." - As I understand, here also Priest's objection relies on the use of "for any function". If this is so, then as I have asked in my first question, it is not clear to me as why does he claim that "[e]ven decent statements of the VCP cannot be made without violating the VCP". If this is not the case then what did Priest intend to mean here? "For, however we express it, what we are supposed to understand by a systematically ambiguous formula, such as the formal statement of the Axiom of Reducibility above, is exactly what would be obtained by prefixing the formula with a universal quantifier '∀f', ranging over all functions." - I am not so sure that "what we are supposed to understand by a systematically ambiguous formula, such as the formal statement of the Axiom of Reducibility above, is exactly what would be obtained by prefixing the formula with a universal quantifier '∀f" (in fact this doubt was partly responsible for my asking the first question). Indeed, to me Russell's suggestion sounds similar (see the quote) to that of Conifold's remark that I mentioned earlier. Am I missing something important and/or subtle here? 

This bears similarity to Kierkegaard's idea of "in despair not wanting to be oneself" (Anti-Climacus in The Sickness Unto Death). Also: 

Kierkegaard and Nietzsche are often treated together as early existentialists. This is rather odd, as Kierkegaard was self-consciously seeking to be an orthodox Christian, and Nietzsche was self-consciously seeking to destroy Christianity. Nevertheless, after reading only a little bit of Nietzsche I have seen some parallels to Kierkegaard already. (Citations below from The Portable Nietzsche). For example: 

When interpreting any author, it is crucial to understand his terms. Reading The Book on Adler (sometimes titled Concerning Authority and Revelation), I have come to understand that the essentially Christian (which I take to be equivalent to "the essence of Christianity") is a key phrase for Kierkegaard. But what does he mean by this? In which of his books does he discuss what this means? Many people have different opinions on what is the essence of Christianity is, so I cannot assume that Kierkegaard means by this what I would envision by it. Here is an example use of the phrase in context (The Book on Adler, ed. and tr. Hong & Hong, 116): 

The reason is thus: immateriality has an unbound number of degrees of freedom in which to solve the massive constraint problem that is life itself, whereas materiality is bound to it`s matter and the history (some would argue design) of substantia. To say "incorruptible", however, isn't quite right. It's just that, because of the unbounded nature mentioned above, it can rebound back to it`s purity quickly. I would say animals are equally incorruptible, however. As to why our thought should be unique to humans, the Bible remarkably has the most interesting answer: the apple. Sugar is the substance that creates the extra force in the brain that allows it its extra step of self-awareness. What was the first thing Adam and Eve did after eating it? A: Knew that they were naked. Now presumably, it takes more than eating sugar for that self-awareness to occur otherwise other animals would exhibit these qualities This is where Jewish theology is a bit more sophisticated: it took also the act of disobediance. Going against the perfection of God by eating from the Tree which was explicitly forbidden was the act that some Jewish texts cite as the source of our freed-thought. 

Nevertheless, it also seems to me that this is significantly different than the traditional tripartite view of man; he does not seem to conceptualize spirit as one of three components of man, but the relation of the two components. How does Kierkegaard's position compare to standard bipartite and tripartite views of human nature? 

Once again, Kierkegaard speaks much of spirit and consciousness of spirit/self. Wikipedia claims that Nietzsche said he would read Kierkegaard. Do we know whether he actually did? If not, can their commonalities be traced back to some other philosopher they both read? For example, perhaps "consciousness of spirit" is terminology from Hegel? 

What is the meaning of the Greek word θυμοειδής (thumoeides or thymoeidês) in Plato? (I believe it occurs in the Phaedrus and the Republic.) What is its etymology? It apears to me to possibly come from θυμ- (roughly passion) and εἰδ- (knowing or seeing), but I'm not sure that's right. What is the significance of this word in the philosophy of Plato? (Edit: accents fixed per Jon and Cerberus.) 

True and False are neither axioms nor expressions, they are results of the calculus. An axiom is an expression that forms a basis of a logical construction. An expression is set of symbols/words within an (implicitly or explicitly agreed-upon) grammar. True and False, then, are the (potential) results of an expression that follows a "compatible" (i.e. agreed-upon), logical grammar. In that grammar, I would take the words "true" and "false" both as symbols and as the common conceptual meaning (despite the ability to make a twisted grammar which would create the opposite). In any case, they are the end point, not the beginning. The source of your confusion is the internalization of (the premises of) science as the beginnings of your reason -- a historical construction that you've accepted as your point of departure in relating to the world. There it just assumes True the "object", and more tacitly, the objects of reason. Ditch science for a moment, if you are able to, and you'll find that you float in something more primordial, the mystery itself, of which logic came. 

Terminological Background The traditional tripartite view of human nature, or the trichotomy of human persons, refers to the distinguishing of soul and spirit in humans (the body of course being the third part). In Christian theology, this is usually associated with the idea that in regeneration, the spirit is made new but not the soul. Thus "the tension between soul and spirit accounts for many of the struggles of the life of faith" (Richard Gamble, The Whole Counsel of God, Vol I, 247). The bipartite view of human nature (which Gamble argues for), or the dichotomy of human persons, is the view that there is no difference between soul and spirit. In Christian theology, this is often accompanied by interpreting πνευματικός in most of its occurrences in the New Testament as referring to the Holy Spirit of God rather than the spirit of man. I am more familiar with the bi- than the tri- view. Question Reading The Sickness Unto Death, I am trying to get my mind around Kierkegaard's understanding of human nature. It seems fairly clear that he does not equate soul and spirit; for example, on the (in)famous first page he says: