First, if your contract was not renewed this month, then you do not work there. Above all else do not do any work at all until they renew the contract. Next contact the board member with a list of dates and times that you worked last month and ask why you were not paid for this time. Ask him why your contract was not renewed and if they intend to reinstate it. If you received tasks to work on in emails, make sure to take the documentation with you that you were being asked to do work. If he says he doesn't intend to pay you for work you did at their request, tell him that he will be hearing from your lawyer concerning that (even if you don't intend to hire one, often just the threat is enough.) You can threaten to use a lawyer because the bridges are already burned at this place if they are refusing to pay for work you did. So there is no need to "Play nice". Finally, start looking for another job as it appears that they are no longer interested in using your services. You may also need to hire a lawyer to collect the pay that they owe you. If they continued to give you tasks to work on last month and you worked on them, then it is likely they legally must pay you. If you worked on things without a contract or without being assigned the work by someone in their organization, it would be murkier. And next time, don't plan on any vacation time without written approval in advance. 

First do the other team leads work for the same boss? If so, then I would respond this way: "I would love to get an office, but I think it might cause the more experienced team leads to get upset. I think you should offer it first to them and if none of them want to take it, I would be happy to move in." If the office belongs to your group and none of the other leads are in your group, I would take it. Then I would find a way to drop it into conversation with the other leads that you were offered the office because the space belongs to your group and they didn't want to lose it. 

I don't believe it is because you were laid off, most people I know who currently have a job who are 30 or older has been laid off at least once and sometimes more. Layoffs have been so common in the last two decades, it would be hard to escape ever being laid off. Most people who have been laid off find jobs (unless you are old enough to run into age discimnation as it is much harder to find a job after a layoff if you are older than 55). Sometimes it takes awhile. Most interviewers have been laid off or know people who were. So the problem must be in your presentation. Get someone to help you and practice your answer to why you are interested in the job you are being interviewed for. Video tape yourself answering questions on the layoff and then watch them, pretending this is some stranger you are considering hiring. If you can find a life couach to help you learn to do a better job of interviewing, then this could be helpful. If you are telling them you want this job because you were laid off, it also sounds to me as if you are missing part of the equation. Yes that is why you are in the job market, but why are you interested in that particular job? If you make your answer sound as if you need a job and any job will do, then they may well lose interest. The more desperate you sound, the more of a turn off this is. If you have a reference letter from your previous boss, when you discuss being laid off would be the time to hand it to them to read. If you don't have one, try to get one. Be careful though as you only want to present a good letter. There is such a thing as "damning with faint praise". 

I can't tell for sure if you are a freelancer who is making pitches to companies to gain their work or someone trying to land a full time job. If you are a freelancer, you need to consider that pitch work is part of your sunk costs for winning work and I would treat it the same way I would treat other nonbillable things, that is I would adjust my hourly rate a bit for all work to account for nonbillable hours. If you don't figure this in as a percentage of your rate, you also won't be able to take vacations, or do nonclient sepcific work that relates to runnning a business (like doing taxes). What you would never do is ask for this directly. This is an indirect cost and should be accounted for in your pricing model. If you are simply interviewing, just count it as part of the cost of interviewing. If a company wants more than an afternoon's worth of work from you, then that shoudl be an indicator that you don't really want to work for them. It is not going to impress any interviewer if you ask to be paid for this work. 

Sounds like you are wating fo ra contract to come through and they don't want to assign you to anything else to make sure you are avialable when it does. If you know the kind of work the new project will require, then you can start gettign yourself up-to-speed on the technical details you will need. You can also start looking at processes and see if you can design a better way to do some of the things in the office. As you are an engineer, have you taken the engineering professional exams yet? If not use this time to seriously study for them. Even if you aren't ready yet in expertence to take the tests, doing in-depth study will make it much easier when your are ready to prep for the tests. One of my first bosses had a rule, if you have nothing to do, you had better be reading the policy manual (several hundred pages of technical material) or doing some other training. It looks bad to just be playing, so something work-related even if it is doing something as mind-numbing as reading policy manuals. And if you have technical policies, you will be surprised at how much it helps you when it is time to do the work to know the policies backwards and forwards. 

You don't need the location that is just wasted space. What you need is whatever matches the transcript you would get if they ask for one or the name on the diploma which they may also ask to see a copy of. That way whatever is in your resume matches whatever they might want as proof of your education. Now that it is clearer what you meant, I would still stand by what I said, go with what will be printed on your transcript. A university system like the University of California will likely discriminate between the Berkeley campus and the San Diego campus as they are completely separate, full-service campuses each with a separate accredidation and separate faculty. However,locally we have a satellite of the University of Virginia. It is not a complete campus with a separate faculty just a set of classrooms where some classes for only a few majors are given. In this case, putting down University of Virgina is appropriate becasue that is where the actual degree will come from. 

If you are the most experienced technically, you are probaly the least suited to be CEO as that is a totaly nontechnical position. This job is Sales and finance and schmoozing investors and making plans for the company in terms of hiring, marketing, policy, etc. This is not a job that a person who enjoys programming will likely do well. If you are serious about a successful start-up, hire a business person with an MBA and marketing experience and financial connections for this job. 

The first time I was a team lead I had a great team that didn't need much guidance. Unfortunately that was not true the second time I led a team. I had three young men working for me who were in the military (so firing was not an option), what we did was not their normal professional specialty and they definitely didn't want to work for a female civilian employee and they weren't making much of an effort. I was in way over my head. To meet the deadlines we had (and they were very firm, not moveable deadlines) I first thought that I would have to simply redo everything they did. It seemed easier than confronting them with their problems and getting them to do their jobs. It seemed like it would take less time even if I would be more stressed. To me, at first, it seemed to be the only viable solution if I wanted to deliver on time. Further, people tend to get promoted to team lead because they passionately care about their work and want to do the best job they can, so they often have higher standards about acceptable work than people who are not the team lead. Your team lead likely feels as if he is in a similar situation. Luckily for me, I had a boss who chose to help me learn what to do instead when I complained to him about the team. He sat me down for a blunt conversation where he told me that I would burn out and be of no use to anyone if I went down this path. He told me that the ultimate final deadline could not change but that the first few phases could be moved out because things would go faster once I solved the team problem. He told me that people hate it when you redo all their work and the end result of that is that, over time, they put less and less effort into it because their boss is going to redo it from scratch anyway. He told me that the longer you let people do nothing while you work like crazy, the harder it is to turn them around. He told me that the problem was often that they didn't know what they were doing wrong, so they would see my fixes as arbitrary. He told me that I needed to decide what was good enough, not what was perfect. Then together we sat down and made a plan for how I would turn this around. The plan involved a daily meeting on progress and a reassignment of planned work if someone was not on schedule to someone (not me) who was free or close to finishing their part. As is common now in Agile development and daily standups, it becomes difficult to say day after day that you haven't made any progress, so people reduce their slacking to be able to say they accomplished something. It involved a 100% review of their work. And, this is the key part, I was only allowed to comment on what was wrong and why it was wrong, but not suggest solutions (although I could hint on where to find the best solution) or fix it. The first time I made review comments, I was to go over them with my boss and he would help me structure them so that they were expecting just enough and giving just enough information that the person could fix the problem if he tried. Then he made sure I gave the work back to them to redo. I had to send the work back to the originator to fix every single time until he got it right. Further, I was to spend 100% of my time helping them get better skills and managing their work; I was to do no direct work at all until their skills improved to an acceptable standard. My job had now been redefined as training them up to the standard we needed. If I wanted to get back to doing the more fun stuff, I needed to train them well. Another critical item was that although my manager was willing to accept a short-term delay on the early deadlines, I was not to let them know that the deadline had some flex until it was much closer to the deadline. This was to keep some pressure on them during the initial turn-around period. If they knew the deadline was going to move, they could have continued to skate. The first iteration was as horrible as he had warned me it would be. It seemed as if I had something wrong on every line. They were very upset at getting the work back to redo (with no deadline change in sight as far as they knew). They were even more upset when I rejected the first set of revisions. With each revision I sent back to them, I got better at explaining what they needed to do differently and helping them learn the techniques they needed to be able to fix the problem. I sat with one guy who was particularly bad for hours and hours and asked him leading questions to get him to find the answers on his own. By the third iteration, I knew my boss had been right (and it was truly a good thing he warned me that the first few times I did this would be painful.) because they were making fewer mistakes. In the next phase of the project, I only had to send things back for correction a couple of times. By the third phase, I was back to managing them only part of the time and doing some of the technical work. We easily met the overall deadline without having to work overtime. In the end, they got very good because I had passed my knowledge on to them. Having four of me instead of one of me made the project start to progress very quickly indeed. So you need to be like that boss I had about 37 years ago. You need to sit down with the guy and bluntly tell him that his methods are not working and need to change. You need to let him know the first priority of a team lead is to make the team do a better job and that success for him would be defined by how well the other team members accomplish the work.(That is why I wasn't allowed to do direct work, my job was no longer to do that but to manage the work of others. Their questions, their training, their progress were my primary responsibility not an interruption in my trying to get everything done myself.) Then you need to sit with him and make a plan for turning things around, for building skill levels and for rearranging the project plan to make it work with the short-term delay for teaching them factored in. Then you need to watch what he is doing and help him get better at mentoring. You need to catch him doing the right thing and make sure he knows it is noticed. You need to teach him to catch his people when they do the right thing and make sure he lets them know it is noticed. You need to help him put something positive in the code reviews so that it doesn't seem overwhelming when he sends it back. It is absolutely critical that he acknowledges improvements as well. You want his people to feel as if they are getting better and that success is possible. A comment like , "This is much better but this part still needs..." will work better in the second iteration than a comment like "This still needs fixing. Do it right this time." Tone is important when sending work back for rework.