Other Sources: There are many US public records which relate information concerning these events, and concerning Eatons' ongoing attempts at getting reimbursement for his expenditures while consul of Tunis: 

The above From The Universal Chronologist, and Historical Register, from the ..., Volume 1 By William Henry Ireland, Joseph Martin So, it appears that these peasants probably had permission from their respective lords, as it was being endorsed by the Pope, and supporting a cause endorsed by the church would have possibly curried favor for these nobles, while refusal could have incurred the churches wrath. 

So now we know what a Mongol horse could achieve 'full-out', and we know several changes of horse would be available, so each horse might only be expected to bear a rider at high speeds for a portion of a day. But we don't know how long a typical day might have been, how long the rest periods might have been when the armies slowed to a walk or a canter. We can look for some historical information again to help us understand just how far the Mongol armies might have actually traveled. 

So a groundwork for comparison may be available only for the modern era(which does include the British Empire, but definitely not the Romans; systems were just too different). Even what would seem simple like comparing the value/cost of constructions in the past to those of today becomes complicated by issues comparing labor costs, slave labor values, values of materials extracted by such labor, ect. Perhaps, as suggested in comments, experts in economics might have some standards to compare these values, and might be a better fit to answer this question. 

(emphasis mine) from entry on White Croatia So there is a basic line of thought which would place both the Croats and Serbs as a common people with a common linguistic root, considered by the Romans as a single group the Sclaveni, but which hundreds of years later were reffered to as two distinct groups by Constantine VII( reigning from 913 to 959). 

So we can see it was recommended in Jan. for Guerra to file a complaint, and by Feb 10, 1823 Canonigo Fernandez was answering concerns as to why he had not placed the stronger Guerra in charge. The timing of all this information seems more than coincidental. Feb 10 'expressed regret", charged with treason July, letter to Guerra telling of imprisonment on Aug 2. Bottom line, Fernandez had several things to answer for. His association with Iturbide may have protected him for a time, but when he lost that protection he had to face the powerful friends of those he had irritated; Solas' accusations and Guerras' friends. Without actual legal records from the time, we may never know the actual charges made. Since he survived to be placed as vicar in New Mexico, we can assume he was deemed not dangerous to the new nation, and that his intent wasn't treasonous, just immoral and misguided by self-interest. (If I missed any citations, all the above quotes are from Bancrofts' History of California, and all emphasis is mine. Apologies for any OCR errors I missed.) 

One instance of Mexican California operating an ocean-going vessel can be read in the article concerning John B. R. Cooper. Cooper went to California in the ship Rover in 1823, which he then sold to the California Governor, Luis Arguello: 

So it appears this is an ornate torch, probably meant specifically to start sacrificial fires in worship of Apollo. (More about the bucranium here, which can be seen better in the answer by sempaiscuba). 

According to Plantagenet Ancestry: A Study In Colonial And Medieval Families, 2nd Edition . Michael(III) Earl of Suffolk was a commander of the Rear Guard of the Kings Army, from September through October 1415. According to the wiki entry he was born 1394, died 25 October 1415, so was not exactly a seasoned commander, having inherited his title only 7 weeks earlier. Wiki mentions his command: 

Clearly, Charlemagne liked the Byzantine design, but he did not have to go all the way to Constantinople to observe it. 

...so the line you are referencing is talking about the increase in the maximum population that can be supported by a given region due to better farming techniques or technology. Reading Guns, Germs, and Steel? 

The view expressed in Apology, does not seem to be held by some later historians however. Gibbon, in his HISTORY OF THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, discusses this in Chapter XVI: Conduct Towards The Christians, From Nero To Constantine.—Part V: 

It is likely that both units you are referring to were part of the same EGSR Regiment. The preface of the book Patton’s Fighting Bridge Builders: Company B, 1303rd Engineer General Service Regiment, by Joseph C. Fitzharris states that Company B was just part of the Regiment, and there were six other 'line' companies within the regiment. So there were other units out there that could have been at Camp Lee. Company B, however, was training at Camp Ellis in Illinois, as described in a web page concerning Earl Hall, the Officer in charge of the unit. 

Update: I found a reference in an article published in 1867 entitled A Visit to Leeds Castle, to an early drawbridge of exceptional size. The castle at Leeds,in Kent England, had several drawbridges, with one in particular (emphasis mine): 

The historian whose figures are mentioned is Orderic Vitalis, and the wiki page mentions, concerning him: 

The horse story is repeated in the Encyclopedia of California entry on Castroville, which also includes a possible reference to black soil of the area. 

It seems there may be one interesting encounter which is recorded regarding Marcus Aurelius and the Christian population at the time. Marcus gives some credit to prayer by Christians within his forces to an event during his campaign in the north (here from Apology): 

(this image from New York State Military Museum) Some more images can be found on XmarksTheScot which also show the three-row button pattern, distinct cuff marking, and sergeants chevrons. None show the same headgear however. Knowing Vermont was the individuals home is an important clue, but we can not eliminate uniforms from other locations. From Wikipedia, Vermont in the American Civil War 

These individuals, however, were essentially homeless and jobless in what rapidly became a classic 'frontier' region, and with many disadvantages. 

Concerning other parts of your question, comments by sempaiscuba point out that the NSO designation can indicate Naval Supply Officer. Part of the organizational information on pg 24 of the above pdf includes: 

The entire book discusses the manufacture of powder, and the facility is in India, but it mentions prices in London, so they should be relevant. 

This is the book that the movie the Imitation Game was based on. In this book Hodges discusses interviewing Murray in 1980, and there appear to be several pages discussing the relationship. The book, on page 675 mentions Murray feeling guilty after Turing's death, being a musician in the 60's, and later entering married life (no more details about that on this page). Murray appears to have died in 1989. Since this work is under copyright, only bits can be see online, so if you are truely interested, get a copy of the book. By the way, I don't see where Murray was convicted of theft over this incident. 

An article which studies the The History of Grinding Implements for the Domestic Use in Japan has several images which show tonfa style parts. One style in particular can be traced to both Rome and China: 

Sure, I see no problems with this, press gangs for the Royal Navy were still active, not ending until sometime between 1814 and 1853. The British had a Naval presence in the Carribean. In the early part of the century for instance, mainly to deter the pirate threat, there were 

(emphasis mine). So Mrs or Miss are merely descriptive, but show no 'rank'. Mr, on the other hand, has dual meaning today; Either as the equal of Madam(showing rank), or as the equal of Mrs.(a term of respect, but not denoting any further 'position'). Notably since it also reflects the womans 'status' as married or not is in modern times considered less desired to some: 

People, even common people, traveled when they needed to. Usually as the result of war, famine, or persecution. The "Great Migration" is only one fairly well documented such event. 

The earliest I find,according to Digest of the laws of California: containing all laws of a general character which will be in force on the first day of January, 1858 ... prepared under an act of the Legislature of California of the session of 1857 by William H. R. Wood published S. D. Valentine and son, 1857 

From a letter, concerning the purchase of breach-loading rifles by the United States Army, dated May 14 1857: 

(above map or Zurich from same article) Though Munster was actually an inspiration of Brauns, I belive the rich detailing of the city maps that Braun did really stands out. The extra details he included that represent the 'rich content' you are asking about included: 

This is one of those stereotypes which, as this question demonstrates, is older then we realize. The entry in wikipedia touches on the assumed meaning: 

Yours seems to have some differences from the one pictures above,such as a larger wingspan, but I think its probably a similar model, perhaps earlier. These planes (actually called flying boats) were from the World War 1 era. ...and the HS-2L(as noted in comments-longer wingspan, more closely resembles the above photo) 

Searching those keywords on google images will bring up other similar items on places like eBay and Pinterest, most mentioning Victorian as age (some saying style,however)but I have not seen anything identical. You may be able to find more info either from a book on jewelry, a local jeweler, or look for watch collectors who may have more specific info. 

Farther down the page it discusses the system had representation in 994 counties with a population (in 1969) of over 66 million. The above table mentions over 95,000 stocked locations (those with supplies) and over 108,000 marked locations. 

We also have historical reference of gypsum being used, with fatal results. Pliny the Elder, The Natural History in BOOK XXXVI. THE NATURAL HISTORY OF STONES, has a section devoted to the common uses of gypsum as a plastering compound. He also reveals its dangers: 

So it seems that if a slave had the status to have the entry fee, there was nothing forbidding his use of the baths on a customer level. But the scarcity of records supporting this would seem to indicated that it was not 'the norm'. 

If inability to work is your main argument, you should remember children have been heavily involved in the work force until recent times.See Child Labor. Children are still used as labor in some parts of the world today: 

These are all listed as actions to take. Compliance and penalties are discussed in other areas of the order, if these actions are not taken. Seems like a pretty good basis for the affirmative action of today. As to why things may seem different, look towards the end of your linked page: 

One detailed study, West Stow, Suffolk:Early Anglo-Saxon Animal Husbandryby Pam J. Crabtree, goes into archaeological detail concerning the specific counts of farm animals being used, and detailed measurements of bones recovered at this West Stow site. Cattle. The study gives some estimates of the weight and height of the typical cattle recovered. Samples gave a mean withers height of 117 cm (from figure 17, Table 24 pg 36) and a weight of 150-170kg: 

On a genealogical note, there is an entry concerning a JH Abbot, who was a member of the Kings Own Hussars, but the other info doesn't seem to correspond with your photo. 

That these quotes are all paraphrasing Einstein I do not,however, doubt. A couple of earlier sources show this attitude towards trying to express his theories, and science in general, in a simple manner. ---From the 1938 book,The Evolution of Physics , published by Leopold Infeld, Albert Einstein : 

The same article gives us the time when the 8-hour day schedule, for Carnegies workers, ended, and why. (In 1888) 

This really is more convoluted then it appears, as there are different opinions on which grandson this might be. Some of the controversy and sources supporting both views are listed in an authors note for Franklin and Bache: Envisioning the Enlightened Republic By Jeffery Alan Smith, for any who wish to investigate further. One thing mentioned here is that Temple would have been an adult: 

Without going into nauseating detail, slaves by definition have no freedom, and no freedom of choice. From Johnston's The Private life of the Romans 

(Both above quotes from the ERB wiki article) So the Arizona gold mining aspect of the Carter character come from Burroughs himself. Like any good author, he drew on what he knew, his experiences, and family history, to create his character. 

Another ancient source, the Roman historian Tacitus, when discussing the volatility of Roman food supplies in Annals, 12.43, mentions Africa before Egypt when mentioning the sources of Roman grains, which can be taken as corroboration of Josephus: 

Later in the chapter (pg. 479), while discussing foreigners in California, Bancroft drops another name: 

Livy is the source for the information concerning the petition for status within the senate, which, in 171 BC granted the status of 'Latin Colony' to the captured city of Carteia. This was the first colony with this designation outside the Italian Peninsula. It granted its citizens more rights then they had, but not the rights of full Roman citizens.As a Latin colony they received right to marry, and the right to conduct business. The Colonia Libertinorum Carteia (Freedmen's Colony of Carteia) may have been unique in its status. 

So, with the presence of Turks at this battle, it follows that the heraldic usage of the crescent shows the encounter of that symbol during this battle at least. A good source on heraldry may be able to confirm actual nights who used this emblem , but that's probably a question all of its own! 

The article provides a long detail of the loading drill itself (to extensive to repeat here) but a list of the steps involved (the articles shows details, with each of these steps often requiring several individual sub-steps): 

Follwing this information, I found one example of a faction recorded as present during the Siege of Damascus during the Second Crusade: (according to Nicolle, David The Second Crusade, Osprey: London page 58:) 

The pattern you show is called a Nordic Cross. Searching for flags with Nordic crosses comes up with the Flag of Vendsyssel, which is a traditional district of Denmark and of Jutland. (See Vendsyssel at wikipedia)