What I think you misunderstand is working knowledge versus book knowledge. When someone says "Do you know (insert a language) well?" he doesn't mean "Have you memorized every bit of documentation, know all the overloads of every function etc.". They usually mean "Can you look at the code and easily (identify flaws/introduce changes/fix bugs/refactor/etc.)? Can you make an informed decision on what tools to use for a given scenario? Can you outline the advantages and disadvantages of proposed solutions?". Many languages are nearly identical in the general idea: syntax may be different, a few concepts done differently and some of the caveats are unique to a language, but if you know for example C# well, you would have little trouble if someone asked you to do something in Java. You need to keep your knowledge current: again, it doesn't mean that if a new framework comes out, you need to know it by heart in the next week - but the knowledge that such a framework exists, what are it's advantages over competing solutions, what scenario would that framework be used in and in what scenarios it shouldn't be used etc. That's, in my understanding, keeping your knowledge current. If on top of that you can type the code without the use of any aid such as documentation, more power to you - but do remember that it's not the main thing. Knowing a solution is ok. Knowing there are 10 possible solutions, their strengths and weaknesses, where to find their implementation - that's even better. It is possible to find a job with what you know so far - albeit it will probably will not be a job of your dreams. You should however strive to find a job that offers you: 

I'm assuming her attitude towards you is not compromising your daily work as you say you have "little involvement" together. When trying to get along with someone, the kind of feedback she is giving to you usually hurts - and it does until you develop some kind of natural defense to it. This isn't exclusive to the workplace, but because you spend most of your day in the office, is in there you will invariably notice more often. I appreciate you want to develop a friendship with everyone around you and that's noble; however it won't work. It doesn't for you, it doesn't just for everyone, because people are... people. Different tastes, different ways of seeing others. Your behaviour/personality might be impecable for 4 of them and not for the remaining 1 - and you must respect it. For me she is telling you "I don't want to develop any relationship with you other than the minimum necessary for the accomplishment of our duties". I personally have people with this attitude towards me and I also have this attitude towards others whom I don't find particularly professional/friendly/respectable - however I stand always flexible, may those people change their behaviour in a way I start respecting them. If I were in your shoes, I would keep professional and friendly. This means: 

An opportunity to apply your current skills in a real-world scenario An opportunity to learn the use of other skills, preferably from someone more senior than you. And i don't mean only strict technical abilities - so called "soft-skills" are just as important. Many developers starting their careers dismiss the idea that communication, understanding of business requirements, negotiation, assessing time-and-money investments required and simillar are necessary for their career growth. Don't make that mistake. 

Disclaimer: this is coming from Eastern Europe culture (or at least my experience of it). You don't specify locale, so YMMV. 

If you yawned once, covered your mouth and apologized, it's no big deal. If you do it continuously, you send a message that a) your interviewer is boring you b) you didn't think the interview was important enough to get a good night's sleep. Stretching your arms has the same connotation. As for their reply, there's pretty much no point in continuing, because it's either a genuine concern of theirs, or "random excuse #27" to not hire you. Either way, move on, try to suppress those behaviors and good luck on your job hunt. 

Those may or may not dissuade future borrowing, but at least it will make it so you'll WANT people to steal your chair. I'd check for tacks before you sit down in case someone retaliates. 

Most bad managers I've seen were a mix of 2 and 3 and that seems to be what you are facing, everyone is different so I can only offer a few suggestions and leave it to you to judge and adapt: 

Be sure to request some sort of official project so that it doesn't look like you are goofing off or are making slow progress on your other project(s). Meeting with your Boss's Boss - again tact and honesty. Part of an employee's unofficial job description is to make your boss look good. You should do your best to do this if you honestly can, but your boss's boss needs the truth to make the best decisions. Make sure anything negative you might say about the code or the project has been brought up with your boss first and report based on what your boss's decision was. Again some things that be useful: 

I want to end with a statement that may be true only in my region (Eastern Europe): When it comes to job offer "requirements" section, you can often come across postings that seems to require you to be a combination of embedded programmer, web designer, application architect, mobile developer, database administrator and it wouldn't hurt if you would be a sysadmin also. Don't be disheartened by those offers, many times people writing them just copy-paste whatever google returned as "smart sounding programming words". If the job description sounds interesting to you, apply and assess the job-offer personally - ideally after an interview with someone "technical" 

I know there are many questions about the dreaded "other duties as assigned" clause in most contracts. Mine has one as well. However, I feel the task assigned to me goes way off what would be expected of someone in my profession. I was recently assigned with developing a process which requires extensive legal and finance knowledge - something I'm not even remotely qualified to do (I'm a software developer). Of course, the logical step would be to ask the legal and finance team for help - they, however, refuse (or are not interested) to provide help. I communicated this to my manager, and his response was basically "I don't care how, do it". Now, I don't have the authority to make the knowledgable folks help me - what are my options in this situation? Am I in the "set sail for fail" kind of situation?