The best way to transfer knowledge is for the people who need the knowledge to work with those who have the knowledge. Whilst the knowledgeable people may not have the time to work on documenting their knowledge themselves, they may already be spending some of their time explaining to others what to do and how to do it. Even if the knowledgeable people had the time to write up their knowledge, it is not necessarily the case that the documentation they produced would be of use to the less knowledgeable people. It is surprisingly easy to miss out important 'obvious' information when trying to impart knowledge. By making the knowledge transfer more explicit and co-operative, and having the users of that documentation write it so that they can understand it, you could both ease the burden on the knowledgeable people and get more information transferred. If the knowledgeable people are really pressed for time, you could ask the people who need that knowledge to write up what they understand now, and then have the knowledgeable people proof-read and correct any misunderstandings. This could substantially speed things up, and could also help identify areas where the knowledge is lacking. 

As an example of this, I work on scientific software. Neither I nor the facility scientists I work with could, alone, document much of the software I write. I could explain what my software does and even why it does it that way, but it's the facility scientists who need to write documentation on why and how visiting scientists should use it. 

A very powerful, but often overlooked way of discouraging excessive overtime is to offer people flexible working hours. If you have a system in place for flexi-time, then people are both careful to accurately record their working hours, so that they don't lose out on accumulating flexi hours, and mindful of the hours they are working. An example flexi-time system might have core hours of 10:00 to 16:00, allow an employee to accumulate up to 3 days (24 hours) of flexi-time, or go into one days flexi-time debt, but require that they take no more than 2 days (or 4 half days) of flexi-leave (time off within core hours) per month without taking annual leave. It may seem counter-intuitive, but psychologically, if you are getting close to the upper limit on the hours you can accumulate, you start thinking "if I work too many more hours, I'll lose them at the end of the month", so you start to cut down. 

PhD hurts your job seeking. It's a shame to add it to a non-academic resume, so don't do that. You're not legally required to tell anybody about your PhD degree. Everybody does that. In the industry, nobody cares if you have a PhD title (they care if you have criminal records). It won't show up in background check because nobody cares. 

Unfortunately this is common in finance startups. I know it well because I was in finance. The finance startups can do that because: 

You've been working for 30 years, so you wouldn't be young anymore. The company might want to make sure if you have the physical capability to deliver the tasks. 

We can't do this to experienced financial practitioners because they are competitive and highly employable. For your friend - Pay or never step into finance. 

I don't see anything wrong. That's not your coworker's properties, everything belongs to the company. You're free to do whatever you want and exploit the company's assets to your advantage. Yes, don't need to ask, just do it. The management will be appreciated. You're not being rude, you're just doing your job. 

Please ask yourself and your senior data scientists if the target performance is reasonable or not. For example, it's not reasonable to expect a 100% accuracy for the simple MINST data set. Assume the target performance is reasonable and your boss wants that to happen. Generally, you have the following options: 

There's no conflict. You sign the upcoming contract. If you have a new offer from another company, you will sign it as well, and then terminate the first contract. If they don't let you do this, you make troubles on your first day for your first job, they will have no choice but to terminate you on the day. You might also get one week termination payment for your probation. Check your contract. Either you terminate your first job or you make them terminate you. Now, you can start your second job. 

Your former colleagues owed you nothing, it was your own decision leaving. Why would they try to help you? Who do you think you are? Threatening to remove them from your contacts for not recommending a job that they might not have is selfish and stupid. How well do they really know you? What do they get for helping you? Give a reason why they should help you especially the company had already attempted to convince you for staying. You shouldn't have contacted them in the first place, you should have contacted your former boss or/and hiring manager. Your contact list will be almost empty if everyone in your list must offer you a job. Had you ever offered them anything? You are now external to the company and it's employees. They have no obligation for offering you any employment. It was your fault for moving to a new position. -------- Don't remove them just because you have no response. They were not obligated to write you back. The point of Linkedln is to keep a professional network, and you shouldn't have any personal information that you don't feel sharing just because you don't have response. 

Yes, in my experience this is common practice, but I don't think it is as deceitful as it first appears. You don't burn your bridges, either as a an employer or potential employee and sometimes, recruitment takes a while. You can genuinely want someone, but then find someone else is a better fit for business or operational reasons. Reading between the lines of what you heard from the VP and the recruiter though, I would say that all this means is that you are currently second choice on their list. They are probably waiting to hear back from someone (possibly via a different recruiter) with slightly more experience than you. You are probably their best culture fit, while someone else is their best experience fit. They want to keep you sweet because they are confident that you can do the job, even if it takes a little longer to give you the extra skills they think you need. They want to maximise the chance that you will still be available and interested if their first choice doesn't accept their offer. With respect to the recruiter, they are probably playing down your chances to stop the recruiter calling them every five minutes nagging them for an offer. They probably don't care about keeping the recruiter sweet, so depending on how aggressive the recruiter is, they might say anything to get them to stop calling. From personal experience, I have missed out on a number of jobs where people have very apologetically phoned me to say "I'm really sorry, I think you would have been great here, but we really didn't expect to find anyone who had experience with X, Y and Z.". People can be genuinely complementary and want you, but circumstances beyond their control might push them towards another candidate. Essentially, someone who can hit the ground running will usually be preferred over someone who will take a while to get started, even if they may end up being a better team player in the long run. So, don't give up hope, keep looking, and try to assume the best of people rather than the worst. 

I've recently been thinking about bias in recruitment procedures, as part of a consultation at work to help with our Athena Swan application. For early stage candidates, you may be able to significantly reduce your own bias in selecting candidates for interview by asking for resumes to be stripped of the following information before they reach your desk: 

Your salary is a reflection of how competitive the company thinks your are. It might not have anything to do with your 5-years experience. 

There's not much you can do. If you aren't allowed to internal transfer, then you don't have the power to do it. You could try to talk to the higher level, but that still wouldn't work if your manager refuses. Check if you have redundancy package (large companies in many countries need to do that). If you don't, I'd look for a new job if I were you. 

The best strategy is to use the money to buy some programming books. Make yourself work 7 days and the boss works 7 days as well. Do it yourself. 

Have you thought of replacing the junior programmer with a senior programmer? Please discuss with the finance management if paying a little more is an option. Remove the junior programmer and replace her with a senior candidate. They'll bring more values to your team. 

From the company perspective, you have nothing exciting to offer thus your salary should be lower than a new potential intelligent junior developer. You shouldn't be sad but take it as an opportunity. Now, you know there is someone in your team understand software development better than you. You can learn from the new developer and absorb the new skills into your your works. 

I have no idea of your background, because it all depends on your skill sets and your bargaining power. In academics (e.g. computer scientist at PhD level), visa sponsorship is awfully common. That make sense because the job is really not something that everybody can do. In IT, you will need have very strong background history to convince visa sponsorship. UK, France, Germany and Australia have enough candidates for entry to middle level positions. You will need to prove yourself (more likely a senior position). If you did have the skills set, consider headhunters. Headhunters work with top clients (e.g. investment banking), those companies will more than happy to sponsor you if they believe you are unique. Answer You are free to ask for visa sponorship for any job position that you are qualfiied. However, expect rejection unless you have strong unique skills not available in the local market. 

When I interview candidates, I always ask for Github projects. Why? That's because I'd have better insight of what the candidate can do without asking them for a stressful stupid coding test. If your job requires bash script, that doesn't mean you must have an open source project for bash. You just need to build a portfolio of open-source projects you have done. Build something you love, do it good. Try to start a community for your project. 

You can't stop recruiters being unethical, at most you can frustrate their efforts. Ditching Word documents for PDFs was a good first start, but even if you use PDF's there's nothing to stop them ripping the text out of it and creating their own Word document of it's contents. Also, if they have the right software, they can even edit your PDF before sending it on. One approach might be to digitally sign your PDF CV and use the option to prevent text being copied from it, this may make life more difficult for prospective employers too though - if they want to copy particularly relevant details for quick reference. The best option might be to tailor your CV for every application, which is common job hunting advice anyway. That way, no one recruiter has all of your CV and double presentation might be less of a problem because there is an obvious difference between the generic CV and the tailored CV. Combining these, you could provide signed, tailored CV's which can still be copied from. If a prospective employer asks why two CV's have been presented to them, ask them to check the signature so that they can see which one is the genuine application and which is the fraudulently presented one. This might even make the company think twice about using the unethical recruiter again in the future. 

The only other thing I would say is that while working hours are a significant part of your situation, managing people such that they don't feel the need to spend excessive hours of over time is another. You should try to identify if there are other impediments to these employees work. It is possible, for instance, that they are spending so much time during the day helping the newcomers that they hang around late just to get some peace and quiet and allow themselves to get into flow. One way to avoid this might be to have one established team member at a time available to help newcomers, leaving the other established team members to concentrate on their work. This could switch every day/week, so that people at least get a day/week block of time to concentrate of their tasks (depending of course on their business needs). Having 1 person working at 50% and two working at 100%, but only putting in 100% of their hours might work out better than having three people working at 70% (because of the task switching), but working 120% of their hours to make up the time.