Even if you do want to run a webserver on the same box, you may want to reconfigure Apache to serve content only for configured hostnames. Of course, this would merely replace the default page with a http error (because the host name is transmitted only after the connection is already established), but may be cleaer and slightly better equipped against attacks/exploits of the webserver. 

If I get you right, your original setup used two different names for the same ip? While that is fine, it also looks like you attempt to use these diffent names (which refer to the same physical server) probably as only registered/authoritative name servers for a domain. - This would be bad if you really did that; and maybe your curretn action is intended to relieve that. NS entries of public DNS zones very strongly should be reachable via independent uplinks (and this is mostly understood as: have ip addresses from different class C networks). Nonetheless, to answer your questions: You can have "arbitrarily many" NS entries in each DNS zone, and each host name may resolve to arbitrarily many ip addresses. However, the various name servers thus found authoritative for a zone should agree on the data they return. So, did you test the following (wherin I assume that the command succeeds but does not): 

How come 10.0.99.1 is so far off? How come systems that sync to 10.0.99.1 are correct? How should I learn from the output of on 10.0.99.1 that the clock is actually totally out of sync (compared to all hosts and reference clocks mentioned in )? For me the output looks totally like a very elaborate "I am totally happy". 

One of my users found a message in his Sent Items folder and claims he has not written it. The (external) recipient address exists and is knwon to us (though said user doesn't know it and had no contact so far), the subject is appropriate and very specific to that recipient address (and to no other recipient), the mail body contains a single word "Einverstanden" (German for "agreed"), which looks like a rply to something, but isn't. This looks a bit strange (though not strange enough to suspect malware) Is there any way to find out in greater detail how the mail was actually produced? (Which Client on which computer / OWA / smart phone with ActiveSync / other user with "Send As" privileges / ...) While "internet headrs" are very informative for inbound mail, the corresponding field is (logically) empty for this outbound mail ..., EDIT: Thanks to hints in the comments I found more logs than I knew before. Here's what I found: 

Interestingly, no corresponding error messages occur with deeper subdirectories (e.g. ). What causes this error (or the read attempt in the first place)? And how can I get rid of it? 

The purpose of records is that an application (mail transfer) can learn about the host to be used. On application level, host names are the right thing to use (not IP addresss). Also, adding the conceot of variant type record to DNS introduces a leverl of complication and hence an entry point for problems, implementation mishaps, security challenges. For example, is a valid hostname (yes, it is, even in the light of RFC1034, 3.5). Specifying this host as in a bind configuration file for example.com might look like 

This confuses me. For one, the registry settings should be ok according to the following export excerpt: 

Maybe you can log all real-life DNS requests for a sufficiently long period of time (this may in fact be several months if you want to catch that once-per-quarter-query-all-printer-page-statistics script). Then delete all records never requested for. 

I assume that the sequence of events logged herein, including the time deltas of about 0.3 seconds between steps, is in fact "normal" and contarry to what the user claims, this looks extremely as if he had sent the mail by Outlook? 

To be honest, the zone (or as someone later edited) was really . Therefore I needed to remove from the globale DNS block list applied. 

In my Windows network with all AD servers (still) running Windows 2003, I encounter the following problem: The "Maximum password age" policy apparently does not apply. Even though some of the users have indeed been asked to change their password regularly, apparently very many are not asked to do so. A quick LDAP search for users with two years(!) ago, three weeks ago, and (this cryptic condition means especially that the checkbox is not checked) gives me a list of about 70 (!) users. I might manually request them to change their passwords upon next logon, but I would prefer to see the password age policy do its work (and I left them unmodified precisely to get an indication of the policy working). I thought I knew where to configure this: in the Default Domain Policy under Maximum password age, period. I mad the following out of desperation, which according to the docs should not have helped (but at least it should not harm either, should it?): Since the setting in the "Default Domain Policy" - apparently - had no effect, I addtionally made corresponding settings in about all policy objects that might have influence under various circumstances, that is "Default Domain Controllers Policy", "[COMPANY] Domain Policy", "[COMPANY] DC Policy", "[COMPANY] Computers Policy" (the names suggest their scopes quite well, I guess)but nothing helped. To give an overview: People log in first to their PC, which can be about any version of Windows, from 8.1 down to a few even still running XP (and in the process of being dumped). Here they either work locally or, mostly, login to RDP servers, which all run Windows 2008R2; this latter login is additionally governed by a specific "[COMPANY] TS Loopback Policy", in which I also added the maxpassword age setting - without success. And after all, already the login to the local PC should have triggered an expiry. In other words, I have no idea what could be the problem behind this and woould greatly appreciate help. Meanwhile this has been background-bugging me for a few months now and in fact now it is becoming a growing pain in the neck (see the actual password ages discovered in the first paragraph!!). While we eagerly want to migrate the AD version and this might resolve the prblem as a side-effect, we would be much happier if this problem could be resolveed before starting that migration (and possibly importing a deeply hidden problem). 

Every now and then our Exchange 2013 server (running on Windows 2008R2) will reboot during office hours, typically in the early afternoon (say, somewhere between 15:00 and 16:00) - apparently because the server thinks it wouldn't hurt anybody because nobody is really logged in. The reboots are always related to the server installing new upgrades automatically and users are annoyed because their Outlook makes problems (if they are lucky, it simply reconnects after a few minutes, but if they were in the middle of composing a longer mail the only way to save their work is by copy-pasting all to an empty Word doc, say, and restart Outlook). The update settings are as follows: 

I am aware that it is possible to exclude folders from roaming profiles in , or (for central management) preferedly by a GPO setting (User settings - Admin templates - System - roaming profiles - exclude directories from roaming profiles). Thus if I add to that setting, that folder will not be sync'ed, so it behaves more or less as if were under . I need a way to include folders. That is, I have a software that stores stuff in , but I want it sync'ed. Unfortunately, I do not find any GPO settings for this pupose. Currently I have a workaround with a logoff-skript that copies to and a logon-skript that copies everything under to . But I am not happy with such a workaround and it feels like error prone. Additionally, I wish I could include the registry settings under (i.e., personalized file-typ associations) to the roaming profile. I am aware that this is excluded on purpose (after all, if the settings say that files hould be used with application XYZ, it may happen that XYZ is not even installed on other machines). But in my case, I am managing a terminal server farm where all farm members have the same software installed, and users complain that e.g. they have to pick their preferred browser or image viewing software every day. (From my research so far, it might help to repeat the above workaround with - but I did not even try that yet as I am not sure if it is a good idea to just wildly copy registry files around or if the destination would even be writable at the time the logon skript runs) Any idea for (better) solutions to this problem? 

Of course, making the user a domain admin is not an option. What can be the cause of the described behaviour? Per the experiment with a fresh profile, it cannot be personal settings; per the test as administrator, it cannot really be an interrupted connection (as the error message tries to suggest). 

I don't have a bad feeling with these settings. The only suspect is No auto-restart for scheduled updates with logged on users. However, for the observed behaviour, a user must have been logged on at yestreday 3 a.m. until today 4 p.m. (or possibly several overlapping sessions). Sifting through the ocean of Security Event Log, I did indeed find: Three events #4634 (logoff), two for Administrator RDP sessions (type 10), one for Administrator console session (type 2), all in the very same second as the event #1074 above! But what is cause and what is effect? Or how come three sessions got killed simultanuously? 

and presumably that is precisely the same an MX record with an IP should look like. And even to transfer the informatoin in a DNS datagram requires some quirky additoins; the simplest way would be to introduce a new resource record type, say, for disambiguation. But then again, why introduce the burden such a new record type when 

We have a RDP Server farm based on Window 2008R2 servers with DNS round robin. That is, people make a connection to "myfarmname", which first takes them to the ip of some "farmmemberX.mydomain.local" and then they are redirected to some "farmmemberY.mydomain.com" according to load. That's also how everything workd until yesterday. As of today, most users experience problems and cannot connect to the farm, usually with an error message like this (translated from German): 

You need an entry in your Additionally, it may be necessary to modify the entries in the line , otherwise it may happen that works but applications (i.e. , , etc.) don't (or was it the other way round?). 

After installing a few recent updates[1], a Windows 20012 R2 server demanded a reboot. Instead of coming back normally it got caught in a reboot loop with error 0xc000021a. The following was attempted but with no success: 

To find out if some recent cleint-side update is at fault, I started with a fresh Windows 7 box and tested after each bunch of updates. It seems the introduction of the first better-than-XP client already causes problems now - but the first such client versions give a different error message (not that it makes sense): 

I used this sequence of commands to rename one of our AD controllers from "A" to "B". The rationale was that the historical name "A" would be much better suited for a new server that we want to install. This renaming "A" to "B" went smoothly and in particular, the AD functionality is up and running. However, we managed to install the new server only under a new name "C". It can also readily be renamed to "D" or "E" or ... , but not to "A". I thought it might be the old DNS name still being around. Instead of waiting weeks until it would age out automatically, I deleted it from DNS, but ths did not help. What I get when attempting to rename "C" to "A" is an "internal error", without any notable messages in the event log. What could cause this?