I have a manager who is absolutely great. You name it he's got what you want in a boss. He works incredibly long hours though. Typically 6-7 days a week, during the week at least 10 hour days and often late into the night, say work 10-7 then again from 9-11, sometimes he works till 4 or 5am then is back at work the next morning. Weekends he often is working at least 5 hours a day. Normally I wouldn't care too much about his work schedule, if he wants to work its up to him. However, he's told me that in the past he's been hospitalized due to a heart problem from overwork and stress, and he also said in an offhand way working so many hours is damaging his marriage and relationship with his kids. Couple notes on specifics: 1.) A large portion of his work is triaging defects, clarifying requirements, and orchestrating the api's between in a large system. Our team manages a vital service in the overall scheme of things. 2.) Often times he doesn't want to work, but people pull him into discussions when problems arise or they need his input. His boss is very demanding and expects him to respond quickly when asked. 3.) I'm a relative junior to the team so I can help him solve problems, in our service but when it comes to the intersystem problems I don't yet have experience enough to competently fill in for him, particularly when there's an outage and people are scrambling to fix things. 4.) He pulls people from our team as needed to fix problems, but works alongside us as we work. 5.) He's happy with my performance. 6.) Budget is too tight to hire someone else, our team size is around 10 dev, qa, and architect all counted. I'm really afraid something bad will happen to him, another heart attack, or divorce or he just gets tired of it all and quits. Is there anything an employee can do to help an overworked boss? 

My preferred way would be to tell my boss first, then privately tell those people that I work most closely with, allowing a chance to explain some of the reasons for my choice. After those that would be most effected by the decision already know (maybe 1/4 to 1/3 of the team) I would mention it in a daily stand-up meeting. I would speak positively about how I will help in the transition, and make sure to express gratitude for the opportunity to work with the current team. And be brief. The reason I prefer to leak the information slowly is to take away the emotional impact of a "big reveal." 

This man is your colleague, he is not your friend, and he is not your brother. While it is natural and often healthy for colleagues that work closely together to discuss non-work issues, you are never required to engage with him on that level. Since your colleague has taken advantage of your willingness to act as a friend, you need to stop being a friend. You should adopt an all-business persona when working with him. If he starts with a gloomy monologue, cut him off politely with "I'm sorry, but we really need to make progress with the X project." If he takes a break for his leering at a passerby, say, "If you aren't able to focus on our work here, perhaps we should move this meeting to a conference room." In short, minimize personal contact with him, while clearly communicating that you expect professionalism from him. 

So re-open your job search, either immediately, or in a few months, depending on what you can tolerate. When you are asked about why you are looking so soon, just say: "I'm in a consulting role right now, but it isn't a good fit for me in the long term." Employers understand that consulting jobs involve less long-term commitment, even if you are a FTE of the contracting firm. In the meantime, do your best to learn and contribute all you can to your current team. Don't do heroic hours, but give a complete effort every day, and keep some hobby projects going to expand your skills. 

Don't worry about asking. Since many internships in the US are unpaid, it's not at all offensive to inquire, even up-front. If you were going for a career-extending position like "Senior VP of Sales" or "Research Lead II" position, you would want to exercise caution about who/when/what you ask about salary, but not for internships. I've interviewed interns, paid and unpaid, and they always ask. I didn't remember that until you mentioned it, but they did. So it's not notable, like asking about weekend. Besides, we were more concerned with matching skills, personality was not a consideration. Lastly, even if my search committee members all thought it was rude to ask (we certainly didn't) a single slight of any sort is very unlikely to disqualify a candidate. In short, don't worry about it, polish up your skill presentation to match keywords from the listing. 

Yes post it. If you're not embarrassed by at least some aspects of your code 2 years later, you're probably not progressing your development skills, especially if you're new. While anyone can gussy up a few resume examples, a progression of actual work is much more illustrative. If you put out a "hit", employers will mostly examine the code in that project, not digging around in gists. The other contributions still pad your landing page charts and make you look stronger, so get something up there asap. In ten years, you'll have 10 years of projects to show, but not if you don't get started. Don't post zero-revision throwaway code, but don't obsess over "should I have folded that loop?" or "are these doc field names perfect?". Git is also very handy for you to develop code, not just look good, so don't be shy. 

Your best bet here is to negotiate with the company that made you the offer. Tell them that you really hate giving up seven days of vacation, and ask if they could increase your vacation time in your first year. This is a negotiation, and they have no obligation to do it, but you do actually have leverage with them, where you have none with your current company. If they decline, you could ask if it would be acceptable to push back your start date a few weeks or a month to give you a chance to take some of your days off before giving notice. But asking for the company to do other than their policy with unused vacation days is a non-starter, and makes you look either greedy or naive. Try to leave well. 

It sounds like much of your unhappiness is with the client company. You could ask for a different assignment, but don't hold your breath. I've tried to obtain a different assignment while in your position, but your employer won't want to put you in a different position without being able to simultaneously back-filling your spot with your current client. Your situation is actually far better than when you took this job. Currently: 

My answer would be that this candidate did not only demonstrate arrogance, but also a lack of understanding of the difference between the things that he knows and the things that he does not know. Such a lack of understanding is crippling when trying to solve difficult technical problems. Since it appears that you role in the interview process was more on the technical side, you should focus on the technical failures. Evidently (and unfortunately) your input on the personal characteristics of the candidate are not being considered. 

It doesn't matter why, it sounds like you're being given a one-time opportunity, don't pass it up. It costs you nothing to meet this guy and drop her name. He could decide on the spot to hook you up with a sweet gig, or farm you out. don't miss it. Maybe your recruiter knows him well and is impressed by you and wants to do him a favor. Or maybe she thinks your cute and doesn't care about commission. Or maybe she's completely delusional and thinks your someone else. Point is, it doesn't matter why, and nobody but her can say, so just answer the knock of opportunity and see what's behind the door. 

It's not professionally inappropriate, but it might be inappropriate to yourself. You might not have any opportunity to advance at this new job, so it's unfair to yourself to assume you can finagle something comparable to what you have now. It's also slightly unreasonable to expect them to accommodate your hopes instead of filling the position for as little cost to the company as possible (their goal). If you can live with the job listed, then go for it. I would not "call ahead" to ask if you're "too good" for the job, as that tips your hand to them about the ulterior motive. It would be best just to wow them and nail the interview. Talk about needing a change of pace, or how much you just love their brand to overcome reservations about over-qualification. If you do a great job you can usually move up in most workplaces, but if they get a sniff of that as a near-contingency, that could prompt a search team member to start a discussion among themselves about those doubts after your interview, and that conversation never goes your way... 

Of course this is super unethical and you should never do it for that reason. I wanted to add though that ethics aside this is still a very bad idea. What happens when the company does a background check and finds out that your fabricated experience is, well, fabricated? At best they rescind the job offer, at worst they do harm to your reputation. 

one thing to consider, usually companies have a code of conduct that supersedes your line managers orders. Violating the code of conduct is often deemed to be grounds for dismissal whether or not you get an approval from your manager in writing. Keep in mind that even if you get a cya from your boss you won't be immune to repercussions should this action be discovered in an audit or review, especially if you already know you are violating company policy. If your company has an ethics officer (probably depends on the industry) I would strongly advise approaching them with this situation. Remember with security issues, company brand can be at risk and the stakes are high if something goes wrong. 

Definitely include it. Consider from this angle, what is worse, a 10 year gap of employment or a 10 year track record followed by a short gap while you are looking for work. Unless you somehow indicate it on the resume, being fired, being laid off, taking time off for an extended maternity/paternity leave, or quitting to take a vacation or attempting a career change all look pretty similar. If you gained significant skills in the 10 years at the company show case them on your resume and it will give you a leg up on people without experience. Unfortunately, its not uncommon for good workers to get laid off in this day and age. Having an involuntary termination and accompanying few month gap will almost certainly hurt your chances, but very doubtfully as much as a 10 year unexplained gap. Another thing to consider, when you get to the interview rounds, make sure you have an answer for why you were terminated, what you learned from it, and why it won't happen again. By attempting to conceal things, it indicates may not be in the right frame of mind to interview, being honest and open goes a long way. Best of luck! 

There's no compensation due because your company is spending the same amount on you as your colleagues, due to "price changes". Unfortunately, someone made a mistake that delayed your car and by the time you and they got to it, you suffered from a market flux. Life's not fair, but it's not your companies fault. Asking them for compensation would be like "looking a gift horse in the mouth"; almost literally, and even worse: not just looking but complaining. Don't take it personal, stuff happens and you still get a car. 

The literal answer to your question is "yes" because it's unprofessional to do anything your employers don't accept. They get to decide what's "professional" under their roof, and professionals abide by the rules. That said, in the uncritical context described, I think they are full of it. In casual conversation I find it awkward (if not rude) to force a less familiar language on someone. I think you were pragmatic, polite, and welcoming, but it's my luxury of detachment that permits my view; as an employee, you don't get that luxury. 

That's not actually true; your company is spending the same on you as your colleagues, just your company (and you by proxy) are being screwed by the car people. Hate the car people, but don't feel insecure about your value in the workplace. When I was 9 my dad bought my brother and me the last two scoops of orange ice cream, both of our favorites. As he was handing me my cone, it fell on the ground. When he went to get me another, they were sold out of orange, and I had to get lemon. It wasn't my dad's fault they ran out, and somehow I picked up the pieces of my shattered life to live a somewhat fulfilling and interesting life. Don't let the thing get you down, just crash the car next year and make them get you a newer car than your colleagues...