It's a bit unfair to take a word like god, the semantic of which is fairly understood, and demote it to something that only constitutes a first cause. What's the point doing this? The concept already has a title - first cause. Imagine I walk in the street and this girl walks to me and say: 

Takeaway: for an argument to be reasonable, the premises have to be reasonable, and the argument valid. Infinite regression Let me give you an argument to tinker of: 

Impossibility If it is impossibility we debate, then cause and effect couldn't serve as a better example - we have all the evidence in the world such principle is in effect. We haven't got a single evidence that there is an effect without a cause. In other words, infinite regress seems much more reasonable (possible) than any 'natural' stop condition. The same principle is in effect elsewhere (forgive a few leaps): 

It's 3AM, so I'm unsure how much sense this makes. Probably not much. But I hope this helps. Possibility vs practicality In light of your comments, I'd like emphasis a point that so far may have been implicit. I believe your line of reasoning is this: If we'd have to regress ad infinitum, we'd get nowhere. This is absolutely right. To make it as bold as I can, knowledge depends on stop-conditions. Euclid's proof of the infinitude of primes is a proof alright, but only for being based on some mathematical axioms, which are its stop condition. We must stop somewhere on our way in, in order to get results back out. But this doesn't make infinite regress impossible, it is simply impractical. Alice By way of analogy, consider you walk in the woods and suddenly see a door. You open it and see stairs. A white rabbit pops from the bushes and says: 

Quantum mechanics goes a lot further than what is often represented. It implies that there might not be properties at all (no reality, as we know it), independent of a measurement event. The measurement event is not just a physical interaction (that results in just another entangled state). Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) wrote a paper that came to be known as the EPR paradox. It was based on a thought experiment around the entanglement, separation and then measurement of a property of a pair of particles. EPR pointed out that the theory implied that a measurement on one particle had an instantaneous effect on the distant particle. Einstein argued that god does not play dice or use telepathic methods... his argument was that there must be something wrong with quantum theory, as it seemed to imply that one has to give up either or both 1. reality or 2. locality. That can't be right, they argued. So quantum theory, it was suggested, must be incomplete. It mustn't contain all the variables. There must be some hidden variables that explained how there seemed to be instantaneous action at a distance or non reality. These "hidden variable" theories were first tested with John Bell's theorem (Bell inequalities) . Using entangled pairs of spin 1/2 particles, Bell devised an experiment. By measuring the spin on these entangled pairs of particles at varying angles, the hidden variable theories predicted a different statistical outcome than the quantum mechanical theories. Numerous experiments appear to confirm quantum mechanics. Consensus has been to preserve reality, but lean towards entanglement.. that faster than light influence is possible. But something else I read today suggests a more recent theorem and corresponding experiments which implies that the assumption of reality is problematic as well. Physicsworld.com cites the journal Nature as the source for the statement: 

Now. Would going down the stairs be impossible or impractical? If the stairs are indeed infinite, would it be impossible for a thrown ball to fall down infinitely? 

OK. Seems like a reasonable argument, but note that this in itself depends on an axiom - that there are only 3 ways an argument can go. But lets assume the 3 way axiom is reasonable. Now you argue: 

(The skeptics will surely have their say on this, but this is manageable alright.) The commutative low for addition is another axiom that serves us right. Anyhow, with circular reasoning being nonsense, and infinite regress out of the question, all you have shown is that arguments must stop at some stop condition. Let's put this to the test: 

On the nature of science As a closing remark, I hope we have a shared understanding that science is not concerned with deriving at absolute and independent truths - science is about adopting the most rigorous tools at our disposal to approximate patterns. 

Hume has argued the paradox of miracles in his famous Of miracles. The short version goes like this: 

"subjected by reflection" I think means that the state of belonging in all things to an abstraction is caused by reflection (theoretical thinking). I don't think there's any philosophical import there... just the usual sense of the word "subjected". On "reflection", I got the sense in Kierkegaard that the concept is simple, but it's hard to discern because we're so embedded in that mode of thinking, rather than "reflection" in itself being a complicated concept. 

I absolutely love Kierkegaard's response to skepticism. To paraphrase, the problem is the abstract notion of certainty which doubt demands all be measured against. There is certainty that I'm not dreaming, but it's not like mathematical certainty or logical necessity... it's far more fleeting than that. The question "Could I be dreaming?" is a question asked in doubt. The answer Kierkegaard gives is that doubt cannot overcome itself: 

There's an essay in Either/Or that made me think I got the sense of what Kierkegaard was trying to do. Kierkegaard had an extremely well developed sense of aesthetics. But here was this man, arguing that he had found a proof of why Mozart's Don Giovanni was the best work of music that there ever could be. That's a ridiculous claim, and he argues it pretty well. I got the sense that that was the whole gist of the pseudonymous works... that they're about complexity and sophistication and philosophical argumentation that's designed to lead people out to something further... and taking it so far that they're revealed to be preposterous. His signed works (I'm thinking Works of Love and The Point of View) go the other way. They're more religious, but so was The Sickness Unto Death. I thought what was distinctive about them was that their direction was in reverse. They went from sophistication back to simplicity. If the sophisticated arguments in Kierkegaard's pseudonymous works are still impressive, I think perhaps read more of them... 'till they seem ridiculous. I got the sense that the signed works were intended for those who had been broken or made weary by the pseudonymous works.