Himmler 1945 - did not even manage to contact a Brit or a Yank; his few contacts were Swedes and all they did was 

Purges This is completely irrelevant. The people who deposed Khrushchev were just as complicit as him. They might have held lower positions during the purges, but they were high enough to participate in them and benefit from them. If anything, they were angered by his "de-stalinization" efforts. The main reason for Khrushchev's dismissal was that he started to ignore the other members of "Collective leadership" (e.g., by making extravagant gifts to China during his visit there without consulting with Moscow). This, together with the erratic nature of his policy, angered and scared his colleagues. Here is a longer review of his failings and achievements (tl/dr crowd can stop here). Failings According to a popular joke, Khrushchev was deposed because of 5 "K": Кукуруза (Corn) Khrushchev promoted planting of Corn as a way to solve the chronic food shortages. As usual in the SU, this was taken to extremes (cf. destroying grapes during the Gorbachev sobriety campaign) and was only partially effective. Куба (Cuba) Cuban missile crisis was perceived as a defeat. Giving (albeit temporary) "control of weapons with an explosive force equal to 100 Hiroshima-sized bombs" to "mood swings and paranoia"-prone Castro was a bad idea. Космос (Space Program) The space program was enormously expensive. To sustain it, Khrushchev had to make many cuts in the other military programs (reduction of one-third in the size of Soviet armed forces, cancellation of some aircraft and artillery programs, abandonment of surface navy). This earned him widespread hatred in the military and defense industry. Китай (China) First Khrushchev spent spent 7% of its national income between 1954 and 1959 on aid to China and returned Port Arthur and Dalian to China. However, the relationships cooled when China refused to toe the line and SU refused to allow China the liberty of having an own opinion. Коммунизм (Communism) Khrushchev promised Communism (non-monetary society) by 1980. This was widely viewed as unrealistic. Achievements These achievement did nothing to endear him to the top brass, in fact, some consider them to be his failings Хрущобы (Khrushchev + Slums) For the first time in Soviet history something was done for the ordinary people. Yes, the houses were poor by modern standards, but these were the first houses built for the "population", not for "nomenklatura". Not executing political opponents Khrushchev started with executing Beria. The leaders of the Anti-Party Group were merely exiled (e.g., Molotov became an ambassador to Mongolia). A few months later Zhukov was only forced to retire. This led to huge repercussions throughout the system: people realized that the "up (promotion) or out (execution)" system designed by Stalin was over. This led to a momentous change in functioning of the state/party apparatus - it became even less efficient and corrupt than it had been under Stalin. 

The Western allies were not clueless about the Soviet espionage. However, they could not prevent it and were probably underestimating its extent. The reason they were unable to prevent it is manifold. 

The KGB did facilitate the spread of anti-Papal sentiment... ...but not necessarily the way Pacepa describes, i.e., they might not be the originators of the play, but they encouraged its spread once it was written. 

To answer your side questions about paucity of information about Soviet industry: having established a superb intelligence network in the West, USSR was understandably paranoid about the symmetric efforts and classified all information about its industry to the degree that no official numbers could ever be trusted. Combine this with приписки and you see that no one, not even Politburo, knew what was actually happening. Compound that with the obsession to downplay the impact of lend-lease and you will see why we will never know anything. Another issue one has to be aware of is quality vs. quantity. The Lend-Lease trucks and jeeps were far better than anything the Soviet industry could produce at the time. The "workhorse" was "полуторка" - 1.5t truck based on Ford Model AA, and the Soviet Army had about 150,000 of them (and their modifications) in 1941. When accounting for the German trucks using production numbers, one has to be aware that in 1941 the whole Europe was working for them: they were getting Renault, Citroën, and Tatras in addition to their own production. For the Operation Barbarossa the Germans deployed 104 infantry, 19 panzer and 15 motorized infantry divisions (plus some other unidentified divisions). Nominally, this amounts to 104,100 trucks, 96,200 motorcycles and 67,240 cars. Wikipedia claims about 600,000 motor vehicles (about twice as much), which sounds reasonable - a lot of transport has to be done by non-front-line units at the corps/army level. 

Broadly speaking, there are two strategies in winning a war: "attrition" (starving the enemy into surrender) and "overwhelming" (defeating the enemy on the battlefield). Both sides tried both strategies in the WW1, and, in the end, Entente won by attrition. Moreover, the attempts at the battlefield victory were so costly, that the Western allies did not even consider it an option by the start of WW2. Thus, the war plan included a rigid defense and a tight blockade, not a decisive offensive, public statements to the contrary notwithstanding. 

Aztecs did that, Spanish did not. PS. No, the Spanish were no fluffy little bunnies handing out sweets. However, in general, they did not kill for no good reason those who served them, unlike the Aztecs. 

As an addendum to the other excellent answer: If you owe the bank $100 that's your problem. If you owe the bank $100 million, that's the bank's problem. (attributed to Keynes and Getty). The same goes for stranded/surrounded troops: a stranded battalion is doomed, a stranded army can cause trouble. Too many troops were stranded on Philippines. A similar question was asked about the Operation Koltso - the assault on the surrounded 6th Army: maybe it was a better idea to let it starve? In both cases the answer is the same: the 

PS. Note that "successfully electrified the country in the 20's" is, to put it mildly, an exaggeration - just look at the rate of electrification in the 30ies. PPS. I don't have a reference for discussions of greenhouses in preparation for collectivization, just like I don't have a reference for discussions of Urban agriculture. 

The communications between national leaders are normally conducted through the embassies. I.e., Churchill would send a Typex-encrypted telegram to the British Embassy in Washington, DC, it is decrypted there, and delivered in person to the White House. Similarly, Roosevelt would send a SIGABA-encrypted message to the US Embassy in London, it is decrypted there and delivered in person to Number 10. (Cold War required faster decision making, necessitating Moscow-Washington hotline). The direct communications between the militaries were conducted via Combined Cipher Machine starting 1943-11-01. The machine looked like a typewriter (all of them did, including Enigma) and was operated by a technician. 

Decease transfer by colonizers As for the Europeans carrying diseases to the Americas, you might want to take a look at Guns, Germs, and Steel. Basically, the European conquest of America is sufficiently recent for ample written record to exist, including the famous episode when the Europeans attempted to pass smallpox-infected blankets to the Indians (the transfer of blankets was in the summer, the smallpox outbreak among the Indians - in the spring. I am not a physician, but the connection seems tenuous). 

In the USSR, people convicted of treason were routinely stripped of their State decorations, even when they were honestly earned before the treason (e.g., Власов, Добробабин, Берия). The sentence also routinely included a confiscation of all personal property of such convicts. What about other countries? E.g., were Kanao Inouye's WW1 decorations revoked? (The 1st trial record does not indicate so). (The rest of people in List of Allied traitors during World War 2 do not appear to have been decorated before their treason). I am specifically interested in the Western countries of the 20th century, but I do not want to restrict the question to military decorations or military treasons. I am interested in the concept "this crime wipes out all previous merits". 

You must be living in a cave paradise. Indeed, right after WW2 antisemitism became quite unpopular in Europe, mostly because 

The main idea of the deal from the British POV was to drag the US further into the war, not just increase RN's power. The emergency need for destroyers was due to heavy losses from convoy duties; which was not anticipated before the war. 

A theory that paints the Mexican-American War as a war of purely American aggression (Texas as the Crimea of the U.S.). Perhaps this theory has already been accepted by historians? Yes, of course this is the accepted theory among the Soviet/Russian historians. It has, of course, nothing to do with reality. 

Trade with whom? I think the reason was that the huge international trade was mostly between colonial powers and their colonies, not between the colonial powers themselves. Long-term/Economic causes of the War The war was for access to the colonial markets. Old colonial powers already had huge empires (Britain & France - overseas, Russia - along its borders). They were happy with the status quo and held a relatively conciliatory stance (except that they wanted to cannibalize the dying Ottoman Empire). New arrivals (Germany, Austria and Italy - although the latter was later bought by the Entente) had little colonial possessions where they could export industrial goods and from where they could import raw materials. They wanted to upset the apple cart to get colonies, especially Germany, the strongest upstart which was engaged in the early 20th century version of the Space race with Britain. Please see Scramble for Africa for more details. Game theory The biggest problem was the huge underestimation of the cost of war by all parties which resulted in the actual game (Prisoner's dilemma) being different from the game the player thought they were playing (Hawk-Dove). The contested resource (access to colonial markets) turned out to be much smaller that the cost of war (the end of the European domination of the World over the 20th century). PS. See Live and let live for another example of how iterated Prisoner's dilemma played out during the WW1. 

trivial (false - it required much more powerful engines which SU failed to produce) risky to human life (true) scientifically equivalent (false - Americans brought back much more soil samples and these samples were much more interesting because they were non-random). 

It seems to imply that rainbow is a good sign; this is not the case in Judaism, where the rainbow is interpreted as a message "you people are no good, and deserve destruction, but I promised not to do that so you get off". 

This is only slightly tongue-in-cheek. Conclusion If this sounds like religious drivel, well, it is. See also my answer to Why did Stalin deem Quantum Mechanics 'counter-revolutionary'?: 

This does not qualify as the most number of different countries, but probably qualifies as the most number of changes in national flag. 

Propaganda It was indeed reported, but as a non-event, buried in the middle of the newspaper. One had to pay close attention to learn about it and realize the importance of the event. Just like in this joke: Napoleon is reading "Pravda", while, say, Ney is watching the TV report from the November 7th military parade in Moscow. 

"Sex is a private affair" is one of the Human Universals. IOW, most people in most cultures strongly prefer to do it in privacy. "One-room home" has been the dominant arrangement throughout human history for purely economic reasons. Believe it or not, it was relatively common in the late USSR for 3 generations to share a single room, often separated into semi-private annexes by sheets and/or wardrobes. This contradiction was resolved by keeping sex to night time, when the kids were, presumably, asleep. 

Why? The foreign/second language teachers all over the world are overwhelmingly trained local professionals for whom the language is usually also foreign/second (the only major exception is the Israeli Ulpan). The reason is that a language is not just vocabulary/pronunciation/idioms, but, more importantly, syntax, and children in the critical period learn the syntax unconsciously, while adults have to learn it consciously and systematically. Thus, there is little benefit from the teacher being a native speaker for the basic instruction: it is more important that (s)he understands the syntax well and can explain it well to the students. Once the students have a solid grasp of the language, the benefits of the teacher being a native speaker increase dramatically, but most students never reach that level. PS. Phonetics/Pronunciation These are important, but only for oral communication. Reading a howitzer manual does not require it. ;-) Foreign travel is still relatively uncommon outside of the wealthy countries, and was extremely rare in the Soviet block. 

Jews settled in Yemen about 2500 years ago; their community was not isolated at first, but its isolation grew with time and reached its zenith about 2000 years ago with the destruction of the Second Temple and expulsion of the Jews from their Land. I don't think anyone analyzed the accumulated scriptural differences the same way biologists study Genetic drift. 

People Those "in the know" (i.e., those who could see though the propaganda and/or had inside information) were impressed (see Черток "Ракеты и люди" - Chertok "Rockets and People") and, depending on personal inclinations, happy, jealous, envious, etc. But these were a small minority. 

Hitler wanted Germany to take a place on the world scene which was appropriate to the Herrenvolk. This required 3 stages: 

Thus by the time of Watergate it was a well established law that a private citizen cannot be impeached, so it was extraordinary unlikely that a 2/3 majority of Senate would vote "yes" on the second hurdle above. "American leaders" have better things to do than entertain impossibilities. PS. The pardon was controversial: while putting an end to a multi-year chain of scandals, it shielded a crook from jail. Nevertheless, it was a legally unimpeachable move, so nothing could have been done about it. PPS. To answer comments: there can be no "post-resignation impeachment" - like you cannot kill an already dead person. When Nixon resigned, he became a subject to common prosecution like any other criminal - there was no need to impeach him anymore. However, Ford's pardon removed any possibility to prosecute him - that's the meaning of the word pardon.