I would say that piece of wisdom applies more to typical IT shops than to software companies. The typical situation is an IT shop at a company that makes widgets, and has some software that is a "cost center." They want to have a base of employees who can support their systems, and aren't terribly likely to move any time soon. Occasionally, they will have projects where they will need to ramp up their staff or acquire a specific skill set. Or they may like to have a "buffer" if they need to cut expenses fast without risking the hassle of laying off employees. In this case, the typical contractor will be making more than the typical employee. The trade-off is for stability. If there are budget cuts, the contractor will likely go before the employee. On the other side, the employees' skills are likely more localized and domain-specific than the contractors', so they may not have as much leverage to negotiate raises, etc. Again, there are exceptions, but I think this is a rough picture at your typical IT shop. -- For companies, that make software as their main business, the model is a little different. They want talent, and are probably willing to pay for it, and may not be as concerned as an IT shop about costs, so they're working off a different model. 

In the United States there is no requirement to tell the employer who you will be working for, unless there is a specific work contract that would spell out that requirement. As for the new employer checking on your current employment as part of the background check, that generally not a problem for most employees. Many companies handle all employment verifications via a third party. They will confirm dates of employment only. (For loans they will provide income verification.) You current manager will not be told about the verification check. In my experience many employers do want to know, as do your co-workers. They either want to know because they care about you, or they are looking for a future place to get a job. But because some people can't be trusted most employees are under no obligation to tell them. Now HR may ask about a way to contact you. That is so they can send your final check, the tax forms in January or if they find you left something valuable in your office. Note: don't resign until you have a signed offer letter. If you are still deciding don't resign yet. 

My best advice is to accept that you will have some days that are better than others, and not beat yourself over it. In various sports, even the best players go into "slumps" -- times when their performance is far below their usual standards. For the few that don't, I suspect it is more an inherent quality than execution of a strategy for avoiding it. That being said, if you notice you're in a slump, it's probably a cue to break up your routine. If the last time you've hit "compile" you have a page-full of compile errors from typos, it's probably time to take a walk or maybe pick up a non-coding task for a while. Trying to grind through it is likely only going to produce similar results. More important that avoiding bad days is not letting bad days dominate your vision of yourself (or those around you). You (I suspect) are a good developer who occasionally has bad days, not a bad developer. You have this in common with almost everyone else in the world. 

The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation which is a federal agency insures defined benefit plans for both single company and multiple company plans. It has a tool to look them up based on plan name, company, location, and id number Note that this only lists the plans that are insured, but if a company doesn't insure the plan what good is it. A problem with searching for a company, is that many companies are phasing out the plans. They may prevent new employees from joining the plan, but for existing employees they are still contributing funds. Those plans will still exist for decades, yet no new members will be enrolled. There are also issues with determining if a large corporation has jobs in your area. They will be listed only at the HQ location for the company or subsidiary. 

I would say that once you have established yourself in your career (with a few notable exceptions) where you went to college will not count against you. On the other side, I was lucky to have attended a college with a good reputation, that have had several alumni in decision-making positions in the town in which it was situated. It would not be completely honest of me to claim that having the name of the university on my resume didn't mean it got a more generous look than it would have otherwise, and that this never meant the difference between me getting past a certain level of screening and not. I have even been told before an interview that a manager likes graduates of my school. It really shouldn't matter, and I really would like to be able to say that it doesn't matter. But that's not entirely how the world works with human beings. A hiring manager is more likely to trust someone from his alma mater or a similar school than one that he doesn't know. 

There are two ways that official transcripts are handled: - Sent by the school directly to the employer/school. This can be via mail, electronic, or fax. Yes fax, most recently in 2014. - Sent in a sealed envelope to the student who then delivers it unopened to the employer. Official transcripts have a cost. I have also worked with organizations who handled transcripts in two phases. Unofficial to apply, and then official after they make an offer. The unofficial one is free and can be downloaded by the student via the university website. Only after they have decided who will get the position do they ask for the official one, because that has a cost. That means 100 people send in a free transcript and only a few have to send in the one that costs money. Poor college students like that option. Once you get beyond that initial post-graduate hiring the request for any sort of transcript generally goes away, except for graduate school applications. 

The usual social sanction for a joke that falls flat is lack of laughter or silence. Hopefully, this would be sufficient not to try it again. If the pattern continues, you can tell him you'd prefer he not joke about your height. Of course, for a certain class of folks, this would be an invitation for a steady stream of jokes about your size. Your description makes him sound like he's more clueless/ignorant/insensitive than sadistic, so he may respond well to the feedback, but you would know better than I would. 

Disclaimer: I am the type of person who will take public transportation even when told explicitly that taking a cab is acceptable because I tend to be frugal and sort of enjoy the sense of adventure. This is probably not the norm. From my perspective, this is what I would conclude from each of the items, if I got word a candidate had submitted those expenses: 

One way they use the previous address is as part of a background investigation. Knowing the places you have lived allows them to pull some credit info, or arrest reports. They need more than a name to match you to the records. 

When you are trying to find a job there are three legs to the stool, you need to work all of them to some degree. I am assuming that you are not looking inside your current company. 

If when you do your 3:00 AM check the numbers are out of whack, or the process has died, they expect you to put in a couple of hours of work fixing the problem or addressing the issue. Then they need to pay for a reasonable amount of time (30 minutes) for every check you perform, with extra time when there is a problem. If the only thing you are doing is writing down whatever numbers are on the screen, then tell them you can write a task that will record this info every hour, for just a few hours of labor. Show them that they will save a lot of money in the long run, instead of 30 minutes a day or 2.5 to 3.5 hours a week. You have to bill for more than 5-10 minutes because your sleep is being disturbed. If they have a problem with it, then pass the task off to the another member of the team; or only compile data during hours you are awake. 

Assuming these are all legitimate mistakes that are the fault of the employees and not the process, a system of peer accountability seems be in order. If you have a regular meeting with the employees to review tickets (e.g. projecting them on the whiteboard), and point out if they have not been updated in a regular enough time. If you have regular stand-up meetings, where the root cause of a problem repeatedly comes down to a certain developer forgetting a semicolon, that should be embarrassing to the programmer and provide the incentive him to change. I don't like meetings anymore than anyone else, but making the team members accountable to each other for results and their performance in following through with certain things will in most cases make them more likely to do it. 

The problem is that in many of these companies HR is not a central location. So that when location X in the company needs to find a new employee they post via the jobs portal, but the decisions are made locally. In some of these companies they do have a way to tap into any resume that is in their database, but there is no guarantee that they will use this option. If you email a person in HR you will be asking them to enter your resume and data into their system. They have zero incentive for doing so. Unless they need your resume for a position they are filling now there is no upside for them. You also risk that they will do a poor job, thus further limiting your chances. If you do want to do this then go to each company and search the jobs/careers portion of their site for contact information. Hey if there is a real need for this maybe you can start to assemble the list, publish it to the web, and keep it up-to-date. 

Let's make it even less malevolent. Let's say that at hour 39.5 of your week you discover a bug that you have released into a production system that, if unaddresed, would result in some big cost to your company. Nobody is around to approve your overtime. Of course, you would work to at least stop the bleeding from the bug,even if it took you over your allotted hours. But I would then approach the PM at the client and explain that I had worked an extra several hours, and ask how we should approach it, even though it's "my fault." And if he expected me to eat the hours, it would lead me to reconsider if this is a place I want to work much longer. 

The main purpose is to avoid wasting both the candidate's and the company's time if the candidate would not accept an offer at a certain level. If the position is for 60k, and the candidate's lifestyle demands 80k, it's better to know that up front than to go through the whole interview process only to find this out in the end. It's a pre-filter. EDIT: Of course, that's the good, or benign reasons they might ask you that question. The bad, or malevolent reason would be to get you to commit to a lower salary than they are willing to pay.