Mathematics is the study of groups of axioms, theorems deducted from such groups of axioms and models that obey those axioms. The limits so far as we know are rather deep pertains to the distinction between syntax and semantcs, the notion of a set of all subsets and proof of own inability to contradict oneself. 

According to Eliezer Yudkowsky's research on how to design a General AI which will not go sky-net and kill us with nukes (or worse,) it is. His hypothesis goes that the human brain is the most complicated thing in the known universe, and that humans have hundreds or thousands of disconnected desires. One example he gives is surgery: You shouldn't stab people with knives; unless you are a surgeon; but then only if you have a filled-out consent-form, otherwise it is malpractise. The thesis then goes, that brain damage, neurological disorders and psychological disorders can turn people callous and strange, so ethics on an individual basis is most definitely a thing of the human mind. Further he argues that if ethics were external to humankind, why should we follow it. He has an article wherein he poses the hypothetical scenario where the Stone Tablet of Morality (tm) commands thee to do despicable or weird things. In that case, Yudkowsky would elect to disregard the Tablet and not do despicable. Yudkowsky makes a point of playing malvolent wish-granting genie with people who come to him with ethical theories not rooted in the human mind; going so far as to write fictional portrayals of "wishes gone wrong," to quite horrific extent in his story Failed Utopia #4-2 wherein a researcher has activated a superintelligent AI, which changes the world order in ways which are only almost right. ETA: Yudokowsky does at no point argue that ethics are subjective, based on them not feeling that way, nor working out that way in thought-experiments involving altered states of mind, with reasoning as follows: Even if you get lobotomized to think murder is the right thing to do, it is still the wrong thing to do. 

The thing is that in First Order Logic, you can have consistent theories that state "The size of the universe is cardinality N" as an axiom. Trouble is, for those axioms, it is also a consistent theory to replace "N" with "N+1". Also, the moment you do away with the axiom, and the universe is infinite in size, you cannot control how infinite it is. There are some models of PA which are much larger than the real number-line as classically constructed; there are models of ZFC which are countable. Ultrafinitism is a very strange thing indeed. It is kind of like Hipsters. They disregard something that obviously works, in favour of a "novel" idea. 

Yes. Induction is a solid way of getting to know things. Never fear. First of all, it seems that the laws of physics themselves are in such a way, that they do not change over time. This just plain seems to be a feature built into our particular universe (like for instance, electrons, 2 plus 2 being four, and the speed of light) Do note that assuming the laws of physics are the same tomorrow as they are today have made a lot of people very, very wealthy. Second, there is an extensive field of applied mathematics, Machine Learning, which works with a certain concept of statistics: The Bayesian Update. In short, every time a learning system gets new information from it's sensory channels, it updates it's internal probability distribution over possible sensory inputs to fit. It is a mathematically well-founded way of building an internal model of the surrounding environment, just by looking. Google made literally all their money by using machine learning. Lastly, there is a brilliant formalization of Occam's Razor (the simplest explanation, all else being equal, should be favoured) called Solomonoff induction; where a hypothetical prediction machine runs all possible simulations of universes which would explain it's current sensory data, and every time it gains new information it discards the ones that don't fit. Given that it is not computable, it has yet to make people rich, but it has spawned some serious research in AI. This is just a few name drops of what mathematicians work with when they talk about "inductive reasoning." And, again, there is money to be made with inductive reasoning, so ponder long and well before you argue against induction. ETA: "Proof by induction" is something very different from inductive reasoning. Such a proof is only relevant when you are proving a property of numbers and works like this: If P is true for 0, and P being true for n implies that P is true for n+1, then P is true for all numbers. Prove P for 0; assumbe P for n and prove for n+1 and you're done. 

A brain state is a snapshot of everything in the central-nervous-system. A brain state is said to contain everything about a person right the instant it is snapshotted: memories, emotions, skills, opinions, knowledge, etc. Most importantly it is a snapshot of who you are right that particular instant the snapshot is taken. If you buy into material/reductionist theories of consciousness, then a brain state is by necessity information about the physical constituents of the brain. If not, then substitute for a snapshot of whatever you believe a person's memories and opinions are made of, in order to understand the thought-experiment. 

"Truth" is a heavily overloaded term. From an outside view we might assign it a meaning based on it's usage in different fields: 

Belief in the fact X is a probability assessment that roughly corresponds to your willingness to bet money on X being true. This is the Bayesian definition of belief. It furthermore says that if you observe X false, you should adjust your probability downwards (not discard the belief as Popperian epistemology would have you think), since you might have read the measurement apparatus wrong, or you might have another chance to observe the phenomenon in the future. Correspondingly if you observe X being true, you increase your probability assessment. Now note from this definition that a belief can be useful: It lets you anticipate things. If you believe that a certain racehorse is quicker than another, you can bet on that racehorse, and if your are right, you win money. This should motivate you to create true beliefs. The thing about humans is that we are not perfect Bayesians, and so we have some weird behaviours. For example we can believe that a belief is beneficial in itself and not because of predictions. Also many people tend to conflate reasons why it is beneficial to believe something and reasons why the belief is true. 

Those who claim that "Evolution" is the highest, bestest, thingy ever; should really (if possible) donate to sperm banks. That is the best way to maximize your reproductive fitness. Also, I don't think most of them have actually read a contempoary textbook on evolutionary biology. Morality, as I understand it, begins and ends with humans. We are the arbiters on what is good, the only (currently) known effective evaluator and decider of ethical decisions. Evolution "wants" us to put our genes in an awful lot of children. I don't particularly care to do that; why should I? I'd much rather do something fun. Discover and learn, solve challenging and novel problems. Morality/Ethics is the big evaluation parameter for when the world is a "better place." Calling it an "end" is sort of like calling the function f(x) = x + 2 a number. Functions like that act on numbers, morality "acts" on "ends." The end, is making the world a better place. 

To give an entirely pedantic description of what Atheism is, we must first describe what constitutes a religion, as opposed to any other belief. For instance: How exactly is fanatic liberalism separate from fanatic Judaism? What about Star Wars fanatics? What about those who are fanatics about "science," holding Richard Dawkins to a gold standard? The cleanest answer I seem to be able to give is: Religions suppose the existence of things that are inherently, undivisibly minds. Spirits, souls, gods, all these things have it in their base nature to be agents and minds and actors, distinct from rocks, plants, animals and machines: Humans form a grey area. Modern science tells us that the human mind is a phenomena that arises from the complex interactions of billions of neurons in the brain. Nothing less, and more significantly, nothing more. Brain damage from injuries resulting in changes of personality is perhaps the clearest indicator that the mind in a deep sense is the brain. The human mind is a fact of nature, it is a process that takes place in human brains, it is made of neural impulses and neurons and cells and proteins, etc. The human mind is not fundamental, it is made of parts. Most of science is founded on the belief that the only fundamental things in the universe is fundamental particles. Religious beliefs distinguish themselves from the beliefs of Libertarians, "Science-ists," Star Wars fans, Communists, Football team fans and others, bu explicitly including fundamental minds, minds that cannot be divided into parts, be they spirits, gods or souls. So an Atheist is a person who do not believe in the existence of fundamental minds and agents. 

Mathematical statements can be taken to be predictions about the state of the world. You never expect to experience a time where a program-enumerating Turing Machine will output a program that solves the halting problem in general, you will expect circular objects to have circumferences that relate to their radii by a factor approaching 2π and so on. Do keep in mind that modern science tells us that all maths corresponds to neurons firing in certain ways in certain parts of your brain. There's your correspondence in any case. 

All empirical and instrumental interactions a brain has with it's surroundings is conducted through neuron-firing. Your eyes detect light reflected off a coffee cup and signals are sent to your visual-cortex with neural signals. Internally you reconstruct a three dimensional model of the coffee cup from the stereoscopical two-dimensional picture. You decide to move your hand to grasp the coffee cup and your motor-cortex sens out the appropriate neural signals to your muscles. It's all neuron firings. So yes, in principle there is nothing preventing you from putting a brain in a vat and hooking it's neural inputs and outputs to a sophisicated computer and simulating a universe for it to interact with, preserving all memories. There is also nothing preventing you from just using a sophisticated MRI-scanner to read all the configurations of all the neurons and memory-enzymes and neurotransmitter concentrations in the brain and then simulate those directly in high enough fidelity to preserve all the information and thereby the person. A person is the sum of their parts, i.e. the information stored in the brain and the continuous computational process the brain carries out. 

It is an oxymoron to assume that all things have purpose. Purpose is in the eye of the beholder (i.e. it is something our brains create internally, not something attributed to objects). Culture is a consequence of how humans interact (and by extension how we have been shaped by natural selection (especially psychologically)). It has it's benefits, but I am pretty sure no-one ever sat down and invented culture with a specific purpose in mind. Grass grows, birds sing, humans culture. 

Yes, mathematics always needs Axioms. That is what mathematics is all about: Axioms and deductions. Eliezer Yudkowsky has a nice dialogue on the topic here (it is part of a slightly longer article series available here) The difference between Axioms and Theorems is that Axioms require exactly zero deductions to be performed. There is a flip side: Axioms and Deduction Rules are always complemented by Models. Models are things that obey some set of Axioms: A bowl of pebbles obey Peano Arithmetic (albeit with an axiom of upper bound), so you call it a model of Peano Arithmetic. 

Of course there is such a thing as evil. It is the moral evaluation most people attach to things like eating babies, murdering kittens, torturing for amusement and other horrid acts. The thing is, while the OP, myself and possibly many others regard, say, Adolph Hitler to be an evil man, there is unfortunately no such thing. Psychologically realistic bad guys see themselves as heros. I do not see the bad guys as heroes, I see them as bad guys (and I am sure most agree). The terrorists behind the Madrid train bombings no doubt thought of themselves as martyrs of Islam, dying to protect all that is right and good. But we don't see them that way. I must again emphasize that thinking you are a hero does not make you one. Evil is a thing inside our brains, and every human has the notion of it, and the hitch is that you never (granted you are mentally healthy) think it applies to you. 

You may be interested in Near/Far thinking and System 1/System 2 behaviours. Basically, you can know something without acting upon it, if it is difficult to translate into everyday behaviour. 

A very snide Model Theorist would ask you to axiomatically specify your universe of discourse first. I am a very snide Model Theorist. Can you axiomatically specify your universe of discourse? The trouble with using logic to reason about the world around us, is that definitions are true in every world; so they tell us nothing that helps distinguish this one. No matter what convoluted thought experiment universe you might construe, if I write down the twenty-or-so axioms of PA, and then "Therefore S(S(0)) + S(S(0)) = S(S(S(S(0))))" then I have just correctly stated that 2+2=4. This, nothing can prevent from being true. Mathematics hitches on the fact that if you start out with certain symbol strings and apply certain well-defined transformations in a well-defined order, you always get the same result. Mathematics, effectively is a different universe. Inside our brains we happen to have a bundle of neurons which behave as a "universe of discourse," i.e. it obeys the rules of mathematical reasoning; which is why we can reason about mathematics (to an extent.) Also, there is at one point in the canonical series, two wolverines with adamantium skeletons. If you want to reason about the real world, might I recommend bayesian statistics in stead? Sources: Eliezer Yudkowsky's A Human's Guide to Words, 2008