Kant addresses this kind of notion with his Antinomies: $URL$ His conclusion is that human logic is essentially limited in at least these four ways. Russell's paradox introduces a fifth. If it cannot resolve the ultimate nature of something like the start of time, or definition of a set, it also cannot decide the issue of God. We simply have to give up. The argument here is an antinomy like those, there is a problem with our ability to combine the notion of mass or force, which, as quantities, are implicitly limited, with the notion of perfection, which is implicitly unlimited. This is a limitation of our intuition, which means we can't use that intuition to decide whether or not God exists. After all, God's involvement is secondary, right? You can remove him entirely and still have the problem. The question "What is the outcome of an irresistible force acting on an immovable object?" is not about God. 

You are asking about Republican conservativism. And I think it is important to consider that the central organizing principle of the Republican party is not outright, straightforward Conservativism as one might find in European Conservative parties. After all, its founders favored a massive upheaval in society, removing substantial wealth from slaveholders, based on abstract principles, and risking ongoing change that might easily get out of hand. That is not Conservative. And there is not some stark break with tradition where the party became our Conservative party. Historically one can point at the Southern Strategy, the solidification of Evangelical influence and some other strategic corners taken by the party where they absorbed Conservative blocks that are too simplistic and extremist to be truly consonant with their central tenets. And one can argue that this broadening has left the party unstable. The nomination of Donald Trump is an indicator of a caricature of abstract, groundless and principle-free reactionary sentiment taking it over, at least temporarily. He is an embarrassment to many high-profile Republicans. But the fact those leaders admit they are embarrassed, suggests the party's tenets are not totally lost. The party's official charter is not based on outright traditionalism or limited change. It is defined in terms of individual responsibility. 

There are three different fallacies you could be talking about, at different levels of intellectual subtlety: 1) Affirming the Consequent -- "I have ears. Dogs have ears. I am a dog." involves following an arrow of implication backward. (D -> E; I -> E does not imply I -> E -> D, because E !-> D.) You can see this as the form of the example, but most people making the argument simply are not that silly. 2) Overextended analogy -- When two things can be described in the same way, there is only an analogy between them, and not all aspects of that analogy will apply. The Jewish God and the Muslim God have various aspects in common, singleness, omnipotence, etc. They are therefore likely to have other aspects in common, e.g. ineffability, immanence, eternality, etc. But not others, e.g. playing parts in the same stories, being worshiped by the same set of people. Again, most people making this argument are more sophisticated than that. 3) Reification of Fictions or Potentials -- The fallacy of treating the elements of stories or theories as material realities. If God (like Earth) were a material reality, then there would be no fallacy. If we both believe there is only one Earth, surely we believe in the same one. But God is not a material object like Earth. If we both like blue, there is not necessarily a color upon which we can agree. Blue is an abstraction, which is merely potential. (As is any description of God if you think for two seconds.) This seems like the fallacy you are after. The problem is that those who make the argument do not see their God as fictional, but as real, and they don't like the idea that their image of him is necessarily incomplete. 

There is no claim that it is really about you at all. There would be an infinite succession of copies of you. They might not be you, but they are just like you, and you should therefore empathize with them. They together are at least as valuable as you individually. The point is that this might be an iteration with a very small chance of an improvement. In Nietzsche's original that could happen by your iteration still being on the converging path. In a more modern framing, it could happen by your iteration encountering some rare 'butterfly effect' condition. That means that if you live more like you wish, even in a very small way, that would still affect infinitely many people. His impetus is to wash out the notion that everyone else is more important because there are just more of them than there are of you. There are infinitely many of you, just like there are infinitely many of them, and there is no point in talking about 'larger infinities' (as long as they are all countable). So ultimately, it is an argument for radical, prudent selfishness in every instant over utilitarianism or other moralities focused on our culture or our species. Discounting the possibility that things can still change slightly, your friend (who echos some versions of Buddhism) is right. This is just a cycle and all we can affect is our approach to the inevitable, we may not even be able to affect that. All infinitely many of us live with the false hope of mattering. By modern scientific principles, Nietzsche is just wrong. There is no convergent path and differences would not really be rare at all. At some point in each iteration the whole universe is compressed to a space small enough that uncertainty on the Planck length can change literally everything, and the next cycle would look nothing at all like the last. But he was looking at this from a standpoint of science before quantum mechanics and curved space were observed. 

One claims someone is using a slippery slope argument to prompt them to prove the actual likelihood of progression. It does not challenge the argument per se but insists they detach predictions of the future from assertions about the past or present and analyze the prediction itself. It is basically the most time-worn version of "correlation does not imply causation", where in order to acknowledge an explanation has merit, you must have a trend and a plausible mechanism, which establishes the possiblity of causation and its direction. 

Classically, this is procedural or behavioral knowledge. Both propositional and procedural knowledge are forms of 'alethic' knowledge about what does and does not happen in reality. I would contrast it with moral or 'deontic' knowledge about what is expected by other people (including conscience which is about what we expect of ourselves), 'doxastic' knowledge about how we communicate and decide (including 'hedonic' knowledge about what does and does not affect your own homeostasis in your own terms). The upside of propositional logic is that via modal inflection it can encode most of the other forms of knowledge in ways that allow them to be referenced and evaluated. In the case of procedural knowledge, we can write algorithms and say 'It is effective when faced with this arrangement to invoke this algorithm' as a propositional statement. Likewise most of the other forms of knowledge can be encoded as complex references within a propositional language. 

Identity is not merely emergent, because it is not coherent enough to constitute a tower of realizations. Although it is multiply realized, it is not just realized at different levels of complexity. It is realized multiply at every level of complexity, and higher level realizations do not supervene upon others. I am a legal entity, a mind, a body, a collection of particles, etc. But I am multiple legal entities -- one for every legal contract into which I have entered. I can jointly and severally be parts of various groups and there is not some substrate on which those memberships are determined other than their own simple statement. I am multiple minds and bodies, past and future. And I am ambiguously a trail of particles across time, but which ones are really me is always ambiguous -- do I have a shirt, or is the shirt part of me when I wear it? You might want to look at this 'monadically' in the sense of Leibniz or early Whitehead. The monad exists as the collection of all its effects on everything else. This allows each particle to be a monad, and for larger collections of things that have traceable effects in composite to also be monads. Identity applies at many levels and in many layers. Whitehead argues that the imposition of static identity based upon physical composition is part of our mechanization of our sense of identity. You are focused upon the material identity. He argues for the primacy of the notion of an organism. When that organism has intelligence, his notion of organism comes very close to the modern psychoanalytic notion of intersubjectivity. In a more organic view, things really cohere through procedural identity. An entity does not persist, but reiterates its roles in various circumstances. It is more important that my car is the thing that is available for me to drive, and for which I take a given set of responsibilities, and otherwise rely upon in various ways, than it is that it is made up of a given set of atoms, even in sequence over time. (Ask Phish.) Identity obtains when one enters into relations with other things that have identities. Each thing is identical to itself in the sense that it has its own set of relationships and no other, and in basically no other way. We are made up of different particles, we occupy different spaces, we change both phsyically and psychologically across time, etc., etc. etc. Identity establishes my assignment to various categories in different natural kinds, which, as Quine points out, are themselves incompletely separable. So identity, like existence is not really a property, much less one that can be clarified to the point of representing an emergent phenomenon. 

From a less careful position, a Master-Signifier is something halfway between the Jungian concept of an archetype and that of an ego-ideal: Father, The Feminine, German-ness, Humane Behavior, etc. as goals to strive for or fixed exemplars that we will not allow to be sullied. The thing signified is not a real or learned connection, but an extrapolation into an idealized image, relative to which all encountered instances are rated according to their failure to encompass the perfect form. So it is not the word, or the real object, or even the type of the real object, it is more like the Platonic idea of that object, except that it does not emanate from some idealized realm and get cast into the mind, it is derived by the mind from reality through idealization. Given that humans are often quite similar internally, these signifiers are shared, but also personalized -- my ideal of Man is not yours, but we both have one and they will largely overlap. 

If DaVinci's observations about the 'Vitruvian Man' are just empirical trends, this number may represent a natural human allometry. Some aspect of the underlying pattern upon which the distribution of body measures falls on average may just have this as its dimension. If we like this as a balanced limb ratio, or some other common comparison, when it arises in other humans, we might generalize our response to other visual input. 

Presumably those circumstances would depend upon the impulse in question. I do not think Russel means to imply that all important work springs from a single, common impulse. I think the impulse indicated is unique to the work, and that in the case of each work, circumstances must be found that allow the work's evolution. I think he is talking about the adult version of something like Montessori's concept of 'horme'. A work has an internal energy, which it naturally generates more of as it succeeds, so what is most important is not to block or interrupt its natural evolution. Our reflex is to help children, to speed up the process with guidance, or rewards. But that is just our excessive empathic investment, and our impatience. What we really need to do is allow the natural maturation to happen on its own and ensure the environment contains enough interesting variation that the skill will find motivation to display itself. The things that we all need to learn, like arithmetic, or reading, have a sort of common natural evolution. You cannot teach them all the same way. But we can discern what is needed for each, and guess how to enable each child in each realm, without pulling them off course. The important intellectual work of adulthood is more unique. We are not converging toward a known point where others have gone before us. We are developing original directions. So beyond the obvious, what is needed most is attention to "affording scope".