Why do you think that the standard of objectivity is being measurable? There are plenty of philosophers who think that value-judgements, for instance, can be objectively true, and so are on a par with scientific statements in their objectivity. On the flip side, plenty of philosophers think that so-called 'quantitative' disciplines aren't as objective as they purport to be. 

It's not super clear what you're asking, but I'll take a stab at it. It looks like you're interested in finding out what makes something a fact. I'll deal with your question directly, and then provide some comments to point you in the right direction. 

We'll focus on 1 and 2. 1 amounts to the claim that non-cognitivism is false: whatever moral claims are, they aren't merely expressions of emotion. Rather, moral claims are on a par with scientific or mathematical claims insofar as they purport to describe some feature of the world - specifically, the moral features. Moral claims are true when they accurately represent the moral facts, and they are false when they don't. The important bit is that they can be true or false at all. So, for instance, the claim that 'sufferring is bad' is not an expression of my or anyone else's emotions or feelings - it is an expression of a fact. On to 2. Something is true objectively if it is true independent of anyone's thoughts, feelings, beliefs or ideas about that thing. Something is true subjectively if it is not true objectively, i.e. if its truth depends on what people think, feel, believe etc. about it. So 2 says that the truth-values of moral claims do not depend on what anyone thinks, or feels, or believes about them. So, for instance, if it is true that suffering is bad, then it is not because people believe that suffering is bad, or think that it is bad, or feel that it is bad. (More carefully: is that it is not merely because they think, feel, or believe that suffering is bad that it is bad). 3 entails the falsity of error theories, and 4 ensures that moral agents aren't isolated from the moral facts - they're not outside of the domain of things that we can know at all. So, that is the core of moral realism. It can be fleshed out in other ways as well. If moral realism is true we might ask what kind of facts are moral facts. Are they natural facts, or non-natural facts? Now, what cogent arguments there are for moral realism will depend on the kind of moral realism you accept. If you're a moral non-naturalist, then Moore and Huemer give compelling cases for their view. Their arguments will typically take the following form: (i) they'll offer up a prima facie plausible example of a moral fact, for instance, 'torturing innocent babies just for fun is wrong'. (ii) they'll claim that any argument which implies the falsity of 'torturing innocent babies just for fun is wrong' will be less prima facie plausible than the truth of the fact that torturing babies just for fun is wrong. (iii) from (i) and (ii) they'll argue that moral realism is correct. Different arguments exist for the different flavours of realism (see below). The point, however, is that there are cogent arguments for moral realism, and they do deserve to be taken seriously. Here are some links that can get you started: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ (this is a chapter from Huemer's book) 

I think what you're picking up on is the Fregean distinction between sense and reference. The referent of a term t is the object that t picks out 'in the world', whereas the sense of t is, roughly, something like the idea associated with t. (VERY roughly. Frege calls the sense of the term the 'mode of presentation' of the term; one way to think of sense is as the way in which a term refers. Note also that by calling the sense of a term an 'idea' I don't mean that sense is something mental). Frege identifies the referent of a (well-formed) sentence with the truth value of that sentence. This is consistent with your recognition that '3>2' and '4+6=10' are truth-functionally equivalent, and yet 'don't mean the same thing', i.e. are synonymous (I take it this is what you're trying to capture when you talk about content). Frege will explain this by appealing to a difference in sense between the two sentences (better: the propositions expressed by those sentences). Similarly, the sentences 'all bachelors are unmarried men' and 'all vixens are female foxes' are both (necessarily) true, hence truth-functionally equivalent, but we wouldn't want to say that they're synonymous. And again Frege will explain this by appealing to the distinction between sense and reference. For more you can check out $URL$ for a discussion of Frege's philosophy of language. Frege himself is an incredibly clear writer, and you could probably go straight to his "On Sense and Reference" (just google it - you can find it all over the place online), where he lays out this distinction in some detail. 

If one is warranted in believing that theism is false, then, insofar as Islam/Christianity/Judaism/etc. endorse the truth of theism, then one will be warranted in believing that Islam/Christianity/Judaism/etc/ are false too. There's a general epistemic principle at work in the background here: if you're warranted in (dis)believing that P, and P entails W, then you're warranted in (dis)believing that W.** That principle looks prima facie plausible, but we might want to add a further restriction to the antecedent, that you're aware that P entails W. So if you don't know that P entails W, you can justifiably believe that P while not believing that W.** You're correct when you say that the truth of theism is a necessary condition on the truth of the system of beliefs endorsed by the religions you list. At least insofar as those religions endorse the conception of God given by theism. And you're correct to think that if you're justified in believing that theism is false, then you're justified in believing that the claims made by religions that endorse theism are false too. But only if you're aware that those religions endorse theism (which looks like a pretty plausible assumption). ** This is related to, but not identical with, the epistemic closure principle. See more here. 

A pithier way I've seen him put this is as "why should this (physical property) feel like that (phenomenal property)." Note that there's a problem only if there are such things as phenomenal properties, and they coincide with physical properties in the way that people like Chalmers think they do. You can avoid this problem altogether by denying that there are phenomenal properties. Eliminitavists like Daniel Dennett take this approach, as do the Churchlands. Most people think that this is a non-starter, however. With respect to your main question, you note that the dualist has to account for how the mind interacts with the body. This is correct. But it isn't the core of the mind-body problem (if it exists, assuming we're not eliminitavists). This is less of a problem for the materialist. Note, however, that your second question applies to both the dualist and the materialist alike - their positions are distinguished by how they answer the question of the relationship between the mind and the body. 

Well-formed sentences in a language express propositions. Propositions are complete, maximally consistent sets of possible worlds. Possible worlds are abstract objects. A sentence S is true at a world w iff w is a member of the proposition expressed by S. 

This is a common sentiment, and I can assure you it won't go away just by doing some linguistics! Your best bet is to persevere. Read slowly, take notes, and only move on from reading a sentence/paragraph/section/chapter once you feel you have a good grip on what the author is saying. Comprehension comes first; criticism after. But, if you really want to read some linguistics, for semantics you can read Heim and Kratzer's "Semantics in Generative Grammar", and for some syntax you can read "Core Syntax" by David Adger. I found both of these helpful for coming to grips with the linguistics you might encounter in philosophy of language. You might also consider posting this question to the linguistics stackexchange. Additionally, it's worth pointing out that you won't need much if any linguistics to engage with traditional philosophy of language (e.g. Russell, Searle, Putnam, or just about anyone writing before the 90s or so). But I guess this depends on exactly what you're reading and what you hope to get out of it. 

I don't know of any philosophers in particular who address this question. But here's a possible answer: belief in God exists because people have good reason to believe in God. There are many sophisticated arguments for the existence of God, and some people may find them compelling enough to be convinced. That would explain how people still believe in God.