Yes, it's anaphora, but it isn't referential anaphora. Following George Lakoff, most now distinguish identity of meaning anaphora (here the deleted V' is interpreted to mean the same as its antecedent V', "buy a present") from identity of reference anaphora. An example of the latter would be "I would have bought a present, but Suzie bought it first." The meaning of a V' can be reasonably represented by its form (here "buy a present"), but coreferential anaphora works quite differently. 

Here is my summary (drawn from reviews of Wolfe's book -- I didn't read it). A correct view of this question about the nature of language would have to emerge from exposure to facts in the field. When you go out into the field, you get a good tan. This guy Everett is tanned and healthy, while Chomsky and those who follow him are pale and unhealthy looking. Accordingly, Wolfe concludes that Chomsky's theories must be wrong. Like Darwin, who spent so much time aboard The Beagle in an enclosed little room, sketching, analyzing morphology, thinking, the Chomskyans spend too much time indoors. Bad practice. Non-linguists reading about this controversy about the language organ might get the impression that investigating the language organ, or looking for it, is something linguists do. It's not so. No one cares about the language organ. 

The short answer is that they are different. The former refers to alveolo-palatal articulation. The latter refers to palatal release of the consonant. The pure palatal segments [ɕ] and [ʑ] have a constant alveolo-palatal place of articulation. The palatalized alveolar segments [sʲ] and [zʲ] have alveolar articulation with a palatal release. The two core sounds (palatal versus alveolar) are very clearly distinguishable and several languages do have [ɕ]-[s] minimal pairs. As far as I know, there are no languages with ?[ɕ]-[sʲ] minimal pairs; i.e., there are no languages that make a semantic contrast based purely on palatalization onset time. That's not to say the difference is not noticeable. Mandarin Chinese has the alveolo-palatal fricative in its standard phonology, but it is common to see delayed palatalization onset these days, and it is seen as a dialectical (especially cosmopolitan urban) marker as well as a non-native dialectical marker (the delayed palatalization as well as voiced palatalization as in [sj] is extremely common for learners of Chinese whose L1 is a language that lacks palatal obstruents). It is always worth note in cases like these, however, that since there is no contrastive difference between the two in any language, there is no real canonical difference between the two. There'd be nothing stopping you from transcribing speech using a convention where the palatal release diacritic was just taken to mean constant palatal articulation. 

No, I don't think you're on the right track. I agree partly with your example, but I think what is going on there has a different explanation. The listener could say 

The attempt to construct formal grammars for human languages has not yet been successful. Don't expect much. The most comprehensive efforts have probably been for English. For Latin and Greek, I doubt you'll find much at all (but I haven't looked). 

It's because yes-no questions are asked by listing first a positive alternative, then the negative alternative. In giving a list, each item before the last one gets a rising intonation, so the positive alternative gets a pitch rise: "Do you want to eat, or do you not want to?" When the negative alternative is suppressed, we're left with just the first list item that still has the rise in pitch at the end. 

Is there a specific question about whether a particular candidate can be considered a phoneme in sign language? Perhaps if you frame your question in terms of the research you've already done on the field (and it doesn't take much to start), people can build on that. That way, you can take advantage of the diverse array of backgrounds here to help you arrive at new knowledge. I feel the way the question is phrased now, it might be banking entirely on one of the 50-or-so private beta-ists on knowing sign language phonology, which might be unlikely. That being said, what a phoneme is is no different in sign language than in natural language. The fact that word phoneme is derived from a root meaning sound doesn't affect the more abstract meaning that it's taken in academic linguistics. It's the underlying representation of a minimally contrastive unit. If changing the location of a gesture and nothing else changes the semantic meaning produced (in ASL, and all other full sign languages as far as I know), then each location (or some more abstract construct that includes or influences location) is mutually contrastive. If changing the hand shape and unilaterally change the semantic meaning, then each of those shapes are mutually contrastive. Once we know all the mutually contrastive locations, movements, and hand shapes (and other things), we discover relationships between them and rely on native speaker intuition to wean this down into a candidate list of phonemes, whose compositions can deterministically produce every word in the lexicon. 

A rule of thumb that will seldom (if ever) lead you astray is that a modifier (or "adjunct") modifies a constituent of the same category as the entire modification structure. Complements do not obey this rule. So, when we have a structure [A ... [B ... [C ...] ] ], when category A = C, then B modifies C (and B is an adjunct). But when A and C have different categories, C is a complement of B. Similarly, for post-modification, we have [A [C ...] ... B] with A = C. A way to think about this is that adding a modifier to a constituent does not change the category of the constituent, but adding a complement does change the category. In a pure phrase structure theory, a modification structure is described by a recursive rule, which necessarily generates an infinite number of modification structures, unlike a complement structure. (Compare adjective and adverb modifiers with subjects and objects, for example.) So far as I know, no known syntactic theory describes this basic fact of language structure. 

That's actually a slightly different case in my mind. The prosodic characteristics of at (being a very weak unit) in at shoe may cause segmentation issues. While I still haven't read anything that's totally convinced me that phonemic affricates exist in English, I suspect that proponents of phonemic affricates might argue that the resegmented form is proof that /tʃ/ the cluster and /tʃ/ the affricate are distinct. Rambling aside, this doesn't appear to prevail in my dialect and the fricative in at shoe emerges like a vanilla fricative: At shoe 

I think the big difficulty with the phonetics-phonology divide is not only that linguists don't even really agree on the difference but also that there doesn't exist a good analogy with any other pair of subfields. This is the way I've seen it (cards on the table, although there are more extreme folks, I'm fairly far on the "phonology doesn't exist" camp, and that is probably influencing my answers)... Phonology is the study of the cognitive processes that turn words into instructions to hand down to the physical body parts that produce the sounds. These instructions, personified into human commands, might sound like, "close your lips, now move your tongue to touch your alveolar ridge; begin lowering the diaphragm at a normal rate and constrict the vocal chords to this degree". On the acoustic side, phonology's role is much harder to specify (at least to me), but I would say that the "phonology" center takes in sequences/matricies of interpreted linguistic features, for example "between 442-488ms, palatalization level 2". Phonology would then turn that into the abstract "underlying" representations that can be mapped to morphological parsers and the lexicon. Phonetics is the study of how the "commands" end up translating into specific articulator and vocal tract movements. For instance, how the command to retract the tongue at some particular time "really" maps to minute physical details like exactly when tongue section X touches mouth section Y and then in turn how that affects parts of the resultant acoustic signal. Phonetics also makes observations of how certain groups of instructions can cause very specific consequences. On the acoustic side, phonetics turns the mental spectrogram we receive from the nerve endings in our cochleas into feature sets and timings of the sort that it received from the phonological center during articulation. Articulatory phonology is an attempt to consolidate the two, that, as far as I can tell, is basically phonetics taken one level deeper to receive underlying segments as inputs. And articulatory phonology moves a lot of what was in phonology proper as cognitive processes into physically motivated processes during articulation. In short, nobody really knows the difference, but the broad agreement is that phonetics is lower-level and more articulator-centric and phonology is higher-level and more cognition-centric. 

Yes, there are such studies. Notably, Jakobson's Child language, aphasia and phonological universals, and David Stampe's The acquisition of phonetic representation in Chicago Linguistic Society, vol 5. 

If we follow the treatment of stress in SPE, when part of a phrase comes to have stress, stresses on other elements are not lost, but merely become subordinated to the new stress. If there is no stress at all, a non-diphthongal vowel will reduce to schwa, so if a vowel fails to reduce to schwa, we can take that as evidence that the vowel does have some stress, though the stress may be at a low level due to having been subordinated to other stressed syllables. (There are complications to this that I won't mention for now, and, of course, many don't accept the SPE stress theory at all.) So a first question to raise about your examples is: do the first vowels of "not" and "funny" reduce to schwa? My opinion is that they do not. So, given that, in "It's funny" and "It's not funny", both "fun" and "not" are stressed. What the stress levels are, will depend on whether the "not" is taken to be contrastive: "It is funny" versus "It's not funny". If so, the highest stress will be on the "not": "It's n1ot f2unny" (meaning that the most stress is on "n1ot" and a secondary stress is on "f2unny". If there is no contrast, primary stress will be on "f1unny", following the Nuclear Stress Rule, which give the last primary stress in a phrase (here, the verb phrase) the most prominence. Then, we'll get "It's n2ot f1unny". I have left the stress of "it's" in the examples out of account. Pronouns are a special case, and I think it might either be stressed or not, here. In my speech, the vowel of uncontracted "not" always has some stress. 

There are also prosodic differences that influence our judgment of dialects, but I'm not experienced enough with them to advise on it intelligently. In summary, differences between dialects are marked in so many ways including both vowels and consonants. There is no "primary" difference. That question is as unanswerable as the question "What is the primary sound in languages? Vowels or consonants?". 

What do you notice? There are two major differences that linguists have narrowed down as the cues our ears and minds use to differentiate shoe from chew: 

You have very good instincts, because this statement is halfway to the answer. An exploration of the topic is best started in a discussion of the differences between the words shoe and chew, which differ only in that the former has a fricative initially and the latter has an affricate. The period of silence (caused by voiceless stop closures like [t]) that characterizes stops and the "stop" portion of affricates is indistinguishable from regular silence. We only ever "identify" the presence of "stoppiness" as well as the nature of the stoppiness (e.g., bilabial vs. velar) by the influences that the silences have on neighboring segments. In the case of the postalveolar fricative versus the postalveolar affricate, in the postalveolar affricate, the stop asserts its status by altering the nature (non-technical term used here; I will elaborate) of the following fricative. Let's compare my totally amateur recordings of shoe versus chew. Shoe