Searching for the definition in dictionary.com you can find this under the word origin and history section: 

From these 2 sites: whitedwarf.org and imagine.gsfc.nasa.gov both states that stars less than 8 times the solar masses would eventually become a white a white dwarf. So, depending on the mass of the star, a white dwarf having 1.4 solar masses is possible. 

Now to address your point if we can ever know if a parallel universe exists exists. Opinion: Possible but unlikely. I don't think that we are close to achieving this. 

According to List of Common Misconceptions by Wikipedia, under the heading of astronomy, this line can be found: 

Several satellites (but most notably Iridium) have large reflective panels. If aligned with the sun properly, it can shine with sufficient brightness to be visible in the daytime. An Iridium Flare usually lasts only a few seconds. It sounds quite consistent with your description. It can be hard to tell in a blue sky with no nearby references, but an Iridium satellite would also be moving while fading out. There are sites that can show you upcoming flares for your area. If you knew the exact date in the past, they could probably even "post-dict" what flares were available then and see if it matched. 

The primary source of comets for our solar system comes from the Oort Cloud, a smaller amount coming from the Kuiper belt. The Oort cloud is thought to have originated from the remnants of a proto-planetary disk. This paragraph explains this better: 

How they have concluded that there could b.e a subterranean ocean on Ceres is by Spectralscopy. Spectral Signature can be summarised to like this: 

As you said it is easier to find meteorites in snow because it is white and contrasts with the usual colour of meteorites. It would be very hard to try and distinguish those small particles with the normal soil on Earth. As for finding one randomly in a concrete building... the chances are very low and it possibly would have done some noticeable damage to the building. A rather simple experiment to prove that yes you can find it anywhere on earth, follow this example. This is to search for micrometeorites. I have done this before and I found it to be particularly inefficient as it is rather wind in my area, but hey you might find it different. You can attempt to search for meteorites somewhere else but just don't expect to see large chunks of it lying around. 

Stars in our galaxy, the Milky Way, no. It's only around 100k light years across, it contains 100 billion - 1 trillion stars, of which we can individually "see" only a small proportion. Most of those are very close, the furthest around 1500 light years, and most of those are not supernova candidates at all, let alone black hole candidates. Even allowing for our best telescopes, we still only resolve a small proportion of stars individually. The galaxy probably experiences roughly one supernova every 50-100 years. So even if all of those were visible stars (which they aren't: even of the largest stars in the galaxy only a small proportion can be seen with the naked eye), and all the supernovae resulted in black holes (which they don't), then at most 15-30 naked-eye-visible stars could already be black holes, and only up to 1000-2000 total stars in the whole galaxy regardless of visibility are in the duration between going supernova, and earth entering the future light cone of that supernova. This extremely loose upper bound is by no means "most of the stars that we see", and in fact the chances are that none of the stars you see when you look up at the night sky are already black holes. It might well be that none of them ever will be. It's also unlikely that any star you observe with the naked eye is dead, since their lifetimes are of the order of 10 million years (for the largest) to billions of years, and their distances from earth are 1500 light years or less. But there are a few stars, like Betelgeuse, that we know are near the ends of their life and that therefore might be "already dead" in this sense. Using telescopes we can see some individual stars in nearby galaxies, or at least indirectly observe them since they're lighting up nebulae that we see, up to a few tens of millions of light years away (these tend to be blue supergiants, I think). Of these, those on course to turn into a black hole may well have lifetimes less than or equal to their distance from us. It's not necessarily the case that all or even most of them become black holes, I'm not sure what's typical of the types of star in question, but for those stars you can say that many or most are already black holes. The most distant individually-resolved stars are all dead one way or another. If you allow for us "seeing" each star in a very distant galaxy, even though we can't resolve any of them individually before they supernova, then the numbers change again, but my instinct is that it's not the case that "most" of the observable universe is already collapsed into black holes. But the stars may well be dead even though they aren't black holes. We can see galaxies 10+ billion light years away, which is about the entire lifetime of a star like the Sun. To come up with "most", though, you have to firstly agree what counts as a star and secondly survey what kinds of star those galaxies contain. If you end up concluding that most stars are (by comparison with the Sun) tiny little red-brown things with lifetimes in the tens of billions of years, then most stars aren't already dead no matter how far away the galaxy they're in :-) On the other hand, the brighter objects that contribute most of what we observe via telescope in the most distant galaxies, sure, certainly die in far less than a few billion years. Note that in special relativity the concept of "simultaneous" is a bit difficult to pin down. But I've followed the convention that if something is X light years away, then anything we observe from it between now and X years from now, has "already happened". We're not necessarily entitled from where we're standing to say that it's "already happened", since it's not in our past light cone, but good enough :-) 

During the locking process, the angular momentum of one is fed into the other until the periods match. The final destination depends on the initial momentum of both objects and the moment of inertia. As an example, if you make the moon less massive, or the earth more massive or with a faster spin, then the final configuration of the system would have a larger orbit. You could certainly create a system where the final theoretical configuration has a distance to the satellite that is beyond the primary's Hill sphere. Such a system would be expected to eventually separate. Fluidity might change the rate at which the final destination is reached, but not its configuration. 

For some stars, yes it could be. There are certain stars that we can individually observe, and that we believe could go supernova more-or-less at any moment. Betelgeuse is probably the most famous example. It's 640 light years away, it could go type II supernova any time (expected within the next million years, but could conceivably happen within the next 640 years as we observe it, such that it's already happened). It might become a black hole when it does (although a mere neutron star is also on the cards, I believe, and probably more likely). Furthermore, when we observe a distant galaxy it is certain (as far as our theories are concerned) that some of the stars contributing to the light from that galaxy have since become black holes. However, since we aren't resolving individual stars in those galaxies even with our best telescopes, you could have an argument whether we're "seeing" the stars or not. 

The amount of mass lost is more due to stellar wind, rather than to fusion. To answer your second question, the pressure will never overcome completely the force of gravity. When a star reaches the iron nickel stage of fusing, it'll stop, unable to go further. This causes a rapid contraction for either a star to go supernova (which is really tearing most of the star apart except for its core), or cool down to a black dwarf. 

So how the scientists would have concluded that there was water because of the water vapours in the atmosphere. It gives off a certain wavelength that could be compared the closest element that gives off the same wavelength which is water. Then the scientists would have used Galileo's magnetometer(an instrument which measures the strength and direction of magnetic fields) to conclude that there could be an ocean on the dwarf planet. The strength and response of the induced field would tell the scientists a rough estimate of the dwarf planet's sub surface which in return they could deduce the fact the there is a large amount of water present which equals an ocean. 

Each object is transferring the same amount of angular momentum. But the response of each object depends (at least initially) on the relative magnitudes of their moments of inertia. For a system where the satellite is (relatively) small, or where the difference in rotation rates is large, impact is inevitable. The primary cannot speed up fast enough to keep up with the increasing speed of the descending partner. But when the difference in periods is small, and the primary is small enough/far enough, then the objects would lock before impact. 

Ursa Major is relatively close to Polaris in angular distance, so this motion is easier to see. But in fact all the constellations appear to revolve around the axis. The closer they are, the tighter the arc and the easier this motion is to see. If they are far away and you are not at very high latitudes, they will be obscured at some point by the horizon and the motion is hidden. So for your question, look at a starmap and the closer a constellation is to the future axis, the more it will behave like Ursa Major today.