I was going to post this as a comment on @Zibbobz's answer, however it kind of grew to being its own answer. If there was some local fauna which was kind of like kelp. With pockets of hydrogen gas to help hold it's self up. The plant would have evolved this to help them scatter their seeds or pollen over a very large area. When the dragon wants to go hunting it grabs hold of lots of these. Cuts them free of the ground and floats up, up and away. These plants will have evolved to have very stretchy gas sacks so they can reach higher altitudes. (a normal weather balloon can stretch four times its size during flight1) During the early phase of the flight the dragon takes many deep breaths to oxygenate its blood and then holds its breath once it passes out of the range where it can breath. Whales can hold their breath for up to 90 minutes. Once the dragon is high enough or the balloon/kelp pops it drops down in a very stream lined shape with its wings folded back. It is still holding its breath. Here it will break the sound barrier. The pray it is falling on will not see or hear it coming. The pray is going to have to give it a huge amount of energy. This has to feed a dragon after all. As the dragon needs to slow down it first goes from noes down to nose level then slowly expands its wings. Hopefully managing to glide out of the fall before it splatters its self into the ground. The highly flammable plants may be a problem with this plan. Maybe need to explain that the plants seeds can be activated by fire and thus why they are around fire breathing dragons. We are trying to deal with big dragons, some amount of hand waving is required to deal with the square/cubed law. 

I have a race of humanoids who live on two planets in a binary system. This planet is mostly a water world, with some swamps and about three Australias. The other planet is very dry. But, I have a problem. I want it to be similar to Star Wars, with high technology level but no internet or social media. But I do want them to have space stations, spaceships, things like that. One thing I thought could help would be to make it inefficient or expensive to have these kinds of things. But I don't know how to do that. Or maybe bombard the planets with some kind of light that would fry electronics? Note - Things like it goes against their culture are off limits, because if these creatures have technology that is helpful to them they will use it. Note - Other alien's gifting them technology is also a possibility, but that means that at some point these creatures are likely to develop an Internet, and I don't want that. 

The downsides to this method: It takes quite a while to set up. You need to steal a map. It is very easy to end up with the mesh in a complete knot. I am not convinced it will always give you the correct answer. (But it seems close) 

Joining the ranks of the EMP crowd I'd go with Explosively pumped Flux compression bombs. These work by generating and compressing a magnetic field using a power supply, a coil and some explosives. See the the wikipedia entry for a full description and description of how they work. The magic trick with most of these emp type weapons is the power supply but given we are talking 200 years into the future it is not unreasonable to assume that power storage (batteries) have got a lot better. Look how far we have come in the last 100 years and extrapolate forward. An explosively pumped flux generator is actually quite simple to build given a power supply and explosives. However it is single shot, quite small, and usable like a Molotov. The hardest bit to get hold of is probably the explosives to blow the coil. These would be used in a riot to disable the police vehicles and any electronic equipment on them. Cameras, Radios, movement assist devices. This might even completely immobilise them depending on how their armour works. 

I have two earth clones, in essence, separated by 16550 miles (26350 kilometers). They are, of course, tidally locked, and orbit each other once every 24 hours. These planets orbit a sun identical to ours in the same time as earth. Now, I want to add a little bit more to the system. A moon with half the mass and size of ours. But I definitely don't want this to happen. 

I've recently become interested in the possibility of silicon based life. Assume these creatures developed on a planet with zero carbon (don't question, just accept it), so they have no carbon in their bodies. For this question, it would also be helpful to know what kinds of conditions would be conducive towards silicon based life. (I've excluded carbon because I know it is generally more effective for life-forms to evolve with it.) Now, what would the chemical make-up of these creatures be like? Assume they are nearly like humans, except with silicon. Would they also be made up of lots of water, or would they have ammonia blood? Would they have higher internal body temperatures? Would anything else have to be different? 

You're talking crazy amounts of rain for a hundred years. The Sahara's soil is not really designed to host life, and even with tons of water every year, you still will not be able to get the forest I can see in your head. It took a long time for the a rainforest to turn into one, so if you're thinking about adding an entire layer of sand to the mix, ummm.... With even 304 inches of rain, it would still take a thousand years to make the Sahara even habitable, and that's not even a rainforest! Decrease that thousand years to one hundred, and all you're going to get from this much rain would be just mere shrubs and grass. If the rains abruptly stopped, and the weather returned to what it is now over that desert, those traces of vegetation will be gone by the end of the year! And, as mentioned by cls, that much rain may be too much, as it doesn't take a degree in biology to know that the amount of water you are proposing will probably wash the nutrients in the soil away, therefor you'll be nullifying many chances to grow a forest. You're also going to be killing much of the plants and animals already adapted to life in these conditions, and it isn't likely those life-forms will be coming back until you stop the rain. 

Now pick-up the longest path. Hold it up so that the two safety pins on each end are level. Shake out the mesh then take the lowest hanging loop and pick it up and hold it up so the pins on both ends are level with the pins from the first loop. Repeat this operation until you have the minimum number of strings left. Unhook the strings you are holding above the line from the mesh. This was a bit tricky keeping them all untangled. You should now be left with a single line of safety pins linking each town. 

Yes but... The problem would likely be the cost of shipping. Raw oil is very unlikely to be found on Mars to make the plastic with, so your down to synthetic and high energy processes to manufacture them locally, or shipping them in. It would likely be more helpful to a colony to have actual plants around, this would have the added bonus of filtering air as well. Though they would require water. These plants could be shipped to Mars as seeds to cut down on the weight requirement. Locally generated compost could be used for soil and presumably the colony will have some source of water or they are going to have trouble lasting very long. From the physiological point of view plants have been shown to have a therapeutic effect on astronauts. Don Pettit famously kept the blog of the astro zucchini while he was in orbit ( $URL$ ) I can see this idea helping, however there would have to be a significant advantage over say some clever 3D effect screens acting as windows to make it worth the extra cost. As they say in space travel every gram is expensive. 

The Question This is all taking place in medieval times. Assuming it rains about once every week, how would this affect ranchers and the like? Would they have special shelters for their livestock when it rains? After all, you don't want your entire flock of sheep munched by a giant bird. Would squads of magical people shoot fire at giant birds? 

Loss of Knowledge Since it hasn't been covered, and it seems pretty obvious, what if they had that information but lost it? A very effective dies ease could have wiped out most doctors before a vaccine was created. Maybe it is a long since dystopian society were such information was lost. (Akin to the fall of Rome.) Gains of Knowledge Perhaps they were gifted the electronic technology by some superior alien race or human society, so they know how it works and can use it but don't have the medical technology they might have developed on their own. 

My guess would be like a giant, hopefully slightly better version of the United States, a little bit more leaning towards libertarianism and conservative values. The governments in general I'm going to say you will have a very very large representative republic with different levels of government, and probably a federation on the level of solar systems. Also, so many confusing electorates. Levels of government Like in the United States, you would have your state government. Below that, you might have county or city governments. Above the state you would have what is comparable to our national government, then a continental government, then a planetary government, then a solar system government. I would then think that you would have a federation, or confederation of solar systems. Elections Now you have to deal with elections, so people ar represented as they wish to be. This is kind of confusing, I'm not sure exactly how it would work. The people would probably vote in every election. A candidate would win a state by popular vote, then a country, then a continent, then a planet, then a solar system. These governments would also choose their representatives, and these two groups would reconcile each other to make decisions. The federation of star systems would simply choose representatives, to help interact with other members of the federation. Edit - Above the level of continental, there might be elected voters. For example, politician X has continually made decisions we like, and now he is running for elected voter. Each nation would elect its small group or single voter, and he votes on the global, solar system, and galactic level. The danger of this is that as you make your governments larger and larger, it becomes harder to connect to the individual people you are striving to protect. The closer the government is to the people, the easier it is for them to interact with it. For example, you go to every city council meeting, and you talk straight to the city about your needs. Then you go and vote for representatives of your state, who you can probably send letters to that rarely recieve answers, and you can attend their meetings and listen to what they have to say. And at every increasing level, you have less to do with the government, because more people are influencing the way the government is going. Court System I would think that there would be courts at every level, with appointed judges who are approved by voters, in the manner aforementioned. They interpret the laws and constitution hopefully in the way the people want. Legislative authority Despite what you said, a legislative part of your government is a necessity. No matter inclusive your constitution is, there will always be new innovations, loopholes, and practices that will no be covered. When these things come into conflict with your citizen's rights, new legislation will have to be made. Like threatening to fire your dependent workers unless they build a bridge over an active volcano wearing inadequate heat suits and hang form flimsy ropes. That catch on fire. Hopefully your legislative branch will have more restrictions on what it can regulate and how it gains approval. And not outlaw stupid things that make no sense, like almost harmless food dyes, how big your toilets can be, and helpful pesticides that help prevent bug spread diseases and have never been proven to be harmful to birds. Cough hack cough hack. Edit - To improve your legislative body, they might only be able to create laws regarding certain decisions the courts make. So someone who for some reason or another can only get one job, then sues the company because the volcano bridge building is extraordinarily dangerous. The legislative authority of the planet, let's say, then can outlaw whatever makes the practice so dangerous. (And no, I don't mean they'd outlaw volcanoes.) Responsibilities of government Government would have a lot fewer responsibilities than today. A very, very limited regulation on trade, enough to stop the volcano bridge building with flammable ropes. Religion would not play any part in the government, in any way. Although I think it would fall under freedom of speech. The government would also help to facilitate relations between the different branches and areas of the solar systems, on different levels. After all, different areas will have different laws. But their main responsibility, and the one the most focus would be place on would be ptoecting the rights of the citizens and making sure they are following the laws and that the laws are fair. Constitution Your constitution is the most important part of your government, and it is the basis on which your entire government is rooted. It needs to be extremely precise, and delegate powers carefully. It would also help to encompass the ideals of th government, what is trying to be accomplished by it, and how to accomplish this. It would also tell what the government should not and can not do. Communication Edit - Wit regards to communication delay, to help with this, terms might be a lot longer, or elections might take a longer period of time. Unless you were to invent some kind of FTL communication, as you have done with travel. Or you could have galactic couriers, which head to the different solar systems and project news. 

Nukes are destructive, and yes, they blow up everything in range. One easy way to kill off humanity. But, say, some person comes along and looks around. He sees the imperfections everywhere and believes that if he were in control, he could change everything. Completely eradicate poverty, debt, remove the idea of money and military... The guy knows that there is no way to eliminate everything mentioned above by advocacy alone, nor by force, so a discreet mass extinction of humanity is the only option. But Mr. Person and his wife has to survive so that they start life over and rebuild humanity. How would Person do this? Notes: 

I know this question exists, and it is similar, but in that question, the goal of the question was to comepletely eliminate humanity with only one person alive. The virus proposed in that question would have worked just fine. With this question, the environment still has to be habitable so that life can continue living above ground. Much of the Earth should still be suitable to life without the need of any life sustaining devices (air tanks, gas masks, etc.) that would have been required in the other question's scenario, as Mr. Person intends to restart humanity with the same territorial borders, but a more peaceful foundation. That's why the question above is hardly related to mine. Countering answers on that question, you can't mind control people in unknown's scenario, for the asker of that question has told people to keep the answers within reasonable boundries. Turning people into memetics is kind of out of the reach of humanity at that time... Also, as proposed in another answer, killing off many people with radiation is bound to leave traces, and here, Mr. Person does not want to recreate humanity on a radioactive foundation. 

I live in central Utah, which is a desert. Here the temperature varies from 110F in the summer to 0F in the winter. (These are the hottest and coldest times of the year and of the day.) I think your situation is probably just as plausible. If this planet isn't earth you could increase the planet's tilt, and that would make seasons more extreme. 

No, this would not work What makes a sword is a long slicing weapon. This monstrosity you have created would not work, it just wouldn't. 

For a story I am writing, I need a planet covered in a shallow ocean. What I mean is that I want the majority of the planet's surface (=> 60%) to be in the photic zone of the ocean. This planet must sustain life, with the most intelligent being some smalamanders. Ideally this planet can remain habitable until my smalamanders evolve into smalamen, but I am not opposed to benevolent aliens changing the conditions to be more suited to life. (And if necessary, the topography of the planet.) What kind of environmental or planetary factors could achieve this?