I suspect this is your biggest problem. You have to ask your self if you really are committed to a new job, or if you are just committed until your free time gig takes off. Interviewers will ask this, because they usually want to hire employees for the long haul who are dedicated to their new company. Come up with a great answer and practice saying it until it feels natural. On the other hand if in your heart you really aren't committed to a new job, you may be better off working as a contractor. That way, your commitment is expected only for the duration of the contract, and you can re-assess your situation in between contracts. 

If you truly must be assured that your idea of a "reasonable salary" will be met before you spend time interviewing, then you must 

This isn't about right or wrong. Stop trying to find ways to say "I was right and you were wrong", otherwise you will likely suffer professionally for it. 

If you were my daughter and you felt this strongly (right or wrong, for whatever reason), I'd tell you to terminate this "relationship" immediately. It can't be an effective mentorship unless you are completely comfortable. 

Given all that, the logical thing to do is to be quiet and take the raise and bonus. Clearly, you have earned it. If you do end up giving your notice to your current company soon, and for some unlikely reason they ask why you didn't mention that you were looking, just indicate that you didn't know when or if you'd land your next job. That's precisely the truth. I think you are unnecessarily concerned about this. 

If you think these skills will be beneficial in your next job, then yes - list them. Since you say "It makes me more effective at work", then you clearly believe these skills are beneficial now - presumably they will continue to be beneficial for future employers, and you are ready and willing to discuss how that can benefit them. Resumes are about showcasing your talent in order to get an interview and later, a job. That talent is sometimes part of your current job description, and sometimes not. Use whatever you have to your best advantage. 

It could. Hiring managers want to hire people who will be around for a while. Usually, they would rather not be a "placeholder" company - one where someone joins on the rebound from a failed job/company until something better or more lucrative comes along. It's likely that the new company knows the relative salary ranges for CTOs versus Technical Managers, just as well as you do. So you want to convince them that you like their company, like the position being offered, and like the salary enough to stay around for the long haul. This is almost certainly one of the key issues HR will be discussing with you in your next interview. 

When you discuss this with your boss, indicate that you haven't been able to find the time to do all the assigned tasks. Ask if there are tasks that you could offload to someone else. If not, don't complain about it, just accept it (since you are leaving as soon as possible anyway). Ask for his help prioritizing, so that you can be sure to get the most important tasks completed within your available hours. Take notes and/or keep lists, so that you won't simply forget as you have been doing. While not having enough time may be the company's fault or your boss's fault, forgetting is your fault. At the end of each week, prepare and send a summary report indicating the tasks you completed during the week and the tasks remaining on your to-do list. Ask your boss if you can meet one-on-one weekly, so that you can make sure you are prioritizing correctly, and meeting the company's needs. It shouldn't take more than 30 minutes to one hour per week to get that straight. 

As I'm guessing you already suspect, this probably isn't actually about an alert at all. Instead, it's far more likely to be about leaving promptly at 5:30. Your supervisor is probably trying to throw a ham-handed hint that you shouldn't be so eager to leave at the same exact time each day. Your supervisor may actually like to see you work more, and later. Your supervisor may not be good enough to discuss the actual issue directly. Lots of poor supervisors/managers are like that. I'm not saying this makes any sense, that you should ever stay late, that you should alter your schedule or anything like that. I am saying that it is not at all unprofessional to have an alert for yourself so that you don't miss your transportation. (Or miss medication, or miss lunch, or miss a meeting, etc.). Alerts have a great use that seems completely practical and professional to me. It probably makes sense to find a more "silent" alert. And perhaps even to alert yourself earlier, so that it doesn't give the impression to your supervisor that you are dashing off immediately. I know you don't want to be a "clock watcher", but it might be simpler to silence the alert until this odd supervisor gets it out of his/her head. Whatever you do, continue to find a way to make sure you don't miss your transportation. 

Yes, you can point to a successful product as an example of your work. Explaining the patterns and technologies in your cover letter is a good idea - as long as they are specifically relevant to the job for which you are applying. Of course you cannot show off any of the code, unless this is an open-source project. Even if you wrote it, the code is owned by your company, not by you. You can include a link to the website, where potential employers could check out the product for themselves, even using the free version if they are so motivated. 

I feel that the range of 10% to 15% is often enough to change behavior - which is what you are after with bonus systems. In some contexts, 15% might not be enough. But for many US companies these days, in this economy, it seems sufficient. You won't really know for sure until after you have implemented your system for a few years, and you have analyzed the feedback/metrics you are capturing. 

It's perfectly reasonable to mention your current job in your cover letter. It works best when you can talk about how the experience you have gained in your current job makes you particularly suited for the new job. And keep the tone positive - don't bad-mouth your current company. Potential employers don't want to hear that; it makes them feel like you would do the same to them. 

I see nothing here that indicates age discrimination. You may be experiencing "the most junior member of the team" discrimination on a team that is going through some layoffs and reorgs. Changing jobs could cure that. 

I just did a quick search at a few large job boards. I found exactly one employer who explicitly states that they are willing to consider candidates with a relevant nanodegree. So it's possible that a nanodegree could be a viable replacement for a real college education. But (at least today), I'd say the odds are very slim, and the opportunities are very narrow. Choosing to pursue a nanodegree instead of a 4-year college degree isn't something I'd advise my family and friends at this point. Personally, I think college age is a time to cast your nets widely. I think a nanodegree is too specific, while a college degree leaves open many career possibilities. I'm not sure about others, but I certainly didn't have a clear vision for my career when I was that young. Still, with the cost of college being so high these days, it makes sense to keep an eye on college alternatives that might become viable for your chosen field. Nanodegrees, apprenticeships, community colleges, certifications, etc - all these might become good alternatives, or might not. 

You need to understand the role of CTO in your company. In some companies, CTOs are "super developers". They are expected to jump in and work with developers often, and sometimes even do some design or coding. In other companies, CTOs are working at a different level and never get involved with the developers. You need to figure out how and if the CTO should be involved in your work. Talk to your boss about the problems you are having and ask how you can get assistance if you aren't able to handle it yourself. Don't imply that this assistance must come from the CTO. 

Since your plan is to wait one whole year before actively seeking new employment, then during that year you won't have a job. So "meaningful job title" has no real meaning in this context. You won't have a job, hence no job title. Most CVs/resumes I have read would just leave a gap in the Employment History section, and not try to force something in there to account for this year. 

Have you talked to the agency with whom you made the commitment? Be honest and open about what you want to do and why. Then, live with the consequences. If they say "No. You must fulfill your commitment or be fired.", then you have a decision to make. You can get yourself fired, and risk your reputation. Or you can turn down the outside offers, fulfill your commitment, and think harder about your next commitment. Usually, if you are getting outside offers now, you'll get outside offers later. So that part won't disappear. More opportunities will appear down the road. If you let your reputation disappear, that may be harder to regain down the road. Tough choices - but yours alone to make. 

Needing more challenge is a common reason folks state for why they want to leave their current position. 

"Wrong" is something for you to decide, and depends entirely on your individual situation and the specifics of what is in the document. (As an aside, your signature does not usually imply your agreement. Read the document to see if that is the case here or not). You aren't required to sign the agreement, and the company (at least in the US) cannot legally compel you to sign it. But a likely consequence is that you aren't entitled to the severance package, unless your local laws say otherwise. see: $URL$ Since the money has already been deposited in your account, the company may let you keep it anyway, or they may not. In the latter case, they will require that you return the money. In my opinion, this is the most likely scenario. Some separation agreements contain protection for you. In exchange for agreeing not to say bad things about the company, some agreements require the company not to say bad things about you. Obviously, not signing the document means you won't get this protection. A severance/separation agreement is a contract. A contract must offer something of value to both parties (often called "consideration"). Read the document carefully, to see what else of value to you it might contain, in addition to the severance money. 

It may not even come up during interviews. If it does, you can be honest - "I was expecting to work on Java projects. Unfortunately, I worked on IBM System xxx instead. I'm really looking to work on Java this time." It was a contract-to-hire position. During the contract part both you and the employer get to know each other, to assess the fit, and to decide if it should be permanent or not. You've decided that they are not a good fit for your needs. As a hiring manager, that's exactly what I'd want to hear. Try not to sound bitter. Try not to blame your current employer. Try not to use words like "resent" or "mislead". Potential employers don't like to hear that tone. Sometimes jobs just didn't work out - that happens. Potential employers can understand that. Your next employer will hopefully have some tasks that you will be happy to work on, but likely will also have some that aren't your favorite. Seek a company that can provide an overall fit for your personal financial and professional needs. If Java is most important for you, don't accept a job where you don't have confidence that Java will be a significant part of your role. Ask about the kinds of projects you'll be required to handle, and what technology they will employ. Perhaps you can even ask to interview with a co-worker and talk to them about what technologies they use.