(Homemade) Napalm Normally this is made with something like glycerin and gasoline. The glycerin is what allows it to stick to things while the gasoline does most of the burning (glycerin also burns). As above, you may replace the gasoline with other easily ignitable liquid (say high proof alcohol) and use it for the same purposes. 

The force the projectile leaves on the weapon is it attempts to compress the coils (you'd get recoil similar to a normal weapon). Magnetic fields are not inherently dangerous to people as long as they don't have magnetic metals on their person. Other than the difficulties with switches, a coil gun is much more suitable for use by unprotected humans (e.g. infantry): Video at link: Man portable coil / gauss gun Railguns Are much easier to build from a technological perspective. Current runs down one "rail" through the conductive base of the projectile and back up the other rail. This is the brute force method of electromagnetic projectiles. 

This is intended as an addendum to the answer which stated that it would be exceedingly difficult. Factoid, the Moon is in orbit around the Sun. The Moon and Earth happen to share this orbit. The Sun's gravitational attraction for the Moon is more than 2x the Earth's gravitational attraction for it. So you not only need to move the Moon away from the Earth, you actually need to change its solar orbit too. This is one tall order. About the only method I can think of that has a chance of doing this without disrupting the Moon would be by performing MANY gravitational slingshot maneuvers (momentum exchanges) with small asteroid bodies. On one end, you'll sling shot these bodies past Jupiter and the other will sling shot past the Moon. You'll essentially be exchanging momentum between Jupiter and the Moon. Be prepared to wait a while. I'd expect this to take a minimum of many hundreds of years or perhaps thousands. 

So the reality is during combat the crew would evacuate as much as the ship as they could (to preserve atmosphere), move to the "storm shelter" as the best protected portion of the ship, and conduct combat operations from there. The designers might wrap part of the storm shelter with the ship's structure as added protection. As depperm pointed out such tankage would include automatic sealants even if it wasn't a combat ship since without it a single micrometeor could drain your whole ship of propellant - which wouldn't be very good. In the case of a combat ship, using ice instead of water provides several benefits. 1. a holed tank doesn't drain all your propellant 2. it has greater heat absorbing capacity 3. it is far more reflective and can better reflect laser light 

Reading Bookeater's answer inspired this answer Apathy Apathy is a very difficult foe to beat because you simply don't want to. So while the Foo civilization is mighty, powerful, able to do anything it wants; Foo individuals are gradually giving in to apathy and either committing suicide or withdrawing from productive Foo society. The apathy may be caused by a perception of no great goals or achievements are left for the species or perhaps there's not room left for the improvement of individual Foo. When you have nothing important left to do with your life do you continue contributing to society or do you seek forms of escapism like video games, simulations, and World Builder ( :) ). Obviously some continue to contribute but over time, perhaps individual Foos are dropping out of productive society and plugging into various forms of escape. The only thing left for the Foo to do is escape into simulations in which they are NOT beings of unlimited power. 

It already exists There is a particularly difficult optimization problem called the "Traveling Salesman" problem (find the shortest path between multiple stops). 

The spreadsheet shows the minimum thrust power required for straight and level flight at the required velocity at the altitude shown on left for a aircraft planform area shown across the top. What this says is that your aircraft must remain quite small (smaller than $2 m^2$). This vehicle could never be manned (but that's not a requirement, so it's OK). If you plug in realistic efficiencies for these parameters (overall optimistic engine efficiency could be as high as 40% and very optimistically solar efficiency of 30%***), you would get a chart that looked more like this: Required Thrust Power (W) - for realistically efficient components: 

Could range from the highly improbable ("alien artifacts discovered on Mars!") to the reasonable ("only place to manufacture km length nanotubes is in zero-gravity") is boring. Many stories written about this. Perhaps one of the best scenarios that might come from this is the construction of two humongous (8,000,000 ton) Project Orion type craft for asteroid deflection. Asteroid misses us. We decide to use the ships to colonize instead. 

Put your pilots in a g-bath / g-tank. A g-bath is a tank filled with fluid that possesses the same density as human protoplasm. The theory is that by supporting the body, the blood won't tend to pool and the pilot could remain conscious and alive at much higher g's. The US Navy has conducted experiments up to 16 g's with these and the pilots tolerated that quite well. The researchers felt they could go considerably higher than that but no one has conducted those tests. 

TL,DR; If by "without wings, artificial or otherwise" you meant no bits of vehicle, then the conditions of lunar gravity with Earthly atmospheric density would permit a person with normal musculature to fly wearing only a simple suit with "wing fabric" stretching from the arms to the body. To accomplish the same feat on a planet with a full 1 g of pull would atmospheric density of greater than 6x that of Earth. To accomplish the same feat without the wing suit, I don't know. Human arms are not designed to generate lift and most of the arm won't generate lift at all. I am only certain that humans could shape the hand correctly for lift generation and that is not much lifting area. At a guess, you might require another >10x increase in atmospheric density to fly. My best guess is it would take >60x Earth sea level normal atmospheric density to do this. If Venus were livable, then you could probably fly there with just your arms & hands. Quick note: you are correct about the relevant parameter being atmospheric density. You can manipulate the density while keeping the pressure the same by using heavy inert gases (aka Xenon) as the mixing gas rather than Nitrogen. But this can only "purchase" 4x the atmospheric density. You'll still need to increase the number of molecules in atmosphere by >15x that of Earth sea level atmosphere. Details I was going to break down the details of this solution, but realized that the above references include all the math you need to figure this stuff out. and I'm feeling lazy today :) Anyone looking for the details of how to figure this out, please read the three above reference answers. 

We don't want to significantly alter Mars' rotation and Mars already has significant quantities of volatiles locked in its polar caps and any volatiles we liberate from the poles will reduce the quantities we need to move around. 

At this point you might ask yourself, "what does this have to do with the question?" A pair of bodies like this will share the following traits: 

It is common to describe a similar configuration of identical mass bodies at the points of a regular polygon as a Klemperer Rosette but this is a misuse of the term. This configuration was known before Klemperer identified Klepmerer Rosette. This picture from Cubist-Assassin64 provides a good view of a rosette, but it is NOT Klemperer Rosette 

** I disagree with the "No Stealth" rule. The general reason why you won't find stealth in space is because if the enemy knows where to look, a Hubble Space Telescope (a HST) sized sensor could spot any ship at quite a long distance. Furthermore, a HST sensor could spot a ship accelerating at the levels indicated in SF books almost anywhere in the Solar System. However, the Earth regularly has large (km and larger) sized rocks zip by and we don't notice them until just before or after they swing by. Why is this? Two reasons: 

History Both $CO_2$ concentrations and temperature have been much higher than current levels. In fact, the average $CO_2$ concentrations and temperature for the Earth were higher than they are today. Earth's Temperature and $CO_2$ history: 

Beams in an atmosphere are visible This is what a charged particle beam would look like when it strikes the Earth's atmosphere: Charged Particle Weapon hitting Earth's atmosphere: 

Shape the structure so that the carbon fiber reinforcing strands reach down to anchor points in the Moons surface. The carbon fiber strands anchored to the surface of the Moon provide the rest of the necessary force to hold the gases in. Each of the dome's sides will include something like "tent flaps". This allows a dome segment to retain atmosphere when an undomed (or depressurized dome) section is adjacent to it. But the flap will be raised when there is an adjacent dome and it is pressurized. Ideally the raising and lowering of flaps will occur automatically. Domes will include anchor & sealing points on their exterior surface. This will allow a "dome" patch to extend from the 6 adjacent domes and cover a dome that has been damaged or needs maintenance. Construction To construction this in sections, make each segment a hexagonal dome. As you add segments, attach them to the appropriate face the adjacent dome. When first added, the plastic layer will extend all the way down to the surface. Making a tight seal with the surface of the Moon will be difficult. It probably requires a special construction effort to create a rim made of some concrete or plastic analog at the dome edges. This rim probably needs to extend down into the Lunar bedrock and be formed of an inert material too. The designers & builders would embed airlocks in the dome rim structure so they wouldn't have to put holes in the dome structural materials. Each connection face would likely have at least one airlock connection. Timing This is a massive effort. Before you finish the project, the original domes will probably require complete refurbishment. Some method of sealing domes away from the vacuum of space and each other must be included in the structure. That enables the construction crew to repair dome segments without total depressurization. After completing a dome segment, the terraforming crew will pump the proper hydrospheric and atmospheric substances into the segment. Expect the Moon's surface to react, possibly violently, with the materials for a while. I presume that additional oxygen and water will need to be pumped back in after a time since the initial mix will likely react with the Lunar surface. Including "port holes" in the structure Simply leave some hexagonal segments empty. Then the adjoining segments would provide the airlock facilities required to access the area of vacuum. Similarly, industrial process which could take advantage of the vacuum of space, could leave adjoining segments empty too. However, if they're exhausting corrosive substances, the builders will want to coat the dome materials with extra substances to make it inert to the caustic materials being exhausted at that point. Living in this biosphere Unfortunately, we really don't have any data for how things will do in this environment. Therefore, the biologists in charge of the effort might keep several of the domed hexagons sealed off from each other and experiment with different biospheres in each segment. Once the find some biospheres that work, then they might simply open the "tent flaps" and allow that one to spread across the surface. Of course the main problem will be the day-night cycles. This will be extremely difficult for the plant life to live with. Therefore, the domes will likely possess an artificial light source to provide light during the long lunar night. The temperature extremes will also pose a problem. The water trapped between the two dome layers will help but won't solve the problem. Including large bodies of water (water filled craters, anyone?) will help moderate temperatures but probably the Lunar surface will require additional heating and cooling. I expect the dome structures as I've envisioned them to interfere with natural atmospheric convection that might otherwise help moderate those temperatures. However, the surface could have built in heat pumps. During the long day, they exchange heat between the surface and the bottom of nearby crater-lakes - cooling the surface. During the long night, they do the same in reverse - heating the surface. Fluffy Lunar Atmosphere Because the Moon's gravity is so much less than Earth's, the Moon's atmosphere will be much deeper. You will also need 6x the mass of atmosphere in a column to make the same pressure that you see on Earth. What this means is that the Moon requires nearly the same mass of gases as the Earth does for a given pressure.