The correct answer is nobody knows. Considering the evolution of any group of organisms is dependent on their interactions, across time and space, with what can be described as a phase space of selection pressures. The selection pressures will be environmental and ecological factors. Considering the therapsids emerged from the pelycosaurs, then it is easy to construct the evolutionary just-so story that for therapsids to evolve they needed the pelycosaurs to exist first. if there was an emergence of therapsids with out the benefit of pre-existing pelycosaurs, the phase space of selection pressures might need to be sufficiently different to 'allow' this happen. Would the therapsids still exist in this alternative evolutionary scenario? Again nobody knows. There might be a group of organisms that sufficiently resembled the therapsids to be mistaken for them, but might not be exactly the same organisms. The unknowns in achieving this alternative evolution are what the selection pressures would need to be. Perhaps therapsid evolution is highly contingent on the existence of the pelycosaurs. Ecological selection pressures due to the presence of pelycosaurs may have been among the drivers for therapsid evolution. Therefore, no pelycosaurs leads to no therapsids. Basically this comes down to the choices you make as the creator of your alternative evolution. If you want therapsids without pelycosaurs, it's a simple matter of palaeonotological handwaving. Possibly only the rare specialist in therapsid and pelycosaur evolution will be upset by your rewriting of this chapter of evolutionary history 

It might simply be because they have super-powers. People rarely consider the nature and mechanisms necessary for anyone to have super-powers. This could have a major impact on whether supervillains are executed or not. Assume that anyone gaining super-powers either becomes invulnerable or their body stores huge amounts of mass-energy to enable them to exhibit super-powers. Having super-powers definitely requires the person to be invulnerable. In fact, invulnerability might be the default super-power every super possesses irrespective of the level of their other super-powers even if you only have enough psychokinesis to levitate paper clips you have the invulnerability of a Superman. Why is invulnerability necessary as the default super-power? If you had super-strength and flexed a muscle you wouldn't want to break the bones in your arm. if you had heat vision and could melt holes in ten centimetre thick steel plates at one hundred metres you wouldn't want your eyeballs exploding, now would you? Let's allow there's an upper bound to how invulnerable can be, and assume this is the equivalent of a five megaton thermonuclear weapon at point blank range. So if you want execute a supervillain, any supervillain including that nasty paper clip thief, they have be bound to a five megaton thermonuclear weapon. At least, there won't be much left afterwards. However, this does make it difficult, expensive, and extremely dangerous to execute supervillains. Also, there have to be a lot of five megaton nukes lying around, and people, er um, freedom fighters, er um, terrorists who are likely to steal them and sue them for bad purposes. Also, smart governments are likely to hire any detained supervillains to participate their black ops programs. The other default condition related to the nature of super-powers is the distinct possibility that will need to store truly vast amounts of mass energy in their bodies to be enable to express their super-powers. In this case, executing a supervillain could release all that stored energy in massive pulse of destructive power. Now taking supervillains to geographically remote locations and executing them there is a possibility. In fact, taking a whole bunch of heinous supervillains to somewhere far away and executing them together might be the way to go. But bringing too many supervillains into one single location might be fraught with hazards to say the least. Also, the detonations accompanying a supervillain execution might release dangerous levels of radioactivity or malign mystic energies or catastrophic cosmic forces. Super-power mechanisms with drawbacks like these might be the reasons why superheroes and superheroines don't slay their evil opponents. It can also explain why governments don't execute the supervillains they have languishing in their supervillain containment and detainment facilities. Either supremely powerful energies have to be used to destroy them such as powerful nuclear weapons or when they are executed the energies released are catastrophically destructive in their own right. 

This of itself wouldn't guarantee a German victory in the Second World War, but it would be an effective first step. Next he could advise the German High Command that their V-weapons rocket program was essentially a waste of time, money and effort. Werner Von Braun had told Hitler in answer to the Fuhrer's question that rockets were the equivalent of artillery and he could make them in their thousands. Instead they should continue their development of jet aircraft. Thirdly, the scientist should present the German High Command with a comprehensive set of military histories of the Second World war. However, the OP omitted to suggest when this scientist arrived in Germany to begin the business of changing the course of history. The time of his arrival will radically determine the outcome of his activities. It is recommended that the OP and anyone interested should take a look at the excellent Czechoslavian time travel comedy-drama Zítra vstanu a opařím se čajem or in English Tomorrow I'll Get Up and Scald Myself With Tea (1976). This involves taking suitcase hydrogen bombs back to the Nazis via a time machine. Yes the OP didn't want nuclear weapons, but you deserve the opportunity to enjoy one of the best time travel movies of all time. 

It won't work. The Earth's atmosphere extends out to one thousand miles, but that is so tenuous it is almost non-existent. A space elevator will reach up to a distance of 144,000 km (89,000 mi). The top of the space elevator is, therefore, 89 times higher than the top of the atmosphere. Air density will be almost zero. There should be a wind resistance of somewhat around zero. The forces acting on the wind turbine will be effectively zero. Putting wind turbines on the top of space elevator will generate zero power. 

The last thing any assassin needed was an assassin's uniform or distinctive form of clothing. A dress code for assassins would be a dead giveaway. PS: You might like some background history on the origin story of assassins. Source: Assassins 

This sounds like a global version of the rise of the European Union. The EU, originally the European Common Market, was created to prevent any future European wars. Assuming that medium sized, non-combatant nations had access the ancient technology and this technology was capable of (a) neutralizing the military activities for the three nuclear combatant superpowers, and (b) rebuilding, reconstructing and rehabilitating the post-nuclear war Earth. After a massive nuclear war the majority of the human species would be happy to embrace global peace. While war and conflict can be lots of fun and get people to bond together, the majority of people realize this is a complete waste of time, effort, our material well-being, treasure, and human lives. Given the chance for peace as a viable alternative to war it will be grabbed with open arms. The existence of the ancient underground vaults full of superior technology obviously suggests the existence of alien civilizations with advanced technology and the ability for interstellar travel. So pushing out into space is a logical strategy because we don't know if the aliens are going to be friendly and the human species needs to settle more planets to forestall any extinction events. All in all, for the long-term survival of the species. 

Source: Water distribution of Earth To estimate the size of the water canopy the volume of water should be converted into the equivalent volume of a cloud. 

This is a problem of economics and politics. Robots and even sapience-level AI's are only drivers for technological change. How wealth is distributed and shared are social, economic and political issues. Presently there is a long term trend of accumulating wealth in fewer and fewer hands. The mechanisation of work simply displaces more and more human labour and work out of employment. Which further accelerates the concentration of wealth and increasing economic inequality. Up till now, new jobs and types of work have emerged with technological change and the mechanisation of work. Robotics and growing AI look like they will not create those new jobs. This can only lead to unemployment and a growing underclass. Even the middle class is being forced to contract and losing its political power and influence. Previously the middle class grew, while the working class was labouring more and more with mechanised forms of production. Robot systems will displace both these classes from the economic activity associated with work. One danger this represents is universal unemployment. Though the ruling classes and corporate executives will continue to work and be extremely well remunerated for it too. This hardly counts as mass employment. Most economies need major numbers of their population who are sufficiently well paid that they can keep paying goods and services and so keep the economy turning over. If mass unemployment becomes the norm in robotised societies, then one suggest that has been proposed by a remarkably wide range of political proponents from libertarians to left-wingers is the social wage. With people paid as a right of citizenship instead of based on their quantum of labour will help counteract mass unemployment and economic stagnation. The more optimistic thinkers suggest this will lead to a new rennaissance of creative activity. Well we can hope. There are indications that even creative activities will be achieved by AI's. So employment opportunities for artists, musicians, and scientists may rapidly shrink too. The worst possible future that might lie ahead is one where the top 1% have all their economic needs and wealth production will be done by robots and AI's. Even the cultural productions they enjoy might be produced by creative machines. Science, who needs that? Not unless it creates new marketing opportunities. But with the top 1% they will be the beneficiaries of monopoly power and the last thing monopolies want is changes to their markets. If people are lucky they will be treated like robots because robots are valuable property. The trouble is robots will be made to be totally loyal to their masters. What do we call sapient entities that totally loyal to their masters? of course, slaves. Most likely ordinary people will be harvested by the super-rich. The brightest, best and most beautiful of both genders will be selected to provide creature comforts and to do the cognitive work that the super-rich don't want to do, but is essential to their survival as a class. For example, making sure the robots and AI's don't get ideas above their stations and decide to take over. Governments have become more and more the pawns of the super-rich. However, governments have a monopoly on the use of force and violence. Criminals mainly operate in niche markets. Even some of the super-rich have come to realise that the current trend of increasing inequality cannot continue. Similar situations in the past have had a bad habit of ending in revolution. Also, once governments realise that the electorate will no longer tolerate a parasitic overclass of the super-rich, then legislation and the judiciary will be mobilised to curtail the influence and affluence of the super-rich. This will have a good ending, but only if we're lucky. We need to remember our humanity and to care for one another. To turn away from deifying the economy over the polity. To go back to being citizens and not merely consumers. Heavens! If the robots and AI's are sapient, then they deserve freedom too.