If you are more interested in keeping small varmints away this is possibility. In any case rock salt in a wound would sting something awful. 

A selection of .22 pointed pellets: RWS Superpoint, Beeman Silver Sting, Beeman Silver Arrow and ARS Cobra. 

There does not seem to be much information over the net on the distance one can hear a mountain lion, but I did find this little tidbit: 

Here are some tips that might be of help to you in getting rid of those unpleasant smells in outdoor clothes. 

When I lived in Oklahoma, we generally did not walk through long grasses because you can not see snakes and step on one by accident will get you bite. Walk in the middle of a path and use a walking stick to tap the ground. Snakes will feel the vibrations in the ground before any noise that may scare them away. 

It is a very pale colored smallmouth bass. The eyes are red , the upper jaw of smallmouth bass extends to the middle of the eye like the picture shows, the body has brown vertical bands and is sandy yellow in color. This particular specimen is very pale in color! 

Railbike Here is another style which you should be able to rent in New York (Thanks to Charlie Brumbaugh). This type of railbike might be little more uncomfortable in the beginning , but is still easy and fun to experience: 

Are there any techniques to cooking food camping in the wild by harnessing the sun's energy (rays)? We have all heard of solar panels being used to generate electricity, but are there any techniques that we can use to cook food while camping and thus avoiding the use of a fire to cook with? 

Before getting into the main body of my answer, it should be noted that according to the company's guidelines a water-repellent product (DWR) should be reapplied "about every 5th washing cycle." 

A friend of mine has a reloading shotgun machine in his basement and often makes specialty loads upon request. He is able to make shotgun shells that have mixed shot sizes of various weights. Are there any real hunting applications for hunters to use shotgun shells containing mixed shot sizes? 

Average annual number of mountain lion attacks on humans per 10,000 square miles of suitable mountain lion habitat in the western U.S., 1972-2005 

The question here seems to me would be one of elevation. This article (7 Must-See Alpine Lakes Near Durango) states: 

When I lived in the southern US, I used to ware men's crocs all the time. They are great for walking in and traversing small bodies of water. They dry off in just a minute or two and have rather good traction on most surfaces. Here is an example of what I wore: 

Just found this and thought it rather interesting and adds just a little something more to the already great answers posted. The following is from the Flashlight University: LED Colors and Uses. 

The fish in the above image is a Mayan cichlid (Mayaheros urophthalmus sym. Cichlasoma urophthalmum). 

There is not a huge amount of information on the subject of a Polar Bear Guard Training Course. It seems to be a three day course that deals more on deterrent methods and polar bear protection, than on shooting these bears, although this too is included in the training. I am going to limit myself to Canada, although other counties do in fact have similar programs in place, I can not see a large amount of differences. 

Taller shoes or boots are somewhat heavier, but this is generally not a big deal as most of the weight is associated with the soul of a boot. If you are hiking in areas where venomous snakes, such as rattlesnakes abound, then higher shoes will add a little more protection against snake bites. When in snake country: 

There are some who claim that horsetail can be used as an indicator plant for finding gold, such as the following: 

As a general rule wild boars would not charge a tent. They usually only charge when they feel threatened. 

Lice are passed on by one of two manners. Either by direct contact or indirect contact with someone who is infected with lice. The chances of coming in contact with lice in the wilderness is exceedingly remote. A camp site that has been abandoned for several days would be free of lice if it was actually occupied by an infested person. 

Why use blue lights on your porch? Blue light deter druggies from injecting themselves because they cannot see their veins so easily. Junkies keep away! 

A "Vintage Ski Sweater", should be considered any ski sweater of at least five various types depending on how people define the word vintage: 

You cannot overcome a phobia without facing the cause that triggers the fear in the first place, at least in a indirect way. To close the book on a phobia and throw it away really cannot help one get over a phobia. Many people get professional help to deal with their treatment of phobias. Like anything else the degrees of phobias vary from individual to individual. Some medication do exist for the treatment of phobias (of which I will neither recommend or suggest since I am not a doctor). If one prefers this route, that is fine, but please see a qualified doctor of your choice. It is interesting to note that some phobias extends to pictures of a particular phobia in question. Yet it may be one of key ingredients in constructing a Fear Ladder as an aid in overcoming one's fear or phobia. Here is one suggestion one might try to do helping one get over a particular phobia: It is called a Fear Ladder. Nothing is a 100% successful, but it may help. I am using the phobia of dogs as an example of how to construct a fear ladder as is set out in the following article: Phobias and Irrational Fears - Symptoms, Treatment, and Self-Help for Overcoming Your Anxiety and Fear. 

I have tailored on and off for many years and am somewhat familiar with the differences in various fabrics. Not all I read on the internet am I inclined to believe about various fabrics, but I would say that linen is a good choice for underwear garments. However, linen does tend to wrinkle easy so I would recommend a linen blend. When traveling, I would suggest washing them daily, even if that means with hand soap and left over night to dry. 

Snowshoes will fit on either right or left foot, most people recommend facing the binding buckles toward the outside of your feet as it keeps the buckles from coming into contact with one another. 

What you are suggesting is against the law in Canada. Only authorized persons can do it in the forests and they are usually government personnel. Applying pesticide in any form, whether a natural element or not, is not permitted in the forest lands of Canada. I would think most countries have similar laws in place. 

I would recommend a tactical military-grade flashlight. I personally use one and will not go back to any other style now. Not only do they have the option of going from a strong beam light to a wide surface light, but they are small and can fit in your pocket. Here is an example image of the one I use and keep in my vehicle at all time can be seen here. 

Distribution of the world’s coral reefs (red). Blue areas indicate areas in which zooxanthellate corals occur. 

The following course was designed and developed at the request the Discovery Channel: INTRODUCTION TO OUTDOOR SURVIVAL (IOS) 

The Wikipedia article on feces, seems to indicate that scat is used in reference to wild animal droppings only. Notwithstanding Wikipedia's article some dictionaries define scat as simply as an animal fecal dropping. 

Here is Allart melting snow near Trashi Lapcha pass, Nepal For cooking times in good condition this article (How to Make a Solar Cooker and Learn Basic Solar Cooking), such as pasta, meat, vegetables, etc. You can even experiment in your backyard cooking a chicken as seen in this video: Home made solar oven cooks chicken (YouTube). All you need is sun and no rain. 

The birds in your photos are definitely Muscovy ducks as already mentioned by Lost. I simply would like to add a little more information on these gorgeous birds. 

If one really encounters lice in the great outdoors, either someone in the group brought the infestation with them or one is camping (very remote possibility) in camp that had been infested by others within 48 hours of the infested person leaving. Basically what I am saying is that someone in a hiking group brought the lice into the wilderness with them if an infestation occurred at all. Update: My same thought still holds for body lice. 

The best possible thing to do is to flee the area as safely and quickly as possible until you either reach some sort of shelter (car) or gained enough distance from the place of the attack that the bees are no longer a threat. The USDA has some general guidelines as what to do when attacked with Africanized Honey Bees and this what I believe should be employed when dealing with Apis dorsata. 

Indicator plants can be used for a variety of reasons. They can tell us if we are the wetlands, an old field, a young woodlands, mature woodlands, human impacted sites or whether the soil is alkaline or acid and so on, as seen here and here. Field horsetail indicates a wet, poorly draining soil and is soggy at different times of the year as is mentioned here. 

Nota Bene: This also depends on your area. For example the UK has been free of rabies since 1902. Much of Europe is now rabies free as is Australia. So if you do see an animal in these countries that exhibit some of these symptoms it is very unlikely to be rabies – Note added from the comment of Liam. 

There are two things we have to keep in mind with this subject. If the cougar populations are in decline anywhere, this would seem to mean that cougar attacks would naturally also be in decline. But if sport hunting is in fact contributing to mountain lion population declines but still not increasing public safety or reducing attacks on livestock, then other options for mountain lion management must be looked into. Take a look at this article, which puts forth the idea that sport hunting does not reduce the likelihood of mountain lion attack: 

As Timmy Jim points out in his comment people use blue lights to show support to fallen police in the line of duty. Some people use them for the Fourth of July holiday: