Being a highly feudal state, the rulers had no other option but to incorporate Hindus into the administrative system, in light of the fact that most of the land was owned by them. Hindus also had exclusive control over several markets. Also being a theocracy governed by Quranic injunctions, the rulers took it upon themselves to try and bring Islam to as many people as possible and allow people freedom of religion. The kings felt that doing so was executing the will of God. This is why many Islamic holy places (to this day, I believe), guarantee free passage and protection to people of all faiths. Seeing how good a system of checks-and-balances they had established, they had no reason to worry about any province gaining too much power. Around this time, movements like Sufism also gained ground and Islam as a religion became much more appealing to Hindus, especially those of the lower-castes who were stuck in an establishment that did not permit social mobility. Another reason why I think there were so few spars between the two religions is because religion isn't the dominant cultural identifier for Hindus. They view themselves of a particular ethnic group and/or region first and foremost. While it is true that conversion to Islam in India wasn't usually forced, it was almost always implied, as evidenced by this page on Islamic taxes. The rest of the picture isn't as clearly formed either. Many rulers destroyed Hindu temples to provide for materials needed to build mosques and other Islamic sites. Moreover, the frequent change of central power meant that the attitude towards Hindus always remained in a flux, and varied from one emperor to the other. However, all in all, Islam and Hinduism shared a quite unparalleled cultural bonding in the Middle Ages, the effects of which can be felt to this day. 

Tainter draws the conclusion that we cannot show that the Polynesians overextended the "carrying capacity" of their islands, and thus cannot prove that the Easter Islands are a case of ecological overshoot. Conclusion You can always argue that every case where another immediate cause (draught, war ...) can be identified as the culprit for the collapse of a society, this immediate cuplrit was the way Malthus harsh law manifests itself. This is not entirely wrong - there are hard thermodynamic limits on how much life (as activity, not biomass) earth can support - but in my eyes not really useful. The more useful question would be - and this is where I find Tainter more convincing than in his many quibbles with Diamond and Chew - how a society handles ressources & consumption. Diamond (in Collapse) gives a, in my eyes, instructive example from the ultimately doomed Henderson & Pitcairn islands: Archeological evidence seems to show that the islanders imported pigs, until apparently all pigs where culled - it appears they saw that raising pigs yields less food than eating the pig fodder themselves, and adpoted accordingly. So the question is would be, what adaptions are possible today? 

Before the Islamic conquests began in earnest with the Raja of Sindh's battle against Muhammad bin Quasim, the Eastern Hemisphere looked something like this: 

Since your question asks us to concern ourselves specifically with the Middle Ages (5th to the 15th century), I will not venture to comment on the Mughal Dynasty and the shaping of identities in the modern world. However, to ground all of this in present-day observable context, I'd like you to give this a read. Islam's contact with India can be traced back to the 7th century. For the time-period being observed, and throughout all of history, Islam has come to India through the following two pathways: 

India appears pretty fragmented at this point. This is because much of her political history has been that of chiefdoms gaining excessive power and breaking away from their kingdoms. There was also great hostility between them. India, in its modern form, would emerge only in the 13th century, under the Delhi Sultanate. Before that would happen, Muslims were indeed looked at with leeriness by the Hindu population. The Central Asian traveller Al-Biruni attributed it to the fact that the Arabs had, in their conquests, taken several Indians as hostages and there was a general climate of mistrust prevalent among the people. This wasn't all unsound though, considering that Mahmud of Ghazni and his commanders had plundered and laid waste several Hindu temples that had once boasted great riches. In 1206, with the coming onto the throne of the Mamluk Dynasty, former kingdoms that were now annexed and under Muslim control, for the first time came under a centralised force. Up until the end of the Medieval Era, Hindus in India easily outnumbered the Muslims. Very early on, it was realised by the Muslim rulers that force wouldn't get them very far. This is what the Delhi Sultanate looked like at its apex: 

I am curious about the emphasized information, how long did it take to travel, for example between Berlin and Vienna for a diplomat? What mode of travel was likely taken by a diplomat? It seems to be a high-ranking position, so maybe they took the convenient (but not fastest) mode of transportation. I imagine it was very difficult to conduct diplomacy when it takes days (or weeks?) to send diplomats and get feedback. 

Recently I read about Charles Dickinson, and his death on a duel with Andrew Jackson (then a general, later a US President). According to this link, Jackson killed him in a breach of dueling etiquette 

During World Wars I and II, many countries managed to stay neutral, like Spain and Switzerland. Was there any major country (e.g. not a city-state or a micronation) that did the same during the Napoleonic Wars? 

The scoops where made from horn, the pot from soapstone. Source. Not time is given. According to this paper, clay pottery was used for a long time - and points to reasons why that is actuall surprising: 

My translation: Around 40.000 members let the red army pass in the Caraptes and started a bloody guerilla war after 1945. Around 35.000 people died, according to CIA estimates. The terror acts not only targeted police and communist party cadres, but also civilians, especially surviving Jews. After 1949, the guerilla war was supported by the CIA, until 1953 around 75 exiled Ukrainians had been dropped with parachutes into Ukraine. The british SIS also supported these operations, starting in 1951. The soviet union raised a complaint before the UNO in 1957. No online sources are given, the offline sources are: Christopher Simpson: „Blowback“ (Collier Books, New York 1989, S. 163) John Loftus: „The Belarus Secret“ (Knopf, New York 1982, S. 102/103) „Nature and Extent of Disaffection and Anti-Soviet Activity in the Ukraine“ (Bericht des US-Militärattachés der US-Botschaft in Moskau, 17. März 1948) zitiert in: Christopher Simpson: „Blowback“ (Collier Books, New York 1989, S. 171) United Nations: „Official Records of the General Assembly“ (11th Session [November 12, 1956 – March 8, 1957], Annexes Volume II – Agenda Item 70, S. 1–14) I did not check if the sources say what the wikipedia article claims they do and what the quality of the sources is. I still would answer your question with yes, the CIA and SIS where involved in attacks within the soviet union and there's some evidence. There's also the allegation (By the soviet union) that Stepan Bandera and other heads of the OUN in exile ordered the assassination of Dr. Gabriel Kostelnik, who was in favor of a unification between the russion orthodox and the ukrainian catholic church. 

I was reading the Wikipedia entry for the War of the Bavarian Succession, and it said (my emphasis): 

The second Sino-Japanese War and the Chinese Civil War may be a good example. There was a civil war between the Kuomintang (KMT) and the Communist Party (CPC) factions, and in the middle of this Japan invaded. Both KMT and CPC resisted the Japanese, and at some point they even (nominally) cooperated. This cooperation was brief, however, and there were major clashes between these factions since 1941 (while they were also fighting the Japanese). 

In present texts, it is common to call it "the Ottoman Empire", although the name refers to the ruling dynasty rather than the nation, people or the region. This is not the case with other contemporary empires in Europe, e.g. Russian Empire, Austrian Empire, French Empire. Were they also contemporarily called "the Ottoman Empire" in diplomacy and official writing, or by other name like "Turkey" or "Turkish Empire"? 

I can't find link now, but prior to the first graduation towers some salines would have workers toss the brine against rough walls, to provide evaporation surface. The first graduation towers would use straw, but this would rot and foul the brine. The technology matured over a few decades. Graduation towers needed (wind powered) pumps & a large investment up front. 

I've only skimmed a few paragraphs of the article, however it seems that while pottery was widely known in early human history, it was seldom used in hunter-gatherer societies. While pottery is better for cooking than leather bags clay pots are also heavy and fragile and so better suited for sedentary lifestyles. Burning clay pots is also challenging in a wet, cold climate. So your intuition that pottery was not used is shared by archeologists and anthropolologists. This tidbit on Inuit cuisine will become relevant in the conclusion: 

This page contains a list of Nuremberg defendants, their verdict and sentence. While explanations for lighter sentence (e.g. Dönitz was only sentenced to 10 years) can be found quite easily, many Nazi leaders were sentenced to death or life imprisonment, and it seems quite arbitrary. What criteria did the trials use to decide whether to sentence someone to death or life imprisonment? Was there a precedent for this distinction? 

In Wikipedia, there is an article about New Imperialism, which refers to the territorial or colonial expansion during 19th-20th century. The article also says that the qualifier "New" is to contrast with earlier imperialism (particularly, European colonization in 15th to early 19th century). Did the new imperialism differ in nature from 15th-19th century imperialism/colonialism, other than the difference in time frame? How was it different? 

Was this an acceptable behaviour according to duelling customs at that time? If yes, why did the locals complain about it? If no, why didn't Dickinson's second do something about it? 

I read somewhere that Amadeo Bordiga, Italian Communist, told said something along these lines to Stalins face: 

German wikipedia, Bordiga also only mentions that he called Stalin a traitor to the revolution (in 1925). It is of course possible that the Quote I remember was in an earlier version of the text and was removed because wrong/inaccurate. The quote is kinda awsome though and I want to know if he really said it and in what context. 

So Luther was cited in antisemite propagande by the regime and was cited in debates within the protestant chruches to justify closer alignment to the Nazi regime. 

From German wikipedia on Luther's relationship to the Jews and antisemitism, translated/paraphrased by me: 

No, there was or is no real residual paganism, if by residual you mean that there's some unbroken continuity between pre-christian belief systems and modern pagans