We Have Already Figured This Out In the 60's and 70's scientists were working on bio-weapons, but it was decided that breeding super plagues was not a very smart weapon idea because there is not really any way to control what the disease will do once it has been released. It was also very VERY difficult to convince the public to financially support such a horrifying weapon, in addition we really didn't want to scare our enemies into funding such development either. If inventing nukes taught us one thing its that inventing a super weapon is a double edged sword since its only ever a matter of time before others figure out how to make them too. subsequently all funding for offensive bio-weapon research was halted and redirected towards defensive studies (epidemic response, vaccination creation, etc etc.) We could have already bred weaponized super plagues decades ago but our leaders (and our people) decided it was not an ethical or logical choice to pursue such technology. In short, the tech has not failed to arise due to some technological or scientific shortfall, but because we chose not to create it. Humans are some real bastards, but some ideas are too dark and terrifying even for us to want to pursue them. There is no technological reason that your fictional world with our equivalent technology couldn't whip up some real nasty super-bugs. I say bugs plural because no single bug is ever going to wipe out 95% of our race, viruses and bacteria change and mutate too much too quickly, (typically towards lower lethality too) and our collective immune systems are remarkably robust at responding to plagues. But, unlike in nature, your slightly more morally bankrupt government is not limited to one plague at a time. They could drop several plagues at a time in each dispersal to guarantee that a maximum amount of people die. Think a bio-bomb that disperses super flu, super smallpox, super cholera, and super Ebola all at the same time. The chances of a person being naturally immune to or avoiding exposure to all of those at the same time is very very small. By itself a super plague would be considered very impressive if it managed to wipe out half of a population (the black death that culturally and economically sucker-punched medieval Europe backwards a few hundred years only wiped out 30% to 40% of the overall population.) So, unlike our present timeline where our government refused to develop such diseases and instead decided to fund how to treat them, your fictional timeline they went right ahead and developed a dozen or so different weaponized plagues back in the 80's and decided to release them all at once present day. 

Devolution doesn't really ever occur, organisms simply adapt to best suit their environment over time. A good example is cave dwelling Troglodyte type species that have lost the ability to see. They haven't actually devolved to not have eyes, they simply did not need them and evolved to save valuable energy and nutrients by not growing a sight organ that would be useless in their environment. It isn't devolution, its still evolution since they are changing to better suit their environment. So, at least as far as natural processes go, a species would need to become stuck in an environment for a few hundred thousand years that heavily discourages intellect, sociability, communication skills,culture, and inventiveness. That's a tough one to come up with since such traits are usually the most powerful ones for surviving something. So here's the environment and scenario I'm thinking of. Your smart guy race is in the stone age, its pretty much on par with homo sapiens and where they were at about 10,000-15,000 years ago. But something catastrophic doesn't happen. The world slowly becomes a perfect Eden with very few predators, a perfect climate, and vast endless fields of grain and forests of fruit bearing trees. No ice age, no super-predators like we saw in said ice age. No famines or depredation, no rabid competition between several human subspecies for the same resources. The planet (Henceforth known as paradise) is literally perfect. Too perfect. Why would a species that has as close as possible to absolutely nothing to worry about need to even develop the ability to worry? Those big craniums and complex brains waste space and make childbirth more dangerous than necessary. There is absolutely nothing gained by possessing speech, abstract thought, or cooperative culture when all a species needs to do to be successful is to wander around placidly in small familial groups grazing mindlessly on the limitless amounts of food. Shelter is utterly not necessary since you have a perfect climate, nor is clothing, and food is so ludicrously plentiful there is no need to make tools. Within another 100,000 years your species that was formerly well on their way to developing things like agriculture, warfare, and tribal societies has reverted back to dumb grazers that simply live to eat and reproduce. 

What has literally any civilization that recently discovered a weapon that places them technologically head and shoulders above their neighbors? The answer is "use it to dominate those neighbors." When Rome developed professional soldiery and skilled engineers they translated it directly into dominating pretty much anyone they could. When the Europeans developed guns and deep-water navigational navies they used it to... dominate pretty much whoever they could. When the USA developed thermo-nuclear weaponry they..... you guessed it, used the threat of it to dominate pretty much anyone they could. History is pretty consistent in humanity's uncanny ability to rapidly weaponize new technology and use it to conquer whoever they can reach. 

The Situation For reasons unimportant to the question all divine/infernal beings ceased contact with humanity in the dark ages. For reasons equally obscure they are now back and busier than ever. Law enforcement, mental health professionals, the legal system, and our nation's corrections system are struggling to deal with the influx of supernatural related crimes. The police utilize a field test to differentiate between the demonically possessed and mentally ill. The suspect is held in a position where they cannot see what the police are doing and exposed to various holy icons from various religions alongside control sample items in order to elicit a supernatural response. This is used to determine the presence of a supernatural entity as if they react to an object that a non-possessed person could not see they are possessed. This test is used to determine the entity's culture of origin, and the severity of the manifestation and helps to target the response (For Example, You don't bring a catholic priest to exorcise a djinn, and you don't bring a native american shaman to cast out a judeo-christian demon.) Tactical Squads of commando-priests, sometimes with an angel or other divine entity on staff are used similar to swat, they are called in to perform field exorcisms upon determining the presence of a malign entity. Keep in mind that all cultures demons, angels, and assorted spiritual entities are now real and said priesthood is not necessarily catholic or even christian. There is a need for a multitude of religious and spiritual holy men to serve as commando-priests. A squad will typically represent several religions. The dilemma A coalition of demon and infernal entity civil rights advocates begin pushing for demons to be granted person-hood and civil rights after a demon that is possessing a man claims that an exorcism would constitute cruel and unusual punishment. Up until this point extremist groups have been using demonically possessed as a sort of supernatural suicide bombers in a series of religiously motivated attacks. The controversy surrounding this case is similar to that of the confirmed terrorists being tortured clandestinely in Guantanamo bay. A movement to abolish the practice of using angel-squads and commando priests to conduct field exorcisms is started. Their chief argument is that government sanctioned religious personnel are a violation of the United States Separation of church and state. The Demon Rights Advocacy Group (DRAG) is essentially a new tactic by the infernal beings to gain power and cause more havoc, but their (non radical) human members are within their rights under the first amendment. The Question Would a militarized priesthood or the utilization of state sanctioned divine beings operating as law enforcement violate the United State's separation between church and state? Assume they only have jurisdiction over events involving infernal beings.