In addition to other information others have written in comments, gradients measure the rate of change of "a quantity". For example, take a hill. As you walk up the hill your elevation increases relative to the base of the hill. The steeper the hill the more quickly your elevation changes. The slope of the hill is defined as the gradient of the hill. The steeper the hill the greater the rate of change of elevation, with respect to the horizontal component of distance traveled. With atmospheric gradients, imagine there are two towns, each with a weather station. The distance between the two is 100 km. Each weather station measures pressure & temperature at defined times, usually at half hourly intervals. If the first town measures a pressure of 1011 hPa and temperature of 25 C @ 10 am and the second town, at 10 am, measures a pressure of 1008 hPa and a temperature of 20 C, then between the two towns there is a pressure gradient of 0.03 hPa/km [(1011-1008)/100]. Likewise there is a temperature gradient of 0.05 C/km [(25-20)/100]. Now, if at 11 am the weather station in the first town records a pressure of 1012.5 hPa and a temperature of 28 C, then over time, there has been a pressure gradient over the first town of 1.5 hPa/h [(1012.5-1011)/1] and a temperature gradient of 3 C/h [(28-25)/1]. So when it comes to gradients, it depends what is being measured (pressure, temperature, humidity) and what is it be measured against (distance, time, etc.), and for atmospheric quantities the distance could be lateral distance or vertical distance. 

and every point in it is its "source" in some way. The trouble with your question is that it asks about the "source" of a river in a way that you first have to define what you consider the "source". Does a stream begin where its name begins? Where water first permanently flows above ground? Most of the time? Some of the time? Anywhere there's a big enough pile of wet leaves? In Brazil, the part of the river above its confluence with the Rio Negro at Manaus has its own name -- the Solimões, so you could say the "Amazon" proper begins at Manaus. But this is thousands of miles from the river's farthest upper reaches. The Wikipedia article on the Amazon River has the following to say about its "farthest source": 

Source: GeoKansas And, just because it's there, here's a video of a crinoid crawling across the sea floor. 

Both the original laterite and the alluvial deposits have been mined for aluminum. Your assertion that there are no other bauxite deposits in the US is not true; other deposits formed in similar conditions in the southeastern US, and there is also bauxite in Montana. 

The 5 factors you mention are not nearly as important to the effect you're asking about as another, more fundamental factor: time. If you've read my answer to this other question, you should understand that all of the factors you mention would create temperature differences at different latitudes whether the Earth is tilted on its axis or not. But because the Earth's axis is tilted, at some parts of the year the regions of the Earth tilted towards the Sun (in "summer") receive sunlight a greater proportion of the day than the regions pointed away (in "winter"). Not only that, because of the more direct angle of the Sun the factors you list mean that the regions in "summer" are heated better during the day than the regions in "winter". And this adds up over all the days of summer or winter until the Earth's orbit reorients the axis relative to the Sun. Or even more succinctly, summer is hotter because the Sun is higher in the sky for more of the day. 

The Engineering Toolbox gives the following equation for converting relative humidity to specific humidity. 

Some granite deposits contain small amounts of uranium. As the uranium undergoes natural radioactive decay radon is produced. In areas where granite underlies buildings, particularly if the granite is near the surface of the Earth, radon can accumulate in basements of buildings. Some underground water sources can also contain radon, particularly if they are near granite. As the ground water moves through soil, radon can be released into the soil and thus it can enter basements. 

When such structures are mined by open cut methods, as with open cut mines of tabular orebodies it is impossible to mine any open pit to any great depth with vertical walls for ground stability reasons. The mine walls are stepped and the parts of the walls between the horizontal steps are sloped. Because of this, open pit mines start out wide at the top, on the surface, and they get narrower with depth. If the deposit being mined has a quasi-circular horizontal cross-section and is shaped something like a carrot then the open cut mine will also be conical or quasi-conical in shape. 

You'll notice in the picture all the drainage channels intersect the river at approximately 90 degrees. Also it appears the channels dendritic channels have formed in what looks like a sandy/silty sediment, again homogenous material. Other sources that may be helpful: Experiment to Examine Dendritic River Systems Dendritic river flow simulations Flow direction & branching geometry Dendritic Design 

(Source, Arkansas Geological Survey; a very detailed map can be downloaded here) The source rock (nepheline syenite) for the bauxite appears as two isolated blue spots in the middle of the map above, surrounded by (orange) Tertiary sedimentary deposits. The town of Bauxite is just to the northwest of the southern spot. Rather than cut and paste EOA's description of the process, I decided on the following summary: 

Remember that Antarctica is covered in a sheet of ice. Strip away the ice and you get something like this: 

The short answer is, bauxite requires a particular alumina-rich source rock and a specific set of conditions and processes to concentrate the aluminum in a specific order. From the Encyclopedia of Arkansas: 

From an Earth Science standpoint, it's meaningless to ask about the "source" of a river in this way. The "source" of a river is the rainfall within its drainage basin, which percolates down into groundwater, and the "river" appears where the land has eroded down below the water table. The Amazon has an enormous drainage basin: 

Circles! Well, some of them, anyway. You can plot any azimuthal projection in polar coordinates, where the radius is a function of the angular distance from the center point. So where two points' angular distances are the same, their radii are the same, and the projection of any locus of constant angular distance from the center point is a circle, if it appears at all. Since you said that the tangent point is a pole, that means that parallels (lines of constant latitude) are those lines of constant angular distance. Ergo, Northern Hemisphere parallels appear as circles. 

Two significant factors that influence the size of the ozone hole over the southern pole are temperature and the polar vortex. A number of sources confirm that the ozone hole increases in size when the temperature over Antarctica is colder. (Parrondo et al, The Ozone Hole, Sam Houston State University), The polar vortices that form over the northern and southern poles are different because the northern vortex forms over water that is surrounded by land, whereas in the southern hemisphere the situation the opposite; the vortex forms over land surrounded by water. Because of this, Antarctica "is meteorologically isolated from air at higher latitudes during winter". 

The centre of the Earth is the only true unchanging datum. Land masses rise and fall due to geological actions such as melting of land based ice sheets, volcanism, plate tectonics, erosion, sedimentation and ground stresses causing land masses to move relative to one another at faults. As stated here, sea level changes resulting from, 

As Andrew Jon Dodds states in his answer, underground voids can be located using reflection seismology. The results of such surveys will given an indication the size and extend of underground voids. Once a void has been located a more accurate layout of the underground void can be obtained by conducting a cave survey. This requires people to enter caves/voids with measuring equipment and to draw a diagram of the cave, similar to how former maritime navigators charted coast lines. 

If you were hoping for a smooth succession from Archean all the way down to Quaternary, you're going to be disappointed. Geology is messier than rocks being serenely laid down continuously through time like that. A drive from the Appalachians to the East Coast would get you everything but the Archaean rocks, although the only Proterozoic rocks would be found in the Piedmont. The tough part is finding rocks of Archaen age. Although the North American craton contains Archaen rocks, they are only at the surface in northern Wisconsin and Minnesota (That is, if we restrict ourselves to the United States as you asked), and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. There are a few outcrops in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Here's a link to a large detailed geological map of the three states. But this is just the bedrock geology. The trouble with looking for Archean age rocks in northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, of course, is that these areas are mostly covered by glacial till from recent ice ages (although you might find an Archean glacial erratic that the ice sheets carried down from Canada). Archean outcrops might be small and inaccessible. 

Quite the opposite. Divergent boundaries can cause mountain (well, actually volcano) building, because upwelling magma is part of the rifting process. First and most importantly, the Mid-Ocean Ridge can be considered the longest, most massive mountain range in the world. It's more obvious, of course, on continental rifts like the East African Rift. Mt. Kilimanjaro, a product of rift volcanism, is the highest mountain in Africa. Another famous locale of volcanism at a divergent boundary is Iceland, although a hot spot may play a role there.