Proclaim to be for the workers, social rights, and other left wing goals. Doesn't matter if you are or aren't. Even in 1920s/30s, many of the more left leaning cultural figures liked Stalin. But we aren't in 1920s anymore. We are in 2016. The Victims Of Communism Memorial Foundation did a poll about Millennial attitudes for far left using YouGov. Some findings: 

Main reason: You're hedging against ELE (Extinction Level Event) Another answer mentioned alien threat, but ELE's can happen for other reasons as well - meteorite, supervolcano (Toba nearly led to humans becoming extinct in the past; and we are right up against Yellowstone deadline), super-plague, nano-gray-goo, Large Hadron Collider Creating Black Hole, Chthulu wakes up, Singularity, Judgement Day (of Terminator type, not religious type). Elon Musk spoke on this extensively when discussing his vision of Mars colony in real life. Early investment. Yes, the colonies aren't expected to produce much benefit now. But if technology/surcumstances/etc.. change in the future such that they can - they will have already been there, ready to benefit. High-risk investors would be all over that like Lehman on subprime mortgages. Political freedom Plenty of people chafe under the less-free society that invariably gets imposed on everyone due to population density. Various libertarian minded (or anarchist etc...) people would be VERY interested in a new frontier, where you don't have to worry about intrusive laws, regulations, coddling the weak, etc... In the past, they moved to real frontiers. Wild West in America. These days they dream of seasteading or moving to Vermont. Give them whole worlds to be free in and you have plenty of interested individuals. This has the dual benefit: Earth gets rid of "live free or die" people who chafe under "world Government", "daddy government", "big government", and the like - WITHOUT violating their freedom. They go on their own volition, attracted by the frontier. Secondly, collecting such people helps you succeed better in colonization - those ARE the kinds of people who have the psychological drive to succeed as a colonist. 

Basically, given the largely Laissez-faire deity like this, most likely a set of competing religions would spring up, which would formulate religious rules to satisfy the needs of the local power elites - the same way Christianity was severely transformed once Roman Empire decided to adopt it for a state religion. Specific details would heavily depend on (1) precise basic moral rules the deity declared and (2) the level of spiritual enforcement of said rules the deity declared (does your immortal soul go to hell, or do you simply get soup-Nazi "No Salt-Shaker for You"?) 

There are two approaches you could take here. Semi-Permeable Membranes Membranes of this type allow only certain ions or particles via diffusion or passive/active transport. A dialysis machine for example uses this sort of membrane. For ion transport, these require a carrier fluid. Oxygen, Nitrogen and CO2 are all mildly soluble in water, so we could use something water-based as the carrier. In this situation, the membrane is just a sieve with an extremely fine mesh size. Well-controlled, this mesh would only allow your selected compounds through. Sickness or mutation could cause this to malfunction in similar ways to how kidney disease affects humans. Interestingly, this means that compounds with a similar physical size to your usual source will be allowed through. This is similar to why carbon monoxide ends up in our bloodstream. It has a similar size and charge to oxygen, and thus gets through the sieve. To prevent poisoning via these chemicals, a secondary mechanism is present in most complex life forms. Biochemical Filters Our liver is one of these. It uses various enzymes and chemical pathways to process chemicals in our bloodstream, and neutralise toxins. This type of filter is often employed after initial size and charge filtering via the normal input pathway (the lungs in this case). Let me get back to your question. 

Suicide The only way to avoid your punishment is to commit suicide in such a way that the body is utterly destroyed, or impossible to access. Thus, when are you done with your nefarious deeds, you simply bail out on your punishment. This could be achieved by throwing yourself into a volcano (though the Church has a good 15 minutes to retrieve some piece of you), or by being intentionally consumed by a whale. If the Church doesn't have some way to track you, they'll never find the body. Run to the Hills The other option is more likely if the person isn't ready to terminate their own life in exchange for their crimes. They could simply flee society. Once again, assuming the Church doesn't have some infallible way of tracking the convict, then they could escape somewhere remote, and then resurface with a new identity elsewhere in the continent, or just live in the woods forever. This has some interesting implications in that there may be entire societies of subversive groups who were charged (wrongly or rightly) for crimes, and have not paid the price. Tracking On the flip side, if the Church does have some method of infallibly tracking the convict, the only option becomes a hasty and thorough suicide, such as the aforementioned volcano option. 

Plant based alternatives are an issue. To have a sustainable vegetarian diet, you need access to plant based protein - legumes, avocado, etc... If that requirement is a problem, that's the root of prohibition on veganism (non-vegan vegetarianism is not affected as they can use milk or eggs). E.g.: 

"Andromeda"'s "Slipstream" approach. Your FTL technology relies on slipstream that can only be navigated by a human pilot. Obviously stolen from Gene Rodenberry's "Andromeda" show. 

Economic unrest. New enterprising rich types clashing with existing power structures. Think French Revolution, or February 1917 revolution in Russia. Set up "economic free zones" for enterprising types. Less regulation, more law and order. Make it easy to move to/from there This has the added benefit of keeping your country economically vibrant and viable, without bleeding those enterprising types out of gene pool through immigration or tyrannical suppression. Lack of law and order. Set up "frontiers" to keep the rough, the tough, the footloose and the risk-takers busy. Ideally, far away so they aren't tempted to return to stir up trouble, only to retire. That will productively channel and/or isolate most of your psychopath types, or even regular destabilizing people. Seasteading. Space. Raiding neighbours. Desire to improve the life of the "oppressed". See, Russian Revolution, or Occupy iPhones, or whatnot. Most of those aren't actually dissent from the oppressed, but from people who are higher up the social chain, caring about said oppressed. Set up philantropy and "for the common good" programs to keep the bleeding hearts happy and busy. Very few people want a bloody revolution, if the alternative to better life for others is Habitat for Humanity type work - especially if it's effective and efficacious. Unrest and revolts by the people who have little to lose and safety and stability to gain. Let's cover that in detail in next topic 

There are a wide variety of issues with IQ-based voting systems. First of all, there's absolutely no basis to think that IQ based voting system would in some way be superior, even if it worked as designed/intended, for a variety of reasons. 

5. Reduce suffering from poverty, to prevent unrest and revolts by the people who have little to lose and safety and stability to gain. See pretty much any revolution or uprising you can think of as examples. While at setting up philantropy, set up social safety nets to keep the less-productive sheeple content. Some sort of weak Basic Income Guarantee is not out of realm of impossible for a good developed Imperial economy (fed by the income from Free Enterprise Zones), and can be designed to balance avoiding extreme poverty with avoiding bankrupting the Treasury. Also, ensure entertainment. Nothing to distract people from attending revolutionary meetings like a good round of Kardashian admiration, or gladiatorial games, or dances. 

This boils down to the age old question of "can crime be eliminated"? The short version is no. Over a long enough time scale, some poor sod will break the law, either out of ignorance or malice. As for why someone might break the law considering the penalties are so harsh. It's a cost-benefit question. After all, you can only be punished if you are caught, and also convicted. Thus a good lawyer and/or some crafty planning will let you get away with it. If we assume that the judges are all-knowing, mind-reading gods, and that all judgements are true and fair, then we can still fall back on the person only being convicted if caught, so they could just become a fugitive, after all the punishment doesn't get much worse for each subsequent crime. A person treated like X becomes X, because there is no possible downside to doing so. The way they are treated will not change. This is a flaw in all extreme punishments. Once you cross the line, there's no, or little harm in crossing it more. Thus, in such a system you would have no minor crime, and the occasional murderous rampage. EDIT: Extra information has been provided by the creator, thus some clarification is required. The Church has some way of determining a corpse's crimes This changes a few things. Now it is an invetibality that if caught, a fugitive will be subjected to their torture/punishment (whether they are executed first or not). In this scenario, these people have two major options: 

Actually, it would require a square of the effort, as pressure is force per unit area. And that's before we consider the resistance of the filter. It's infeasible for any creature to go much past its normal intake pressure due to this. 

Not necessarily. Logistics The answer to any question of "should we do X" can always be rephrased as "is the benefit of doing X greater than the cost(s) of doing X". So let's rephrase: In a civilisation that has access to tonnes of planets, would vertical farming outweigh the cost of setting up the farms? For certain planets, the answer would be yes. Temperate planets that are close to existing hub worlds for example would have low cost of transport for goods manufactured on them (food included), thus more extreme forms of manufacturing (such as vertical farms) could be utilised before it becomes inefficient to build more dense and/or complex systems. It's not just a matter of the space required, but also the world's climate (and how easily it can be terraformed), as well as how it relates to the economy at large. If it is in a convenient location, or is highly abundant in a particular resource, then it may be worth it to employ advanced engineering techniques to maximise the utility of that planet.