In standard propositional logic, both p and –p are ‘propositions’. In natural language, however, what phrases smaller than TP are ‘propositional’ is much less obvious. For example, take the simplest sentences, sentences like a), b) and c), where a) is specified for ‘default’, positive ‘polarity’, b) has ‘marked’, negative ‘polarity’, and, arguably, c) is unspecified for ‘polarity’. a) Bach composed this concert. b) Bach did not compose this concert. c) Did Bach compose this concert? According to Chomskian GB/P&P/MT assumptions, a clause like a) minimally contains a ‘saturated’ vP/VP with Bach in Spec v/V and this concert in Compl of V, and, on top of that, at least three ‘functional’ heads that respectively allow for the specification of polarity (Pol/PolP, in one widely used terminology), tense (TP, earlier IP), and illocutionary ‘force’ (ForceP, earlier CP). [Of course further heads may be involved (e.g., unmarked ‘modality’), but I will ignore them here, as they do not substantially alter the issue; let’s leave ForceP/CP aside, too, for the same reason]. As far as I can tell, the saturated vP or VP would correspond to the syntactic encoding of an ‘event’. I ignore here the question whether a VP must be tensed or not to be able to encode an event and how the sub-events that an 'accomplishment verb' like compose entails can satisfy this condition to qualify as ‘(sub)events’, although, of course, if it must, then, arguably, only TP can really correspond to en event and everything becomes even more obscure and complicated. But let’s leave that aside, too. In at least both a) and b) it would be the respective PolarityP’s that would be ‘propositional’, but shall we say that ‘propositional’ categories start at PolarityP or at the respective X’ level (i.e., at Pol’, constituted by the Pol head, which would already contain whatever features license positive, negative or unspecified polarity, and its vP/VP complement)? And what about c)? Under the assumptions above, in c) polarity is unspecified, and, as a consequence, its PolP, if it contains one - as I asume - cannot have a truth-value, and so cannot encode a ‘proposition’ at all. Case c), then, would illustrate a kind of ‘sentence’ (in the sense of ‘syntactic category that can be used to perform a speech act’), whose PolarityP would not be ‘propositional’. Some PolPs, then, would be ‘propositional’ and some would not, and, in cases like c), arguably neither TP nor ForceP could be ‘propositional’ either, and as a consequence yes/no questions would contain ‘propositional content’, but no propositional projections. [Of course, granted the existence of negative questions like Didn´t Bach compose this concert?, one can always argue that c) has just default positive polarity and that that value is 'questioned' at the higher illocutionary level, I know, but the alternative view should not be lightly discarded, should it?]. I once thought about this for a while, and went back to Frege, Russell, Strawson and other major early sources, but was unable to reach a really satisfying conclusion, which was an embarrassment, for at the time I always tried to convince my students of the feasibility of a well-behaved compositional semantics even for the highly articulated syntactic structures of current Chomskian theories of the clause. Question: Could anybody here clarify this matter? Of course I am aware that this question is only a tiny aspect of a much bigger one that has already been raised here at least once, namely, the ontological and, correspondingly, ‘semantic’ status of the extra- (or intra-!) linguistic correlates of the multiple syntactic heads and projections that figure in current ‘Chomskian’ analyses of the clause, but it seems to me that it is an important aspect and a good starting point for the investigation of that bigger, for semanticists, crucial and, to my knowledge, so far largely unanswered question. Thank you in advance. 

REVISED VERSION: In my initial answer, I just tried to put myself in the OP's boots, pretended to accept the way his dependency grammar and its derived parser seemed to work (to the extent that could be inferred from the parses he offered), and simply argued in favour of the parse that violated FEWER of the most obvious empirical adequacy constraints that any credible grammar of German should comply with. So, (omitting references to notational obscurities I initially pointed out concerning the interpretation of 'OA','OC' and the reason for the '1', '2', '3' numbering that have since been clarified) I wrote: "I am no expert in dependency-grammar-based parsing, but, anyway, since beeindrucken is an obligatorily transitive verb, unless there is a direct object-on-verb dependency between the reflexive sich and beeindrucken, the rules of German grammar would be violated. As, on the other hand, lassen, in its 'causative' interpretation [Addition: a crucial qualification!], selects an infinitive (i.e., it does not select sich at all), the only parse compatible with the axioms of dependency grammars (or those I am familiar with, anyway) and with the constraints imposed by German grammar is one that reflects 1) a direct-object-on-verb dependency between sich and beeindrucken, and 2) a complement-on-verb dependency between beeindrucken and the verb lassen, but no direct dependency at all between sich and lassen. In other words, your first parse above is not correct and the parser is 'right' to offer the second parse as the correct analysis (obviously, under dependency-theory assumptions...)."[Emphasis added: again, a crucial qualification, as explained below] That was a silly mistake, and it serves me right that my answer should have been downvoted. What I should have done instead is a) insist on the obvious idea that hopelessly superficial, incomplete, and blatantly ad hoc grammars can never support serious parsers or yield adequate analyses of anything but the most trivial sentences; b) plainly say that neither of the parses offered above can remotely capture the syntactic and semantic complexities of the sich beeindrucken lassen construction; and c) explain why. Since my earlier answer may have confused readers, let me do so now. The problem with the first parse is at least twofold. First, that, although, in other uses ('main verb' ones), lassen can, indeed, be 'monotransitive' (e.g., Lass die dummen Witze!), 'ditransitive' (cf. Ich lasse mir Zeit), or, indeed, even 'complex transitive' (cf. Lass ihn weiterschlafen) or 'transitive' with an obligatory adverbial PP (e.g., Er lässt uns nicht in die Wohnung), the fact is that 'modal (and, semantically,'causative') lassen, like all German (non-elliptical) modals, must select an infinitival clause (as in ...einen Arzt kommen lassen): it cannot select any NP argument because it has no theta-role to assign to it. The second, and tougher, problem is that, whereas when the infinitive (clause) is active, as in the latter example with kommen, its accusative subject (einen Arzt) suffices to satisfy the argument structure of kommen (a 1-place predicate) - and the same applies to 2-place infinitives like untersuchen in ...einen Arzt das Kind untersuchen lassen, whose two arguments are satisfactorily discharged by the two accusative NPs, etc. - in cases like the OP's ...beeindrucken lassen, the infinitive is not active, but passive, in interpretation, and, of course, even its reduced argument structure remains unsatisfied (and the infinitive itself uninterpretable) if it has no dependents at all and its 'passiveness' is left unexpressed, as proposed in the 1st parse above. Given such circumstances, the parser designer would minimally have to 1) posit an entirely ad hoc additional lexical entry, a passive verb beeindrucken (apart from the, independently necessary, active 2-place verb beeindrucken), and 2) offer explicit rules/principles determining how passive beeindrucken behaves syntactically and semantically, but, of course, nothing remotely like that is shown or can be inferred from the first parse above. As to the parser's own parse, the second one, at first blush (and always taking dependency grammar for granted!) it seems somewhat less inadequate than the first to the extent that it, at least, captures the structural dependency between the infinitive beeindrucken and its modal governor lassen, but it is still hopelessly incomplete and superficial to express the syntactic and semantic structures that make ... sich... beeindrucken lassen behave as it does and mean what it means. In this case, the problem is threefold: a) beeindrucken is still incorrectly treated as if it were 'active' and 'transitive' (i.e., 2-place), and it is, accordingly, granted by the parser a direct object (= sich) which is supposed to satisfy its internal argument (the Theme, Experiencer, Affected, ... whatever the thematic role label is in the parser's internal grammar), but b) it is not additionally provided with any NP dependent that may satisfy its 'higher' argument (the 'beeindrucker': an Agent, Cause(r), Stimulus,... whatever the semantic role label is in the parser's underlying grammar), which violates indispensable and nowadays cross-theoretically accepted syntactic-semantic principles (e.g., depending on the theory chosen, Functional Saturation, Satisfaction, The Theta Criterion,...) and leaves the infinitive clause with an open variable and no well-formed semantic interpretation. Finally, c), the 2nd parse raises a further problem that the 1st one did not cause: reflexive sich being an anaphor, it must be 'bound' inside its 'binding domain' (= the infinitival clause sich beeindrucken, here), but, of course, it is not, since that clause has no internal subject (say, a hidden PRO-like one, assuming beeindrucken were active, which, as stated, it is not) and the nearest antecedent and potential binder can only be outside (an argument of the superordinate clause), which means that, under the second parse, 'sich' is referentially uninterpretable. That leaves us with two serious flaws even in the parser's own parse. In sum, as soon as the dependency theory framework underlying the OP's parser is itself questioned for its flagrant inability to reach minimal standards of descriptive adequacy, an issue I wrongly avoided to go into in my earlier answer, the 2nd parse is actually more problematic than the first. Adequately parsing German (or Spanish, French, etc.) apparently active infinitives with passive interpretations (just as parsing English apparently active gerunds with passive interpretations) requires much more powerful and sophisticated grammars than the one underlying the OP's dependency-based parser above. 

The reason is that try is a two-place predicate that assigns an Agent theta role to Mary and a Theme (or similar) role to its infinitival complement, whereas seems is monadic (in your example), must assign just one theta role, to its complement, and cannot have a second argument in its specifier to which it can assign Agent (or any other) role. [Of course, seems may also be two-place, e.g., in It seems to me that Mary is an excellent teacher, but in that case it must have two 'internal' arguments, and assign a Theme role to the subordinate clause and an Experiencer role to the PP complement to me; under no circumstances can it assign an Agent role to the PP to me, because Agent is never assigned to an internal argument in complement position; Agent can only be assigned in Spec v/V position, and, of course, never by a non-agentive verb like seems]. As a consequence of that difference in argument structure between try and seem, in a sentence like Mary tried [PRO to be there] a PRO is needed in the subordinate clause to discharge the Theme role projected by the predicate be there and some other argument (Mary, in this case) is also needed to discharge the Agent role assigned by try in the upper clause to its own Spec V. If you had only one argument, i.e., if you base-generated Mary as the specifier of be (there) in the subordinate clause, and then raised it into the Spec of the higher verb try, the chain formed by Mary in Spec try and its trace in Spec be (or by the two copies of Mary, under the 'Copy Theory of Movement') would receive two theta roles (Agent and Theme, respectively), the Theta Criterion would be violated, and the derivation would be ungrammatical. (Under later versions of Chomskian grammar, of course, that Theta Criterion violation need no longer be invoked to block the derivation: since Mary already has a valued role attribute in Spec be, it could never be raised into a higher thematic position, e.g., Spec try, because there would be no feature to check in Spec try and Economy would automatically forbid that movement. Mary could still raise, of course, but not in search of a second theta role; it could raise directly into Spec Tense, for example, to check its Nominative Case feature there, but it would have to do so skipping Spec try, and therefore would never get assigned a second theta role as Agent of try anyway. On the contrary, in a sentence like Mary seems [t to be there] (where, recall, seems is monadic and assigns a theta role only to its complement, not to its specifier), replacing 't' with a PRO in the subordinate clause would make the sentence ungrammatical, because, in that case, it would be PRO that would receive the only undischarged theta role available in the sentence (the Theme role assigned by be there). Mary, on the contrary, would not receive any theta role in Spec seems, and, again, the Theta Criterion would be violated (by defect, in this case) and the sentence would be ungrammatical. If Mary is base-generated as a Spec of be there, though, it gets the Theme role assigned by be there, and, as the higher verb seems does not assign any theta role to its own specifier, Mary never receives a second theta role, the Theta Criterion is not violated, and the sentence is well formed.