Obviously without knowing the specific field you are trying to get into I'm going to have to keep this answer pretty generic. But some good starting points would be: 

Note that there is no mention of your coworkers because how many Saturdays you work is between you and the company, others don't factor into that. Also there is no "justification" or excuse as to why you can't work those specific additional days beyond the fact that it is cutting too far into "your" time because that's all it needs to be. 

At that point they will need to decide what is more important to them - keeping it secret or extracting the most knowledge. If they ask you to do them and lie about the reasons why then you can re-iterate that you aren't comfortable with doing that and that you feel it will be transparent and that if/when he works out he is going to be fired and they were hiding from them that they won't get anything out him and may even face him being actively resistant. That way you aren't saying "nah, don't want to" you're saying "this won't get you what you want" which is a subtle but important distinction that shows you are still on "Team Employer". To be honest if they can't see that then you probably want to start polishing the old CV since they probably aren't people you want to be working for and they may even do the same to you at some point so keeping your options prepared would be a wise move! 

Sorry but yes.. unless you had literally no other way of getting in contact with your boss you should have talked to them directly. Either face to face or if that weren't feasible over the phone. 

While I can understand and appreciate why you might be feeling a bit put out by this I really don't think you have anything to gain by bring it up with your boss. It wasn't their decision to change who gave the presentation and I really can't see them going against their boss to try and change it. Given you will be in the room "for support" (as you put it) I don't think this is a case where you will be missing out on the credit for the work. I understand your point regarding your boss not knowing the work quite as well as you and your team do but the best approach for this (and one that I think would serve to up your professional reputation with your boss) would be to offer to give them a primer on the presentation in advance if they want. 

Well if that's true there's a challenge for you right in front of you - challenge yourself to detach yourself from the outcome of the project and any notions of belief while still giving it your best professional work. I'm not saying it's an easy thing to do.. but if it were it wouldn't be a challenge would it? 

I'm not surprised that they were annoyed by this, it's an incredibly childish and passive-aggressive response. If you know who the person (or persons) is that use your desk after you leave then you could try talking to them and ask them politely to leave the desk clean after they have used it. Something like: 

There will be an element of this I'd expect but don't focus on the details of what you do - instead focus on what you have achieved for the company and what business needs your work has served. This is what your manager (should) care about. 

From how you've described it they've only said that they intend to hire you back not that they have formally extended an offer to do so. That being the case I would not only say it's acceptable for you to keep looking but I would actively encourage you do so and if something comes up that you formally accept then as Frank FYC mentioned in his answer you just give them a polite heads-up that you won't be available to return and thank them for their interest and the previous time(s) you've been there. 

I would expect the repayment period to be calculated on the date you actually finish working there - not on the day you gave notice. That said policies like this are not universal in the way they operate. I would read that section of your contract carefully to see what it says as it's possible they have written it in such a way as to calculate it from point of notice. I think it's unlikely to be the case though. 

I've seen job application processes that require both more substantial amounts of "work" as apart of a submission and ones that require less. A 1000 word essay is perhaps a little bit on the high side for a technical role in my experience but it's not ridiculous - an A4-sized page of text at 12pt font will typically be about 400-500 words. The request for an example project is more common, as this will presumably be intended as a demonstration of your technical skills. You mention recently graduating from university so presumably you did something that fulfills these criteria you could use? The bottom line though is that if you want the job then you'll need to jump through whatever hoops the potential employer wants you to. No-one has a gun to your head making you do this and if you feel like it's too much then, well, don't apply. 

If you are working to keep him then you do need to tackle this relatively directly with him. It doesn't have to be done in an authoritarian or heavy-handed way that he would likely percieve as an attack on him, in fact this would likely be counter-productive based on what you have told us. Instead you can present it to him in quite a positive way. Explain that the change in management provides an opportunity for something of a clean slate. A chance for him to correct the perception that some in the business have of him - referring to it in the context of a perception it softens the blow somewhat without lying or pretending that there isn't a problem, it also implies that you have confidence in him. Never underestimate the postive effect it can have on a subordinate when their direct manager/supervisor has confidence in them, many will really step up to repay that confidence and prove that the supervisor was right to have faith in them. Also depending on how your friendship dynamic works you could factor this in - tell him that you are having to step up to take on the manager's duties while maintaing your technical responsibilities and that you could really use your friend's help to make it work. You can then present the changes you need him to make in this context. NB: I realise that this might might sound rather callous but I honestly don't mean it that way, after all the performance of a subordinate often reflects upon their supervisor/manager and having a "problem" employee from the outset is a headache you don't need when you are starting out in such a role and isn't helping friends out part of what friendship is? 

While the technical skills of your time as an IT Auditor may not be directly relevant to an IT Development role I'd hazard a guess that there will be skills and experience that will be applicable - probably so-called "soft skills" in the majority. Things like how you dealt with challenging situations with colleagues, prioritization of tasks, communicating with stakeholders etc. Sure they aren't going to be as valuable as out and out "hard skill" experience like working with particular languages or technologies but that doesn't mean they aren't of interest to a potential employer - so try and frame any description of that role in terms of those things that would be applicable and make sure you emphasize the technical aspects of the periods where you were doing development. 

I think when people have used the term "support" in comments/answers they were referring more to things like fixes or modifications to existing projects which is still programming obviously just not "greenfield" development. 

You can refuse to work under the new terms You can continue to work under the new terms under protest, and are treating the change as a breach of contract Resign and claim constructive dismissal (and take your case to an employment tribunal) 

In your place I would have learnt Windows, because that's what the job expects of you, and not unreasonably either. If you really can't work on the platform that the rest of the company uses then that's probably a sign that this is not the company for you. We've all worked in jobs where we didn't get to use our preferred platform/tools and while it's fine to ask if you can have your preferred setup instead but if the company decides not to grant that request then you can either get on board or you can go elsewhere. Ignoring your employer's directives and denigrating your coworkers for not sharing your preferences is pretty unprofessional to say the least and buying yourself a mac to take to work? I really wouldn't do that without discussing it with them first and getting the OK. In most places I've worked if an employee turned up with their own kit (especially if that kit was running a different platform) unannounced, with no BYOD policy or culture in place and just expected to plug in to the network and crack on they would be told (with very good reason) that they had wasted their time/money. Particularly where they have already been directed to use the platform that the rest of the company is using instead. I've seen director-level employees get away with it because of their seniority and authority but regular employees generally get told to take a hike. 

Would seem to indicate that yes, someone in a culinary position whose "normal place of work" was a ship would count as a Seafarer and therefore be subject to the same medical requirements as anyone else on the crew and thus the requirement regarding not being colorblind would apply. All is not lost however since for those working in the hospitality-type areas if you fail the colorvision part of the test but are otherwise passed "fit" then you can be issued an ENG1 certificate with the restriction ‘not fit for lookout duties’. Such a certificate means you can technically do things like being a chef and it will then be up to the company operating the ship whether they accept candidates who have this exclusion. NB: The colorblindness exclusion for crew relates to being able to correctly interpret various maritime signals that frequently use red and green as differentiators - hence the "lookout duties" exclusion. EDIT: The paragraph below relates to the original version of the question which discussed whether the OP would be able to take a course in culinary arts for a cruise ship, this may nor may not be relevant any more but since it was originally asked I'll leave it in for now. As to whether it would affect your ability to take a course training to be a ship's chef I imagine that would come down to the individual course requirements, if the course included time spent on placement on ships then the same health criteria as working for the company operating the ship would likely apply. This would have to be a question for the operator of any such course though. It does beg the question though as to why you'd want to take such a course if you couldn't progress on to having the actual job the course was intended for? 

If you've already accepted the 2% raise then it's going to be very difficult to re-open negotiations at this point. It's not impossible if you've got some substantial political capital in the business and/or you'd be difficult to replace but I can virtually guarantee that asking for money now won't go down well. If you're prepared to play the "pay me more or I'll leave" card then you have that option but as ever it's not a good idea unless you have something else to go to and are genuinely prepared to follow through. Edit to add: You could have a conversation with your boss about how you are unhappy with the raise and use it to lay some ground work for a higher increase next year - if you are prepared to wait that long that is. This could actually have a good chance of success since you'd be able to get it into the minds of the company even before they start planning the budget for next year. 

Masked Man's answer is excellent and covers the really important things here. To supplement that though regarding the specifics of using "I" this seems to be an individual, possibly cultural thing, I've had discussions with others when reviewing CVs where they have commented negatively on the use of "I" suggesting that it sounds like a school kid's "what I did on my summer holiday" report, the inference being that it made then thing of the candidate as young and immature. Personally I can see where they are coming from but I wouldn't consider it anywhere near significant enough for it to affect whether I progressed their application. 

Honestly I think you're just going to have to live with it - it's not fair, but then fairness is not a concept that exists in the workplace anyway. Nepotism like this is exceptionally common when people in positions of authority have family members working with them - there's nothing you can really do about it and it would generally be considered highly career limiting to try so you need to either learn to live with it or move on if you can't. 

Yeah, this is almost certainly what they were talking about, mirroring the interviewer isn't a good idea either. You need to practice an alert, attentive posture and maintain that. I probably wouldn't go so far as describing leaning back as slouching either.. but I'd be lying if I didn't say that I would consider a candidate who did so to be inattentive and showing a lack of engagement with the interview.