Obviously the music industry has gone to great lengths to try and ingrain the message that illegal downloads of music have significantly damaged their bottom line, but is there any irrefutable evidence that declines in sales for major labels are as a direct result of illegal downloads? For example, growth in other media (such as video games) will have obviously eaten into the amount of money available teenagers have to spend on music. Also, the prevalence of the internet means that distribution is cheap and affordable for even smaller labels now (meaning there's less reason for artists to jump to bigger labels). I ask especially in regard to today's marketplace, where there are plenty of online stores making music available to legally download (such as iTunes, Zune Marketplace, and eMusic). 

You're right to be suspicious. While there are obviously studies of "body language", it's impossible to judge accurately from one photograph, or even a short video, how someone is genuinely feeling. Especially to the degree that you describe: Is a person genuinely having a good time, or are they posing for the cameras? Even if that person wasn't having a good time, it's impossible to say why, without asking them. Think of it as someone taking a photograph of your face in mid conversation. You may look serious as you listen to what someone is saying. You may laugh if they say something funny. But could anyone really accurately state what your feelings were about the situation? In short: It's impossible to say with certainty what someone is feeling by their body language. Reference: The Truth Behind the Smile and Other Myths - When Body Language Lies, Harvard, 2002 

then they can make any supplement they want out of it - without even a burden of proof that their dosing quantity or combination with other chemicals is safe. Then, if a company wants to sell a new ingredient in a supplement, all they have to do is send the FDA 

Trustworthy websites that the medical profession uses: Medscape, Medline Plus (NIH), UpToDate, [epocrates] (an app, not free)10, NetWellness.org, mayoclinic.org, and other medical university-based health websites. There are also commercial websites and shows like WebMD, Dr. Oz, The Doctors... those are commercial companies/websites/shows that get revenue from ads and from talking about "cutting-edge" topics. I myself am skeptical about what I hear from them and read up about it myself on more scholarly or peer-reviewed websites. 

For example, I take a Centrum daily multivitamin on recommendation from an M.D./PharmD because "Centrum has been on the market for so long that if there were a safety concern, it is statistically likely that it would have surfaced years ago already." I also take Calcium/VitD from another famous, older company. GNC is a company that's been around a long time, so I would trust a standard multivitamin. But I'm skeptical of some of their things because they put their brand-name on products that make some pretty extreme claims, as well as a lot of brand-new products, which brings me to the next point: 

This (very compelling) lecture by Robert H. Lustig (MD, UCSF Professor of Pediatrics in the Division of Endocrinology) backs up the idea that Type 2 diabetes can be reversed by changes in diet, but the focus is on increase roughage (and exercise) and reducing refined sugar. I believe he makes reference to several studies. $URL$ You'll note it has nothing to do with the magical power of raw vegetables, just the vast increase in fibre intake which helps the body deal with sugar better (and other simple health changes). This BBC news article, also backs up the same understanding: $URL$ 

Prolactin is the stress hormone (as mentioned in Mad Scientist's answer). There is some question as to whether crying is always beneficial for all people, though. 

Yes, emotional tears help you excrete stress hormones from your body. As others have said, "toxins" is probably nonsense. 

Race is one of the most misunderstood words in the English language. It literally refers to any genetically passed traits that are shared within a group. This can include skin-colour, but it also includes hair colour, freckles, even nationality. In other words, any shared genetic traits mean you share the same "race" as someone. As you can imagine, this makes the term rather meaningless for lots of reasons. For example, because of the huge amount of genetic diversity in Africa, two people from two different African nations will have less in common, genetically, than a European and someone from an African nation. And yet the average person would most likely guess it was the other way around. Perhaps because humans are very visually orientated, however, we have now becomes fixated on skin-colour, and using that to define "race". Unfortunately people don't understand that there is little or no biological basis for any other traits, beyond skin colour. For example, The gene for skin-colour has no relation to things like musical ability, eye shape, athletic ability, etc. Genetic traits are measurable, and often have other effects on a person (blonde people are more likely to have fairer skin, and so get sunburned more easily, etc), but other traits are stored in completely different areas of the human genome. A good way to look at it is to remember that skin colour is as biologically significant as hair colour or eye colour. The biggest mistake is thinking that "race" means something more significant about someone more than just "shared genetic history". Until people understand that the difference between a black person and a white person is as biologically significant as someone who has freckles and someone who doesn't, common misunderstandings about the importance of race are likely to continue. Most people don't even understand that "French" people are a race, for example, and I've even been "corrected" by people using it in that way! In short: So much talk about "race" has placed far too much emphasis on the word, as if it means something significant. It doesn't. Sources: 

Because I certainly do not trust my life to companies' honesty, I am very wary about nutritional supplements before I take them or tell a patient that something they're taking is okay. I make certain I read lots about them - and not just the company's own propoganda, but actual research. See below for resources I recommend. It's also critical to mention that nutritional supplements often have pharmaceutical properties - MANY pharmaceutical medications are derived from plants as well. And "all natural" means nothing in terms of safety - cyanide is an all natural, plant-derived substance too. If you decide to take a nutritional supplement, ALWAYS check to be certain that there is no interaction with a medication you're taking, or with another supplement. Check Medscape's Interaction Checker $URL$ for interaction information on pharmaceutical drugs - they have some nutrition supplements and vitamins, but nowhere near all of them. With supplements, most interactions have simply never been tested - and therefore no one knows if they're safe. It's always best to ask a doctor for advice before starting a new supplement. How to spot a good multivitamin or supplement 

The 10% figure comes from (*drumroll*) Alfred Kinsey... Or rather, it originated in his book, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male. Does this mean that 10% of the population is homosexual? No, it means that, of the 5300 white males polled by Kinsey and his peers, 10% answered that they were predominately homosexual. That's all. Different polls and different sources have their own figures. For example, a 1993 Janus Report estimated that 9% of men, and 5% of women, had more than "occasional" homosexual relationships. While The Family Research Report says "around 2-3% of men, and 2% of women, are homosexual or bisexual." And The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force estimates 3-8% of both sexes. One of the biggest issues comes from agreeing on a definition. As someone pointed out in the comments, it's hard to establish exactly what "homosexual" actually means. For example, if a man lives and dies, and had one homosexual experienced during his lifetime: Was he gay, bisexual or straight? Whatever category you'd place that man into, Kinsey's reports indicate that roughly 37% of men would fall into it. So it all depends how you classify sexuality. And to make matters even more confusing, some (like the Canadia based Centre for Addiction and Mental Health) suggest "sexual orientation may be fluid and change over time". So even if someone identifies with being straight at one point in their lives, at another point they may naturally find themselves identifying with homosexuality. In short: There's no definite, conclusive answer. Sources: 

But not all vitamins/minearls are safe for all people; if you have certain medical conditions, there are vitamins you should avoid. Also, certain vitamins are toxic if you take too much. But there are also certain conditions where you need to take extra of certain vitamins. That's why it's important to ask a doctor what's right for you. "Nutritional supplements" is a very broad category of everything except food and pharmaceutical drugs. It includes vitamins/minerals, but also include a wide variety of things. It includes herbal preparations like Echinacea or St. Johns Wort (which btw is really essentially an antidepressant medication, complete with drug-interactions and side effects), to things that claim to build muscle, to things that claim to make you smarter, to the random new weird supplements with magical weight loss claims (like you see advertised on website banners everywhere, "1 weird thing I did to lose 1528735 pounds" or whatever). People often take these in hopes that it will help some aspect of their health - and some do help. Some are good. But others don't do much at all. - and worst, some do bad things. This is where we need to pause and talk about safety, because there are vast inconsistencies between supplements in terms of safety, efficacy, and truthfulness of claims. There is something essential that we all need to be aware of: Vitamin and nutritional supplements in the USA are not monitored nor investigated by the FDA, so there is no governmental monitoring of their content, quality, nor accuracy of claims of what they do. This does not mean that all are worthless or unsafe. It means we have to be careful consumers of supplements. At the bottom, I have links to look at interactions with other medications, as well as a couple notes on how to spot a good one. From [$URL$ 

The author of the Answers in Genesis article is likely incorrect. Tiberius officially was solely Roman emperor in A.D. 14. However, to quote Garret G. Fagan, a history professor at Penn State: 

This appears to be a minority view among scholars, but it appears to be pretty popular in certain popular subcultures. Quoting the Vice article: 

The Bible records the Israelites as using kaneh-bosm as anointing oil, specifically in the Old Testament. The exact composition of the oil is unclear as kaneh-bosm is an Aramaic word, although most scholars believe that it was made from Calamus, a kind of palm. Various sources which discuss the issue: Wikipedia overview Vice article Although the consensus seems to be that the oil was made primarily from palm oil, a Polish anthropologist named Sula Benet claimed that kaneh bosm is really cannabis in the 1960s. Supposedly, it was merely been misidentified as calamus due to a mistranslation. From wikipedia: 

As a result, it wasn't marketed well, was placed in the infamous Friday Night Death Slot, and wasn't given any sort of lead in. Before this they had refused to air the feature-length pilot they'd ordered, and told Whedon and Tim Minear (co-executive producer) they had to have a new pilot script ready in two days or the show wouldn't be picked up. (Yes, that's right. Fox gave them two days to write the most important episode of any TV show.) Fox also set the schedule so that the show was taken off the air for baseball, and pulled it from November sweeps, if you can believe that. The results of Gail Berman's decisions even made the news, being one of the worst Novembers Fox had ever seen. It even prompted then Fox Entertainment Television Chairman, Sandy Grushow, to admit they'd goofed: "To put new shows on for two weeks and then take them off for four weeks for baseball is not a particularly effective launch strategy." So yes, the show was cancelled because it was expensive and the ratings weren't great, but the show also very poorly handled by a network who had little faith in it. What's worse is that Berman knew that Whedon was a master at growing a fanbase. He'd never had an immediate TV hit before, but he'd grown a loyal group of followers for both Buffy and Angel. Given time, it's likely he would have done the same for Firefly. 

In the mid 90's, the number of new supplements being produced each year was so high that the FDA to keep up with on top of medical pharmaceuticals that need to be tested, so safety monitoring was limited to pharmaceuticals. I wish that weren't the case, but that's how it goes when health safety doesn't get enough funding. We're left to to rely on supplement companies to be honest in their safety data. And we've seen plenty of times how less-than-honest advertisements and overly-ambitious (or just outright lying) claims supplement companies sometimes make - the FDA has had to step in numerous times to stop supplements that turned out to be unsafe, like the recent Hydroxycut FDA warning to "stop using immediately," which is also a class action lawsuit. The FTC even has had to step in where the FDA didn't on Sensa for example. To make a new supplement, according to the FDA, if an ingredient has already been 

No. The Nation of Islam is essentially repeating the claims made in the movie Vaxxed. This movie was made by the discredited Andrew Wakefield, author of the famous "utterly false" Lancet study on the supposed link between autism and MMR vaccines. William Thompson himself was concerned about the presentation of data in a particular paper as discussed here. He still strong supports giving children vaccines as stated in the press release. The CDC released a statement saying that the reason the supposed vaccine/autism link was not included in the original Thompson paper was because it disappeared when the authors performed a more in depth analysis. Rather than covering this up, the CDC has made the data available, so anybody is welcome to do their own analysis if they want. Thompson never talked to the creators of the Vaxxed movie. Rather, he had some discussions about the presentation of data with a fellow scientist - Brian Hooker. Hooker eventually published a paper pushing the autism/vaccine link in black children, but it was forcibly retracted by the journal pending an investigation due to "serious concerns about the validity of its conclusions". Hooker recorded Thompson's conversations with him (without Thompson's knowledge). These recordings were stitched together in non-chronological ways in the movie. The stitched together recordings created by a discredited scientist, in a movie directed by a discredited doctor, form the basis of the Nation of Islam claim. The named doctor in the claim supports vaccines in all demographics per his press release statement. 

Summary: We can't say all are good or all are bad. It's a case-by-case basis. That's why it's such a controversial topic. Many times doctors can't even agree on what works. We have to read, talk to doctors / experts, and ultimately decide how safe to play it. 

Razie's right. Let's talk about vitamins/minerals and other nutritional/dietary supplements separately. (Nutritional = dietary, which is used in the sense of what we eat, not used in the sense of weight-loss "dieting" - although weight loss supplements also fit in this category). Many vitamins and minerals are absolutely essential parts of our diet - they play roles such as co-enzymes for many physiological functions, including the immune system. Vitamins are things like A/C/D/B vitamins; Minerals are things like Iron or Calcium. With a very well-balanced diet, we can get everything we need through our food - but most people in this country don't. Some foods (like cereals and rice) are "fortified" or "enriched" to be sure people are getting closer to 100% of the most essential ones because people often aren't (especially kids who are in a critical growing stage). If you want to be certain, you can track your vitamin intake using a nutrition calculator that includes vitamins/minerals. Eating a wide diversity of colors of vegetables and fruits is one way to help get more of the vitamin/mineral spectrum. For most people who don't carefully balance their diet, taking a regular multivitamin is a very common and appropriate way to cover the bases of what's necessary. Also: