Because as open-minded and creative as the real tech world is, the world of recruiters, offices & that kind of bureaucracy is based in using the whole Microsoft Office suite on Microsoft servers using tools that either can only open Microsoft Word or can only parse Microsoft Word. That said, if you are sending directly to an employer that will not even accept a PDF as an alternative, that should be a red flag. I can understand recruiters, head-hunters & the like being mired in the Microsoft world, but most employers directly accepting resumes for now should at least be capable of handling PDFs. The level of “red flag” is up to your larger career goal, but it’s 2014 & there are alternative ways to present documents. Any place that doesn’t accept at least a PDF has issues. 

How would you know they are using your email for FedEx? Do you still have the account on a phone or computer you personally own? If you are still using/accessing that email address, you should stop immediately. If you continue to access that account in any way for any reason after you leave you open yourself up to legal liability. And on the offhand chance you have been using that company email for personal use, you should be unwind that as much as possible. Contact people you know and let them know you cannot be contacted at that address any more and if you have any accounts on websites connected to that email, change that email address immediately. That said, if the company somehow decides to use that account address to impersonate you for some reason, that would then open up the company to legal liability. The problem there is how can you prove—or even suspect—something like that? It’s not easy to prove to say the least, and the practical reality is most people don’t want to impersonate other people via email and most companies don’t have the time or need to do so. So that is an edge case; so don’t really worry about it but it’s just something to keep in mind. Past any of that the fact you still have access to that account is disconcerting. Most companies do the following when an employee leaves: 

Was this in the U.S.? Or in the U.K.? Or elsewhere? The reason being is in general I would say yes, you can touch base 8 days after an interview even if they say “1 or 2 or 3 weeks.” But that said, last week—beginning on May 26th—was Memorial Day week in the U.S. & there was a banking holiday in the U.K. Not to mention it is the beginning of summer so things naturally slow down. Meaning, calling back now in the middle of all of this holiday shuffling might be way too soon. The 1-3 weeks might come from people simply being away on vacation & such. I would recommend waiting until next week—Monday specifically—to play it safe. Also, if they are telling you 1 to 3 weeks, in general you are not going to speed up the process by contacting them to ask what is up after a little more than 1 week. Best to play it cool & contact after 2 weeks in my humble opinion. If they will get back to you in 1-3 weeks you need to wait for them. If they like you they will hire you. If you just call all the time, you actually muddle your chances. 

Okay, do you realize that—for the most part—repairing a computer & just sitting around a computer looks pretty much the same, right? Welcome to everyone’s work day! The reality of any job is—in most cases—you are not hired to be 100% busy all the time, but rather be there so if something does happen you are ready to act. That is basically every workplace: You come in, do work, and if the work stops it’s not the end of the world. Take advantage of the slack time to wind down a bit. And if you want to feel productive engage in some kind of pro-active work. Like maybe organizing your notes or review things you have repaired. But all work days are filled with downtime. Don’t get too hung up on it. 

I pretty much knew right away you are dealing with intern or entry level positions. In general, I think you are over-thinking what it means to have a supposed “gap” in your employment. Everyone can potentially have different gaps for different reasons at different parts in their career. The key is to be honest about why there was a gap. For example, in my 20s I had to deal with some fairly intense family issues. I had a job and coworkers were supportive, but the overall stress got to be too much, so I did some basic math on savings I had and when I would start looking for a new job and gave myself an “off year.” When I started to look for new jobs after that I was in a new city and had to explain why I had a gap in my employment. I simply said it straight out: I had some fairly stressful family issues and decided that I needed a break. And I also explained—this is key—that when I left the previous place I was at I made sure not to leave anything hanging. I left copious documentation, was thoughtful to the needs of others and left the door open to being contacted for clarification after I left. Ultimately, having a gap is not the issue but how you dealt with the gap and the awareness of how it might have impacted the previous employer you left is really at issue. Ultimately a gap might imply you are irresponsible if not handled correctly and they want to know you are responsible and aware of other’s needs. In this specific case, the problem is “you” but maybe not in the way you understand it: You are simply a new person, fresh to the workforce and you might not understand where exactly you fit in the greater world of employment. Something like culture might not be something you can gauge on a first interview when you are a new hire, but getting “sick” of a toxic culture is not something you should force yourself to be a part of. So when talking to new hiring managers my tact would simply state that you want to find a permanent home to set your roots in, but made a mistake with the past employer; their culture might work for them but you felt uncomfortable for you. In general, if the “gap” you are talking about is only a few months, nobody cares. Especially if you are a recently graduated student and only have had intern positions; everyone knows that people who take internships are typically getting “feel” for the workplace and won’t hold that against you. All that said, instead of worrying about the past, then just focus on the future. Concentrate on explaining to the new hiring manager how your presence in the company will be a positive and highlight your actual strengths. If you are really good at what you do, you can topically explain away any gap in employment; remember most employers just don’t care about your “life story” past what benefits you would bring to them by being a part of their team. Highlight why you should be hired and your longevity with the company will naturally grow. 

I have had this issue with every gig I have had to start off with. You don’t want to come off as rude or uncooperative, but you need to speak to add to the conversation. I think the best way to overcome the fear of speaking in a group is to establish some kind of casual relationship—on some level—with meeting participants elsewhere in the office. This doesn’t mean you have to be 100% chummy with folks, but at least make them aware of who you are. And perhaps parts of the meeting discussion will come out in these casual conversations. The key point is, the more the group knows who you are & what you offer, the more you have a chance of getting your opinion stated. Because once you have a casual relationship with a good chunk of the participants it will be easier for you to speak up and—key point—it will be easier for others to turn to you to ask for your input during the meetings. 

Who are these people “mocking” you and how do you know it “…makes others doubt [your] abilities?” This all sounds like garden variety (aka: common) hazing to me. If you are a junior developer you are naturally in a hierarchy where others will test you and push buttons as part of their own hazing behavior. This happens whether they are conscious about it or not; it’s just par for the course. At the end of the day, every single person in the world uses reference tools to get work done. Heck, do lawyers and doctors not have tons of references and books they refer to constantly? Programming is no different. Your job as a programmer is to bridge the desires of a project with the reality of the code itself. Your job is not to memorize arcane nonsense. and if you do get to the point you can remember—and even visualize—arcane nonsense, then congrats! But that doesn’t happen overnight and sometimes doesn’t happen at all for some. FWIW I have been doing computer work for 20+ and it’s only in the past few years I can literally visualize solutions in my head without writing a line of code. It‘s a skill that one grows into and cannot be demanded that someone has on demand. 

Gaps only matter if you cannot cleanly and honestly explain what the gap was about. When I read this: 

4-5 hours off-site for a “team building” event is really a short amount of time. Many times these are weekend—or even week-long—activities taking place off-site. So I would not get too wrapped up in this being an imposition. 

If she’s contacted her scheduler and their response is she has to manage her own time, that’s a fair answer. But realistically she is often in different locations, that's impractical. So the only real choice is to go to human resources and discuss the situation. When approaching human resources, lay it out plain and clear; the law is the law. That said, simply requesting to go to human resources might be seen as a count against the employee and could lead to a bad performance review down the line or something worse. My practical advice for right now is to see if their are other employees in a similar situation that she can talk to or work with. At least that could give her a sense of how the company deals with staff and might give a hint as to what the best and most realistic course of action might be. At the most, discussing with a larger group might even open the door to a class action lawsuit on behalf of all employees if there is a clear pattern of unpaid hours with other workers. Heck if this is a major chain, then there might be online staff discussion groups out there as well. The point being my instinct would be to try and gauge what the overall company culture is if you want to play it safe before acting. 

Ridiculous. The company is hiring a recruiter to hire staff such as you. If there is an issue like this, you need to mention it to the company right away & provide documentation. But that said, there seems to be some kind of “bait & switch” happening here. You say you had “a lengthy phone conversation” with the recruiter? From my perspective it seems like they were leading you on & telling you everything you wanted to hear. Including a salary you liked. And I am willing to bet the company knows this is how the recruiter behaves. The reality about agents & recruiters is their job is to wrangle in “resources” and you are a resource. Whether it pans out with the company is not their problem. This happens with good agents & recruiters as well as bad. You are a commodity asset. And at the end of the day, the recruiter can just say, “Hey, I got X amount of people to the company & they hired someone in X time.” That is their benchmark. If one person complains about their methods, that is one out of easily dozens of others. Won’t affect them. So if you want to confront the recruiter on this issue, you should. But at the end of the day you will most likely not change their behavior & will most likely not be closer to landing a job. You might be better off chalking this up to experience, and applying for other gigs elsewhere. 

It’s the most common “occupational hazard” a desk jockey can get. And the best solution is to simply not sit at a desk all day. How to deal with that depends on you and your workplace. Standing desks are an option. But for me, what I like to do is take walking breaks every few hours. Even if it is a simple walk around the block, that helps your body adjust. Also, avoid sitting at your desk for lunch. If you have a 1 hour lunch, then I would recommend you spend 20-30 minutes walking somewhere. And then eating lunch. The key is to not be sedentary in your workday. Which is quite tough to deal with and balance, but is doable if you consciously force yourself to do so. That said, you say this. 

First, you should not be worried about applying for multiple jobs. As a teenager it might seem very imposing & potentially risky to tell one potential employer that you are applying for a job elsewhere, but you are 16. They do not expect you not to do that. That said, since you will be new to the job market the chances of a potential employer vaguely pressuring you that their company/business is the only choice for you is quite high. You can defuse situations like that by playing it by ear and saying something like, “Let me get back to you tomorrow…” 

A 20 member team is not small at all. A small team is probably 5 people. More likely 3 people. But a 20 person team requires management & structure. And unfortunately any attempt you would make to discuss specifics outside of the established structure that exists will really hurt you in the long run. It undermines the authority of your direct reports. And it will encourage your developers to simply come to you when any issue arises which would drive you crazy. If you do want to have direct contact, it might be best to organize some kind of structure where you, the project leads & developers could hash things out as a group. That way the table is basically open to discussion. But since the project leads are there, you can turn to then to help reign things in.