Geoff Lindsey does has this affrication feature in his pronunciation of /t/ – his pronunciation doesn't strike me as strange, just British. Honeybone discusses similar lenition in Liverpudlian which includes [ts] realizations. It is probably true for some range of UK dialects. I can't say that I've heard this from any American English speakers, but sub-phonemic details are easy to miss: it's certainly not present in my local dialect. Dialects can't be meaningfully counted, so questions about "most" can't be resolved. At present, I don't believe there has been a systematic survey of where this affrication shows up. FWIW, the same thing happens in Siswati and the dialect of Arabic spoken by many Berber speakers, and it is connected to aspiration. His realizations of /t/ in unaspirated contexts is not affricated by comparison to the aspirated allophone (I didn't do a systematic acoustic study), so I suspect it is an enhancement feature for aspiration. 

The "Chinese phonetic alphabet" is know as Bopomofo, which likewise derives from the first 4 syllables of the syllable table for Mandarin. It's remarkably hard to find information on the names of writing systems in the language. 

L1 difficulty It is not at all obvious that it even means anything to say that one language is harder to learn (as L1) than another. If some language were really so hard that children simply didn't learn it, then they wouldn't have learned it and it would have died out eons ago. You might imagine that a test of difficulty of learning could be quantified as the mean age at which children acquire Complete Knowledge of the language. An obvious problem with that is that lexical items like "epicene, empirical, tergiversation" which are part of English may not be learned at all (fess up, how many know all 3?), and many people never learn "I would have gone" rather than "I would of gone", or "If I were confused" rather than "If I was confused". I suspect that some (modern, urban) children learning Javanese never really acquire the full language encompassing krama inggil, krama, madya and ngoko. It's easy to point to specific things that tend to be learned later: CV syllables are manifested first, CCCVCC syllables are later, and that doesn't make CCCVCC syllables "hard to learn". Patterns for which there is scant evidence will not be mastered as quickly as blatantly-obvious patterns. The point is, there is no meaningful metric of "difficulty" for a language (much less a language of some ill-defined "type"). It's unreasonable to expect complete fluency by age 3 or 4. L2 difficulty The question of L2 difficulty might be meaningfully addressed, experimentally, provided one controls the relevant variables, by attempting to teach random languages to random subjects and see whether they can acquire fluency (defined somehow) after a given period of time – if a language is intrinsically hard to learn, fewer subjects will acquire fluency, and subjects will acquire a lower mean degree of fluency, as somehow computed. Some variables to control: native language of subject, similarity of L1 and L2. Amount of exposure that subject has to L2; individual's attitude towards L2-speaking society compared to their own society; pedagogical expertise of L2 instructors (example: on average, French teachers are more effective as teachers than Somali teachers, because French teachers enjoy the benefits of vastly more collective teaching experience than do Somali speakers, who most often bring to the table the fact that they speak Somali). Not to mention the problematic concept of objectively quantifying degree of fluency in a culture- and language-independent way. In other words, although you might sort of imagine a huge experiment to answer the question empirically, I don't see any plausible way to actually conduct the test. There is reasonable non-quantificational evidence that Spanish speakers tend to learn Portuguese much quicker than they learn Russian, Norwegian speakers learn Swedish much quicker than they learn Saami, and Swahili speakers learn Luganda quicker than English speakers can. The one generalization about L2 acquisition that might have some plausibility is that a person attempting to learn an L2 that is sufficiently similar to L1 will have an easier time than a person whose L1 is substantially different. 

I presume that you're not attempting to motivate using such representations, you're simply presenting this as another formalism for handling standard phonological processes, and the point is to show how it works. It depends on how much you are willing to ignore or arbitrarily stipulate. I would advise against vowel harmonies as a first example, because they add the complexities of locality, underspecification, and no-crossing, in crossing consonants. Instead, I would start with strictly adjacent consonant-to-consonant assimilations like voicing and nasal place. However, this also depends on how much else you're willing to add to autosegmental theory, specifically whether you can get away with introducing the notion of feature grouping ("geometry") so as to have a "place" thing that can spread. If that (grouping) would be too much, then I suggest sticking to single-feature segment-to-segment assimilations. Which would be voicing, basically. You might be able to include nasalization if you've already dealt with incidental feature changes (where voiced oral obstruents like /b/ become voiced nasal sonorants like [m] -- the obstruent change is incidental to nasal spreading). But I think you should simply deal with the question of grouping, since it is bound to come up in the question period and someone asks about spreading two features simultaneously. In which case, you will be set up to talk about nasal place assimilation, and you can have a much more interesting discussion of the predictions of linear vs. non-linear assimilation. 

I think we have to conclude that one of the authors mis-spoke or mis-drew. A plane can be defined off of the positions of [i u ɑ], but not passing through all of the cardinal vowels where they are in the chart. I think with some small adjustment on the position of the vowels in the middle, you can get them all on the [i u ɑ] plane. Perhaps the thing to do is compose the graph numerically based on the [i u ɑ] plane and then see whether the other vowels can be forced into acceptable positions on that plane. Edit: something like this (I'm terrible at drawing-magic). 

I think it's a mistake to try to understand these structures based on paraphrase relations in questions, and you'll make more headway in whatever you're ultimately after if you look at the declarative versions, and separately look at declarative ~ interrogative relations. So there is some meaning relationship between "There are vegetarian options at Restaurant X" and "Restaurant X has vegetarian options"; you can fold in sentences like "Restaurant X features vegetarian options" or "One can find vegetarian options at Restaurant X". Sentences about how crowded Restaurant X is would go along the lines of "There are a lot of people at Restaurant X", "Restaurant X usually has many customers". Existentential sentences of the form "There are X LOCATIVE Y" may paraphrase as "Y has X", for example "There is an island in the lake" = "The lake has an island", or "There is a problem with the plan" = "The plan has a problem", but that isn't a general rule. "There is a dog on the floor" isn't well paraphrased by "The floor has a dog". Addressing your specific sentences, "?Restaurant X has many people" doesn't exactly paraphrase "There are many people at Restaurant X", although "Restaurant X has many dishes/customers" does paraphrase "There are many dishes/customers at Restaurant X". That's because restaurants don't have people. They have chairs, employees, dishes and customers. The problem is that "?Restaurant X has many people" is simply odd. I suggest that motivates a deeper look into what "have" means, which eventually would lead to a story about have and existential paraphrases.