In my work rehabbing bikes I like to use most of my own tools. I have a tool roll similar to what Moz suggests, only a bit fancier. (I found it on a motorcycle tool site.) I carry that and some larger tools and parts in a tool caddy similar to this: 

Seems to me that replacing the crank with a double or triple would make more sense. Or just buy a new (used?) bike. To install the multi-speed hub you'd have to have your rear wheel relaced, another $50-100 over the $600 cost of the hub. And you might have to buy a new rim, if the drilling on your current one is wrong. A lot of money to spend for something that will still be a less than ideal solution to your problem. Might make sense if you like to tinker with bikes, but it doesn't sound like that's the case. It's unlikely that your existing shifter would work with the new hub. 

How many miles do you suppose are on the bike? First off, your chain should not be rusty. If you frequently ride in wet conditions you should use a "wet" chain oil on it, and clean it at least a 2-3 times a season. The skipping could be due to a rusty chain with frozen links, could be due to a poorly adjusted derailer, or could be due to a worn out cluster. Though there's a fairly wide variation, a cluster on average is good for about 5K miles, and having a badly stretched chain wears the cluster (and chain rings) out faster. 

Certainly you should at least have wheel reflectors if you ride on roads at night. Most auto/bike accidents are not due to "overtaking" but occur at intersections and driveways, so side visibility is important. And some sort of light or reflector on the wheels is much more effective than on the fixed part of the bike, since the motion gets your attention quickly. The question would be what style of light/reflector is reasonably bright/effective while not weighing too much or being too bulky and not requiring frequent battery changes. The light needs to be steady or rapidly flashing, as a slow-flashing moving light will be more disorienting than effective. And, of course, turning them on/off is an issue. They could be centrifugally activated, but then they would tend to go dark when you slowed substantially, probably not a good idea. 

Nabisco Newton Fruit Crisps (not the crummy "Fruit Thins" which look more like cookies, or the Special-K Fruit Crisps which aren't half as good) are very good snacks, though unfortunately our local distributor stopped carrying them so I have to mail-order. Target's fruit/yogurt bars are also very good, and almost pure sugar. 

The advantage of sealed idler cogs is that the bearings stay cleaner and don't (in theory) need lubing. This keeps the cogs and derailer a bit cleaner, allows you to reduce maintenance slightly, and presumably provides a 0.0001% reduction in drive-train friction. (I suspect that there was more of an advantage prior to indexed shifters, where considerable sideways force from the cog was needed to help shift the chain. In that situation wear on the bearings lead to poorer shifting. With indexed shifters (and the associated profiled sprockets and "climbing" chains) this advantage is somewhat negated.) 

What you can do depends on skill, training, determination, and innate ability. If you have sufficient quantities of each then you can do serious, if not competitive, cyclocross or any other activity. And an excess in one area can help make up (to a limited degree) for a deficiency in another. While it is utter BS to say that "You can do anything you set your mind to do", a goodly amount of determination can make up for shortcomings in other areas (though don't neglect training -- there's a difference between "determination" and "too lazy to actually work towards a goal"). 

The Novara Safari has a steel frame and is $899. And that was after just 15 seconds of searching. But it may well be that many less-expensive bikes are being made in aluminum, since in some ways it's more conducive to automated production. Also, people who don't know any better consider aluminum to be a superior material, and the less-expensive bikes are marketed to people who don't know any better. 

So long as the tire diameter (rim size, as stamped on the side of the tire) is the same, and the width is no more than about 30% wider or narrower than the original, and so long as the tire doesn't create interference problems with the frame or brakes, it should be fine. So in your case you need a tire labeled 26, with a width of roughly 1.3 to 2.8. But likely if you go much wider than your current tire you'll experience interference problems. Whether the tire is labeled "hybrid" or "mountain" or even "road" makes no difference. (Though certain types tend to come in certain sizes -- you won't find many 26 inch racing tires, eg.) 

It would be wise to check the chain wear with a chain "stretch" gauge and replace it if the chain is beyond 0.75 or 0.8. Re the rear sprockets, they're only likely to be a problem if the current chain is worn beyond 1.0 stretch. The other thing to worry about is whether the derailers can simply handle the difference. The rear derailer has a "tooth range" in terms of the greatest difference between the sum of tooth counts of the largest sprocket pair and the smallest, and if that range is exceeded then the chain will either go slack on the smallest combo or become over-stretched on the largest. Further, the front derailer has a limit to how great a tooth difference it can handle, and too much difference could result in the chain rubbing the derailer or iffy shifting. But these problems are only likely if the difference in old and new ring diameters is substantial. 

Offhand, that bike looks pretty good for your needs, aside from the front suspension and the 32H wheels. The tires are good and wide, and if you keep them well inflated (above 4 bar) they should handle your weight OK. The front shock has lockout, so if it sags too much you can just keep it locked most of the time. Of course, you will be stressing the wheels and tires, in particular, beyond what's "normal", so you may experience broken spokes and the like. But since you won't be going offroad and probably won't jump too many curbs, you shouldn't do too badly. You may find the seat not to your liking, but give it a try, and then shop around for something that looks better. It's not a bike that will last 20 years with a 300lb rider, but you can probably get 2-3 years out of it, by which time you will be down to 80 kg and in the market for a carbon racer. 

The only two ways the front derailer and rear derailer must be compatible are 1) they must be assuming the same chain width (or at least reasonably close), and 2) they must combine to produce a reasonable chainline (more a function of the crankset than the front derailer). Thus, the main thing to be concerned with is that the replaced derailer be compatible with its associated shifter. If you change the one side shifter to match the derailer, of course, this will not be a problem. I don't know what problems you might encounter attempting to use the old SRAM shifter with the Shimano FD.