Now let's apply this to your own fantasy realm. I imagine you have some idea of the types of creatures you wish your players to encounter. Pick out certain details about these creatures, thing that a traveler in your world would find relevant or interesting or perhaps something that ties into your game. Then piece them together into a description. You shouldn't worry about being too vague or inaccurate here about some of the more exotic creatures, as that simply adds to the mystery. Your players most likely do not care for the intricate details of the ecosystem, merely the overview of the creatures and their features, so that's what you should present. Here's an example I came up with: 

I am not very much into psychology but know a lot about Version Control Systems. These systems work by keeping everything which is compatible and letting the user decide which change should be kept in case of conflicting changes. I will assume that your BOSS does somehow the same. You said in your question: 

Starting from this I assume, that the merging should give a valid personality. Now assume e.g. that you and the clone learned something at the same time but in different ways. This might be because they learned it from different persons, or because they learn it at the same time (in the same room) but with different "states of mind" resulting from different activities during the ongoing day. How would BOSS merge that into a valid learning experience? Will it first apply one learning experience and then the other one? Will it try to figure out which learning is the "best" and discard the other one completely? In my opinion these questions are similar to "merge strategies" and can therefore result in the problem described earlier. 

A new age has dawned for our glorious nation of Lettucia. Our great scientist Baron von Leefi has developed the Smart Active Laser Automated Defense (SALAD). These small systems are a result of our tireless research into miniturization and computation. Each turret has the ability to detect and destroy incoming projectiles before they cause harm. SALAD has revolutionized our already modern military, allowing our vehicles to detect and neutralize projectile threats before they can cause harm. The SALAD system has been tested and achieved a near-perfect success rate against conventional weaponry. A personal sized model is currently being tested, and would allow our infantry the same level of defense. A larger, stationary system is used for missle defense, and is able to neutralize any missle threats against our nation. Each system is powered by a micro-reactor fueled by unobtanium, a resource which Lettucia has almost exclusive access to. This limitation ensures that in the event of a system's capture by enemy forces, they will be unable to deploy the same technology throughout their own military. 

Even us cosmologists and computer scientists involved in the field don’t understand exactly how this process happens, but let me see if I can give you an answer from the viewpoint of this cosmologist. First, you really need to understand how metals are produced, either from the Big Bang or cosmic rays to what is inside different types of stars, and how and how much or little is expelled when the star explodes. Even man-made metals/elements (Periodic Table below). When a star explodes it scatters all its heavy metals, gold, silver, copper, iron, lead, tin, zinc, etc. in 360 degrees. But not every star that explodes produces all the metals. Some stars produce only a few as this National Geographic article explains. 

From your description, it sounds like you're looking for a stellar heliograph or signal lamp. I think they problem here is that you're relying on a mechanical device to open a "window" for light to pass through. As Lacklub suggested, you could use several techniques to increase the speed of transfer. However, you're still going to need to ensure that the giant signal lamp is pointed exactly at the receiver. This is more complex with mechanical devices. 

Two things save us from our own creativity: our ability to learn from our mistakes, and our ability to recover from them. If you take away our ability to recover from accidents, we become much more cautious. Imagine a creature finds a fruit they have never encountered before. If the creature is like our own ancestors, they eat the fruit, get sick from it, but gradually recover over a short time. If eating that fruit was probably lethal, however, the creature would be much less inclined to try it. Similarly, exploring unfamiliar territory could lead to insect bites (or some equivalent), poisonous plants, or other environmental hazards. If these dangers were life threatening or debilitating and necessities were already close by, then a lack of curiosity would be evolutionarily favored. With these environmental characteristics, only those creatures that are extremely cautious survive long enough to reproduce. Now that the neophobia (cainophobia?) is out of the way, we're looking for intelligence. This can be easily explained with the hostile environment. The more intelligent the individual, the more likely they are to identify and avoid danger. Likewise, social functions develop in order to collectively combat these dangers. As with our own ancestors, those who could cultivate or domesticate their food would develop more complex social functions. 

Looking at the Horizon Depending on the landscape you might even see the different curvature by looking at the horizon. If the planet is covered with a kind of desert where you can look in each direction without getting blocked by dust or fog one might notice from a point at the outside of the torus, that the horizon of two directions (lets say north and south like in Ezras answer) is more far away, than the horizon in the other directions (West and East). One might as well see different curvature at the horizon, assuming that the differences between the outer and the inner radius of the tourus are very large (i.e. that the "hole in the middle" is big enough to make a huge difference). This does not proof, that the planet is a torus (and no scientist would assume that directly from this) cause there are other shapes with the same unequal curvature. But it might be enough to make them think about the shape and want them examine deeper into this. 

3. All (or most) processing is done by a centralized CPU. In this solution, the bodies act strictly as input/output devices (think computer terminals). This has the advantage of housing most of the hardware in a stationary location, leaving the bodies potentially more optimized for movement and interaction. Another advantage is that the "brain" doesn't have to expend resources on bodies that are idle. The disadvantage is that any telepathic delay means the bodies with have a delayed reaction to everything, as they can't "think" for themselves. 

I would imagine that your water-bound creatures would have the type of airships that are used in the Iron Man and Captain American and S.H.I.E.L.D. Movies. They only show an aircraft carrier, but instead of the atmosphere inside being a gas, it would be a liquid. A sub as a simple cigar shape that is reminiscent of all the USO's (Unidentified Sea Objects) that people report either entering the ocean from the air or vise versa. Your describe your world Earth-like, so it will have a gaseous atmosphere. That means for your submarine to fly, it will need wings. So it may look like a passenger aircraft, but it holds in water. With WWII technology though, you don't have jet engines or fans big enough to move what would be a very heavy object around. Take your German WWII submarine. It weights 871 tons. Let's say the interior space measures 250-feet long by 25-feet wide. The volume of a cylinder in cubic feet for a 250 by 25 foot submarine is 917,995.46 Your submarine will have to be small if your world has 1G like Earth. 1 cubic foot of water equal about 30 quarts. And 30 quarts of water weights about 63 lbs. Besides the 871 tons that the sub weighs empty, add to it another 29 tons of water weight (used this to calculate volume) and if you keep to the size of a German U-Boat, it would weigh 900 tons. A lot of weight to get off the ground, never mind keeping it airborne. I concentrated on airborne solution because any land-based craft with the added weight of water still, like a car or tanker, has to navigate the hazards of a battlefield, filled with craters, uneven terrain, and the energy required just to get something that heavy moving would probably be Saturn-V like in nature. The mini subs of Japan that held two people and even the "Turtle" during the Revolutionary War will make more sense. You see, if the year was 2525, then anti-gravity may have been perfected and size and weight not an issue. But with WWII technology, your mermen and women will have to operate smaller vehicles with the current world you descibed. And I like the name Turtles. Even if they are small, just the weight of the water will make them move as fast as turtles. 

An overview of the "Big Five" nations including ourselves and our adversaries in the coming conflict: Lettucia - Our own glorious nation. Vastly superior in almost every way to the other nations, particularly in scientific research. Our military is the largest and most advanced. Most of our vehicles and some of our elite infantry are already equipped with the new SALAD system, while some are still using dated equipment. Our military strength lies in vehicles, mostly gunships. The high mobility and armor afforded by these vehicles has seen us many victories in the past. Other nations do not accept our political ideology, but our Grand Caesar will show them the True Way in time. Our citizens are highly nationlistic and support the effort of spreading our ideology. Appeland - Island empire. Hast a vast navy and airforce, but few ground soldiers. Has been a historical center of trade due to its location and wealth of natural resources. Usually neutral in world conflicts, both political and military. Prefers instead to solidify itself as a world power economically. Burgeria - A world power now on the decline. Vast industrial base, but using aging technology. Their military is also somewhat dated, still using technology from the last world conflict 50 years prior. Their military also relies on a vast amount of infantry, which a few supporting vehicles. They are vehemently opposed to our own glorious ideology. Chizhi - Smallest of the Big Five. Relatively advanced military technology (not matching our own glorious accomplishments of course), but have a smaller military than the powers above. Particularly adept at using their limited amount of resources for industrial and military means. Very independent bordering on isolationist, trading only with the neighboring Appeland. Donnuto - Collective of smaller nations and a staunch ally of Burgeria. Largest population, though limited technology similar to Burgeria. Next to no military, instead depending on its ally. We signed an mutual agreement at the end of the last conflict to limit both of our military development. They have appeared to honor this agreement, the fools. 

This let me assume, that they still know that their changes had been rejected. This might be a new possible source for the "I wish it were me" problems, of the sort "I whish my changes/experiences would be kept": Every clone might want to make changes that will end in the merged personality. This can lead both to try to figure out how BOSS decides which change would override and adopt their behavior to this. If they e.g. experience that exciting situations are less changed to fit with the others they might start to life a riskier life than they would without BOSS. Edit: I had been asked to put an example for "conflicting changes". They depend a bit on how the problem of brains is actual mapped to the version control system. The question mentioned a post which says: 

Since there are all forms energy that your creature can take, it will have to be some kind of proton or charged particle. If your creature is pure light, then it does not have mass, and cannot be captured, so I will try to be as thorough as I can. A Magnetic Trap is used to trap neutral particles with magnetic moments on the atomic level. Here is a research paper (PDF) that goes into all kinds of details and formulas. A similar way is used to trap anti-matter, where the magnetic box suspends them. At CERN they use such a device but can only store very small quantities. Documentaries about using this as a form of propulsion show building a large one in space to capture any or store what they manufacture in space. Here is a peer-reviewed paper (PDF) authored by CERN from the Proceedings of EPAC 2002, Paris, France titled "Photoelectron Trapping In Electric and Magnetic Field" If you are looking at capturing charged particles, a Penning Trap would be the best option. Also, here is a webpage on the Penning Trap from the Max Planck Institute. Photo of the device is in this page. For Ions, there is a Ion Trap that uses a combination of electric or magnetic fields. I did give some thought as to what if your creature takes the form of pure light. There may be two ways that I know of that you can capture such a creature, but you would need to do this in two steps. The first step is that you need to slow it down to a stop or slow enough to attempt a capture. If the creature is in the form of pure light, then it can move at that speed. A while back some scientists were able to use a crystal to slow down light. I found the article, it was in the Daily Mail titled: "Scientists stop light completely for a record-breaking MINUTE by trapping it inside a crystal" The other was more recent and I saw it in a TV documentary where a scientist slowed the speed of light using gases. All I was able to find were articles written in 1999 and 2003. However, I came across this peer-review paper on arXiv published Feb 2017 entitled "Optical cooling and trapping of highly magnetic atoms: The benefits of a spontaneous spin polarization" which may give you some other idea. The field of capturing energy, whether real science or SyFi is a very large field. I hope this points you in the direction you seek. EDITED: After reading B. Lorenz's answer (I voted his answer up), it would depend on how far in the future we are talking about. The question is kind of vague, so I stuck with what we have today. However, It has been alleged that CERN has already created mini black holes in its Hadron Collider. Since the question does not state how far in the future this will occur, if it is 500, 800 or 1,000+ more years from now, we might have the technology to build a Ghostbusters-like device that sucks in entities that are not only light, but other forms of light energy particles and atoms as well. This trap will not keep the entity alive like the other solutions I propose. This will kill everything that enters it. The one thing we need to worry about is the Hawking Radiation and Gamma Rays that may shoot out the open end if the black hole fills up, or if it spins and creates an event horizon, the device could explode, and kill every living creature on the planet. But 1,000 years from now we'll have a process in place to maybe use the device once and shoot it at the Sun. Since the black hole will kill it, there should be no risk of it coming back after the device burns up in the Sun. Below are some photos of some of the traps I discussed here, and I will do more research as there should be some peer-review papers on this topic that I can add to this answer, if this doesn't answer your question.