The suggested solution is very similar to Whitehead's argument presented in Part I of Process and Reality and presupposed in the Theory of Extension in Part IV. If you recall from Aims of Education he holds that a line is a "moving point" while a "plane is a moving line." Along with von Neumann's work on mathematical rings, Whitehead relies on a continuous, point-free projective geometry of non-finite dimension. Whitehead's "extensa" or extensive structures are logically and metaphysically prior to time and space as topological relational systems (mathematically speaking, they may be seen as spatial, but this pertains to "spatial reasoning"). This allows for the openness in which "universal relativity" (not to be confused with Einstein's as only a single application) and "atomicity" are compatible. He writes: 

In Being and Time, Heidegger claims that an analysis of Dasein is preparatory in that it is guided by the task of working out the question of being. In particular, its purpose is to "uncover the soil" upon which the question of being can properly be posed and ultimately answered. What is the soil this analysis reveals? Heidegger contends to aim at a "new beginning" that will endure the primordial experiences of Being. However, is it the case that he has a Greek notion of time which entails looking backward as a way of moving forward? 

Yes, the proposition is true according to the rules of our normal logic. As you already write: For all entities x holds F(x) is false. And according to the rule ex falso quodlibet the implication F(x) => G(x) is true. Of course, by the same means one can prove also: All unicorns are ugly. Note. There exist non-standard logics like paraconsistent logic which abolish the principle ex falso quodlibet. 

First I take over the definition of knowledge as quoted by Cort Ammon: “Knowledge is justified true belief.” Because you ask in which cases the justification can or cannot be achieved by statistical tests, I would like to point to the following properties complementing Cort Ammon's answer: 1) Statistical tests presuppose that the hypothesis refers to a general statement, not to a single case. Science always refers to general cases. This holds for all sciences from your list. In the case of history it is under discussion: Do general laws of history exist or does history always investigate single cases? And descriptive geography is no science if it really restricts itself to description. Description can only be the first step, the next important step of a science is to formulate hypotheses and a theory. Justification or refutation by tests is necessary for all natural sciences on your list, but not for mathematics, where one has the stronger means of proof. 2) It is common to make a difference between knowing why as giving an explanation and knowing how as having a certain capability. “Knowing why” is characteristic for scientific knowledge from your list. While “knowing how” often refers to a practical capability, e.g. how to drive a car, how to act in martial arts etc. 3) There is a subtle point concerning the definition of knowledge above, named the Gettier problem. It refers to the fact that in certain cases a person’s statement in fact fullfills the three chacteristics of the definition: the statement is true, the persons believes that the statement is true, the person argues why the statement is true. Nevertheless we deny that the person has knowledge. See $URL$ 

In his philosophy, Rorty “turns” his reorientation in analytic philosophy and epistemology away from knowledge to a new focus on hope. He adopts the stance of fallibilism and the “liberal ironism,” which challenges the finality or authority of one’s “final vocabularies.” Instead of “theories” which ultimately lead to “forced descriptions,” philosophers should opt for an ongoing “edifying conversation” that develops new and constructive ways of speaking. However, scholars continue to overlook the fact that Rorty buys into a soft or honest “ethnocentrism,” which seems at best closed and parochial. What David L. Hall calls a “lonely provincialism” inherent in Rorty’s philosophical endeavors generates limitations toward access and interaction with wider horizons of meaning and modes of cultural comparison (see, Richard Rorty: Prophet and Poet of the New Pragmatism (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994), ch. 5, for more details). Rorty essentially believes cultures and communities are at bottom like Leibniz’s monads—they are windowless, meant to be taken as complete or sufficient in themselves, and therefore, Rorty appears not to appreciate or even take seriously an honest “mutual engagement” amongst cultures, whether they come from the Western (developed) or less-developed world. Rorty appears, unlike Cornell West (his former student), to be in total dialogue with himself (or his people) to such an unhealthy degree, that he acts as if relations between others are statically locked-in and there is little room for growth and integration. The same unbridgeable divide between the analytic/continental traditions of professional philosophy that so irked Rorty may be at the heart of his social philosophy and his categories of cultural comparison. The disguise of this failure on behalf of Rorty’s projects stems from the egalitarian emphasis and the importance he places on the use of “neutral mediums.” A strong sense of conformity or even assimilation is the mandate for a serious equality. Many will find this ironic given Rorty's insistence on the essentialness of "persuasion" over the strong-arming of "coercion." Now Rorty's approach makes sense historically, when thinkers were forced to address the dominant authorities or intellectual fads of the day. The trends were setup well in advance and conditioned much of the discourse that was not only acceptable, but even deemed possible. Today this is less so and our ethnic, philosophical, or cultural alliances and loyalties are almost like a free-for-all. We are experiencing a unique time of philosophy and culture without borders, free to roam about in non-provincial ways. Despite its positive impact and resistance toward the balkanization of philosophical schools, does Rorty’s philosophy argue for an excessive self-narrowing by way of its ethnocentricism and "lonely provincialism"? 

I assume the point of your interesting thought experiment is your premise that the entities you consider feel and think like humans. In other words: There is no difference between the human species and the robot species besides the way both came into life. Framing the question in this way one can ask: Is there any argument for a species specific ethics? I do not see any argument. A related question is the discussion about extending certain human rights to non-human primates. Probably one get also some ideas from Stanislaw Lem's work on robot ethics. 

As the quote from the post shows, Adorno does not say that he hates the cinema, but he criticizes it. Just before the quoted passage he says 

Ens rationis = a being of reason is a “thing dependent for its existence upon reason or thought.“ The term being of reason contrasts to the term real being (ens in re extra animam). But of course being of reason does not exclude real being: 

Upon study of G.W.F. Hegel's two volume work Lectures on Fine Art he presents a schema of the arts based on the external and internal relations of the Idea in its dialectic mode of expression. Of course, art is to be transcended by religion and eventually philosophy according to Hegel's philosophy of history. Art manifest truth moving in a process of exterior intuition to its internalization. I was struck by the concise neatness that this generated in ranking the arts according to the proportion of experience they serve in the development of human experience. Hegel would have had little sympathy for the avant garde of today much like he shared a disdain for the Romanticism in his own time. Hegel claims that the lowest form of Art is architecture as the purest material form of the Idea, which transforms to the second level--sculptor, the material becoming life-like, and third is painting where the truth is conceptualized onto the canvas. From Painting we move into the rhythms and harmonies of music or the unfolding of truth according duration and time. Through sound we move to the pinnacle of the arts which is poetry (tragedy, comedy, and drama); speech and conceptualization bring to fruition the "concrete, actuality" of the Idea as embodied in the individual characters. Thus, Hegel schematizes and ranks the arts from architecture, sculptor, painting, music, and poetry. If we disregard Hegel's triadic grand narrative of the history of Spirit (Idea), which this formulation aims to support, and his thesis about "the end of art" (that eventually works to the end of history!), does this way of categorizing the types and genres of art still matter? Or should we abandon any efforts to systematize the aesthetic in this fashion because it does not reasonate with a post-Warholian artworld? 

On the opposite, the following statement does not correctly characterise continuity - only the order of epsilon and delta has been interchanged: 

You are considering an example from thermodynamics and statistical physics. The reductionist approach aims on deriving properties of a system 1. from properties of its components and 2. from the interaction of these components. In physics the study of system properties like temperature and pressure of an ideal gas are studied by thermodynamics. Statistical physics derives these system properties bottom-up from Newtonian mechanics applied to the single molecules and from an certain ansatz about the interaction of the molecules. But it does not aim to investigate the fundamental laws from studying macroscopic behaviour. Because the fundamental laws of Newtonian mechanics have been known much earlier. Your supercomputer example gains more and more importance in physics. It aims at simulating the system behaviour bottom-up from tentative laws and parameters. After comparing the result of the simulation with the observed behaviour one adjusts the parameters - and possibly the laws too. E.g., this approach is followed by the simulation of galaxy formation. It has been previously applied with great success to the process of star development. Probably one can name the two approaches "first top-down" and the other "first bottom-up". Both approaches go in both directions, but in different order. 

When Heidegger deals with death as Dasein's non-relational, ownmost possibility in Being and Time he distinguishes between free selfhood and the they-self. He suggests a way of embracing man's mortality and finitude which avoids the mediocrity of the inauthentic. But what does authentic resoluteness mean? Am I to live according to the destiny of my fate? Is Heidegger implying that we should live our lives as if it were a work of art as interpreted even in the Nietzschean sense? 

Kant deals with these kinds of social relations primarily in the Critique of Judgment. If you look at sections 39 and 40 entitled "Of the Communicability of a Sensation," for example, you will see there he introduces the notion of the sensus communis, which is the basis of universal communicability. The is the relational power which makes all human cultural communication and interpretation possible. This grounds the community of persons, according to Kant, and serves as a required condition for the kingdom of ends imperative. I interpret this to mean that we feel each other through an equal or mutual relatedness prior to establishing rational or cognitive connectedness (i.e. social contracts). It is also how we feel, Kant states at the end of section 83, a "hidden aptitude within us for higher purposes." He then picks this theme up and develops it in the sections 82 and 83 on the methodology of teleological judgments when he discusses the difference between "technique and skill" and "culture. The latter is concerned with the culture of our moral powers to facilitate social communication, for the sake fulfilling our ultimate purposes beyond the order of nature. For us to establish a "collective self" we need to cultivate the self-discipline and skill to develop both are inclinations and interpretations, which are vital to the maintenance and growth of cultures. Kant refers to this as the cosmopolitan whole that gives humans a "predisposition for community." Community means a community of nations or states, for Kant, in the sense of international relations. A political and cultural order that mirrors the natural order. It is only when all the nations and peoples of the earth put their talents and skills together that culture may thrive! I suggest the following passage as a beginning point for what you may find interesting in Kant's lively thoughts on this very interesting topic that you raise: 

Time, space and spacetime are concepts we use in the context of physical theories to denote objects and events. According to both the Special and the General Theory of Relativity, the basic concept is spacetime, a 4-dimensional manifold. Events are points in spacetime. They are determined by 4 parameters. After choosing a coordinate system we decompose these 4 parameters into 3+1 coordinates. They denote the space where the event happens and the time, when the event happens. This fact can be taken as the meaning of the sentence "to be in time". But immediately we have to face the fact, that decomposing the 4 parameters into space and time has a certain arbitrariness due to the choice of the coordinate system. Hence the absolute statement is "to be in spacetime". Only the latter is independent from the choice of the coordinate system. While "to be in time" is a relative statement. When restricting to gravitational interactions every object which is "in spacetime" always moves through spacetime on a distinguished curve (geodetic line). This fact can be denoted as "being subject to spacetime". As a consequence my answer to your original question is: Yes, everything, which is in spacetime, is subject to spacetime. Of course there are things which are not in spacetime, e.g. laws of nature or mathematical objects or propostions. 

Whitehead has a Theory of Extension (Part IV of PR) which holds space and extension are not the same and, like Plato’s Receptacle in the Timaeus, all temporal and spatial relations depend on the “undivided divisibility” of the “extensive continuum.” The extensive continuum symbolizes the universe as such, without denying the regionalization of our experience. Any system of measurement presupposes certain regions or “neighborhoods” of relations under the environmental conditions of the dominant nexūs of societies. Measurement is shot through with the perception of “presentational immediacy” which “depends solely on the ‘withness’ of the ‘body,’ and only exhibits the external contemporary world in respect to its systematic geometrical relationship to the ‘body’” (PR, 334). Are GUT and TOE exaggerated instances of using abstractions to explain concrete relatedness? Is Whitehead correct to suggest that “measurement is a systematic procedure dependent on the dominant so¬cieties of the cosmic epoch,” which “depend on the actual occasions which atomize the extensive con¬tinuum” (PR, 332)? 

Anthropocentrismus is the view that puts the human species into the center. This can be done either in the field of ontology or ethics. In the latter case anthropocentrism is also named speciesism. I understand your question as relating to speciesism. My answer: 

Transforming "constantly into light and flame all that we are" makes the claim that the philosopher cannot separate these components in his philosophy. Nietzsche exaggerates his lifelong highs and lows because of his personal illness as the fate and merit of his existence as philosopher: 

To answer your question fron the title in the realm of science: In general science starts from empiricism and takes empiricism as the benchmark for its success. Hence the first step in science is to make precise observation and to describe in a neutral way what has been observed. This step is description. The next step is to create a theory which allows to derive from it the observed results as well as not yet observed facts. The theory must have a much broader scope than the orginal observations. E.g., the General theory of Relativity covers much more than the three classical effects: bending of light, precession of perihelion of mercury and gravitational redshift. Accordingly the scientific theory is considered an explanation of the observations. Finally, the theory must predict the outcome of further observations and experiments on related fields. One can discuss whether the mathematical theory of quantum mechanics, e.g., centered around the Schroedinger equation, only predicts the outcome of measurements or even explains them. My answer about science aims at any empirical science, hence also at ethnology or empirical psychology.