There are already good climate classification systems such as the Köppen Climate Classification. We do not need to redefine those or list the climates. Instead we are looking to described the processes that result in these climates and use that to inform the creation of a map that has a realistic climate distribution. 

I've not seen the film, but the concept is essentially right. Even though the moon has been shattered the fragments are all still there and have gravity still, the biggest chunks are going to start pulling each other back together and reforming into a spherical shape. Depending on how much energy they have smaller fragments are either going to do some mixture of: 

So lets say on this world a creature similar to the scorpion started working on a more omnivorous diet. One of its claws starts adapting to work as a manipulator and gain fine motor controls while the other remains for cutting. At the same time they grow more social and become pack hunters, growing larger in size. With the advent of the pack they start gaining social skills and with it steadily increasing intelligence. They hunt in packs and work together to bring down larger prey with repeated stings and then eat the body. Before you know it you have something that looks nothing like a human but is growing towards sentience. It has one manipulating grasper, one cutting claw, a deadly sting, and the other attributes of a scorpion but is much larger and more intelligent than our earth scorpions. You could follow exactly the same process for many other alien creatures too. 

And, even in those conditions, you would hardly have some spectacular effect when the sun "eclipses" your moon: just a minuscule dot, invisible to the naked eye, disappearing behind a gigantic object a hundred of millions times its volume. 

You specified that everyone is a trans-human. What kind of modifications are we talking about? You could solve your issue altogether if you accept an "uploadable" brain. Space travel would then be just an issue of reliably sending data across planets and download it into another body. One could just keep its own planet-bound duplicates in a storage until he needs them, then book a planetary transfer, deactivate its body on Earth and upload its consciousness to his second body on Mars in a few minutes/hours (depending on connection speed). 

As stated in the other answers, this is completely impossible for our earth-moon system. However, you could give your moon a very elliptic orbit and have it go behind the sun. This will cause several side effects (and it would probably make life on earth impossible): 

Consider this. A talisman is not an object in the way that a pocketwatch is an object. The talisman is both an object and a "feel". A person can have a "feel" for making talismans, but this person would have no "feel" for anything else. The talisman-maker would not make talismans by enchanting any random object, the talisman-maker would instead, for instance, make a fire talisman by burning rowan wood and pouring the ashes into a hollow ring with a stone of obsidan. The mage in question would be able to make as many talismans as necessary, but would have to own the required ingredients for a spell, AND have a "feel" for talisman-making. Unlike spells, talismans would be reusable, and the magic would never decay. An interesting possibility for this would be to have an ancient, utopian civilization that existed for thousands of years before falling to conquering outsiders. During their reign, they made some of the most powerful talismans the world ever has or will see. If these include time or mind control talismans, they will be sought after by every person in your world. 

Basically, you have three options: Livestream The camera doesn't record a thing. It instead immediately uploads it (through a secure channel) to your military base, and the recording is mad serverside. Advantages: If anyone manages to steal the camera, he will just steal a nice satellite/3g connected camera with a send-only apparatus. While this might be useful to reverse-engineer the technology used, your enemy will have no footage of your operations whatsoever. The live feed can also be used by commanders to make last-minute decisions and have a tactical advantage. Disadvantages: If the enemy produces a jamming signal strong enough, you will have no records of the camera. This can be also used as a decisive hit to your intel capabilities, if your generals are using the live feed to take decisions in real time. The signal could also be used by a technology advanced enemy to triangulate your soldiers' position. (thanks Agent_L) Recording The camera records everything, and all is encrypted on disk, using a system like Bitlocker or similar. The recording can then be reviewed safely at the base. Advantages: All footage can be recorded in high quality, regardless of available bandwidth or connection loss. Disadvantages: The enemy may be able to capture your soldiers and force them not to disable the camera, so they would (theoretically) be able to retrieve the non-encrypted datas still stored in memory. With modern cryptography techniques, this could amount to a few minutes, seconds, or even a few frames of recording, so the advantage of this for the enemy may vary (thanks MichaelK, André Paramés). Internal storage size will also limit the quality/recording time of the camera. This becomes important for older (less space) camera models or very high resolution cameras (thanks Taegost). Mixed This is the system I would use. It involves a bit of both, and consists into recording everything, uploading all the recorded data to the base, then deleting all data already sent. Advantages: No quality loss, recording will take place regardless of signal, basically the advantages of both approaches combined Disadvantages: If the enemy jams the signal for long enough, you will fall back to the "Recording" case, as data never gets uploaded to the server. 

Wind comes from convection in air, i.e. when cold air (for instance, over a sea) meets hot air (for instance, land.). Given that, in your world, there is both a northern and southern sea, there would probably be winds blowing from the north and south, converging along the equator. This would create a continuous high pressure zone over the equator. 

The spriggan is a giant bioluminescent insect covered in barklike layers of chitin. The spriggan has branchlike appendages with "leaves" at the end, which are biologically similar to wings like those of a butterfly or moth. The spiggan's third pair of limbs are hinged behind their arms, and are covered in spikes to use as weapons. 

Ammo Homing Bullets. Flying insects with pistol shrimp-like claws that find a victim and fly upwards in a parabola. At the peak, they start gliding downwards slowly, and use the pistol shrimp hammer-claws to launch themselves forward and shoot into their target like a bullet, cutting their spinal cord. Melee Blunt bony hammer-like tools with claws on either side to destroy enemy craft. Stinging nettles the size of swords with deadly neurotoxins in the needles. Explosives Witch hazel-like plants that explode on contact, with the force of a megaton of TNT.