I can't find anything more than the abstract on this side of a paywall. However, black is a very common car colour, so it should have shown up here (second most common according to that Insurance Quotes article). Bright Cars and Outsiders: Evidence of Asymmetric Estimates in Vehicular Speeds, published in the same journal found that: 

Somewhat. Typists can, in fact, learn to type faster on a Dvorak keyboard, it's just not a big improvement. Consider, from The Standard and Dvorak Keyboards Revisited: Direct Measures of Speed: 

Contributing authors are at the low-end of the IPCC spectrum. At the time, Kovats was working on editing a review of the topic for the World Health Organisation - this would have meant that she would be reasonable position to be familiar with the literature on the subject. By the time she was selected as a Lead Author, she had authored quite a number of peer-reviewed articles, a fact that McKitrick curiously neglects to mention. McKitrick quotes from comments submitted to the InterAcademcy Council's review. Some of these comments do suggest real concerns about the IPCC process - but McKitrick's contribution is limited to some quotemining. For example: 

These grants have a value of Dh 70,000 - approximately US$19,000, and come with various conditions. According to a citizen journalist article published by The Times of India in 2013 (so post-revolution), a similar system operates in Libya: 

Many microbial organisms communicate through a process called "quorum sensing". Individuals secrete a signalling molecule into their environment. When they encounter the signalling molecule it causes them to secrete more of it. This means that when there are few in the environment they won't be secreting much, but when there are a lot of them around it turns into a positive feedback loop, and each organism "knows" that it's got a lot of allies. When they are in strength, they are able to act collectively - such as forming a biofilm - or becoming pathological. Quorum sensing was first noted in bacteria, but also has been found in yeast such as Candida albicans. There are a number of different species of yeast. Lactobacillus acidophilus, for example, keeps other species under control, while Candida albicans - that quorum sensing one from before - is the one which usually causes infections. So you have L. acidophilus keeping the C. albicans numbers down, but if something perturbs that relationship then the C. albicans can proliferate, emitting their pheromone and sensing that they can now go pathological - that's a yeast infection [pdf, see page 2]. That's the distinction the article was talking about - naturally occurring (but controlled) C. albicans getting loose and going into their pathological state. If you take treatment without an infection, you're creating the chance of breeding having those naturally-occurring C. albicans developing a resistance. There's even evidence to suggest that, much like bacteria, such species can share genes horizontally - horizontal transfer being a common mechanism by which bacterial resistance spreads. Then the next time they go pathological there'll be resistant yeast in the mix already, who will survive the treatment when it's actually needed. As for the last point, resistance is a chance-based mechanism. Each time a treatment is misused, there's a chance resistance will develop. More misuse, more chances. 

(in case you were wondering, they figured paper to be a renewable resource, as you can grow new trees). They assumed one press of the hot-air dryer button vs two paper towels. Note, however, that according to a study by Redway and Fawdar, hot-air dryers took longer to dry hands, and actually increased the amount of bacteria subjects had on their hands (by 2-4 times!), whereas paper towels reduced the bacterial counts. They, however, also considered jet air dryers (such as the new Dyson ones I've seen popping up in places). Dyson's jet air dryers use up to 83% less electricty than conventional hot air dryers. According to Mitsubishi, their version uses a tenth of the energy of a 1725W hot-air dryer (that's a relatively low wattage). According to the Redway and Fawdar study, jet air dryers are just as effective at drying as paper towels, and, while they still increased bacterial counts, it was not by nearly as much as a hot-air dryer. 

According to this article, nunchuka (sometimes misspelt as "nunchucks") originated as peasant weapons, based on the design of a rice flail - as the peasants were forbidden from possessing edged weapons. Surely, however, the peasants would need edged tools for farming, and Wikipedia dismisses the suggestion, throwing out several other possible theories without much in the way of citations (broken links aside). Did nunchuka originate as peasant weapons? 

That an increase in aerosol nucleation increases CCNs That an increase in CCNs increases low-level cloud cover That there be a downwards trend in cosmic rays. 

According to "Bright Cars and Speeding Tickets", published in the Journal of Applied Social Psychology: 

If you read Trenberth's email, you'll see that he was, at the point that they quoted from, was discussing his paper An imperative for climate change planning: tracking Earth’s global energy. Energy can be neither created nor destroyed. Satellites observe more energy coming into the Earth's atmosphere than is leaving. And yet, despite a relatively constant buildup in energy in the Earth system, the temperature rise isn't constant, there's a lot of natural variability. Trenberth isn't happy with just categorising this as "natural variability". 

Anthony Watts, writing about the releases, has confirmed that he has received $44,000 for the project mentioned, and that there is a second amount planned, contingent on funding: 

The Libyan National Transitional Council established such a fund in 2012. I can't find any other references to a Gaddafi-era fund but the above suggests that the existence of one would not be out of order. The source quotes Libya's per-capita GDP at US$95,000, which is clearly some sort of exaggeration. So, in short: many nearby countries, including post-revolution Libya, offered marriage funds defraying what would otherwise be the cost of a dowry. It is not unreasonable to expect that Gaddafi-era Libya offered something similar. The US$90,000 figure is probably an exaggeration. 

From 2001 to early 2009, the US was governed by an administration which frequently got involved in climate science. When an oil company demanded that climate scientists working on the IPCC and the United States' own National Assessment be removed: 

In many species, small granules of waste material - called "lipofuscin" - build up in the body over time. As it turns out, this can be used to measure the metabolic age of lobsters, and to give a good estimate of their chronological age. Wahle, Tully & O'Donovan (1996) found a strong correlation between lipofuscin area (corrected for carapace size) and lobster age in American lobsters (Homarus americanus). Metabolic age is not a precise measure of chronological age - it is affected by several other factors, including temperature, and this study controlled temperature, so they caution about using it to measure age in natural populations. Sheehy et. al. (1996) released 3-month old European lobsters (Homarus gammarus) (after tagging them) into the wild and then recaptured them 5.4-9.6 years later. Extrapolating from their results led them to suggest that lipofuscin concentration could age 43% of lobsters to within 1yr and 95% to within 3.5yrs - not brilliant but better than carapace length, which other studies have found only age 3% to within 1yr and 95% to within 82(!) years (what was that about lobster immortality, again?). Maxwell et. al. (2007) conclude: 

McKitrick's report gives a number of case studies which, he claims, describe issues in the IPCC processes. 

The next section concerns the various stages of the IPCC review process. First, the lead authors and coordinating lead authors write a first draft. This draft is sent out for expert review, and the comments are used to prepare the second draft. The second draft is reviewed by governments and experts, and the comments used to prepare a final draft. This final draft is now subject to acceptance by the appropriate working group. The authors must also work with the review editors; they play a role similar to that of peer reviewers. McKitrick ignores the existence of the working group sessions and the role of the review editors at this stage; his next few examples (3.1-3.5) are based on the assertion that the final draft goes unreviewed. This is false. 

There are several different forms of dose-effect curve possible. A toxin following the "threshold model" has no adverse effect up to a particular threshold, and increasingly strong adverse effects past that threshold. "Hormesis" is a model under which small doses have a beneficial effect, but increasing dosage beyond a particular point has adverse effects (common amongst essential nutrients - for example, drinking moderate amounts of dihydrogen monoxide is beneficial, but in excess can cause water toxicity). Another, curve, the "linear no-threshold model", applies for substances whose risk factor increases linearly as the concentration rises, with no zero-effect threshold. These different curves are illustrated in the diagram below, taken from a set of lecture notes on toxicology created by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry. 

An article in the New York Times gives many examples of several administrations attempting to prevent the Surgeon-General from issuing statements on politically sensitive topics: 

The Bush administration then appointed industry lobbyists to head the White House's Council on Environmental Quality. They edited scientific reports being put out by scientists working in the administration to undermine their conclusions: 

Trenberth then goes about documenting the movement of energy amongst the parts of the Earth's various systems. However, current observation networks, in particular a shortage of deep ocean buoy coverage, mean that there is not sufficient data available for Trenberth to document where all the heat is going. 

The Climate Strategy lists $388,000 in 2011 funding for the NIPCC, along with monthly payments to Craig Idso, Fred Singer, and Robert Carter. These amounts can all be found in the budget. I could not find any particular mentions of plans to focus more on publishing in Forbes, or of cultivating relationships with Revkin or Curry in the other documents (which are mostly financial in nature, so this is not particularly surprising). Finally, the funding for Anthony Watt's project has, as I mentioned earlier, already been confirmed. 

Many of the details in the Climate Strategy (which was, according to Heartland, faked) also appear in the other documents. The drop in funding from the Anonymous Donor from 2010 to 2011 is documented in the Fourth Quarter Financial Statement [PDF], and the expected increase in the Budget. The Climate Strategy states that: 

The source of this factoid is musicthatmakesyoudumb, a site run by an American software developer. His process was to, for each college, get the most popular artists according that college's student's Facebook profiles, and to correlate those against the average SAT score for that college. This would be better boiled down as "People who go colleges with the lowest admission requirements are more likely to say they like Lil Wayne on their Facebook profile". The research is not peer reviewed, and has not accounted for any confounding factors. 

The scales are not used in flight, but those scales are important for other things. However, the same article points out that the wings are very fragile, and are easily broken (which would doom the butterfly). Reiman Gardens, Iowa State University: 

In 1970, Bill Bourke, the managing director of Ford Australia, was quoted in the Sydney Morning Herald saying: 

Even in The Fable of the Keys, a paper whose authors seem to have an axe to grind, admit that (full citations for these can be found in the paper): 

According to Surface Temperature Reconstructions for the Last 2,000 Years, a book written by the National Research Council: 

Interestingly enough, they also found that recruits who believed that mental practise would help benefited the most from it (possibly because the worked harder at it). So, it looks like mental practise does improve performance, though not as much as physical practise. However, it can be combined with physical practise (this may be of particular benefit where resources for physical practise are limited). However, the study cited in the original post appears to have been invented. 

According to an essay [PDF] published by the Population Reference Bureau, these trends were due to increasing dowries 

Subsequent papers, incidentally, such as von Schuckmann et. al. 2009, indeed, support this suggestion, showing that deeper waters are, in fact, sequestering more heat than previous expected. Even without that - Trenberth wants to collect data that would allow a potential falsification test and to allow medium-term variability to be better understood. Good things to aim for in my view - and certainly not a basis for claims that global warming has stopped. 

These are just a few examples - clearly politicians (on both sides of politics) do frequently attempt to interfere with science - ranging from outright oppression to limiting speech or editing reports - where the scientific results went against their political positions. However, it does seem that again and again the independent, international scientific community has been robust to government interference and influence. In the US, the Climate Action Report, was still largely seen as in support of climate science in spite of the bits where extra uncertainty was edited in for political reasons. The Surgeons-General were still able to publish health warnings even when the government were able to oppose it. And the ultimate judge will be the independent scientific community, who continued to strongly support climate science even when the government of the day was trying to edit it out. 

Low-level clouds form around particles called "cloud condensation nuclei" (CCN). CCNs, themselves form around aerosols. According to the the CLOUD paper (Kirkby et. al), cosmic rays increase aerosol nucleation. If increasing aerosol nucleation increases CCN formation, and CCN formation increases cloud formation, then increasing cosmic rays would increase cloud cover, cooling the Earth. Some of the media reporting around this story, such as the linked article in the Financial Post, claim that the paper says that cosmic rays are the causing of global warming. To get from this paper to this result, it would require: 

To say that "there is NO risk-free level of secondhand smoke exposure" is to say that "secondhand smoke follows a no-threshold toxicant model of dose-effect curve". Many researchers argue that chemical carcinogens follow a no-threshold model, because it just takes a few molecules of a carcinogen can damage a cell and cause cancer [1], [2]. The report cites a number of studies which find that even low levels of exposure to secondhand smoke carries increased risks: 

It is true that plants and animals did originally evolve at a time when CO2 levels were much higher. However, at the time the temperature of the Earth was also much higher. And under such a high-temperature regime, giant reptiles were able to wander the Earth eating everything. It's a long way to go from saying "plants and animals evolved when CO2 concentrations were about 10 times larger" to saying "it would be neat idea to recreate those conditions". More testably, this is wrapped up in an argument that increased CO2 levels would be good for crop production - that plants can be grown in greenhouses under increased levels of carbon dioxide. This is true as far as it goes, but is a vast oversimplification. Some crops may do well, but there are limiting factors other than carbon dioxide. Climate change can negatively affect the availability of nutrients and moisture, as well as inducing heat stress - which will cause reductions in crop growth [1] [2] [3]. Meanwhile, scientists have studied the effects of increased CO2 availability on open-air plants - a much more realistic test. Leakey et. al. (2009): 

Unfortunately, that article never seems to have made it onto the internet, so we don't know what it found about black cars.