In reagard of the meaning behind in proper context: Painting of a woman or man: {not-self} SN 22.100; {nutriment} SN 12.64 May it be of the origins use for you, Fabien 

Those are perfect appearances, Eggman. Developing, for example metta means to hold on an attitude of goodwill (metta) "like a mother holds on here only son", even so hold on a mindstate of metta. Special perfect, because those phenomenas cause you to fall into aversion. That's a perfect working place. So when such things arise, put more effort into keeping up goodwill and don't tend to aversion if it arises. Itks good when you also observe how mind reacts, phenomenas arising and decay. When you use metta as object for your concentration (thats actually the dhammic purpose of it), also obsere the comming and going of phenomenas. It's good to become aware of such, much better then to dwell dull in the Brahma Vihara realm. 

For everybody who likes to know more about the system of function of Buddhas society, it's worthy to read more of the Buddhist Monastic Code II. To understand Vinaya general, read the Introduction in Ven. Thanissaro's BMC I 

That's the problem in general if Dhamma is traded, when ask people trading in Dhamma, they are not really convicted od the Buddhas way, but bound and so bind others as well. And costomers are so intensively trained by their providers to become just fool feeders and "enjoy" that it is hard to transport that the Buddha puts right judgement at the most upper point to have success in liberation. As for the detail matter in the question, it's good to pressure in a supportive and not ill-willed way as long one is part of a community. That's a duty. But don't forget, people become their leaders, leaders become their folk, according to their deeds, inclination, so change starts within one self and is possible as far as the enviroment and its general objectives gives possible ground and that's the main problem, since all of you are bound here because liking to feed and there is a provider seeking you deeds in return, the seek to increase this business limits "just" enormous and will be always corrupt. Admins and mods, them self consumer, are at fist had obligated to what secures them the food and in such to the provider at secound and maybe after this line obligated to Buddha, Dhamma, Sangha and truthfulness. So plenty of metta and karuna for people bound as you is good placed in such matters, helping each other to trust the way out, again and again. (Feel free to ask or discuss the matter further and in detail on the linked enviroment without strings. [Note: This answer is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gains] 

It's worthy to note that the part-taking on the community as well as to it's standards is voluntary and so most means, which are based on willingness to stick to them, see the welfare of the development of each individual as prior. The whole system would not really work for a strong corrupted heart and others as the usual of wordily systems it's very needed to approch the standards with the will to be without a mistake and joyful to fulfil the standards of the Noble One and bend one tendencies rather to study the standards to find possible ways to stick by ones desires without being touchable. For a strongly corrupted heart this tools would work for ones personal welfar. The transactions are always "punished" by the need of confession, and if the misdeeds are stronger penalties can (! Note, don't must, exept in some cases) layed down by the community. The heavierst punishments is the leave of the order without any possibility to join again and cover heavy offences in regard of taking life, taking what is not given, sexual intercourse and lying. There are no kind of physical punishments aside of restrictions from certain use of community properties and benefits. There is also nothing like a physical prision. How ever, in regard of prision one should understand the holly life or to ordain as monk or nun like a volunatary imprisoning to bend ones ways and who ever sees such as a gift and way to actually win over oneself and get right of any defilement, become a upright person, a Noble One, uses the support of the Noble Sangha and his tools right and for the benefit of him/her self and all others. It's a very lage topic and it's not right to say that a society would function without any system of regulation and precrepts. If many would take on the voluntary imprisoning within a community of admirable friends and elders and always seek for them, nothing than best posdible peace can be aspected. A peaceful and righteous life and community around on depends on ones own past and present efforts to give such to his/her community and its members first. In ways of demanding and call for rights problems will naturally increase for societies of people merely hold such views. Such communities break apart within a very short time and such appereances thought of positive, called revolutions, destroying all means hardly developed over long time. Althought there are often undertakings from such as "buddhist" lawyer to develop systems of Vinaya also for normal sociaties, it's not really possible and always would lead to misunderstandings since the aims of the individualls are different, for the world is becoming and for the Sangha of Buddhas disciples going beyond becoming and possible keep such an alternative as long as possible alive in this world. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for any commercial purpose or other wordily gains) 

Touch of "not knowing" (avija), is the cause, is the reason of pleasure and pain, what ever identity one forms around it. 

The Buddha did not involve much in issues of worlds normal sociaty and ways and never suggested any either laws nor ways of punishment or even ways of reconciliation for lay people. The only touch points with the lay people are: reconciliation (paṭisaraṇīya-kamma) and "overturning the bowl" (patta-nikkujja-kamma) (BMCII - Relations with the laity) He teaches "from that, this comes, with arising of that, this arises" and leaves the rest to the individual to concern and take his choice, generally. How ever, in regard of his community of Monks (Nuns) he created the Vinaya (Discipline) as a measure for behaviour incl. also such things like punishments, ways of transactions of disciplinary issues and ways of rehabilitation. Althought there are people who like to call it early development of a legal system it differs from such: 

[Feel personal always invited to share such merits here: "Ich bin ein Stromgewinner!" - "I am a stream-winner!"] A maybe extended answer and also further questions and discussion can be done and found here: [Q&A] If someone says publicly that he has achieved nirvana , can it be true ? (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial use or other purposes for wordily gains.)