Difference between science knowledge and religious knowledge? Scientific Knowledge: A set of models which may be used to explain and predict the the universe around us. Includes the process necessary to verify and add to that body of knowledge. Understanding the world around us, and the underlying rules which governs it, is paramount. Religious Knowledge: Generally, the memorization, understanding, and strategies for adherence to a set of tenants and/or moral rules (usually) connected to the belief in a specific deity or enlightened being. Belief that everything in the world is operating within a divine plan of some sort is typical. This type of knowledge is often focused on how best best to remain in compliance with these tenants, and apply them to day-to-day existence. 

Humans tend to track time in a cyclical manner (clocks, seasons, calendars, etc) because that is how we experience it. The earth spins around the sun in a stable orbit, causing our environment oscillate through a predictable pattern of environmental states. And people are really good at identifying patterns. But that is just our earth-bound perspective, biased heavily by our position on a spinning, wobbly rock. A society living on non-orbiting rogue planet would likely have a very different view of the passage of time, and I doubt it would resemble our cyclical time/date keeping devices. (tl;dr, our way of measuring time has little to do what time actually "is," as opposed to our perspective of it. Whether time is a block or a parrot, our view from the inside makes it difficult to accurately determine much about it.) 

I always interpreted it this way: You may find a good solution to a problem that didn't have any good known solution yet, and everyone is happy with it. You become famous, you make lots of money selling your good solution... until someone comes up with a better solution. The better solution is the enemy of your good solution. It takes away your fame, and your money, as far as it came from your good solution. Good things will go away when we find better things. There is the Nirvana fallacy (the search for something better is the enemy of the good - where people refuse to accept a good solution to a problem because it isn't perfect and rather live with no solution at all, which may be a lot worse), but I'd say that is something different and not covered by this saying. Some people may have a tendency to rest on their laurels - saying that if they have something good, they don't want to look for something better. Sometimes this is correct. If all the railway tracks in your country have a certain width, then a different width may be better, but the cost of the change would outweigh any benefit. Finding a good solution might effectively prevent you from finding a better one. But that would be the opposite of the saying: It would mean that the good is the enemy of the better. 

Without a set of rules existing beyond mankind to hold to (e.g. religion), it is difficult to imagine an objective answer to this question. If the purpose of life isn't assumed to come from some "greater being", then it is inherently a personal matter. That being said, Secular Humanism is probably your best bet for an objective look at these questions. Essentially, it is the logical continuation of the inherent biological motivations which have gotten mankind to this point. In that context, the purpose would be to perpetuate the species. Progress the body of human knowledge which has done such an efficient job at making us the top organism on the planet. Ensure the continued habitability of the environment and/or solve the problems keeping mankind from inhabiting other planets. Are those objectively correct? I'd say no, but I think it's about as close as you'll get without the referencing a deity of some variety. 

Deductive reasoning would have to find a logical reason why she must be on time if she leaves at 7am. For example, if the school opens at 8am, and the walk to school takes only 30 minutes, that would be a logical reason. (Although the school might decide to open at 7:25am in the summer when it's really hot, for example, so the logic wouldn't be necessarily correct). The inductive reasoning says: Jennifer was always on time when she left at 7am and we bothered checking, so we conclude that she will always be on time if she leaves at 7am. I'd want to know more. If Jennifer just started at the school and has gone to school four times so far, then without further information I wouldn't assume she will always be on time. If she went to school for years, and there were cases where she had less than two seconds spare time before the school opened, then I would also not assume that she will always be on time. 

Given your reply to #4, I'd label you as a person regardless of your personal feelings on the matter. You can call yourself a dog, a duck, or the Queen of England if you like, but being 99.99999999997% human means the 'human' label is most appropriate in my assessment. I wouldn't mind also supporting your claim to the dog label. You obviously feel it applies to you, and having been born a dog does support it. 

As you've likely come across yourself, secular humanism is the most prominent atheist replacement for religious moral guidelines: 

I'd say 'I think, therefore I am' isn't something we are 100% certain of. Or rather, what it entails is nebulous. The fact that I am a thinking 'being' at this instance says nothing about 1 second ago. I "remember" it, but personal recollection is hardly a solid source of evidence. I could refer to external sources for validation of myself, but there is nothing about being a thinking being that confirms that my understanding of reality actually correlates to what reality is. 'Cogito ergo sum' is just the acceptance that we have to start somewhere if we want to attempt getting an 'objective' understanding of reality. It's an agreed upon baseline, that exists mainly because to not accept it as fact means we can't really know anything. 

It is invalid. But it's still syllogism? (I know that may seem obvious, but I see many people just considering the valid syllogisms as syllogism) 

I know that between scientists they make a distinction between hypothesis and theory. They usually say that hypothesis is something unconfirmed, and theory is something more confirmed (or falsified). Is there a philosophical basis for this definition? Or is it just a useful simplification for everyday life? I think a theory simply means something more complex, having evidence or not. I may have a completely false theory, but it would still be a theory, because it involves a set of hypotheses and propositions. 

Sorry for the stupid question. But could anyone organize all these names into a logical and concatenated thinking? 

I'm having a hard time to distinguish "necessary and sufficient" in this case. I think it's necessary. For bread to exist, all the above elements are necessary. I also think that is sufficient. Just have these elements that bread comes up. Am I right? 

tl;dr - Scientific knowledge is concerned with how the world works now, and reliably predicting how it will operate in the future. Religious knowledge assumes the existence of a some manner of greater being, and is focused on determining/acting according to it's will. When we have reached the limits of our (current) scientific knowledge, people often rely upon Religious knowledge rather than saying, "I don't know." 

Republican party stances are primarily determined by the political favors their major donors demand, while paying lip service to the "conservative" portion of the U.S. population. Democratic party stances are primarily determined by the political favors their major donors demand, while attempting to maintain the facade of caring about the common good and "liberal" ideals. 

Species existing today have a biological preference for survival, because species without this trait don't tend to survive long. This is the same reason that beneficial traits tend to spread throughout the species population while harmful traits tend to disappear. Non-preference for self (or offsprings') survival is a trait that isn't going to have much success being passed on. Early organisms likely did not have any such preference, of course, but there weren't many predatory organisms around either. Once eating each other became a bit more popular, any organisms that happened to develop the trait for self-preservation would drastically out perform those that didn't mind being eaten. So survival isn't objectively necessary, however it is a trait you're going to see in most/any species that last more than a few generations. 

In mathematics, there are some problems that are very hard to solve, but where a solution is quite easy to verify. A simple example is that it is often very difficult to find the factorization of a 100 digit number, but quite easy to verify that such a factorization is correct. To be more precise, it is a proven fact that for every positive integer, there is a proof which proves what its complete factorization is, with the proof easily verifiable. If you showed a text which for every integer n from 1 to 1,000,000 calculates the integer pi * 10^n rounded down to the nearest integer, then gave its complete factorisation and a proof for that factorisation, then this could be checked reasonably easy, and it is something that is currently impossible to produce for humans, and it is likely impossible to produce for even the most technically and mathematically advanced civilisation in the universe. 

2.) That the standard conventions of war should not be applied to the Taliban (who the U.S. declared war in in 2002), just because of an arbitrary political designation of "terrorist" is in play I propose that "not negotiating with terrorists" is a political tool to attack opponents more than an actual standard to govern by, and as such isn't suitable to actually adhere to. (Yeah, probably wrong area for this question. I already worked up my response so going to leave it.) 

It is possible to know a very limited set of things with absolute certainty, i.e. not dependent on basic fundamental assumptions that "could" end up being wrong. For instance, things I am absolutely certain about: 

In a word, No. Pascal's wager makes a number of assumptions which our hypothetical Strong Agnostic should question: 

It sounds like you're referring to the "Law of Cause and Effect," which tells us that every material effect has a prior cause. I counter that your question is an example of special pleading, suggesting that everything requires a cause, except for this super special uncaused cause which started everything. Either every "cause requires a cause" or "not every cause requires a cause." Either all causes were caused by a prior event, meaning the uni-multi-ultraverse model you propose is perpetual, or not every cause requires a prior cause which means there is no need for a special snowflake "initial cause" needing to "choose" to start things off. Anyway, modern science (and the Law of Cause and Effect) only offer models for how reality operates in our present universe. As such, it does not (necessarily) apply before our universe existed, and may not have even applied during the initial moments after the big bang. Our scientific models of the universe do not speak to how things worked before the big bang, and currently the only thing we know about things before planck time are that things certainly did NOT operate according to the same rules ($URL$ 

Both are true. On conditional, this would be true. But it is not a logical implication. So, my doubts are: 

Is that correct? It is not only probable that Gabriel's tail is a wolf's tail? He may can have a cat's tail because of a transplant. This conclusion necessarily follows? 

I'm studying logic, but honestly I'm pretty confused. Each book gives a different name or addresses different logics. What are the types of logic? Types I've seen in books (and I can not make links between them): 

• One who is not so beginner, and is not afraid to go deeper, knowing how to explain pedagogically. • DO NOT be about the history of philosophy. I have a perfect collection in this style, written by giovanni reale. I would like a book like Reale's, but for topics such as epistemology, ethics, metaphysics and general problems of philosophy. • It is not MUST, but it would help to have a impartial style, but also opinative (Bertrand Russell and the History of Western Philosophy is an example of this: he is quite critical, but tries to pass on the idea of philosophers impartially). Reference books: • I do not know if Reale's books were translated into English, but he wrote a giant collection of History of Philosophy. For me is the best reference, I would like a book like his for themes of philosophy, not history. 

Why would you worry about immortality? The average adult person will live maybe up to their 80th year. There's a chance that technological progress might expand that live span. If you are young enough, there's a chance that you might benefit from this. There is a tiny chance that your life span is extended so much that during that lengthened life span there is more technological progress, which lengthens your life span further and during that further lengthened life span there is more progress again and so on. In total, your life span may be very, very long. There are a few consequences. The chance that you die by accident or as a crime victim grows. Every year about 4,000 people die in traffic accidents in the UK. That means your chances of living 100,000 years without dying in a traffic accident first are very, very slim. Unless you change your life to systematically avoid any situation that has the tiniest chance of leading to an accident, and maybe that would make your life quite boring. You will have plenty of time thinking about the answer to your question, and since you will be older and wiser, you are likely to find a better answer than any we could give. You would also have a very very long time to think about everything. And there is a chance that after some time, you'll just have enough of it all. You are worrying about what happens at the end of the universe. You should worry that immortality might become first boring, then annoying, then unendurable, and the prospect of dying at the end of the universe might be the only hope that keeps you alive.