I've also had problems with bad posture, and I have other issues that make standing up for long stretches really painful. I was fortunate enough to get a chance to try out a Back App chair. It's worked really well for me; my riding instructor has told me she's seen a clear improvement in my seat and I'm much better able to sit up straight instead of slouching. Of course, they're a bit more expensive than just raising the desk... 

Accept responsibility. You weren't aware of the rule, but you should have double-checked that you knew the rules, and you should have talked to them anyway before leaving because it's the courteous thing to do. 

I agree with Julia Hayward that it's inappropriate to ask at work. I'd suggest a different response, though - "it's not an appropriate subject" may come across as a bit unfriendly. I'd go with some variation of "Why do you ask?" The response will probably be something along the lines of "Oh, I was just wondering." At that point, you respond only to this last sentence, with e.g. "Oh, OK then" - and then you change the subject. Or you could prolong it a bit with "What made you wonder?" - and whatever they say, you can still respond with "Oh, OK then" and a change of subject. In other words - turn the question around so that they have to explain why they would even ask that question, and then change the subject. If they persist after this, that's the time to respond with "No, I didn't answer, because I don't think it's an appropriate subject for the office". At that point their insistence is already well past the point of rudeness. 

Firstly, there is no way that you will not appear in a bad light here. You promised to do something, you were unable to do it - people will be somewhere on the scale of disappointed to angry. There are two things that you need to do in a situation like this: 

I've been in this exact situation, as I'm very sensitive to certain noises, and chewing ranks high up on that list. I simply said: "Hey, I'm sorry but I am very sensitive to certain noises, and chewing is one of them. I know most people aren't bothered, but for me it's like nails on a chalkboard. Do you think you could try not to chew gum when we're in meetings?" Since you already have a positive working relationships, chances are that your boss, like mine, will be happy to oblige with such a reasonable request. 

Your managers made a decision against your recommendation. Your job is to make the best of the situation. When the new person starts, be helpful to him. As the key member of your team, you are in a position to help him become a productive coworker and a good member of the team. Use that position and your own experience to make the team stronger. It may turn out that your advice was right and they were wrong in hiring him; if so, that will become apparent. Or it may turn out that they other people who were interviewing saw things that weren't apparent in the interview you did, and they were right in hiring him. In either case, you being a gracious and courteous mentor will make your own position stronger within the company. Of course, you can also choose to show your displeasure to your coworkers, your manager and of course to the new hire. You can try to make them feel bad for disagreeing with you and going against your recommendation. You can be cold and show disdain, or display anger and frustration, or be unpleasant to the new hire, or any combination thereof. That will show your manager that you really shouldn't be in any position where you have influence over other people, and it'll be unlikely that they ever invite you on another interview again. (Except possibly an exit interview.) 

Here's a basic format for an apology to suit pretty much any given circumstance. Don't just copy my words - you need to express yourself with words that feel right for you and for the relationship you have with the person you are apologizing to. There are some basic rules for a good apology letter: 

You need to acknowledge and report the fact that you did not meet the deadline You need to change the way you work so that this does not become a regular occurrence. 

You now have a huge opportunity to use these facts in order to get better both at your job and at being a competitor. I'll start with the third point, that of seeing this competition as one for the team instead of for the individual. I'd suggest that you start focusing on the team rather than just yourself. This new person, is he helping the entire team to get better? If so, your team has scored an advantage by getting him on board. Use it to your personal advantage too - learn from him the things he knows that you don't, offer to help with the things you know that he doesn't. If he's getting all the questions from your coworkers, he may be feeling stressed out or put-upon and wish for some time to be able to work in peace. You can offer to show and help others when he's busy - but remember to do it with a genuine offer of help, not as a ploy to get the credit. If you can see him as your mentor/coach/team leader, rather than your direct competitor, you will move to a head space where his skills are your assets as well as his. They're something you aspire to rather than envy, if you see what I mean. For the first and second points - when you feel that you've lost, don't stress over the loss. Instead, analyze what happened. What was it he did better than you? How did he do it? Could you do that? Could you think of some way to do something even better the next time a situation like this arises? You should also be aware that there is a fourth factor here: 

Yes, it's hard and unfair. It's also true. The guys wearing jeans and t-shirts look like a common stereotype of a developer. That's why they "get away with it". You, on the other hand, are a woman which means that you already don't match the stereotype. The more you deviate from it the harder it will be for you to get people to take you seriously as a developer. This is especially true if your normal style is coded as "girl clothes" rather than "woman clothes". Yes, this is hard and unfair and it sucks. It's still true. When I started out as a sysadmin in my mid-20's, my standard work wear was black jeans and t-shirt, often with a leather vest or a jeans shirt or something else to tone down the secondary female characteristics. In effect, I did my best to downplay my femininity and get as close as possible to what the men in the office wore. Not the other women, because they were admin staff and so not taken seriously by the other sysadmins. (Yes, this also sucks, and is unfair, and also true.) Now, with nearly two decades of experience, I still find that when I'm in a new environment I do best to go back to basics the first time I meet a new client or a new group of techs. It's black jeans, t-shirt, though nowadays since I'm a senior consultant I'll top it up with a decent jacket rather than a jeans shirt. I've found that it significantly reduces the amount of time until people accept that I actually know my job. Once I'm established I can go back to wearing something more matching my own style, which will usually be a top+skirt or a dress. So my advice for you when you start out is to go for the same type of clothing as the male techies - jeans and t-shirt if that's what they're wearing, or a closeish approximation thereof. If you don't want to wear trousers, wear a skirt that's in the same style range as jeans - not formal, definitely not short. If you don't want to wear a t-shirt, wear some other top but not too "girlish". Look for materials and styles that don't require ironing - most of mine don't; they're either meant to look crinkly or I just let them hang-dry and that's sufficient. You don't need to look like the bosses of your company, and you're allowed to have your own style, but the more your style deviates from that of your coworkers, the less accepted you'll be. Again - unfair, hard, - and true. The more established you are, the more you can flout those norms. You're not there yet. I'd also like to point you at a great place to get help and advice from other women in tech - the Anita Borg institute has a mailing list called Systers which I've found very helpful. You're very welcome to join! 

Different groups of people have different ways of communication. In some groups, everyone is expected to not speak while someone else is speaking, instead waiting until there's a break where it's easy to insert oneself. In others, everyone is expected to interject and break in while the previous person is speaking, as long as you're keeping on the same track. In others still, interrupting and taking over the conversation is just how everyone does it, and if you wait for a "good moment" you will never get a word in. None of these ways are wrong in themselves, but if you're used to one style, it can be hard to adapt to a different one when you get into a new group. It seems to me that you're most comfortable with the first variety, and your coworkers are of the second or third one. It wold be nice if the boss/facilitator/whoever is in charge of the meeting could make sure that everyone gets heard, but they may not even be aware that there is a difficulty. (If/when you are the leader in a group or meeting, remember this and try to do better!) How to interrupt I'll answer the second question first - how to gracefully get in there. My advice is to look at how other people do it. Do they interrupt? Do they make gestures to get everyone's attention? Do they lean in and go "uh-huh, yeah, also I think that..."? There will be some sort of unwritten rule or standard here - you need to figure out what that is. Once you've done so, you can apply that rule to yourself - if it's OK for them, then that means it's OK for you. How to get the confidence to speak The first question is harder. It's easy to say that you need more self-confidence, but it's hard to get there... Is there anyone in the group that you feel comfortable with? If so, could you speak to them after a meeting? Think of a point that you wanted to make during the meeting and bring it up with them - something like "Oh, after the meeting I got to thinking about the screwdrivers - what do you think about reversing the polarity?" You'll get feedback on your idea without it being in front of a dozen people. Also, you're building a rapport and a reputation - next time you're in a meeting, they will be supportive from the start because they already have a good opinion of your ideas. At this point, every time you go to a meeting and don't say something, it will be harder to say something at the next one. You're building it up into a huge enormous decision. The only way to get past is through - make up your mind to say just one single thing. It doesn't have to be brilliant, it just has to be one single thing that you said. If you manage that, you have won. The one single thing can be as short as "I think that what Jim said is very interesting." At this point, your goal is to break the silence. Next time, go for two things. After a few meetings when you've actually spoken, the act of speaking will be less of a hurdle. Then you can start thinking about content - about getting your own ideas out. You'll be used to the conversational style and be able to focus on your thoughts rather than on the situation. You should also remember that most people will not even be aware that you are uncomfortable with speaking. They will be too busy wondering if what they themselves are saying is smart or stupid, or if they missed something that's obvious to everyone else, or if they should maybe just have shut up. You just can't see it by looking at them - and neither can they, by looking at you. They will spend so much energy worrying over what impression they themselves are giving that they have very little left to spend on judging you.