You might be able to say Company A 2004 - 2009 if you were on a military leave of absence. I have reviewed resumes where reserve soldiers who were activated for six month to one year tours, they were still considered employees while on active duty. They even had job protection rights. You will still note your military service as a separate entry on the CV/resume. 

Start looking because it may be a shorter term position than you were hoping for. Of course continue to work hard. Your hard work may make you a survivor in the intra-company struggles. Short term you want your position to survive, but you are too new to know if that is the best thing for your long term survival. Making sure that you provide benefits to the project and the company that are noticeable to those outside the team can make you worth saving in the eyes of the rest of the company. Ultimately you do not know if you joined the wrong team, or the wrong company, or just at the wrong time. Working hard and looking for a new job will maximize your options until it all becomes clear. 

In the US companies have been caught and fined for trying to classify people as contractors when they should be employees. It is not based on banning contractors from team building but based on how they control your location and schedule of work. If they say you must sit at this desk, during core hours, and attend these daily meetings then they should be paying you like an employee. Regarding pay. You will get X$ for every hour you can bill. You have to fund everything else from that money: Salary, sick, vacation, holidays, insurance, retirement, self-employment Social security tax, regular social security and medicare. Remember that the typical employer either covers these amounts in whole or in part. They will pay you more per hour worked as a contractor, but their actual costs will be lower because these hidden costs are eliminated. In the US a rule of thumb is that the fully burdened rate for a employee is 1.75 to 2.25 times their salary. The fully burdened rate includes salary, benefits, overhead and profits. 

Yes you can put your foot down, but what happens next will depend on your exact situation. If the work you are doing for Company A will take less than 40 hours per week, then demanding to only work for company A will drop you to part time. This puts your job at risk. If the work that needs to be done for company A will take up 40 hours, then telling them that they need to hire additional people to handle the other companies will keep you at full time. Approach the owner with a way to get better IT support. Tell him that an extensive period of time at more than 40 hours per week is bad for performance. Tell them that jumping around between the different "customers" is inefficient. Adding one or two more people will allow for better quality of support, and improved response time. If the companies aren't co-located, having more people in IT will cut down on travel time, and not leave IT uncovered while traveling. 

For your resume there is no need to specify the years your were in college. You are telling them you completed the degree. Some advise you not to include the graduation date because that reveals something about your age. But if you have other employment dates on the resume they will be able to determine your approximate age anyway. If you are submitting a resume in your last year of school for a position that requires a particular degree level, then putting your expected date of graduation is useful because they need to know that you will have the appropriate degree by the time you start. It works the same way while applying for an internship. They want to know your major, but also need to know that you are still a student and where you are in the program. Now when it comes time to filling out a background investigation form, you will probably need to supply the dates you were in school so they can verify the reasons for any gaps in employment/schooling. 

The first place to start looking is the employee handbook. That will let you know what they do with leftover vacation and sick leave. It can even depend on your jurisdiction. Some companies have to address issues like this differently for different groups of employees depending on which states laws apply. Generally they want you to work every day during the notice period. It is for you to document and train, and for you to finish some of the open tasks. They are expecting this. If they don't pay you for unused sick leave, but do pay for unused vacation; they may be very strict about documenting an illness during your notice period. The determination of the last day is very important when planning the transition to your new job. How the old company handles things like vacation, sick and insurance is very important to know. While a check for unused vacation is great, if it comes with the expense of being uninsured during that time period you may want to wait until you come back before resigning. Of course if the insurance coverage carries over till the end of the month...then taking a break after your last day of work may be relaxing. 

Because you don't have a signed offer back from Company A, you should continue to apply for other positions, and even go on interviews. Until Company A accepts your offer, you still don't have a job. Applying for a position, and even going on interviews is not a commitment to a company. You are hedging your bets in case the expected position with company A falls apart in the next few days. Imagine if you turned down scheduling an interview, and withdrew all outstanding applications; only to get word from company A that they will not be able to start you for 90 more days because a customer has delayed the contract. You would have to re-start your job search from scratch. 

You have decided that during the last 4 years the frozen salary and the declining benefits still was a better position than unemployment, or the jump to a new company. It was likely that other companies were having similar problems. You may have even remained because you hoped that you would be rewarded for your sacrifice at the end of the recession. Some employees are looking, and now management has announced that raises are about to be awarded. That leaves employees in an interesting position: start looking, keep looking, or stop looking. The worst position for the employee is if they receive an offer from another company before knowing the size of the raise from the old company. You need to adjust your criteria for staying: if they raise my salary by X I am staying, if they raise it by less than Y I will feel like quitting so I will take the first decent offer. In between you might start a low key search for a new job, because you realize the deferred raises are gone forever. You can set these levels anywhere you want. They probability of getting 100% of the deferred raises is low, but you need to decide if that is what is important to you. What they offer will be based on if they only feel comfortable with some raises and improved benefits; or if all their problems are solved and they want to reward those who stuck with them despite the sacrifices. 

You may not be able to use two resumes/cover letters with some companies. Even small companies of a few hundred employees may use a web package to handle applications and other electronic documents for the hiring process. In every case I have experienced recently they have limited you to one resume, one cover letter, one transcript. If the next day you attempt to apply for another position and you use the same profile/account to apply for the second position your new resume/cover letter will replace the previous one. I have tested this in the past by verifying that the first position I applied to did see the new documents. It is possible that the recruiter or hiring manager could have copied your first set of documents to their hard drive and will use that version for the rest of the process. But you have no idea which job posting will be evaluated first. They might not do so in the order you applied. You will have to tailor the resume and cover letter to show that you have experience in both areas. The alternative is to pick one position apply for it, wait until they hire you; if you are eliminated from the process then apply for the second one with the new documents. This has risks because the 2nd one may be filled before you can submit your application. In many companies the two positions may be evaluated by unrelated teams even if they would work one desk apart. This mean that there is no way to know if any one person will see both applications, or even remember both applications unless they are either memorable or they read them very close together in time.