Your work absolutely does NOT have to involve physical activity. The cool thing about such a job is having as sort-of workout and being paid for it. The only difference for you is having to work out in your own free time. Now working very hard, being a family man and all could make that troublesome, since you wouldnt have much free time. But a typical 8h working day should be no problem. Getting an athletic physique is not about training 24h/7. Actually, a workout session usually should take an hour. HIIT tainings can be done in minutes! And your body needs to rest after each workout too, so its not like you will be training daily. One of the most important factors will be your diet, your attitude, consistency. Your job is not one of those factors. Youre asking us if it is possible to get the looks youre after while having a sitting job. Read some magazines for men, like Mens Health. Each issue you can read a story of an average man getting a heroic physique. Those arent only lumberjacks and construction site workers! Ive seen programmers, drivers and others being heroes of those stories. If they could make it, so can you! The question you have asked looks like you want to give up on getting in shape on account of it being "impossible" because of something. Well, we wont give you the green light to give up. To really achieve your goal, your attitude should be quite the contrary - if we told you its impossible, you should strive to prove us wrong! To get you in the fighting mood, one of the best inspirational speeches in the history of cinematics: $URL$ If you will take up the challenge, just remember to work hard, but smart, too. Make your research, try to expand your knowledge. Whenever you hit a plateau, try to search for the resons. Experiment, adapt and learn. And dont give up! 

Ive read that the preferred swimming style for the US Navy soldiers is the sidestroke. What are the benefits of the sidestroke that make it the preferred style? 

This is just for a starter, also take a look around some questions here, but my real advice would be - if you want to correct your posture with training, or you have any posture problems at all, dont try to fix it on your own, using advice from the net. Many people will want to help you, but not necessairly give you the best advice or advice best fitted for you and your particular needs / posture. In my opinion, you should see a specialist and develop a training plan to fix your posture using his help. 

There are many various factors. Actually, there are so many, that every calorie burnt calculation is an approximation. The first and most obvious factor is - does your treadmill include your BMR in its calculations? (BMR) Your weight, age, VO2max, the intansity of the exercise (your heart rate), bloodsugar level, the temperature... Sometimes its even hard to determine if something is actually a factor - it would require making separate studies on that subject. The baseline is - almost everything you can do to measure burnt calories is only an approximation. Those approximations can be wildly inaccurate. But you have to know - why do you even need the number? If you want to measure your trainign progress or motivate yourself for training, aim for more "material" indicators and goals. Try to run further, longer and faster. Try different exercises, running distances and intensities. Since youre asking about burning calories, I assume you want to lose weight. My advice is - dont rely on calorie calculations, they are very inacurrate in both intake and expenditure. Check out the great questions on weightloss that can be found on this site - they should be of help. 

First of all, info on your current body fat percentage would be usefull, but I can give you some pointers even without it. You were doing mostly cardio/high reps. While this could be usefull for weight loss, youre saying you already are lean. If so, you should be doing strength training. If you need to lose some more fat, it will help you doing so without losing muscle. A big part of looking toned, besides low BF%, is having muscles. Strength trainign will help in that respect too. The difference in gaining muscle/losing fat while strength training lays in your diet. While manipulating your calorie intake, you can achieve different goals. Still, keep in mind to have at least 1-2g of protein per 1kg of bodyweight daily. DONT do what you intended that is "targeting abs , arms and chest". You should do all the big muscle groups (back, chest, legs) to ensure proper body composition, and you should be doing compound movements - they will give the smaller muscles proper workout as a side effect (like arms or abs). Check out the "friends dont let friends skip leg day" internet memes to find out why doing whole body is important. The question youre asking has been asked a lot over here. I hope my answer will point you in the right direction in terms of what to search for. Determine what you need to achieve the desired looks, search the site for question on proper diet and training plans that help with getting there. 

Just to add to what already has been said: studies show that prolonged (over one week) sexual abstinence increases testosterone levels for males. Orgasms boost testosterone levels, but only for a short time. Link to an abstract of an exemplary study: $URL$ 

The other would be the cardio-vascular endurance, used in long distance running and similar low-intnsity activities. My rock climbing instructor said that most people have enough strength to do difficulty 7 routes, but they lack the necessary strength endurance. As I understand, military physical exams, especially those for special forces, all require that the recruit has outstanding strength endurance. Could someone please elaborate on types of endurance and ways to best train them? 

Not eating dinner helps you lose weight in one way: it reduces your total daily calorie intake. But that does not mean that its a good idea. If you are in a caloric deficit, you WILL lose weight, but the way in which you reach the deficit also matters. What and when you eat triggers various hormonal responses, and some of them can support healthy fat loss, others can prevent it. For example, high insulin levels make it hard for your body to burn fat. The topic is vast, but going to sleep hungry isnt necessairly a good signal to the body's metabolism. Also, if you have been working out, most of the regeneration takes place duringg sleep. You want to have enough nutrients, like proteins, for your body to best use the regeneration time. So, to sum it up, you SHOULD eat dinner, but make a smart choice of what to eat. It should be high in protein, low in fat and sugar. Farm cheese could be a good choice, for example.