Which is really not an issue of culture, or work-ethic/style. It sounds like a process issue, to be honest (unless the coworker has a chronic problem with "forgotten" work?). Whatever solution you're using for allocating and tracking work sounds like it's leaving too much up to individual human memories. That's generally a recipe for...exactly that kind of situation. Yes your co-worker dropped the ball by forgetting their tasks, but why does your process allow the ball to be dropped in such an impactful way in the first place? If you're not currently using something like Trello or Jira Agile or a nice low-tech whiteboard with sticky-notes on it to track what tasks are assigned to whom and what the status of each one is, then I'd strongly suggest giving that a try. At a minimum it takes away everyone's ability to hide behind the "I forgot" excuse (and can introduce a host of other benefits, as well). As a senior member of the development team, you likely do hold significant influence over the development process being used, and it would be appropriate for you to raise the issue (in a general sense, like "we have a problem with people forgetting what tasks have been assigned to them") and advocate changes to the process to fix it. I think that's your answer. As for the rest, it sounds like what your coworker did in terms of not staying late to complete the tasks is actually in-line with your organization's culture: 

In general the first case would be the most likely. To do otherwise would leave the company in breach of the contract, which would allow the employee to sue for those three months worth of income (and possible additional punitive damages, depending upon state law and the exact circumstances). Most companies would not bother looking for some minor technicality to use to avoid the three-month notice period. It's more likely that a company that really wants to pay out nothing will simply do so and hope that either 1) the employee will not bother taking them to court and/or 2) they will easily win any court case that ensues, by digging up or manufacturing a reason for terminating the employee if/when needed. 

No, you can simply leave straight away without paying them anything (unless your employment contract explicitly stipulates otherwise). Although of course doing so would be very unprofessional unless there was serious misconduct on behalf of the employer. Technically you're in breach of contract in that case, but in no scenario does employment law allow a person to be forced to do something against their will. If you no longer intend to work there, that's pretty much the end of it. In essence all you really forfeit (apart from your professional reputation) is your pay for that final month. Note that your employer may decide to use any accrued leave entitlements that you have to account for your final month, which may or may not be legal depending upon locality and what is spelled out in the contract. As in any case where a contract has been breached, a civil court case can be filed and nothing guarantees that won't happen. However, in order to collect in such a case an employer must prove damages. Which, unless they paid you for the month when you did not work and you refused to give that money back, would be very difficult to do (and not to mention costly and time-consuming in and of itself, and potentially damaging to the employer's reputation as well). 

More generally, this isn't really a case where you can only do one option or the other. It's entirely possible to both look for a new job and wait for your promotion at the same time. In fact, that's what I'd recommend, since you say you're happy with your current position. So there's no point it just throwing that away. But there's also never any harm in keeping your eyes open and investigating new opportunities as they arise. And don't worry about wasting anybody's time. Recruiters and interviewers are paid to deal with these situations. They know not everyone they interview will be currently unemployed, or dead set on accepting an offer, or even remotely qualified for the position they're applying for. It's their job to deal with these things. So I'd suggest using the fact that you're comfortable with your current position to your advantage, and making it very clear to your interviewer/recruiter that you're very happy with your current employer and that it would take a very attractive offer to lure you away. Having a job you're happy with gives you a great advantage in terms of interviewing with other employers. Exploit it. 

Say you're doing contract development work that is accounted for and billed on an hourly basis. There has been no design work done/provided up front, and the project involves a number of problems that require a non-trivial solution. Time spent designing, researching, and implementing solutions to such problems would be billable. However, a lot of design and problem solving tends to happen "in the background", when doing things that are completely unrelated to the project itself. For instance, it's not uncommon to come up with a solution to a problem while showering, or eating dinner. And time spent mentally planning out an approach while drifting off to sleep at night can significant cut down on the amount of coding time/trial and error required the next day. And so on. So how is the time spent on such "background tasks" generally accounted for? If those things were done while sitting at a desk and focused on the project, they'd definitely be billable. Do they become less billable or non-billable by virtue of having been done outside of a working context? If so, how do you compensate for the fact that you're basically providing effort/value for free in that case? By charging a higher hourly rate? And if not, how do you compensate for the fact that if you did the same task in the "foreground" it may have taken slightly less time than doing it in the background? 

So I don't think either of those options is very good. But #2 is better than #1. Because at least #2 is unlikely to ruin the company. Particularly if it's a tech company that relies upon the knowledge and expertise of its development team and thrives as much in spite of what the non-technical upper-managerial types do as it does because of them. Those companies need to retain their developers far more than they need any specific CEO. In terms of what you actually should do, how about ignoring the criticism altogether? If it's being made outside of the office during non-working hours, then it's not really relevant in the office context. Those employees are entitled to their opinions, and to express them freely. Just as you are entitled to your political views. If you want to assert that you are free to endorse whatever political viewpoints you want and that it should make no difference in the professional context, you have to be willing to extend the same privilege to your employees. Which means that as long as your employees are professional at the office, you shouldn't be worrying about what they are doing/saying outside of it. As long as your employees are providing valuable contributions at work, and are professional enough to not allow their personal views to interfere with their duties as an employee, then there's really no problem (and certainly no "insubordination") except that you feel "bothered" by the sentiments they have expressed. So man up, grow a thicker skin, and get over it. You've got a business to run. 

Despite what he says, it is his responsibility as team leader to ensure that none of your tasks slip through the cracks while you are away. You won't be there, and you presumably lack the authority to direct any of the other team members to take on any of your tasks. The team lead should be the person with the best visibility into the workload of other team members, so is therefore best suited to determine who should take on which task(s). And the team lead has the authority to require them to take up the extra work, even if they don't want to. However, if you have sufficient visibility and knowledge yourself, then there's no harm in taking the opportunity that he's giving you to act as a team leader. My suggestion would be that you play to what you've been asked to do while simultaneously shifting responsibility back onto the team leader; compose an e-mail outlining when you'll be gone, the tasks that you know others will have to take on, and your recommendations on which team members should take up which tasks. Send this to the team lead, and also CC all the impacted developers. Make it clear in your e-mail that you are simply making a recommendation, and suggest that anyone who has any questions or issues liaise with the team leader and the rest of the group to work out a final assignment that everyone is happy with. 

In the first case, your boss is probably as embarrassed about the situation as you are upset. She would know that she acted unprofessionally, but also feel like there's no way for her to back out of the situation without losing face. Other than perhaps to wait it out, and then rescind the punishment after some time has passed. Though you shouldn't wait for that to happen, as its a tacit acceptance of your punishment; allowing your employer to treat you like a child is just as childish as deliberately doing less work in protest, albeit in a different way. The second case is more problematic. Your manager holds an incorrect view about what she can and cannot do as a manager, and the situation won't be resolved without disabusing her of it (or deciding that you're happy to play along with it, which doesn't seem to be the case). Which is unlikely to be pleasant, and could easily have a variety of negative repercussions and fallout. In the long run, your firm is better off with managers who do not treat employees like children. But in the short term, getting there may be painful. You already seem to be in a fair bit of pain over the situation, so that makes the rest a bit more straightforward. You can't simply accept such a petty punishment and work hard so that you have grounds to ask for "permission" to wear headphones again, as other answers suggest. That simply reinforces to your boss that she was right to treat employees like children. Which means she's more likely to keep doing it; and with the resentment you're already harboring it will just be even more upsetting to you the next time she does. So one way or another, this situation needs to be resolved. To that end you should be prepared to calmly and politely discuss the following points: 

It's not necessarily "normal" to handle travel expenses this way, but not unheard of either. I've been with companies who managed all travel arrangements internally, companies which provided an internal self-service interface that employees could use to arrange their own travel (restricted to preferred providers/companies, etc.), and companies which had employees arrange travel themselves and then provided reimbursement after the fact. As much as you may not want to, the best way to deal with your current situation is to get a credit card with a limit high enough to cover your anticipated costs (or AMEX charge card). Submit your reimbursement claims promptly, and pay the balance off in full each month. Try to get a card that earns points when you use it; you'll rack up a ton.