When you steal, you are harming someone for you own interest. As long as from the point of view of the society there is no reason to consider your interest more valuable than the one of person you are robbing, stealing will be considered immoral. For example, the thefts or Robin Hood are widely considered morally acceptable, because he stole the rich (causing them minimum harm) to give to the poor (greatly helping them). From the point of view of the society, there is a net gain in the process. But you do not even need a net gain to make the situation morally acceptable. For example, in the film Now you see me, magicians rob banks without harming anyone. It does not harm anyone and since it is very cleverly done nobody (except the police) object. So, the occidental society seems to meet your criteria. Theft is "neutral" since its moral judgement depends on the context, and if it is cleverly done (no killing, small harming) it can be considered laudable. From there it is easy to build a society accepting theft, even in an institutionalized way. For example, everybody could just keep some traditional object, with no practical use, just to prove everybody that nobody can rob him, and everybody will try to steal everybody (but only that particular useless object). 

Cities : since factories are permanent immobile structures, you need towns to place them. It can seem trivial, but it means that nomadic tribes will never ends up in launching a industrial revolution without settling. Surplus of food : you need something to eat for the workers who does not produce food. It made industrial revolution impossible in medieval Europe, because most people had to be farmers, simply to keep everyone alive (and even like that it regularly failed). Actually, the industrial revolution was preceded by an agricultural revolution which produced a lot of extra food. Good reason : you need to gain something, on short notice, by using machines. In the Roman Empire, there were plenty of slaves producing way enough goods for every free man, therefore there were no needs for machines. Indeed the Romans seemed to have the capability for an industrial revolution during hundreds of years, but did not tend to it. There were no need for it, because of slaves. Acceptance of change : Japan did not enter industrial era until the US army forced the country to open to the rest of the world. 

First of all, note that echolocation may not be such a good idea for a predator, since whatever is the frequency a predator uses for it, its preys will ultimately evolve to ear it as well, and thus detect it. Some insect actually do it to avoid bats. To go straight to the point, a more sensitive hearing may become a problem due to evolutionary factors. If your predator hear with high accuracy and sensitivity a wide range of frequencies, it must as well be very good at analysing the sounds it hears, otherwise it will have no advantages to hear that well. Its prey may evolve strategies to confuse you predator, for example by emitting noise over a wide spectrum of frequencies or by living in (or even constructing) a place with complex acoustic (perhaps even symbiosis between an animal and a plant modelling the sounds, and in fact possibilities are endless). To catch up with that evolution your wraith should get a better analysis of sounds, or in other words, a better brain. But better brain imply that you need more energy (thus food) to use it. At some point a better hearing may therefore become a problem : your improved brain cost you more food that it allows you to catch, and it would be more food-efficient to have a slightly worse brain with a smaller "maintenance" cost. It is a bit counter-intuitive (for humans at least) to thing that being smarter may actually be an evolutionary disadvantage, but it makes sense (and it explains why there are still plenty of quite stupid animals out there, having sometimes no brain at all). However the trade-off between brain improvement and energy needed is only one possible evolutionary trade-off. You may for example also argue that a better hearing need a more complex ear, and that a more complex ear is more fragile. So at some point the loss due to less reliability is bigger than the gain due to better sensitivity. 

So you may think that everything will be fine, it seems that everything can be generalize by just queuing people. The waiting time may even not be a problem, since the society would basically be founded on waiting. But there is a problem. And it is... Travel (and wage war) When you travel, for example through an ocean or a desert, you need to know how much food you need for the duration of the travel, and if the food you take with you will rot before you got to somewhere you can get more. Without proper duration estimation, any travel would become a very dangerous thing. Also, a war is the travel of lots of people killing other people who does not want them to travel there. It is the worst definition of war ever, but you get the idea. If you measure time properly, you will most likely get a significant military advantage over populations who do not. If one civilization measure the time, and the other not, it is likely that its planning will be far better, and that it may expand quickly. So either you need to have an absolute pacific species, or you need to clearly separate the military from the rest of the society if you want an asynchronous society to work. Also prepare for conversation like : "Will we have enough food to get there ?" "More or less." 

The governments accept to pay for the cares needed by the zombies. This will probably lead to the eradication of the disease over the next decades. They don't. That means poor people will take care of they zombies themselves, increasing the chance of the epidemic to spread. 

You will organize by using queues. That goes in the same direction as HDE answer. For example, if you are running low on food, just go gather some. It is possible because there is no season, therefore no long period when there is nothing to eat out there (aka winter). No need to stockpile then. Well can the queuing solution generalize to any problem ? Almost. Work You can adapt the work schedule easily, just run your factory constantly (in the case you need a lot of people to work at the same time). Workers will wait to work, and when a place is freed (by someone going away), the next in queue can take his place. Each worker are then paid by shift. Of course that would be administratively heavy (you have to take care of how much each worker did), but not impossible. Then of course system will need to be achieve for qualified workers. For example a kind of VIP queue for better qualified workers, that allow them to get to work faster, and so ensure the factory to get more of them working. Note that you need a queue in the case of a factory, because you need lots of people simultaneously to make it run, but at the same time you can not make them all come at the same time. If there is no queue, you risk lacking workers. That also means that if there is only few people capable of doing some stuff they just basically work when they want (what could also be true in our society). An interesting effect is that it is hard bind someone by contract to do something for you. In fact, you can bind someone to do something, but since you can not give deadline, it is not de facto binding. Formulations like "as soon as possible" should be expected, as well as major lawsuit about the concept. So a working contract would be more of an exclusivity contract (you accept to only work for that guy). Education Interesting as well. Instead of having classes, you would rather have lots of modules. You go to a module when you want (it is just run in continuous), and when you think you can go to the following module, you ask to pass an exam. Once again there might be some queuing, since you may need to wait for your teacher to come, or a sufficiently high amount of students to come for the module to start. Since it would require lots of teachers, you might use the "students teaching students" approach, having students of higher module teaching students of lesser ones to discharge your teacher. Note that such education system kind of actually existed ! 

I will emphasize a quite different angle of view than in existing answers. Transport ships are absolutely necessary. According to UNO : 

in a code, does this means that the object is aware of the object , and consider that it is sending a request to (in some sense it is what it does) ? Where do you define the edge of awareness for a computer programming ? You have written in a comment that you do not want to do philosophy, but to truly answer your question, you will have to.