Powershell (as per SvenW's answer) is best practice, but if you prefer the old fashioned command line: 

This is described (somewhat obliquely) in the Microsoft blog post, How to troubleshoot IE Enhanced Security warning "Content from the website listed below is being blocked by the Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration" ? It may still be necessary to change the corresponding setting (as per Volodymyr's answer) on a per-user basis for existing accounts. 

On my system, changing the value of IEHarden (REG_DWORD) to 0 in this key appears to have corrected the problem for all new accounts (and possibly some existing accounts): 

Based on recent experimentation (with Server 2012, but I suspect earlier versions are similar) on non-domain, statically configured networks the NLA service uses the link-layer (MAC) address of the default gateway to identify the network. The details are unclear, though I suppose they could be worked out with a network analyzer. If the configured default gateway does not respond, NLA does not recognize the network, so it's definitely doing some sort of query. (That is, you can't just put in a dummy gateway address, or even a dummy gateway address plus static arp entry; the gateway MAC address associated with a particular network must actually respond in order for NLA to decide that the adapter is connected to that network.) See also my blog entry on a way of fooling Windows 2012 into assigning an adapter to a unique network. If the adapter is assigned an address by DHCP, the logic might be different. I haven't looked into that yet. The logic on a domain network is documented as per the existing answers. 

In the Group Policy Management Console I am attempting to delegate the "Link GPOs" right, but after selecting the group to delegate the access to and the "This container and all child containers" option, I am receiving the error message "The request is not supported". Here's a screenshot of the same error on the Microsoft Forums. In that case, the user was attempting to remove a delegation. What causes this error and how can the problem be resolved? 

If the service is running as Local System or Network Service, or as a specific domain user, it can either access the files via the UNC path or it can map a network drive using the function. In the case of Local System or Network Service, the connection is made in the context of the Active Directory computer object. If the service is running as a local user, UNC paths will not work, but it can still map a network drive using provided it can provide a valid username and password. (If the Win32 API is not available for some reason, running the command in a subprocess will also work.) 

I understand the question as follows: 1) You have bought a domain from Provider1. This is your domain registrar and you can manage your DNS record within their interface. 2) You have bought a website hosting from Provider2. This is a different company. 3) You want to connect your DNS record with your hosting so that if you type mysite.com into browser, you will see your pages loading. 4) You know IP address (let's assume it is 1.2.3.4) of the web hosting server with Provider2 and you have already created DNS A record that says mysite.com is 1.2.3.4. 5) It does not work. If this describes your situation well, then there are two things I can think of that can go wrong: A) You created the DNS record, but did not wait long enough for the record to be propagated world wide and the DNS server that you use for your address resolving, does not have this updated record yet. You can use DNS Propagation Checker to get information on how well is your DNS record propagated over the distributed network. You can also flush your local DNS cache to prevent your operating system local cache from giving you the old records. B) You have not inform Provider2 that your hosting program should accept requests for mysite.com. How to fix this depends entirely on your web hosting provider's interface. However, you can tell if this is the case if you put your address into the browser and different page than you expect (which is your web application page) is displayed to you. 

If I do the same on my Windows 10 desktop, I get success and can work with the share folder and map it. And I am not sure what I have not tried yet, but I have checked these: 1) network connection properties of server B, if server B has enabled Client for Microsoft Networks - yes; if server B has enabled File and Printer Sharing for Microsoft Networks - yes 2) I have tried advanced properties of IPv4 -> WINS tab -> Enable NETBIOS over TCP/IP (made no difference to default, both A and B have static IPv4) 3) enabling Network discovery and allowing its firewall rules in firewall.cpl + same for File and Printer Sharing and their rules; again made no difference What am I missing. How can I access shared folder from Windows Server 2012 R2 acting as client. 

Short answer: Yes Long answer: It depends entirely on how many clients do you expect each service to be handling. If you have an SQL server that is used by an application to its limits, so that it hardly catching up with its tasks, you do not want the machine to do other non-trivial tasks. But I guess you would be aware of this if this was the case, so most likely, in your specific case, there will not be any problem to use it for all the services you have mention. DNS servers are quite efficient, so unless you are going to serve public requests for very famous domains, you should be just fine. SQL servers need most of the resources usually. It depends on applications that use them. From your list, it is SQL server that you have to be careful with. Mail servers are rarely demanding on resources, so again, unless you expect to be processing hundreds of thousands of emails daily, feel free ti include. DHCP server - no problems here either. 

So, my server is currently connected to the gigabit switch via 1 cable. The server is used by about 20 people for project management and ownCloud (file sharing). Would it improve performance to add another gigabit ethernet card and connect it to the switch on another port? NOTE: The load balancer sends all port 80 and 443 requests to the IP that the current network card has. If I add another card I wouldn't be able to redirect traffic from port 80 and 443 to it I think. 

my setup is the following: TP-Link TL-ER5120 Gigabit Load Balance Router The router has 2 WANs and 3 LANs connected to it: 

The problem apparently was that the Macbook used to have a relatively old OS, Lion I think, so the BIOS it has wasn't recently updated. What I did to fix this issue was make a bootable Lion USB, and I was able to install Lion. After that I installed all the possible software updates and then upgraded to El Capitan. After that I was able to install High Sierra without any issues as an upgrade. 

I've already worked on several Macbooks, reinstalling them, formatting, changing drives, etc. and normally it's a relatively simple process. But I just got a 13" late 2011 Macbook Pro which just won't accept a new installation. I switched the main drive with a 240GB Kingston SSD, I upgraded the ram from 4 to 8 GB and it turns on without any issues. I previously formatted the drive on another Macbook to the correct format to avoid the installer not detecting it. I created a bootable USB High Sierra installer, following every step by the book. I am able to boot the installer normally, when I open the disk utility it detects the hard drive. When I click on Install MacOS High Sierra it thinks for a few seconds and then tells me "The MacOS installer is damaged and cannot be used to install". I tried doing the installer from a freshly downloaded High Sierra Installer two or three more times... no difference. I tried using Sierra, exactly the same error message. I disabled System Integrity Protection and restarted, same error. I installed the OS on the hard drive using another Macbook with the same USB without any issues. Then I tried putting the SSD in the problematic Macbook and it doesn't detect any bootable OS. I even booted again and told it to use the SSD as startup drive... it even detects the OS version. Nothing, after a few seconds it shows the folder with a question mark on it. I thought maybe the computer is not compatible with High Sierra, but the other Macbook is older than this one and it had no issues installing the OS. I tried using Internet Recovery, but after a while it shows me an error and does nothing. I checked and found out that some models have issues doing internet recovery via Wi-Fi and connected it to a cable and got the same result. I am starting to consider downloading an older OS and boot via DVD, because this is just annoying right now. 

Update 3: I have setup a similar machine locally in VMware. In my local setup, instead of /dev/vda* I've got /dev/sda* and the disk size is 20 GB instead of 80 GB and the new space that I want to add is 30 GB instead of 80 GB, otherwise it is the same. I can see in GParted the very same situation, it behaves exactly the same as the real server, the /dev/sda5 can't be resized. Here are my attempts with fdisk: 

Here I can see the /dev/sda2 (local virtual machine) even starts on the same sector as /dev/vda2 (real server). Same for /dev/sda5 and /dev/vda5. 

What I need is to extend /dev/vda5 from 80 to 160 GB without losing data. I would like to be sure that I can't do it wrong (this is also why I did not do any experiments on my own). So if someone knows how to do step-by-step, so that it can't get wrong, I would be very grateful. It is possible for me to run another tool too, but I guess that would be much more difficult. Update 1: I have tried system-config-lvm, but I am in the same position, here is the pic: 

My hosting is IPv4 only. My question is whether it is possible to allow IPv6 only clients to access my web (running Window Server 2012 R2). Is this possible using technologies like 6to4 or Teredo or something different that I can just install on my server + create AAAA DNS record and it will work? Or do these technologies require configuration on both ends, so that it won't just work even if setup properly on server side? Note that I do not mind performance impact due to any kind of tunneling. Subquestion: And vice versa - is it possible for my server to access other servers via IPv6 after some kind of configuration? 

It is hard to guess, but my would be a redirection, more specifically HTTP -> HTTPS redirection. In order to be it this case, there would need to be redirect from HTTP to HTTPS on your server and you possibly do not see those in your logs because you might have them at different place. So, the scenario would be that the client for some reason (some form somewhere misses right scheme) POSTs to HTTP, gets redirect code and navigates with GET to HTTPS. If this is not the case, it could be different redirection (like non-www to www prefix or alike). You should be see those in the logs, but you might miss them for some reason (filtering somehow based on HTTP code?). But this is not as likely as HTTP->HTTPS redirection. So, is this it or can you prove that this is not the case?