The transcendental apperception is the "I think" that goes with all my representations. That is, when I perceive a table, I know that representation belong to one "I". On the other side, the empirical apperception is to recognise the identity between the phenomenon of the table and my representation of the table. Kind regards. EDIT: and yes, I think that that description is pretty good. EDIT 2: Aputsiaq correctly noted one mistake at my answer: "the empirical apperception has to do with the external sense". That´s totally incorrect as for Kant: 

The influence of external things (den Einfluß äusserer Dinge) affects the inner sense, as a modification of time. As Allison (Kant´s Trascendental Idealism, 2004) notes, the distinction between the two "apperceptions" is troublesome as Kant sometimes tends to identify inner sense with empirical apperception. Anyway, intern sense has nothing to do with apperception. 

"Effectiveness" is a good word to translate "Wirklichkeit". "Wirken" is to have an effect. Sometimes it is used to denote the actuality, as Weissman said, of something, for example, the empirical world. Reality doesn´t need to be empirical. Anyway, it depends of which philosophy are you translating. "Effectiveness" has an existential connotation that goes along with the notion of Wirklichkeit of Schelling and Kierkegaard. Kind regards. 

It can be said that while Marx takes the structure of Hegel´s dialectics and then invert it, Schelling criticises a more fundamental principle of his thought. For Schelling (his late philosophy) Hegel is a panlogician-pantheist. His God/Absolute moves from the concept to the Idea with a irrevocable necessity. Schelling opposes then a "living God", that is, a God that can come or not into being. A God that can be "B" in a moment, and then become "not B" (for example). A God that has an in-conscience Grund. A God that has a Past (!) and an history of his revelation. 

A desire is a state of the world that you would like to realise. This means that the world is not in that state, and that achieving that state would be good for you. I am not going to discuss what "good" means here; it could mean happier, wealthier, whatever. A motivation is a force that compels you to do something. In other words, it is the reason why you act. There are different kinds of motivations. Sometimes you act because you want to achieve a state of the world that you judge as better than the current one; for example, you may donate 100 € to a charity because you believe in helping others. In this case, your motivation is a desire. But there are other kinds of motivations. You may be motivated by fear or revenge, for example. If you keep digging a trench under the blazing sun despite feeling extremely tired, it's only because there is this guy pointing a gun at you. In this bizarre example, your motivation is your fear; desires are not involved. 

Deontic logic is concerned with what is optional, recommended, forbidden, etc. Doxastic logic, on the other hand, is about beliefs. I would argue that policies (as per the OP) can be expressed by using deontic logic and perhaps doxastic logic as well if you want to capture actual adherence to stated policies. As a practical example, ISO/IEC 24744, a standard language for the description of methodologies, uses deontic markers to express whether specific tasks are compulsory, recommended, optional, discouraged or forbidden. 

A good question. It is remarkable how near is the later Schelling of the question of being introduced by Heidegger.I don´t know the historical answer to your question, because I don´t know the biographical context of Heidegger. Anyway, I find both in Philosophie der Mythologie and Ph. der Offenbarung the annunciation of the big topics of heideggerian thought. For example, the idea of a pure being who escapes to any thought that Schelling calls "A⁰" or "das Unvordenkliche" or "das rein Seyende". 

I think that this is not in accordance with positive philosophy but with the "Identitätsphilosophy". Schelling´s dissatisfation deals with the fact that neither Kant nor Fichte had attempted to think the prius of philosophy as a pure existence (Fichte tried, but he ended in a subjetivism). Kind regards 

The aim of Schelling´s positive philosophy is to think the existence (the "quod") and not the essence (the "quid") as negative philosophy had done. That is the reason why he speaks about the "Daß" of God and not about the "Was" (the essence) of God. For Hegel, the Absolute´s necessity is contained in the concept. The whole phenomenology of spirit is a logic consequence of that original necessity of the concept. The Absolute of positive philosophy is not necessary but free. The abyss of God, is not a "Was" but a "Daß". God, that is, the Absolute, is first of all a existence (das rein Seyende), and only then a essence (Gottheit, Wesen). The Absolute of the late philosophy of Schelling is a "living" God, that is, God is no chained to any logical necessity. God is an absolute abyss of freedom. 

I gather that the lack of a free will implies a lack of moral certainty. Since we cannot choose any of our actions, we cannot be accountable for them? And since this "law" of deterministic finitude assumes the materialization of consciousness, reason, and experience, then all knowledge and thoughts are likewise determined. In all honestly, at this point, I am extremely tempted to work backwards causally to explain from where we originate, but I promised that I wouldn't. Moving on-wards. You did not account for a plenum of matter in the universe, or rather, if every possible point in the universe (including points that contain no matter) are affected. So, I will now consider two cases: Case 1 (the plenum): If the universe is a true plenum of matter, then we find ourselves in a Leibnizian/Parmenidean system of a monad. Put simply: There can be no difference among everything, since everything is matter. It would then follow that: 

was right. From the conditions you gave were not entirely satisfactory for an certainty of a conclusion. I suggest taking your thoughts backwards causally (what I stopped myself from doing earlier). By working backwards, you'll possibly come to a cause of the existence of everything and thus learn more about the finitude in which you're thinking. Otherwise, we have a nebulous account of deterministic existence, that assumes all things are and are matter, which was historically bonked over the head and thrown into a dream world by Descartes and then later crushed by Kant ("the crusher of everything" -Schopenhauer). So that premise has some philosophical problems too. Good luck. 

A few years ago I was invited to participate in a workshop hosted by the EC on fundamental research in software engineering. I remember Wolfgang Emmerich from University College London talking about their Impact project, which had found evidence that most innovations in industry are traceable to academic research, but only after some time has passed. The report from the workshop with the details can be found here. 

I work in the field of information systems and cultural heritage. A significant part of my work is related to the description of things that are of interest to cultural heritage specialists such as archaeologists or anthropologists. These things include objects such as paintings, tools or utensils; structures such as buildings or caves; places such as mountains or towns; etc. Most of the time, the things we need to describe are real, i.e. we can perceive them through our senses and thus give a conventional account of them. However, sometimes we need to deal with things (of the above mentioned kinds) that are imaginary, such as Atlantis (an imaginary place) or Excalibur (the sword which Merlin supposedly got from the Lady of the Lake). The consensus between researchers seem to be that a sword is a sword is a sword, and thus imaginary swords are described in terms of their purported physical properties, use, chronology and other attributes very much like any real sword. Of course, one would note down that this particular sword happens to be imaginary, and one should not expect to find it in a museum. However, places are trickier to deal with. The essence of a place seems to be its spatial location, and imaginary places often lack that, i.e. they don't have a well-defined or known location. For this reason, researchers rarely describe imaginary places in the same terms as they would describe real places. Rather, they use accessory attributes (such as what happened there or who lived there) instead of their physical location in the world. After thinking for a while about this, I am wondering about the nature of imaginary things. For objects (such as the sword in my example), imaginary and real don't seem to differ that much. For places, however, the difference is crucial. So my question is, are there any works on the ontology (and/or epistemology) of the imaginary that I can look at? Are there any mainstream or accepted takes on this problem? Thank you. 

Everything we have come to know is an illusion of difference. From this, we have come to the wrong conclusions about free will, "creation", etc.. However, we are all one and imperishable. But, it would then follow that motion cannot be. This was a big problem for Plato. If every point in the universe is filled with matter, then if any bit of matter moves, then there is a difference between the prior position and the current one. But we can't have difference because this would assume that there was a part of existence that the matter could move into and thus contradict both the assumed plenum and the true lack of difference. So, we come to a somewhat paradoxical conclusion that all of existence really has no motion or direction. Everything just is, is one, and is still. If this were the only assumption and there was no account for a beginning of creation, then we could accept pure nihilism. Hmmm. Case 2 (no plenum): Everything is completely determined, but there are empty spaces in the universe. This case is more aligned with current models in physics than the previous case. Nevertheless, we still have determinism from material finitude. From that we can once again extrapolate various claims of nihilism and meaninglessness. Not very exciting of a framework, huh? Anyway, your thought: 

This is extremely reminiscent of Spinoza's account of the universe. In brief, he assumes that there are substances and modes, which are independently and dependently existing respectively. From this, he deduces that there must be one infinite substance (he calls God) that contains all possible things within it in infinite ways (Prop XVI, Part I, Ethics). However, from your cosmological account, it really shouldn't matter from what position we begin in explaining all of existence, since whatever happened happened, and now we're stuck with absolute finitude. So, I will restrict myself to just this claim and attempt to not predicate any particular assumptions for its cause. I will assume that you are personifying "law" rhetorically and not making an implicit assumption for the existence of a God. If you were, then we'd be in a heap of trouble philosophically. If we are absolutely determined and in accordance to the principle of sufficient reason, then it follows that there is no free will--I cannot freely choose my actions. From your statement, 

I think there are two related but distinct issues involved in your question. First, there is the issue of compositionality, i.e. defining something in terms of its constituent parts. Then, there is the issue of semantic holism, by which you cannot define something unless you have defined something else, and thus you can never reach a proper definition of the original concept, since you would need to have a complete understanding of the whole language. This is a strong form of semantic holism, and as far as I know it has been strongly criticised, since sense can be constructed through mechanisms other than mere composition, such as contextual and pragmatic information. 

In the context of Latour's work, a hybrid is something that combines aspects that would traditionally be considered to belong to the natural and social realms. For Latour, the distinguishing trait of modern societies is that they differentiate between nature and society, whereas premodern ones do not make this difference. Latour doesn't like this duality, and he defends that our culture needs to reconnect the natural and social aspects. A hybrid, then, is anything (a thought, a public issue such as global warming, a research project, anything) that successfully accomplishes this. 

I think the answer to your question is yes. There is a significant amount of work around the study of time in ontology. The old endurantism vs. perdurantism debate is part of this. A good example is Sider's "Four-Dimensionalism: An Ontology of Persistence and Time". 

A property of a part is not necessarily a property of the whole. For example, a page in a book has a page number, but the book itself does not have a page number. In your example, the fact that we (the part) have a property (the intention of discovery) does not imply that the whole (the universe) has that property too. I should add to this the fact that intentions need agency. And I would dispute strongly that the universe, as such, has it.