I think the best thing to do here is to be honest with your team , just tell them the way you told us. You want to eat healthy and have some personnal tasks to take care of. There's nothing wrong about it , just try to go once a week or once every 2-3 weeks to the restaurant with them , it'll make them feel you're part of the team , and or not just trying to avoid them when you go eat at home. 

You seem to have to deal with a real brat , and there's not a lot of things to do in this situation. You're not his manager , you can't chose to fire him because of his behaviour but you're actually too nice when you answer him , which lets him think he can keep doin doing it. (Which he does) You have to remind him who you are , prove him you are his superior due to your experience. Play his game , better than he does. Stop giving him the choice. He complains about your tasks being easier ? Give them to him , and take his tasks , without giving him choice. He shouts to the office earlier due to personal reasons ? Ask him about his overtime , and how you're doing much more than him. He speaks about statistics ? Nice , this one is an easy to deal with one. Asks for the statistics , and if he can't show them ask him to shut up until he has any proofs about what he's talking about. I cold give you many other ways to deal with him , but you have to understand that you don't have to be polite to him. Always be ready to challenge him , about everything. He'll soon prove to everybody how much of an arrogant jackass he is. There's a reason for ppl to respect seniors (even if that's just a work title). They have more experience and knowledge than we do. Make a use of this to remind him why he should respect you. 

Understanding your pay: 5. Deductions from your pay, UK Government (emphasis mine) Legally, he absolutely cannot unilaterally (i.e. without your consent) declare that you must repay the cost of training already undertaken a year ago. If it came to court/tribunal, you would win. 

This probably varies by region and culture, but here in the UK, you should leave out that statement. The normal assumption is that you have some referees - it's not something that needs to be stated. Stating it could make you look naive. 

So - what to do? The most important thing is to bear in mind that you're the new guy and therefore the lowest-status person present. If this is a workplace where status is important to managers, then the last thing you want to do is to be seen to undermine their status - they won't like you for it. So don't say to them: 

@Roland pointed something interesting out : If your thing realy is learning as much as possible because you love it then academia may be what you're searching for. If not then you may want to work for a realy big company at a big post where every of your skills (IT , law , management , etc) will be required and where having all theese degrees and be 30+ won't be a problem. But it's not an easy path and theese jobs often come with low personnal time so if it's not 100% what you're searching for you may not be happy with it. There's also the possibility you're not interested in working for a big group but still want to get all theese degrees. In that case since you seem to be a great developper already you could try to save time freelance to get the money you want. But if you're not sure you need theese degrees , are afraid of how having 3 degrees can prevent you from getting a job and don't mind working right after your PhD then maybe you could find an intresting job right after this PhD and fulfill your learning thirst on your free time ! 

Managers and senior employees in many organisations use consistent lateness for meetings with their juniors as a status symbol. The message is "You have to wait for me (but I never have to wait for you) because my time is more important than your time; I'm more important than you". If there's a group of people being forced to wait then the message is even stronger: "my time is more important than the time of all of you put together". This kind of thing is particularly endemic in industries which are traditionally very hierarchical - in the medical profession for example, it would be quite common for a consultant (senior doctor) to be late for a meeting with a nurse, but much more unusual for a nurse to be late for a meeting with a consultant. This is influenced by cultural factors of course - when I'm saying "late", what I really mean is "later than the other meeting participants consider the normal time for arrival". (In some cultures everyone arrives 15 minutes late for everything). Notice I'm saying consistent lateness here - one-off lateness doesn't have the same implications: the train can be late once or twice and that's normal, but if the train is late every week and I don't aim for the earlier train, then I'm sending a message about how I perceive our relative importance. 

As long as it's kept clear and polite I think that only easily offended people would find it rude. You can be sure the supplier won't like it , it's never pleasent to loose (or don't get) a client , but there's a low chance they find it rude. I don't know if it's good behaviour or just something you do to feel better about it but to me it's neither rude or obnoxious. 

There is a lot of ways to rephrase it , but the solution remains the same. Go , and ask. Just turn your question the best possible way regarding who you'll be asking , and the relation you have with this person. 

This point is realy bothering me , have you thought about the fact your lead knows his job , and asked you to "school" some stuff because you don't yet have the required level to help on the next tasks ? I know it can be hard to acknowledge but maybe you don't have what it takes yet to work alongside the team on bigger tasks. But if it's not the case then you should totaly do what François Gautier told you. Come up with tasks you can do , or see with the team members if they'd be ok to share some work with you. 

"do hiring managers usually look over international applicants over EU ones for the ease of process"? In a word: yes. There's a significant administrative and financial burden on the employer if they need to provide visa sponsorship. It's much easier for an employer to hire someone who already has permission to work in the UK. More info: $URL$ 

Sorry to state the obvious here, but they've heard you crying alone in the office and so naturally they're worried about you and concerned that you aren't ok. (It sounds to me as though they're right to be worried; what you describe is not something that happy people do, in my experience). Are you being paranoid? If you think that this means they're somehow "out to get you" then yes. If you just think it means that they're worried about how you're doing then no. Again, sorry to state the obvious but that is what you seem to be asking... let me know if I've misunderstood. 

I think you should put the contracting agency on your resume because you don't know what kind of contract was signed between the companies , and the client might not want other people to know about it. 

I once worked at a company where overtime had to be done , everyone did some (even high leaders) and they had a pretty effective way to convince people to do it. They offered free time at higher rate than they usally did. In France for exemple , you can get your overtime paid , or you can have this time back later as additional holiday time. This company offered like 1.5 or 2 hours for 1 hour worked. Free time offen motivates more than a slightly better income because you can't be taxed on your free time. 

From what you say you realy want to keep this job , but I'm pretty sure it's too late for you. You won't keep it , unless you find a way to become exactly what your boss epxected you to be a month ago or so. The point here is the following : Even if it's a hard one , software developper is becoming a quite common job , and there's plenty of offers coming out each passing day. What you need to focus on is improving your programming skills. You need to learn some more , find some personnal or public open source projects to work on , to get used to develop , to think , etc.... It requires time , more for some of us than others , but in the end you can improve. And with hard work you will. This probably won't help you keep this job as it takes time to improve and you're running out of time in this company , but you may surprise yourself and find an even better job once you'll be a better developper. And maybe , working hard won't help you improving as a developper , but you may find hints , meet people , and find something you will like even more !