Death rate: 20th Century I already linked to data for the UK/Wales, so I'll cover some US data. The CDC has a whole bunch of vital statistics here which go as far back as 1900. This PDF (for 1900-1940) lists how many people per year died from various causes (but I'm only listing some years for three diseases): 

So 100 calories and 150 calories are half the "daily discretionary calories" recommended for most American women and men respectively. The linked paper gives a lot of relevant information. First of all, here's the definition for added sugar: 

October 26th has passed, and some of the records were released here. But not all of them... As I said, only the President could prevent documents from being released, and that he did—at least for now. Here's what Trump said in a memo on October 26th: 

The "1400 g" is younger (on average) group; a closer estimate for his age range is less (but still more than 1230 g): 

I found a study (Misuse of child restraint systems in crash situations-danger and possible consequences) that tested how serious different types of child restraint system (CRS) misuse are. They measured the impact on several different "body segments": head and face (H); neck and cervical spine (N); chest (C); abdomen and lumbar spine (A); and lastly upper and lower limbs (L). 

Death rate: 19th century I found a paper that lists some 19th century disease statistics. The data is not as granular as in the graph, nor does it all go back as far as 1838 (and some of the stats cover the gap seen in the graph), but the data that is there matches up with the 19th century part of the graph well. The full paper also lists stats for Scarlet Fever and Smallpox. 

Quote 3 The third quote can be found in History of Woman Suffrage: 1861-1876 edited by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan Brownell Anthony, Matilda Joslyn Gage, Ida Husted Harper, page 383. If I'm reading correctly, the book says that Anthony said it at an event in May 1869 celebrating the anniversary of the American Equal Rights Association. 

And that matches up with the description of the data. If you look at the methodology section on the relevant FBI page, the table only includes data from city and town law enforcement, not state: 

More Context As the first quote hints at, Anthony was actually fighting for the right for both blacks and women to vote. However, the fact that the 15th Amendment only gave the right for blacks to vote and not women left many, including her, feeling resentment towards blacks: 

There are several problems with your graph: no sources, lumps four diseases in one line (including Scarlet Fever), and only has mortality (except for when they inexplicably include diarrhea...WTF?). So I'm going to address a similar graph, from another antivax site: 

Well, drowsiness and sleepiness are common side effects according to the Mayo Clinic (not surprising considering it is a type of benzodiazepine or minor tranquilizer), but that doesn't mean it isn't addictive. The paper Relative abuse liability of lorazepam and diazepam: an evaluation in ‘recreational’ drug users concluded that lorazepam has addiction potential (or "abuse liability"): 

I couldn't find the exact same post (timestamps are different and so is photo), but I found this very very similar Facebook post: 

I'll have to see if I can find all the studies referenced in the foreword of the book. This must be Study 1, but I'm still trying to see how the numbers in the book match up with the number in the paper. Unfortunately, it doesn't look to be peer reviewed. Study 5 might be this one. I'm not an EEG expert, so I'm not sure what to make of it. It does, however, give an important piece of information: "The super brain yoga is well known in south India by the name of Thoppukaranam and Ganeshasana in the northern region of India as well" (emphasis in original). It's likely that there is more research done of the technique under these names. 

However, there is another danger—a twist can prevent the belt from being properly tightened, causing slack (as this study points out). Slack, in general, is very dangerous, since the child can be ejected from the carseat and hit their head (the first study has numbers for this too). 

A quick Google Scholar search found these articles, which are very different in what they measure. Cognition I was not able to read the full paper, but the abstract says quite a lot (emphasis added): 

This is the earliest result for the poetry quote in Google Books, so it seems like the source. Note that Poincaré is pretty clearly not the "I" in the quote. 

CNBC was able to get the highest quality image out there. Here is a direct link to the image. Specifically, the entire paper is a flowchart of the process of getting permits. The large white box is the list of permits, but you might not need to get all of them. There's a lot going on, and it's not particularly clear, since lines are everywhere. I'll explain one part of it, this part: 

In all three of these cases, there was some barb left in the heart which was removed via surgery. In addition, the lack of necrosis seems to have been key to survival, since the second paper cites another paper where a boy died from necrosis reaching his heart days later (it doesn't look like he needed surgery to remove the stinger in the first place, but I'm not sure if it actually stabbed his heart or not). 

In the 1850s, the postal system was reformed. From that time until WWI, there were twelve deliveries per day in London: 

Now, it's not clear to me from this if the story is true or not (and we may never know). Was this something that Spencer told Murray? It doesn't say. It does match with what his grandson, Rod Spencer, allegedly said about him always carrying "a peanut cluster bar" to feed squirrels (again, not sure where that quote comes from, so treat it skeptically). And of course, it makes sense that all the food was brought in from outside the lab, but that doesn't mean it's real. According to this article (paywalled), the magnetrons that were being manufactured operated on bands anywhere between 1 to 10 GHz, so it might not have been the same frequency as home microwaves. According to interviews conducted by the author of that article, other scientists that worked with Spencer noticed "warmth and therefore heating of objects on their person." 

Quote 2 The second quote is from Anthony's biography (which was written at her request): The Life and Work of Susan B. Anthony by Ida Husted Harper, page 238. 

There are several reasons the article gives for wanting Americans to reduce the amount of added sugars they consume: 

However, unlike bullets, the stings are venomous and can cause necrosis, so it's not a good idea to leave them in the body, which is why surgery is performed to remove any remaining stinger. According to this paper, as of 2013 there are only three known cases where people survived being stung in the heart by a stingray. (The paper itself describes a different situation, where someone was stabbed by another person and lived with a stinger in "nonvital areas of the heart" for 17 years until it was surgically removed. The important difference is that the stinger had no venom.) The three cases are: 

The paper Legal Consequences of Apologizing is an older paper (1996), but it still gives some valuable insight. It "illustrates that judges and juries understand that expression of sympathy, regret, remorse and apology are not necessarily admissions of responsibility or liability". Two particularly relevant cases that it brings up, where just an apology was not enough to win the case, are as follows: 

I'm going to focus on stingray stings to the heart, which are rare, (but not rare enough that there's nothing to cite, I guess). Yanking out a stingray sting will cause lacerations (assuming it doesn't just break, leaving part still embedded in the body), which is not something you want to do if the sting is lodged near a part of your body that can bleed a lot: 

The claim made by Cracked does have some truth to it, but it's referencing several different episodes, some of which involved passing off lesser olive oil as extra virgin. Mafia involvement? Yes, but the oil was (lower quality) olive oil: 

It's not quite as simple as your article suggests. A student made a comment that, out of context, could be construed as a threat and a news station called the sheriff's office. Two deputies were sent to the kid's house to investigate, which they did, with permission. Looking at the Allen Parish Sheriff's Office Facebook page, I see that they shared the following article, which says: 

It's true, according to what Adam Savage (i.e. one of the MythBusters) said at Silicon Valley Comic Con 2016, as can be seen in this video here. This is what he said: 

According to the Final Report of the Assassination Records Review Board, in 1991 the release date was going to be 2029: 

Death rate vs. All cases Vaccines don't treat diseases; they prevent them. As a result, it's important to look at rates of incidence. If you look at the data, you'll notice that the rate of incidence is pretty high and then gets lowered after the vaccine is introduced. See this good article: 

The article also cites this article by the World Health Organization, which makes a similar recommendation: 

I focused on the US for this answer. An apology does not automatically lead to the party being found guilty: 

Helping children with various diagnoses The book also claims that Superbrain Yoga exercise "show[s] dramatic improvements" in children with any one of several diagnoses, such as Autism. The study Superbrain Yoga in Children with Autism and ADHD (unfortunately, it does not look peer reviewed) looked at four people: 

(You can read the original source in Spanish here.) These are just two of many incidents where extra virgin olive oil turned out to be adulterated. Wikipedia lists more, one of which caused many deaths: "Almost 700 people died, it is believed, as a consequence of consuming rapeseed (canola) oil adulterated with aniline intended for use as an industrial lubricant, but sold in 1981 as olive oil in Spain". As for "most of the market", I haven't been able to find any numbers. 

However, the article says, for most areas, "levels of contamination of rainfall are low" and most of the time contamination is due to what the water touches after it falls or how it is transported/stored. Your link gives some good advice: boil the water and pass it through a water filter before drinking. 

The origin of this story seems to be a 1958 Reader's Digest article, "Percy Spencer and His Itch to Know", written by Don Murray: 

The documents were scheduled to be released in 2017 unless the President stopped it. The 2017 date (specifically October 26, 2017) came from the JFK Assassination Records Collection Act. This act was passed by Congress and President Bush signed it on October 26, 1992. All this information and more can be found on the JFK Assassination Records Processing Project page.