Your question is a little sparse, but chances are you'll simply need to put a laptop onto the same range as your management IP. Then, connect it directly with a cable (No switches etc inbetween) and reconfigure the server. Try 78.111.2.17 /29 on your laptop. 

The only way to truly achieve what you want is to restrict internet access at the network level. This can be achieved by something like an in-line proxy, or by adding ACL's to your outbound ports which prevent requests originating from IP's which aren't either servers or the proxy. You really shouldn't rely on client side restrictions for this. 

No, basically. Why would it be? If someone can read the DNS name from the config, then they can simply do a Ping or check the hosts file anyway. Regardless, though, obscuring names and IP addresses is definitely not a way to do security and will simply make maintenance and management difficult for you. 

You can safely do exactly what you want - it's how I do most of my projects. Take a backup of the old domain GPO's and take the whole folder with you. Then, on the new domain, create a GPO, right click and choose 'Restore from backup' and go from there - you will be asked to find the folder from before and, when you do, will be presented with a list of GPO's. The new policy can be any name, by the way. Finally, run through it and ensure you haven't left any domain specific stuff. By the way, this method will bring over scripts, policy preferences and so on. It's a great time saver. Remember to fix any unresolved SIDs / GUIDs such as the GPO's security descriptors. 

There is a limit of 10 NIC's enforced in vSphere: $URL$ XenServer supports 7: $URL$ Hyper-V 2008 R2 support 12 (But caveated): $URL$ 

WSUS can't force updates, but you can use Group Policy to do some of this: $URL$ You could probably find the associated Registry entries, too and just do it manually as required. Or, set it on the local machine policy. 

Remote Desktop Gateway is probably as close you'll come to an official Microsoft solution. Something along these lines: 

If you have installed using HP SmartStart then you may have the "HP Lights-Out Online Configuration Utility" installed to the following location: [Program Files]\HP\hponcfg\hponcfg_gui.exe If not, then you may be able to download it from here: $URL$ 

There's no built in mechanism for Citrix to do this, however you don't state: What Citrix product you're using? What version? What version and type of the Citrix Client (Online Plugin, Reciever tc) you're running? You may have better luck by looking into redirecting the client device or client drives. 

Yes, but it'll probably just reappear. It's just part of Windows and you've chosen to display "under the hood" items. 

You're trying to mount a CIFS share and you need to do so with a Windows username and password that has access: 

No, your VM should perform the same and will use the same resources on the host. It's just a design choice which was primarily added to add some flexibility where your OS or software may have per CPU licensing requirements. Each socket / core will represent one physical core on the host. Remember that more cores isn't automatically a good thing due to the scheduling requirements. 

The fact that it's virtualised is almost immaterial. You configure the IP address as per best practice for any server on your network. What would you do if you were installing a physical server? If it's set it statically (Almost certainly the right answer) then do this. If it's using reserverations in DHCP (Which is also acceptable) then do that. With the latter, again, it's the same as a physical server. Yes, you'd need a list of MAC addresses and, yes, those would need to stay the same. With XenServer you can either stick to the generated MAC or define your own - though I'd recommend against this unless you have some specific need. How you're doing it sounds fine to me, assuming provisioning servers isn't a daily task. If you're trying to completely automate server deployment in a "cloud" style manner, then that's something a little different. There are products out there to help you do this, but nothing really built into vanilla XenServer. 

Congratulations on giving us no information whatsoever, such as your server operating systems, your client operating systems, your domain functional level or the amount of time that this device will be off site. The good news is that, yes, it's possible. By default the user device will cache the credentials of recently logged on users and allow them to log on even when there is no connection to the domain controller. Start reading here to discover if this is a solution for your cirumstances: $URL$ 

Sounds like your drive is toast to me - in which case, you're out of luck. That said, could provide some more information such as what hardware you're using, what error messages are appearing and what the output from the Boot Disk Utilities was. 

To be fair, if it's a static container and you're building it on location, then the challenges are pretty much the same as any other data centre. E.g. 

I don't think you've got too much to worry about - lots of people pre stage equipment at one location and move it elsewhere. Myself included. My opinions: 1) No, you don't need to remove individual drives and yes, the heads will park on shutdown 2) Remove all rails and package tightly with foam, polystyrene etc and the correct size boxes - this is the key bit, I think. 3) Use one box per piece of equipment 3) Be sure to label the boxes! 4) Where possible, hire a technical courier or do it yourself. They should handle things more carefully - don't go using FedEx or someone! 

For all intents and purposes, it doesn't matter. Your server got hacked - what you need to do is restore from a last good known backup and ensure you're fully patched, have a sufficient firewall and IPS in place and reset all passwords. 

I've never seen a way to disable this, but then it's never been that much of an irritaton to me. My genuine answer is to use proper, allocated administration accounts with real user names. Not only is it best practise, but it solves this issue instantly. In my opinion, the domain admin account is there to get you started. After that, it should be disabled or given an extremely complicated password and left for emergencies only. 

Moving offline and booting on a different architecture should work fine. You don't say what operating system you have, but Windows should simply detect and install drivers for the new processor. With that said, there's no guarantee. The problem is that the CPU is paravirtualised, rather than fully virtualised, meaning the virtual machine does have some exposure to the real instruction set. Ultimately, the only thing to do is try. For machines that don't work, you will need to do a P2V style process using XenConvert. Live migration, on the other hand, is a different topic as it's incredibly picky about processor similarity even in the same processor family, let alone manufacturer! 

This question is a bit open ended. A Router by its strictest definition simply routes packets at Layer 3. So, essentially, no. I don't know of any normal off the shelf pure router that have this sort of behaviour built in. However, there are most certainly other devices that could. Now, the confusing thing is that these could be bundled with Routing technology and may be even be badged as such. So, if the argument is "IP traffic is insecure by default" then your colleague is absolutely right. However, it's unlikely be simply house keeping - just think how big this cache would have to be. Routing is just one part of getting Internet traffic from A - B and you can bet your e-mail goes through all sorts of other devices inbetween. 

I think you can use Process Explorer (From SysInternals) to try and drill down to which service is hammering the CPU. 

Log on using an alternative administrator account. Go to Start, right click on "Computer" and select "Properties" You'll now be at the System page. Click on "Advanced system settings", then go to the "Advanced" tab and click on the "Settings" button underneath "User Profiles" This may take some time to populate. Find your username in the list and click "Delete" Do NOT, just delete the folder in C:\Users 

Where ## is the relevant interface number from the top of "Route Print" : Assigning a metric 1 ensures that this will should always be the default route for this IP. 

No, because you're not meant to be using static ICA files - that's a huge huge hack. You should be brokering connections on demand using Citrix Web Interface or StoreFront. Yes, your users will prompted to login before hand but this ensures a proper distribution and control of where users end up. I suppose in principle it might be possible to shove a load balancer in front of it but, well, don't. 

Yes, this is possible - you will need to create a DNS zone on your DNS server(s). You can do one of two things: 

Have you tried resetting the BIOS? You may need to pull the CMOS battery if you can't get into the BIOS at all. 

Register Globals is no longer part of PHP, and for extremely good reasons. You need to push this back to your client and tell them to sort their site out. Here is a link with a little more info: $URL$ (Note that they were deprecated in 2009) 

You could probably script this in either Powershell or Batch and then run a scheduled task every 5 minutes to check and then reboot if possible. Try the command "quser". But you'll need to test this etc. So, with that said, you have 5 users. Just tell or ask them - you're far more likely to bug them by suddenly bouncing the server as they're about to log on, or if they've just logged off for a minute. Also, make sure you check for disconnected sessions and not just active users 

Hopefully, by doing the above, you can start to eliminate certain causes and narrow down your investigation. Here is an excellent article by Mark Russinovich on getting into some really low level diagnostics: $URL$ 

So, you end up with HO-DC01.ourcompany.com, along with EC-DC01.east.ourcompany.com and WC-DC01.west.ourcompany.com With the added benefit that everything still makes perfect logical sense (And works!) even when not referencing using a FQDN. 

No, without wireless hardware you have no way of detecting any other wireless devices. Additionally, I don't believe there is such as a device as a wireless modem. 

Personally, I'd not be installing it on Server 2012. It's clearly not a supported platform (Without UR13), so why would you do that? 

You should be running the service as a specific user account, and that user account should have permissions to access the share. Putting a username and password in like that is a pretty awful way of working. Not only for security, but also for portability and management. 

Remove your snapshots and then expand the disk. You should read up on how snapshots work, because that will explain why expanding the underlying VHD will be bad news for the delta disks. 

Personally, if this is a centralisation project, I would use one domain and use OUs to separate things. This saves having to have full redundancy for each child domain, makes roaming and movement easier and cuts down massively on configuration and complexity. There are almost no downsides if you configure sites and services properly. 

Disclosure: I work with Citrix a lot, so I am biased Citrix XenApp won't help improve performance of the applications as such - i.e., it won't increase the speed at which Office loads or whatever, that's not its job. However, it will almostly certainly improve the user experience overall by ensuring a consistent connection, improving mouse and keyboard response etc. In other words, what happens on the server stays the same - it's the ICA / HDX protocol which gives you the improvements. I'll be honest and say I've not worked much with raw Terminal Services in 2008, and I know it's much improved from before, but I'd always edge towards Citrix where budgets allows. Just remember that it does sit straight on top of Terminal Services, so it's always going to cost you extra. Citrix really starts to shine over low bandwidth connections in particular (After all, that's its heritage), and they also have products such as Branch Repeater and Netscaler which are specifically designed for WAN acceleration. You can get many Citrix products on evaluation if you sign up to Citrix.com, so I'd recommend you start there. While there's a lot of tweaking you can do with Citrix, the base install is reasonably straight forward if you follow the instructions. If you could provide some more details on what you're going to be using it for, I'll happily give you my opinion. 

This looks like an issue with .htaccess or Mod Rewrite or something similar. After a few seconds your page is directing to the top level directory. If you stop the page while loading, all of the links do the same. I.e.: $URL$ It's the top level that is giving a 500 error. 

My first thought was to see if this could be accomplished by using the Windows API's, but according to this website about the Win32 Printer Forms API, it's not even possible to delete system forms programmatically: 

I agree with you - these are not discrete concepts. Stratus is a supplier of services and hardware, some of which include virtualisation too. May I be as bold as to suggest that whoever set you this task doesn't really understand? Does it have to be a "vs" presentation? Maybe you could take the time to explain the fundamental concepts of virtualisation, high availability, fault tolerance and some of the ways that these can be achieved. I'd let Stratus do the sales spiel themselves, personally. 

Your concerns are essentially correct - in a traditional Windows Server Remote Desktop Services, you have a shared estate. This isn't just an issue because of viruses, but you should remember that any user can impact everyone else on the box in a myriad of ways - CPU, RAM, Disk I/O and usage etc etc. There's no easy answer to all of these questions, though there are tools to mitigate. Back to your original question, though - the answer is to ensure you use A/V, take advantage of network based security and use tools such as group policy to lock down the user environment. I've worked with hundreds of terminal servers and, with the right precautions, viruses should be almost a non-issue. It's worth bearing mind the advantages to thin clients though. If you scale your infrastructure properly the users should never notice a server being taken out of production. Combine that with good DR practises and monitoring and the whole end to end repair could be totally transparent. 

Johan, I personally believe that this question is a little too broad for Server Fault. We like to answer clear, factual questions. However, to throw you a chance: If I switch off the DC, can I create one from scratch? Yes, but you'll be creating a new domain in a new forest. Whether the domain name is the same or not, you're creating a whole new infrastructure which has no relation to the old. Additionally, if your old DC is still running DHCP it is very important that it not be powered up on the same network as your new one once you start migrating clients. Do I need to take everyone off the current domain? Straight away, not necessarily - if you build your new DC into a new IP range then it's possible (Though may be slightly confusing) to run your two domains in parallel. However, one of your servers will have to have DHCP disabled and all clients will need to be statically configured. Pay particular attention to DNS - DNS holds Active Directory together so it's imperative that old clients point to the old server and new clients point to the new. Bear in mind that "never the two shall meet" so you'll be running two completely separate networks. This may or may not be what you want. Ultimately, however, every machine will need to be rejoined to the new domain. How can I do this right the first time? Test, and test again. Every step of the way, ensure you have test machines and documentation. You should have redundant DC's, running a single DC is asking for trouble. Make sure that everyone involved is aware of any impending disruption and give them plenty of notice.