If you believe your departing will be in good terms, ask your HR. If not or if you are not sure how your departure will be received by the company, ask a lawyer. In most cases, "written communication" simply means they want clear communication in no uncertain terms, that you have communicated your intended date of departure at a certain date, so the various people that have to then do the various red tapes know when you will leave and can prepare accordingly (payslips, employment record, reassigning work, hiring for replacements, removing access privileges, etc). They don't want this to be mentioned on the passing to your manager, who might then forget to pass the info to HR or pass it late, that they have to rush the red tapes. Email may suffice for this requirement, and in this case, the HR might not necessarily appreciate a physical copy which can be easily misplaced or searched, especially if they have to scan or retype it to let other people know of the details of your departure. In other cases, "written communication" means they want to archive the physical copy with signature for legal/audit/archival/whatever purpose. In this case, you want to print this out and sign it with a pen and ask your HR what other details/attachments are necessary to be put into the physical copy and who has to countersign if any. This may be described in your employment contract or in employee handbook, but if not, the only way to find out is ask your HR. If you don't trust your employer though, if you think they might try make your departure difficult for whatever reasons, then you want to ask a lawyer how best to deliver your departure. Also, you want to ask for a receipt of any letters that you have delivered to them and anything they said. This kind of precaution may be necessary if you have reason to distrust your employer. 

One way to phrase the above is "paying my dues". Some jobs are essential but not enjoyable, and nobody really expects you to enjoy them, but they're really designed to be stepping stones. Nobody expects doctors to enjoy every minute of their residency, but they do expect the doctors to do it and to understand that it is teaching them very important things. There's a lot of grunt work in entry-level politics or legal positions that needs to get done, and is part of the pathway to a fulfilling career. This only applies to some jobs, but evaluate for yourself whether your industry as a whole views your job as a stepping stone. If so, your answer isn't complaining. Whether your job is a stepping stone or not, if there are widely understood unpleasant aspects to the job, you can be truthful and still positive by commenting on the unpleasantness but inevitability of those aspects combined with the pieces that are positive for you. Even in a call center you can say "Well, I never like dealing with callers that just scream at me, but I'm glad to be able to help solve people's problems." 

A reason that many companies have gone to more open cubes or open plan seating is exactly so you can overhear questions and poke into conversations when it makes sense. Here, at least, and at my other jobs, that's been part of the office culture. If you sit in a place with cubes that are very high, you can assume that the cubes are to allow some amount of privacy and should probably not insert yourself. If a seated person can see over the walls of the cube, they're open for a reason. It's to encourage collaboration and "ad-hoc" conversations between people. In other words, if you hear something that you feel you can add to, you should. 

I don't really see the words you mentioned as profane. Strong words, yes they express strong emotion but they are not actually a direct insult to anyone; unprofessional, maybe, if you're in front of a client or someone from a different department, but not necessarily when inside your own turf. If this is the extent to what your boss says, I'd say you probably should just ignore it. In a free country, you do NOT have a right to not be offended, sometimes you just had to take things in stride. With that said, the best way to go with this, IMO, is to talk with the people directly in private. Make it clear to them that you felt uncomfortable with such languages, that you are not used to vulgar languages, and you want them to avoid using them when in your presence; make it clear that the problem is not them but on you. Most reasonable people should understand. If this is also how your boss presents himself professionally with clients or to another department, then things might be different. This kind of behavior may affect the relationships with your clients or the other departments, so if this is the case, then you do have an objective ground to complain. Alternatively, if your company has a policy prohibiting the use of vulgar languages in the office, then you would also have an objective ground to object. Still, it is better to achieve mutually agreed consensus instead of forced compliance, so try to avoid escalating the situation more than is necessary. 

It's time for a show and tell. Show the management how much money they would have been able to save if they had just stopped the fire and invested in improving the processes in some point in the past. Tell them that this is not a futile situation and that your can improve the situation. Show then that you can do the improvements that you proposed. Tell them what you intend to do, what you needed from the company, and how long it would take for their investments to recover its initial costs. Show them the risks of not improving the situation. Tell them the risks of the investment and the exit strategy if the project doesn't work out. Talk in their own language, in a language they can understand, so they can evaluate the values, costs, and risks themselves. Do your research. Quantify these costs, risks, and returns. Managements usually don't like taking about things in terms of "better", they need real numbers to work with. If the management is still unwilling to buy in and assuming that you believe that you have made a reasonable and sensible proposal, then the biggest problem you have is that your priorities aren't aligned with the company's priorities. You are a poor fit with the job that your company is offering you. Find another job in which you can express your personality better.