Okay, so I've managed to get the service started... but I'm a little confused as to what happened. I started poking around in the SQL logs in C:\Windows\SYSMSI\SSEE\MSQL.2005\MSSQL\LOG and found a line that said 

I'm trying to get logrotate to rotate some logs for me. I feel like this should be simple, but it doesn't seem to be behaving as I would expect. Here's my config: 

I've got several files in this directory that are non-zero files that haven't been rotated in days. If I run it tells me "log does not need rotating". also only has status for the last time I forced the rotation with -f (which was days ago). Just to make sure logrotate was actually even set to run I checked and the job to run cron.daily is definitely in there and cron.daily had an entry for logrotate. Anywho - IDK what's going on. Anyone have any ideas? 

Here's our scenario. Windows 2k8 print server hosting a large Ricoh multi-function color laser printer for everyone in the office to use. Printers are NOT deployed with Group Policy. Management wants the printer to default on printing black and white, but still allow people to print in color if they need to. Setting the default in the driver will work for a freshly added printer, but as soon as someone changes the setting to print in color on their client, it stays that way until they manually change it back. Ideally, we would like it to forget whatever settings the user applied when they close whatever application they're printing from, but at the very least, I'd like it to reset these settings on login. Is there a 'right' or 'easy' way to accomplish this? The only thing I can think of that I know will work, is pushing a login script that deletes and re-adds the printer... but this seems... hacky. My google-fu on this topic is evidently not very strong. I appreciate whatever help you can give me, thanks! 

I have a Microsoft Windows domain and I want to add the ubuntu machines with Likewise-Open. There is no problem with that, but in my windows machines I have a GPO that mount a net share depending of the OU of the user that makes login into machine. I want to have the same with the ubuntu machines and I think that maybe it can be done with pam_mount.conf.xml file I have this configuration: 

I want to make two things: First of all, I want to have my own repository of ubuntu in my servers to not overload the usage of Internet in my company and to control the updates. I think that I have to use apt-mirror And also I want to add my own packages to the repository. What is the best way to do this? Do I have to have two repositories? One with the mirror and another one with my packages? In case of conflict with my packages how Ubuntu solve this? Thank you 

I have a directory structure in a shared folder with specific folder permissions for making projects in a Active Directory Domain like \server\shared\Projects\Project1, \server\shared\Projects\Project2, \server\shared\Projects\Project3... There is no user that have full permissions on the projects folder and I have created a script to set the permissions, but only a user with full permissions like the AD domain can execute the script (a .ps1 or a .vbs) and set them I was thinking if a web server with AD authentication can do the work. A user with privileges logs into the web with the credentials, give a name for the project and push a button, in the server side a script is running that create the folder wiht right permissions and returns the output to the web. How can I start? Is there a better way to do this? 

If it were me, and I was in that much of a hurry, I'd go get a couple more flash drives and copy them. If you don't already have a few extras lying around they're cheap as dirt now-a-days... The other option would be to set up a PXE server and put the image in there, but that will likely take longer than simply installing them one at a time. Would help out in the future though if you have to do this kind of thing with any frequency. 

/tmp is shared by default. You can probably make it work out of there, but probably better to use a more traditional document root. If you want the files to be cleared out with any regularity you could just clear the directory with a scheduled script. 

This is not a disk space issue as there's plenty available on all disks. We're thinking it could be something with Windows internal database? but I honestly have no clue how to start troubleshooting that. There are other information messages in the Application log for MSSQL that may support this theory? 

So then I went back and found that the Applications log was full. Saved the contents, cleared it, tried to restart WDS (to see if any new errors showed up in the app log now that it was empty) and to my surprise was greeted by a "The WDS service was started successfully!" message. Wat. No idea what happened. This was literally the only thing that I did... I did have to grant myself permission to get into the MSSQL folders... but that shouldn't have fixed anything. Can a full event log really brick WDS like that? That doesn't seem right... does it?