The major philosopher who perhaps dealt most directly with this question was Descartes. In his Third Meditation, he came to the famous conclusion that God is not a deceiver --that malicious deception is incompatible with an all-powerful deity. You might contrast this view with that of Plato, who believed that the world we live in is a deception. His scenario involves a creator who is good, but not all-powerful, and who creates the world as an imperfect imitation of a better reality --in other words, not towards the goal of deception. If you're looking for a more contemporary discussion, you might look up Nick Bostrom's simulation theory, which argues that our world is indeed a deception, although without much to say on the ethics of the situation. However, the idea that a deceptive simulator deity's ethics might be horrific from our point of view is at the root of a thought experiment called Roko's Basilisk (which, I should warn you before you research it, has reportedly become an unavoidable obsession for some people). Finally, here's a thought experiment for you in return: Imagine writing a book. Are you the God of your characters? Is their world a fake and are they deceived by it? Or is it their reality? Now imagine one of your characters writing a book. Who is the author of the book in the book? Is it you? Or the character? Or neither? 

At this point I would suggest a general anthology of philosophy. There are many of these, and most of them have similar selections of work. The advantage here is that you're reading primary sources, not interpretations (although there are usually introductory essays to go along with them), and you're reading a large cross section of best-known work of the most influential thinkers. This one (linked) looks to be the latest edition of the one used when I took Philosophy 101 many years ago. If not, it still seems like an excellent overview of at least the classic Western Philosophical canon. You'd need to supplement it if you wanted non-Western philosophy and/or more recent thinkers. 

Formal logic came from the world of philosophy, and is still taught and studied in philosophy departments. However, if we accept some form of this definition of science, "science is a systematic enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations and predictions about the universe," (Wikipedia) then logic has arguably exited the world of philosophy, and entered the world of science. One way of looking at philosophy is as "the mother of sciences," investigations of topics that have not yet submitted to successful empirical codification. Most, perhaps all sciences started as branches of philosophy, and transitioned over once they gained stable, replicable processes and results. It just happened more recently for logic than any other major science, which is why logic is still (for the moment) shared between both worlds. This is not to say that there will ever be no more philosophical questions surrounding logic. There are philosophical questions surrounding every discipline, that's why they call the advanced degree in most fields the "Doctorate of Philosophy." Conversely, it also doesn't mean that logic won't continue to be an important tool in philosophy --structured logical argument continues to be the way most (but not all!) philosophical viewpoints are advanced. 

EDITED to address specific quote Let us first address your question in a general sense. Let us take "I am an agnostic" as meaning "I do not know whether or not God exists". Can you be an agnostic --as so defined --if you "want to believe" in God? I don't see any contradiction here --your desire to believe does not change your level of knowledge. Can you be an agnostic --as so defined --if you do in fact believe in God? This is not necessarily a contradiction either. You believe, but you do not know --that is a condition many people of faith would probably identify with. The same logic applies if you disbelieve --you don't believe, but you don't know for sure. Again, many atheists could likely identify with that condition. The situation changes however, if you take agnosticism as a philosophical commitment to suspension of belief on the question of God. That would be incompatible with either actual belief or disbelief, and arguably even with the desire to believe (or disbelieve). Now let us consider your quote: "It is wrong for a man to say he is certain of the objective truth of any proposition unless he can produce evidence which logically justifies that certainty." I don't believe agnosticism commits you to this view, but let's assume that you do accept it as given. In that case, you would be "wrong" --in the terms of this proposition-- to express your certainty without evidence. It's important to note however, that you can still believe, and be in accordance with this concept, as long as you are not certain in your belief. (Interestingly enough, that proposition itself is vulnerable to the classic anti-positivist argument that one cannot be certain of it without yielding a contradiction, given that evidence cannot be produced which logically justifies it.) 

Let's suppose there is some set of conditions C that you personally, as a rational agent, would find uniquely convincing of the existence of God. Let us further specify that set of conditions includes reading a certain page of a certain book at a certain moment, within the larger context of your life --for instance, because it answers a deep life question that you had just consciously formulated just before reading that passage. For people who have had a conversion experience involving a sacred book, this seems often to be how it happens. Incidentally, perhaps the reason second-hand conversion experiences tend to be uncompelling is that they are so intensely and convincingly personal that they simply don't translate to another person. It is a similar experience to the one often had by dreamers of having apprehended some great truth, but while awake, and in full command of your faculties. 

Historically, many people who have remained sympathetic to religion without retaining their belief in it have quietly stayed in the church (or other religious institution). This has probably become less prevalent with the lessening of the stigma against atheism, but I've personally met any number of atheists and agnostics in the church, some even in the clergy. There are also religious institutions officially sympathetic to your point of view. In many forms of Judaism, observance of ritual, tradition, cultural norms and taboos is at least as important as private beliefs. There are theistic versions of Buddhism and Taoism but both are arguably non-theistic at their core. Finally, the Unitarian Universalist Church, originally formed as a union of two liberal Christian sects, is now largely made up of non-theistic humanists with sympathies towards the structure of religion, but not the beliefs. 

There is a theory, in neuroscientist David Eagleman's Incognito, which is not addressed to your question, but does provide an alternate solution to it. If we envision matter as a receiver (like a radio receiver), and spirit as a broadcast (like radio waves), then if having a spirit (being able to receive the broadcast) is evolutionarily advantageous, it could be selected for in evolution. Even outside the radio theory, a human being could be highly optimized for "housing" spirit, whatever that means. If spirit carries consciousness and/or morality along with it, it could provide a huge evolutionary advantage. This works best if there is a smooth continuum between having no spirit and having lots of spirit; but even if "has spirit" is a strict boolean condition, it's still conceivable it could have happened by accident, and then have been highly advantageous. 

I'm reasonably certain that no established school of thought has brought such a nihilistic perspective to the veil of ignorance. This seems like a critical misunderstanding of the original thought experiment. The basic idea is to make decisions that ensure the best outcomes for all by eliminating, as much as possible, the biases of personal self-interest. It's an extension of the Kantian concept that moral laws must be universal and disinterested. If your belief is truly that the best outcome is immediate death for all, then no philosophical perspective is going to lead to any different result for you. Most people, however, would find this utterly morally abhorrent. 

Just because race is a social construct, however, doesn't mean it lacks a substantive and consequential reality in our lives, or that it can be reconstructed at will. As philosopher Frantz Fanon described, race is at the center of a complex psychosocial matrix that can be difficult or impossible to escape. As a social construct, it gains power from the ability of the in-group to distance itself from unwanted traits by displacing them onto the outgroup. There's some justification for discerning commonalities in other situations with in-group/out-group power differentials. However, labeling all of these as "racism" seems like a questionable decision. 

As far as old evidence --once again this makes intuitive sense to me: If you have a piece of evidence prior to creating a theory then you're not really demonstrating any added value by predicting that fact. You would need to predict something new. 

NOTE: It is hard to answer an ethical question without specific reference to a specific ethical system, since different people often have different intuitions. Since no system of ethics is specified here, I am choosing to answer from a Christian New Testament ethical standpoint --this is an influential ethical system around the world, even for those who don't share its religious foundation. The New Testament provides several different, and sometimes difficult to resolve, explicit and implicit answers to this very question. 1) Jesus preaches non-judgement of others. 2) Jesus reaches out directly and deliberately to those considered the worst of "sinners" by his society. 3) Jesus condemns the hypocritical and unethical actions of some of the people considered pillars of society. 4) Paul encourages people with non Christian spouses to maintain their marriage, giving the possibility of future conversion as one potential outcome. 5) Paul instructs Christians to condemn and distance themselves from people who call themselves Christians but keep on sinning. So what is the Christian answer? To condemn or to not judge? To maintain the connection or sever it? My own interpretation of the Christian stance is that you should maintain a friendship with someone whose morality you disagree with, if, and only if, you are honest about your moral beliefs, and try to model better ones for your friend, and if you are not morally compromised or made complicit by your association. In other words, if you can't maintain the friendship without feeling morally compromised, you need to end it; and if you stay in it, you have a responsibility to explicitly model and advocate a better way. In neither case, however, are you justified in assuming yourself better than your friend --there may well be a "log in your eye" you aren't seeing. 

This was essentially done, although not well, in Romania, when a government policy of encouraging and in some cases enforcing childbirth was combined with widespread poverty, leading to a massive population of orphans, essentially being raised by the government. The program is almost universally considered a complete disaster. There have been numerous studies done on it, mostly related to the long term effects of neglect on children. A more benign version of this experiment was performed as part of the Israeli foray into communal living called the kibbutzim. Many early kibbutzim raised their children communally. Some children and some parents loved the arrangement, others hated it, but it gradually faded away in most kibbutzim. This perhaps demonstrates the strength of the traditional family structure, which, after all, is nearly universal. With all that said, it is worth noting that the children in many wealthy families are indeed largely raised by professional caregivers --in Britain at one time, it was quite common for even very young children to be packed off to boarding schools at the earliest opportunity. That experiment is also considered to have had its problems. 

You are not stupid at all for experiencing this concept in this way --arguably this is exactly how this concept is meant to be experienced. In point of fact, the early Platonic dialogues (believed to be closer to the philosophies of the historical Socrates, who is the main character in them) almost always end in aporia, a state of confusion, and suspended belief, in which the hearer understands and acknowledges that he believes things that are incompatible and paradoxical --the very state that you describe. The later dialogues introduce more of an explicit metaphysics, and end less often in aporia. Many readers, however, myself among them, believe that Plato deliberately left paradoxes and flaws in his metaphysics. If so, his goal was perhaps to force the reader to think past any ideas or concepts that we can grasp, formulate, teach or learn in this earthly plane, and ultimately to grapple directly with a deeper and greater truth that cannot be accurately reflected from within our degraded version of reality. If this viewpoint appeals to you, you might be interested in Neoplatonism, a highly influential ancient Roman interpretation of Platonic thought, that advocated a more mystical approach to Plato than the literalist Aristotelian one that was current at the times.