Moreover, color doesn't depend only on the wavelength but on intensity too. Orange-yellow at low intensities will be detected as brown. If we consider how "colored" light is emmited by an object before it reaches our eyes there are several possible ways. When they don't emmit light by themselves: Since color also depends on what light you illuminate the object with, we can't say that X has color Y unless we say how we iluminate it. It's a convention to use white light (blackbodyt at 6500K). But light's intensity is not specified, although it's modifies the color we see (if you use too much light you'll see it completely white). It's important to say that not always an object absorb some frecuencies and reflect others. There is an important phenomenom, iridiscence which is a combination of interference and diffraction. In this case the color depends on the angle (like CD's and butterfly wings). Opaque materials may reflect light in the same angle it hits, it is the case of mirrors. Since "perfect" mirrors reflects all frecuencies, so a mirror is white (because we are using white light). We could say that "perfect" transparent materials have no color at all or that they are white. But in most cases there is some color due to scattering and partial reflection, which causes interference. This will also depend on how much material we have, small volume of air is colorless but the atmosphere is blue. When they emmit light by themselves: This depends on the temperature (blackbody radiation), chemical reactions, electric currents, etc. So in this cases color will also depend on time. Other problems would arise for single particles, like electrons (we could associate some color using Compton's scattering)... There are many more subtleties, but I'd say we can conclude that color is not a fundamental property of objects, only an useful characteristic in some cases. Note: I think I use too many parentheses. 

My perspective is as a family medicine doctor in training. Yes, I do find it unethical for doctors to refuse patients who cannot pay on the basis of increasing profits. I work in several underserved, safety-net clinics and hospitals that take all patients regardless of ability to pay. This is my career choice because I want to contribute to the solution of our broken system. These clinics have social workers and financial advocates that help uninsured patients try to get insurance or financial support to cover costs and allow them to get consistent healthcare. These clinics receive some funding from the government as well. None of these practices become filthy-rich, regardless if they are private or state or university-based. The practitioners are paid well, but not as much as in a private practice owned by the physician(s) who charge what they want and only take the insurances they want, rejecting anyone uninsured who can't pay up front. These income-driven physicians are pushing their self-pay (uninsured) patients towards the "safety-net clinics," causing these clinics to carry a high % of the burden of uninsured patients while receiving fewer insured patients to recover costs. That imbalances the distribution of reimbursement to practices. If there were limitless numbers of providers and clinics, it would be a minor issue. But there is very limited space in medical schools and residency training programs. There is a primary care physician shortage in the tens of thousands and rising. These profit-driven physicians are taking up spots in training programs that could instead be taken by people willing to accept a good (but not exorbitant) income while investing in balancing and improving the system, rather than just draining the profits of it. So in summary, yes I do find it unethical. But that is largely because it's in the setting of a broken, ineffective healthcare system (especially the insurance system) that drives costs excessively high and makes access to quality care a commodity, rather than a human right. 

The right way to understand Mandelbrot's claim is: the coast of England can be profitably modelled as a fractal (for some purposes). It's exactly the same kind of claim as "The granma pie at Luigi's is a rectangle". So, no: the coast of England is not literally a fractal, and it's not in the world of forms -- it's actually in England :) 

There is no accepted term for the study of change in metaphysics, analogous to ontology for the study of what there is, or mereology for the study of the parthood relation. Many scholars resort to the phrase "the problem of change", or "the problem of persistence". 

These are uncomfortable questions, but that's because the realities of these issues ARE uncomfortable. We try to hide behind the word "person" to shield us from the discomfort, but we can't change reality to fit our comfort levels. This would allow people of different belief systems to converse more logically about issues that absolutely must be discussed, without perpetuating the current cycle of conflict and misinformation. To summarize, by the argument I laid out (that if it is X at the end, if there is no significant switch, then it must be X from the start), there is not a good criteria for terminating another human's life at any developmental stage to use its cells. The term personhood is inadequate, and more objective terminology should be used in these discussions. Something important to also consider is that this issue will soon be outdated. Pluripotent stem cells are being generated from other sources, and it will soon replace the use of embryo tissues.  I hope this helps generate some interesting thought and discussion, and give you some points to research and consider further as you develop your presentation. 

This statement, the argument would go, cannot be verified: regardless of how many ravens one observes, there is always the possibility that the next raven will be white. Now, it can be falsified: finding one white raven is enough for this. The problem with your suggestion, namely falsifying 

I have no idea whether you are referring to this, but in medieval disputations de obligationibus, the rules of the disputation game admitted positing false propositions. In fact, the idea of the game was to make one of the players "concede" two contradictory propositions: he was obliged to admit any positio (proposition posited) as long as it was contingent (albeit false), and he then should be guided by certain principles in counterfactual reasoning in accepting other propositions. This more or less fits the description in your question. Apart from the SEP entry linked above, a very good resource on obligation games and medieval theories of modality in general is Knuutila's Modalities in Medieval Philosophy. 

One way to approach this is to consider how our discussions on this topic will change as technology advances. Right now, age of viability (able to survive outside the uterus) is somewhere around 23 weeks. It used to be higher, and soon it will be lower. Does technology change the definition of person? I would propose that because the definition of "person" cannot allow for ambiguity and gray-zones (lacking a clear definition of "life" or "person" results in dangerous inconsistencies in discussions on policy, bioethics, and legality), then if one cannot define criteria for a toggle point, there cannot be a solid argument for any toggle point. Therefore, if none can be established, it defaults to the beginning of the line - the first point of formation of that unique individual human organism. I argue that the poorly-defined blanket term "person" should be eliminated, replaced with "human," and specific issues should be discussed directly - using accurate terminology of the human developmental stage or attributes that are appropriate to the issue. 

I know nothing about the Tao Te Ching, but the sentences you quote are not (logically) contradictory, or paradoxical: 

Well, such sentences will be true for all precisifications, because either Andy has n hairs or he doesn't, for all n. Therefore, the sentence comes out supertrue -- this is the supervaluationist for accepting it as true. Its negation ("it's not the case that Andy is bald or Andy is not bald"), by the same token, comes out superfalse. The same will happen with every other vague sentence: the supervaluationist semantics validates LEM. Supervaluationism is a semantics that validates LEM but not PB. 

Science has limits. We use tools developed inside of a complex system to try to measure and model the system itself. It is likely impossible that we, as component parts of the system, could ever build a cohesive scientific model to accurately define the entire system. Science can only expand by extrapolating from our current models and rulesets. Philosophy is a different type of tool which can explore many things that the scientific method cannot. As such, it is essential. Lastly, philosophy has throughout history originated a good percentage of the concepts that science has explored and tested to construct these models. 

Short answer, no. First of all, I would distinguish at least three parts: the interpretation of color by the brain, how can we assign a color to light and how that light is emmited by objects. I'll briefly comment the first one and concentrate on the rest. Color interpretation clearly depends on the observer: I don't even know whether we see the same colors, some animals have more primary colors and other spectrum range, etc. The rest of the answers explain this quite well. Let's go to the physical aspects and some common misconceptions: 

I can offer a discussion on the issue of embryos and personhood; however, I have not kept track of specific names of the philosophers' works that I have read on this topic. I hope this will provide you with thought-provoking points to consider as you develop your presentation - it is a truly interesting and important topic. To summarize this discussion, by the argument I will lay out (that if it is X at the end, in the absence of a distinct change, then it must be X from the start), there is not a good criteria for terminating another human's life at any developmental stage to use its cells. The term personhood is inadequate, and more objective terminology should be used in order to successfully address these ethical and legal topics. Person / Non-person is a binary distinction. (There's no validity to "half-person" or "3/7ths person.") "Person" has many different interpretations, even referring to adult humans; historically, often the adult males of the ruling class were the only "persons" in a society. The fact that even in the US, women were denied full "personhood" within the last century makes it clear that the term fluctuates based upon current societal attitudes and politics. It also morphs depending on the context in which it is used, and in some cases can even be defined by the desire of another human being. It seems illogical (and unethical) that the definition of a rightful member of our species is allowed to morph depending on swinging attitudes and politics. Scientific objectivity is a key in moving away from these fluctuating definitions. So as definitions have shifted from white adult men being the only "persons" to defining person as a living human being, it's become even more critical to define "living human being." Human / Non-human is also a binary distinction. With binary definitions: If something is X at the end of a time interval, then either it must become X during that interval, or else it must have been X from the start. Therefore, starting with the premise that all adult humans are persons: If a human adult is a person, then either he/she became a person at some moment, or he/she was a person from the start of his/her individual lifetime. Then, becoming X requires a distinct change. An individual living human being's natural development proceeds uninterrupted from zygote through adult senescence, given adequate nutrients and environment. The embryo is just one stage in this life cycle of a living human organism. When you zoom in and look carefully, it is obvious that all development is gradual- physiologically, genetically, biochemically, anatomically - from the formation of the independent, genetically-unique zygote through adult senescence. (Look at the above link and see how slowly we change - and remember that these are a small number of stop-motion frames over 9 months of gradual development in gestation.) There are strong scientific arguments that no single defining moment of change in the life development of an individual organism is significant enough of a change to demarcate a change in status to toggle from "not a human life" to "human life." Nor from "not a person" to "is a person." 

So, sure enough, (4) is true: it's a material conditional with a false antecedent; nothing in s not being the case can make it false that if s then r. The puzzlement over this line of the truth table of the material conditional is recurrent at Philosophy SE. Look around and you'll find other related questions. 

A more idiomatic paraphrase of is: not everything is a bird. That is, of all things, some are not birds. That is: . You say