The website Conservative Treehouse had an article posted on their page entitled UniParty At Work – Paul Ryan SuperPac Campaigned to Elect Democrat Conor Lamb. In it they claim the following. 

State And Local income Tax (SALT) Both the House and Senate bills would cap exemptions on SALT deductions at $10,000. The Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy calculated that, while 71% of households that previously took advantage of the SALT tax deduction would no longer use it, higher income citizens would be the least likely to lose access to the deduction. 

The claim on patheos.com has quite a bit of hyperbole. The Province of Alberta's 2012 Education Act can be found here. The relevant portion (Section 16) states 

While some studies have promoted Ginkgo Biloba as possibly having these effects, the results have been mixed at best, and the claims seem to be unlikely. 

One only needs to read that Wikipedia has a page entitled Reactions to Innocence of Muslims to realize that this was not a targeted terrorist attack, but a large scale protest around the world against a video described by Vanity Fair as 

In addition, this supposed quote is extremely similar to another rumored quote, but instead of Einstein asking about being the smartest man alive, it was Jimmy Hendrix and the world's greatest guitarist. 

The reasoning they give behind the vast depopulation of the United States is, instead, migration. The next paragraph predicts that 

Mortgage Interest Deduction The House plan aims to cut in half the maximum possible deduction allowed for taxpayers, from $1 Million to $500,000. The Senate plan aims to keep the current tax plan as is. In practice however, this would only be used by very wealthy Americans. Since many Americans who previously itemized are likely to switch to the new Standard deduction (see SALT deductions, above), only Americans with significant amounts of Mortgage interest are likely to benefit from keeping this deduction. The House plan would likely increase the tax burden of President Trump, but the Senate plan would leave it alone. 

Note that his estimate of 20% was actually inaccurate according to the source and it was actually closer to 13.5%. Taken from the footnote at the bottom of the page 

Boston.com looked into the depreciation rate of cars just after purchasing (which, again, is the highest rate of depreciation for new cars.) 

PolitiFact continues by explaining that many criminal experts have their concerns even with these definitions. 

The couple are identified as an Eric and Mrs. Farley. According to this source there was no one who boarded the Titanic under the surname Farley, nor anyone under either Eric or Erik with a last name resembling Farley phonetically. The husband states that they are right next to a Mr. John Jacob Astor, Boat Deck, 111-B. Several things wrong here. 

When buying a new car, a car will depreciate around 11% just driving it off the lot. However, after this first trip, the depreciation rate falls drastically. 

If the claims of Mr. Winsor are true that he worked as a safety manager in a nuclear plant, it is highly unlikely that he was actually able to accomplish anything that would have legitimately given him a lethal dose of radiation. 

There is a video online that is not translated that supposedly contains the statement. However, some translations available online do not contain the phrase "Do you want to be a martyr?" 

Now while this data is all circumstantial, there is one other major thing to note about this study, that I feel kills this study. In the header, the author is kind enough to point out that this test took place between 12:00 and 1:00 PM on June 28th, 2014 in San Diego, CA. Looking at the weather reports for San Diego International Airport on Weather Underground gives us some fairly damning evidence. The weather reports for San Diego on that day indicates that the day was very cloudy for the entire day. For only two reports the entire day were the conditions listed as "Scattered Clouds", and for all the reports during our study the conditions were listed as "Mostly Cloudy". Borrowing from The NOAA Definition of mostly cloudy 

Many policy centers agree that Donald Trump is going to benefit greatly from the current plans to reduce the pass-through tax rate. 

Note that this only requires that the instructional materials do not promote various viewpoints that could be construed as hatred (racial or ethnic superiority) and must be respectful of others. It also only applies to instructional materials. This does not prevent parents from imprinting their own personal views. The concern shown on patheos.com seems to be about homeschooling students. However, even if students that were home-schooled were exposed to viewpoints that violated section 16, it would be impossible to determine if it was as part of their formal education or as part of family time. 

They continue along in the article as if it was another fact check, although without an actual rating. 

According to the Russian government, their country officially complied with the terms of the Chemical Weapons Convention on September 27, 2017. 

The average pool from the limited pictures and data in the report indicate that these pools are typically at least 28 feet deep, requiring the use of diving equipment in order to reach the bottom. The amount of radiation in the water is typically measured in the 10s to 100s of nanoCuries/mL of water. Thanks to this handy document from the Army Corp of Engineers, nanoCuries are about the same amount of radiation emitted by consumer products. Two liters of water from one of these pools would be emitting approximately 200 microCuries. While this is well above what is allowed to be sold in stores, this is approximately 1/5th amount of radiation given off as from a brain or liver scan. 

A video clip of the event was uploaded to Youtube on 24 February 2018 containing an event matching the descriptions provided by several different news outlets. The video is in Turkish, and there is no English transcript available at this time. However, several elements that are included in news stories published do match up. The BBC offers this translation 

So to start, the IRS will attempt to reach a resolution with the taxpayer before forcibly seizing property, assessing leins, etc. Writing a check for the missing amount, setting up a payment plan, or negotiating a settlement will forgo the IRS collection process, of which wage garnishment is a part. 

He wasn't president at the time, but George Washington has paid out money to the family of a fallen soldier in the past. 

The Southern Poverty Law Center maintains a profile on Mr. Shabazz. In their brief description of him, they describe him as 

The study that the company uses to prove that "scalar waves" give human skin the ability to "neutralize" UV rays is bunk, for a multitude of reasons. 

The people at Osmosis Skin Care provide a link to a box.com account that contains, among other things, a pdf file entitled Evaluation of a Novel Form of Sun Protection, which claims to be a study on the effects of the product noted. A number of things stood out in the study, including 

In conclusion, it is very difficult to see how either of the current tax plans would cost Donald Trump and his family "a fortune". Loss of tax deductions for SALT and (possibly) Mortgage Interest will be more than offset by a potential repeal of the AMT (which we know Mr. Trump has paid in the past) and the Pass-Through Business Tax (which represents a massive tax cut to owners of these types of companies.) In addition, depending on which bill is adopted for the Estate tax, Mr. Trumps children would stand to make anywhere from several million to over a billion dollars upon his passing. 

There are efforts to reduce the amount of radioactive waste generated by Wind Turbine manufacturing, but the amount produced does not outweigh the waste produced by fission reactions.