Steel grating for platform use was first developed and produced by Walter Irving at the beginning of the 20th century. It was first used for ventilation of New York's stiflingly hot subway system, but his company, Irving Subway Grating, quickly marketed it for a range of other uses including bridge decking and catwalks. Aluminum grates (which might be what's shown in the picture) came later. 

Does 'half-decked' refer to how the decks were constructed? Or perhaps something to do with how the ships were loaded with cargo? 

Mixture (370-750 AD) Grecoroman + Christianity + "Barbarian" Gestation (750-970) Viking raids, petty kingdoms Expansion (970-1270) Feudal system, guild economics Conflict (1270-1440) Hundred Years' War and economic institutionalism Expansion II (1440-1650) Renaissance, commercial capitalism Conflict II - (1650-1730) Imperialist wars, class conflict Expansion III - (1730-1890) Industrial revolution, financial capitalism Conflict III - (1890-??) 

On the topic of the Aztecs, an intriguing book on this subject is Aztec Warfare: Imperial Expansion and Political Control, by Ross Hassig. The Aztecs were an extremely war-like civilization, that were constantly attacking and subjugating their neighbors. Interestingly, though, their style of warfare was quite different from what we are familiar with from western european history. For the Aztecs it was all about taking prisoners. The more prisoners you could bring home to sacrifice to the gods, the higher your standing. Thus, weaponry, tactics, and military strategy were all geared around maximizing capture of the enemy rather than defeating them in detail. They didn't really care about securing administrative control over their conquests quite the way the Europeans did, and often allowed the conquered to continue under their existing leadership, so long as they continued to send tribute. Typically the Aztec army would set forth from the capital at the start of the war season and go from one town to the next. They might start with towns that were lax in their tribute or that had refused to give it. When they appeared at a town, those people had the choice of surrendering or going to war; the Aztecs would be particularly harsh to those that resisted to dissuade others from doing the same. Flower War was another interesting warfare technique rather unique from European war; the nobility would leave their regular troops and engage in non-lethal battle with nobility of neighboring empires. These did not result in capitulation of their enemy, but were done for practice, honor, and to "test" the strength of the opponents. I suppose there is some analogy to the jousting tournaments of the European middle ages. Thus the Aztec empire was always a bit amorphous, with cities and towns shifting in allegiance depending on the strength of the king, the proximity of the army, and heaviness of tribute demands. The empire was maintained not by territorial control via castles and forts, but rather indirectly via political influence, propaganda, and fear. It also meant that the maximum effective range of the Aztec empire was limited to how far the army could march in one war season. Thus, while the Aztecs probably would have no qualms about conquering, say, Texas, the structure of their civilization would just not support such a long range expedition. Also, the central Mexico basin was a very agriculturally rich area and supported very large populations. Outside this area populations were more scarce. So I think the Aztecs would not be as interested in areas far from them where captives would be harder to obtain and more time consuming to bring back for sacrifice. While the Aztecs were distinctive compared with Europe, they didn't live in a cultural vacuum. Neighboring empires followed similar style warfare, prisoner capture, flower war, and so on. Religious practices, agricultural technology, war strategy, and more would drift northward, influencing the practices of other Native American tribes. The Flower Wars remind me much of the "counting coup" of the plains indians for instance. For contrast, I'd suggest reading Empire of the Inca by Burr Cartwright Brundage. The Incas engaged in war for keeps. They didn't take captives for sacrifice, they wanted territory. When they took a new region, they'd transfer some loyal families from Cuzco to serve as the conquered region's ruling class. Dissidents would be rounded up and relocated elsewhere in the empire. The Incas would terrorize the newly acquired until they accepted the Emperor's law without question. They also practiced warfare in a much different fashion. War was not to win social standing but to take territory, so their armies were organized much more differently; as they often faced enemies fortified in cliff-high strongholds they developed "tortoise" shield-rush tactics that would have impressed the Romans. Logistics were the Inca's particular talent. While marching within the borders of their empire, they would enlist the commoners of the province as porters to carry goods from one end of the province to the next, whereapon they'd hand off to people of the next province. The people would open up their granaries to supply the marching army; foraging and looting were strictly forbidden. The Incas also had a unique ability to "snowball" as they took new lands. Upon taking a new province they immediately enlisted the military man power of that province into their army, to be used as the cannon fodder for their next campaign. This both strengthened their army and depleted the resistance power of the new province. [Update] A third book I've been reading lately is 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus, by Charles Mann. This goes into much more detail into both the Aztec and Incan empires - from how they arose to how they fell - as well as surveying other Indian civilizations throughout North and South America. In school learning about the Native Americans, I was given the impression of the Americas as being populated by two civilizations (the Aztecs and Incas) and everywhere else was just nomadic people. This book really drives home the point that this was far from true: There are traces of complex farming civilizations dotting all over North and South America, that apparently died out of disease or other causes well before being encountered by Spanish or other explorers, for which little is known. As well, going back through time there was a rich history of other geographically extensive civilizations prior to the Aztecs and Incas - the Mayans and Olmecs are perhaps the best known of these but there were many, many more. 

Handwaved answer to your first question is that the national identity as a Big Thing likely emerged as a result of a 30-year-war (more specifically, Peace of Westphalia), with nation-state being an efficient unit for maintaining balance of power that the Westphalian system demanded. To quote from Wiki: 

Agnatic succession - as far as monarchic rule - is a way of determining the rules for the next monarch by declaring the eldest surviving child of the current monarch as the heir (typically, male child if any are alive - e.g. male primogeniture), but in rare cases going against Salic law origins, any children, like in Sweden or 21st century United Kingdom). 

Another factor not mentioned in other answers seems to be something mentioned by Dan Carlin in a recent podcast: a trick played by Pope Leo III on Charlemagne, which had him place the crown on the kneeling king's head. This basically confirmed that the Pope had the right to nominate/declare the king, and put the practical point on the "Catholic Justified Submission" theoretical argument discussed in an earlier answer. 

I think Quigley's treatment of the 20th century is a bit weak; he was in the midst of it when he wrote his book, and of course could not see the outcomes of the things he worried about. However, to carry his thinking forward we might complete the table with: 

While not a student of Toynbee AFAIK, Carroll Quigley worked from Toynbee's theories in The Evolution of Civilizations with a lengthy discussion of the state of Western Civilization. This was written in 1961 with a second edition in 1979, so also predated the end of the Cold War. However he made some predictions for what stage Western Civilization is in that might be of interest. He observed that while most other civilizations followed the path of growth to empire and then to inevitable decay, Western Civilization has differed in that it has "gone to the brink" of empire multiple times only to shift itself back into expansion. He draws the following periods for Western Civilization: 

Arrr, tharr niver has been an orgarrrnization o'pirates in t'traditional sense. Tharr may well ha' been brief alliarrrnces o' convenyence, for when ye can trust a man no to make ye walk the plank, ye may help each other in gathering in the booty! Also now an' then a Cap'n of dark renown might set up his followers as minor cap'ns in their own right, and so he could head a flotilla o' six or seven ships, all answerin' to hisself. As Oi recall, Cap'n Morgan is said to've led 11 ships, and Blackbeard had several likewise. There were never much formality o'structure and organisation tho', as each Cap'n led by his own charisma an' force o' personality. We pirates be a free and unruly breed, and don't take kindly to no paperwork. Arrrr! 

Wiki says he professed himself to be a Protestant. Do you have reason to doubt this? And why would the only alternative to a Calvinist Protestant be for him to be an atheist, when there were many other Christian sects and denominations? 

Cornwall and Devon in England were active in the mining of tin during the Bronze age. Buildings tended to be circular with a stone wall and conical timer and thatched roof, clustered in groups of no more than 20 houses. The Terramare culture (ancestors of the Etruscans) in Italy arranged their settlements with quadrangular streets, protected behind moats, earthwork, and buttresses. In the Middle Bronze Age, a typical village is no larger than 5 acres, but by the Late Bronze Age could grow to 150 acres. The Urnfield culture (ancestors of the Celts) in central Europe during the late Bronze Age tended to fortified settlements on hilltops or river bends, and could consist of up to a few dozen houses. The Lovčičky settlement had 44 houses for example. Both hill forts and pile dwellings were typical. In Germany in the areas of Lake Constance and Federsee, a lake dwelling people built villages on piles over water (a reconstruction of which is shown below). A village could have 5 to 80 houses for up to 500 people and cover anywhere from 0.1 to 2 hectares. An average village in the Bronze Age consisted of about 30 buildings. 

As a separate confirmation, "The Catholic encyclopedia: an international work of referenc..." edited by Charles George Herbermann in 1911 states: 

It's likely impossible to answer. You don't seriously think that a country with iron-fisted control of the media would allow news of something like that to be spread even if it did happen? For a good example, consider USSR. Hazing ("dedovschina") was a way of life in the army there, but wasn't exactly well publicized news till 1986 or so. 

I'm thinking of really unusual uses, such as Odysseus' use of Cyclops' sheep to hide under in Odyssey, except in real well documented historical situation. Ideally I'm looking for a good (well referenced) single resource such a book or web page on animal use for military purposes; or a single "yes" answer with strikingly unusual/unexpected example. Extra plus if the use was either a spectacular one-time success, or a stable practice for a specific culture/location/commander. 

The transition from Bronze Age to Iron Age in Europe occurred later than the transition in the Middle East. It started in the south and gradually worked its way north. It was most certainly a period of bloodshed, but then that's been true of most of european history, hasn't it? You might imagine pitched battles of armies, one outfitted in old bronze swords facing down adversaries all wielding new iron swords thanks to their closely guarded secret iron smelting technology, the latter of whom proceed to decimate the bronze users, slicing swords in half and so on. But... this probably didn't happen. 

In the middle ages the square sail was used in the Atlantic cogs, whereas in the Mediterranean the lateen sail was used due to its more flexible use. The combination of both sails into one ship happened in Iberia and led to the Age of Discovery, as it enabled oceanic expeditions to be undertaken. This discovery appears to have happened around the time of Prince Henry the Navigator, and he certainly made good use of it. Was he involved in the development of this ship? If not, who came up with the idea of putting the two kinds of sails together? There were a lot of other incremental developments that led to the carrack, but for purposes of this question I'm only interested in the merging of the two types of sails. Wikipedia just glosses over this aspect.