Would it be likely for me to break the axle, or the hub, under power pedalling? Have anyone broke their hub or axle using freewheel with inappropriate speed? (Please do not discuss in theory, I would like to see reference or your own experience) 

I assume your question is 'How is it possible that I can still riding upright, even though the headwind is greater than my maximum riding speed?' The answer is: 

I have a cracked tyre on my Road bike. I think I put it in the gazebo and exposed it to the sun. It's cracking along the tyre wall, in continuous fashion. 

Time...going to the same store just to browse and buying little things over the year. That's the best way to get deals. They see you on a regular basis, know you're serious about cycling and will be more willing to cut you a deal when you start asking about this year's models because they know you are not just a one shot sale. Your LBS survives on the lifetime customer. They make more money on the add-on sale than on the single bike sale. If you're a regular then they'll be giving you a price of cost plus 20% so they don't loose but then they'll start giving you a 10%-20% off on your on going items like helmets, shoes, clothes, tubes etc. Those Items are usually at a 100% mark-up and that's how they keep the lights on. They will also start doing little things for you at no cost like swapping out a flat tube for you if it's slow. Remember it's a relationship you are making and that's how you get deals. You agree to keep coming back and buy your tubes, grease, brake pads and they agree to not over charge you and give you good advice on future purchases. 

Short answer: Yes it is safe to ride on it for another thousands of miles. That is the tyre rubbing mark. This happens when the clearance is too little to allow any error in assembling the rear wheel. I have repaired a few carbon frame and happy to tell you that it is very likely that the damage is superficial. It appears to be a smooth surface, which means the worn out part is still at the epoxy/laminating epoxy resin. Just make sure that the wheel is true, and assembled correctly to prevent further damage. 

Does a 700c wheel go faster? Hmmmm... Kinda hard to give a definative answer to this one as you have lots of variables to contend with. Let's assume that both wheels being tested have the same mass. Well a 700c wheel typically refers to a race wheel which is going to have a very high inflation rating and a thin profile. Both of these items allow for a very small contact point on the road (foot print). The smaller the foot print you have the less road resistance you will have and the easier it is to move the wheel along the road. If it's easier to move the wheel along the road you can get a higher effiency power transfer to the wheel. If you have a higher efficiency then you waste less energy moving forward and so have more energy to go faster longer. So based on the sole assumption that the previous wheel has a larger foot print than the 700c wheel then I'd say that the 700c wheel does in fact have a greater likelyhood of traveling faster. Now let's look at both wheels from the stand piont of 'moment of inertia' (MoI). That's the amount of force (torque) it takes to increase or decrease the rotational velocity. If both wheels have a mass of 1kg and the 700c wheel has a radius of 311mm then the moment of inertia is calculated to be about 9.6kg m^2. If we compare that to a BMX wheel having the same mass and foot print (ya right, a skinny BMX tire?! Let's just go with it for the example) and a radius of 203mm we get 4.1kg m^2 needed to change it's velocity. Moment of Interia Calculator Theoretically the BMX wheel should be able to go way faster because it needs much less energy to increase it's angular velocity. The problem is what enables it to be able to accelerate so quickly is a double edged sword because it also allows it to be deccelerated just as easily. Because we don't ride in vacuums, we need to contend with wind resistance as well as road resistance. So while it takes less than half the energy to get that BMX wheel up to speed, the counter effects of the wind and road resistance are acting at more than twice that of the 700c wheel at slowing you down. Also to remember is that the force from air drag is calculated from the square of your velocity so the faster you go the drag you need to overcome grows exponential. If you were thinking that you'll just go fatser to make up for the difference, think again. It's a trade off. Do you want to be able to sprint up to speed really quick but have that speed bled off just as quick? Or do you want to be able to maintain your speed over longer distances, taking more effort to get up to speed, but be able to maintain it with less effort over the long haul? Like the tortoise and the hare... if the race is short then the hare wins everytime. Make it longer and the hare burns himself out. If you want to look at the effects of how the distribution of mass affects the torque on a wheel then check out the claculator for inertia of a thick walled hoop. You'll see how moving the mass closer to the hub affects the MoI. Hope this helps. 

Upstairs: as Criggie has suggested, carrying on your left (non-drive side to your body) would be cleaner (although my pants are usually black and my bike has a chain guard so I have no problem). I would like to note that if you choose this option, take care not to dirty your sleeve. Holding the seat tube is a little bit awkward, you could try to hold the crank and see if it fits your style. You can also use the other hand, holding the chainstay, to guide/stabilize the bike 

Touring bikes, as you said, carry way more weight. Beacuse of this additional weight they are prone to brake squeal and you need to pay closer attention to your wheels for loose spokes and out of alignment rims. Make sure you have good spoke tension that is even all around the wheel and that the wheel is true. The only major difference in brake setup from any other brake setup is just to nose in your pads more so than you would usually for an unloaded bike if it's needed. It all depends on how flexible the brake mounts/arms are on your bike. My Surly Long Haul Trucker doesn't need any nose in when unloaded but when I have an addition of a trailer and fully loaded touring bags the brakes howl when going down hill so I nose them in and the howl goes away. 

1) As in Scotland, I would recommend you to look for a second-hand bike (possibly gumtree is a good place to start with, bear in mind that you need to check and make sure the bike is not stolen). The reason is that in the winter, all the salt on the roads will corrode your bike badly.So go cheap, then keep it as winter bike, then upgrade gradually. Cyclocross would be your choice if you are planning to cycling offroad and over glens. If you are just going to stick along the coast, a road bike would be enough (and pretty fast too, so you can go to Stonehaven, Montrose, even up to Inverness). 2) A road bike as for starter (second hand) is around £100-150 (Carrera Virtuoso for example, I got one for £110, model 2012) A cyclocross for starter (second hand) is around £150-200. The higher price reflects that not many people in Scotland buy/own cyclocross (I have yet to see one cyclocross bike in Dundee). A little search around Aberdeen shows Carrera Crixus selling at around £200. 3) 700c wheel of course :-) 26" will be like a toddler-bike for you Your height is not telling much, but if you are an average guy, 1.82 m would need a 22" (L or 54-56cm), between 21" and 22" also ok-ish. Having said, I'm 1.73 but I need a slightly larger one comparing to my height (20.5" or 52-54 cm), because my back is quiet short, relatively to my legs. 

A hybrid is going to have a larger gear inch range than a road bike, typically - translation: You'll have a few more lower gears for those hills. It's going to have a more relaxed frame angle - translation: It'll feel like a softer ride but with less nimbleness in the reaction of the steering which you may or may not like. With the more relaxed geometry, that allowes room for racks, bigger fenders(mud guards) and larger tires if you feel the skinny tires are not your thing. It stretches things out when you have a relaxed geometry. The frame will have more braze-ons too for those expected add-ons. Hybrids also typically come spec'd with a straight handle bar like a MTB but that can be easily changed out for a traditional drop bar which gives you loads more positions to hang onto plus you can get dual brake levers - hooded brakes for the drops with two-finger brakes in serial on the uppers. Mind you with a road bike you can change the drops to an upright straight bar too. Usually people change to a straight bar because they feel they won't be able to grab the brake levers fast enough if they have drops. However after you get the hang of things you start to ride with your hands on the hoods and have a couple of fingers resting on the levers ready to feather the brakes when you need them. With a road bike you have a very small point of contact with the road (skinny tires high preasure) which is why it feels (and is) more responsive. You could get road bike tires for a hybrid and get the same feel. Lastly, hybrids are designed more for rec riders so they make them a little bit more beefy than a road bike, which are trying hard to be as light as possible. Chances are at a given price point you'll see the road bike win the weight battle. Mind you it might only be by a pound so once you factor in the gear you'll be carrying with you you won't really care about that too much. 

Aiming to build a shaft driven bicycle for efficiency is the wrong direction. Efficiency improvements of shaft over chain driven in bicycle is negligible. Not to mention, shaft driven is overshadowed by an (un)established market regarding gearing on bicycle. Advantages of shaft driven: 

Completely remove the bicycle quill Hang the bike up-side down Take out the wedge. If the wedge is stuck, try inserting the quill bolt alone (no quill, just bolt). Take care not to push the wedge further in. Try to thread in the wedge, and remove the wedge when there is enough grip. If wedge is truly stuck, remove the front wheel from the fork. The fork should have a hole so that you can push the wedge from below (with rod/hammer) Re-assemble the quill and wedge with the bolt correctly. Make sure you know how to do this, it should be straight-forward.