Picture 1: Last example on the 'Additional Examples' website for Chapter 11. (Not in the textbook) Picture 2: p 319, Sweet Reason: A Field Guide to Modern Logic (2010 2 ed) by Henle, Garfield, Tymoczko. 

Source: pp. 40 Bottom-41 Top. The Sense of the Past: Essays in the History of Philosophy by Bernard Williams. 

Source: 19 mins 50 s juncture, Lecture 3-7 (transcription), ... How to Reason and Argue, by Prof W Sinnott-Armstrong. 

Assume objective quality: how's the emboldened sentence true? I ask not about subjective quality that's answered in the next sentence. 

1. Please explain how the bolded would 'avoid the fallacy'? 2. In general, what 'premise(s)' can be added, or are required. to ensure transitivity? 

Source: Benatar, David. Better Never to Have Been (2008 1 edn). pp. 165-166. I don't understand the semantic distinction between 1 and 2 beneath. 

In 2, should not the 'cannot' be CAN? It is the materialists (and NOT ) who reject any immaterial substance, and a fortiori change of immaterial substances. 

As the question is posed, the answer is that they do not. Structural Realism, e.g. in the SEP article you've linked to, is a new position in philosophy of science from the 1980s. “Kant, Hume, Wittgenstein, Russell, and Husserl” therefore have nothing to say about it, much less about how it differs from scientific formalism. I don't think formalism and realism are even obviously opposed. I mean this with respect, and just as illustration: your question currently has the form of "What do Plato and Aristotle have to say about the difference between the Constitutional Democracy and the 21st century international banking system?" Answer: nothing. I realize this is not the answer you're looking for, but since it's the answer to the question you asked, you might think about whether you want to ask as different question? UPDATE: Okay, so you've revised the question to take out the historical philosophers, which is a good start. Now can you cite at least one philosopher or philosophical publication you'd count as “scientific formalist”? Or, can you describe what philosophical position you're referring to when you use that term? The linked Wikipedia article is not helpful in this respect, in that it neither names names nor mentions a specific philosophical position. It's not clear what position you're talking about. 

Being unaware[2] that you are unaware[1], means unknown unknowns. But I am confused by the recursive addition of the 3rd 'unaware'. 

Source: p 236, With Good Reason, An Introduction to Informal Fallacies (2000 6 ed) by York U. Prof. S. Morris Engel 

First encountered on Philosophy Forums, the following discusses Hegel's 'World Spirit' (ie: 'Weitgeist') and summarises Hegel, but is NOT my own work. Since this summary aided me, but suffers from many grammatical errors, I decided to emend it, and not only copied and pasted it; so please observe any differences. Please notify me of any errors and suggest improvements. Author: 'Tobias'    Posted Aug 27, 2005 

What exactly does the bolded mean? Is the bolded a type of relativism, which includes the defense of dead luminaries' immorality by asserting their being only 'a product of their environment or time' (eg: Woodrow Wilson's racism)? As another example, the bolded appears to reflect US Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's (relativistic?) reaction to Justice Felix Frankfurter's rejection of her application to be a law clerk because she was female: 

Like many, many other features of logic, we have a lot of flexibility about how we define the terms and symbols we employ — and even which terms and symbols we choose to make central to our presentation. The idea of “an argument” is certainly subject to such flexibility. 

No. If the conclusion is a tautology, that means it is always true, and it is impossible for it to be false. An argument is truth-functionally valid if it is impossible for the premises to be true and the conclusion to be false. If it's impossible for the conclusion to be false, then the argument is automatically valid for that reason. 

There is no single creature called the philosophical realist, nor position called philosophical realism. Rather, philosophers generally use the term "realism about X" to describe the position of believing that X is something that really exists. "Really exists" generally means that X is actual, and that that it is part of mind-independent reality. So, for example, realists about electrons think electrons are real things, not just features of our scientific models of atoms. Realists about values think that goodness and badness are part of the universe in a mind-independent way, and not just a feature of our way of looking at things. Therefore, when philosophers say "realism," they generally have in mind some particular kind of realism, and so you might look into whether there is some kind of thing the existence of which your reading is deliberating about. Alternatively, it is possible that "realism" is used to describe the position of believing that there are some things that exist in reality in the universe, though that would be a little unusual. Consequently, regarding your second question, realists in the general sense would not necessarily agree that there are forms in the platonic sense or any other sense. Aristotelians, to take up your first question, understand the identity of objects in terms of their forms and also three other categories. Their forms are their shapes or structures. In addition to those, Aristotelians thought objects are characterized by their material (what they're made of), their origins (what thing or process produced them), and, most controversially, their purposes or ends (what they're for). In your example, a blue rubber ball melted down will change its form but not its matter. It will become a different kind of object even though it consists of the same matter. 

Because both paragraphs above discuss the same CP, should they cohere with each other 100%? If not, does each logically imply the other? I am confused if the differences cannot be conciliated. To me, the two quoted paragraphs appear different because (from p 437) assuming the antecedent of the required conditional statement differs from (p 446) assuming the negation of the conclusion (this last bolded phrase says nothing about CS). To wit, an IP's conclusion may NOT be a CS.. In fact, the example referenced in p 446's conclusion is ~A, which is NOT a CS. 

I already understand and so ask not about the quote above. 1. How can a FP still constitute a SIA? I am confused by these 2 cases (out of a total of 4) that appear paradoxical: 2. 'False premise and Probably true conclusion': How is this possible? 3. 'False premise and Probably false conclusion': How is this possible? 

You've got it: "Why should I prefer one action over another?" More simply, you might even just say, "What should I do?" Many philosophers refer to the skill or faculty involved in asking and answering that question as "practical reason," and expertise at answering it as "practical wisdom." The study of such questions is simply Ethics. 

You can refer to the means of acquisition of knowledge: I know what I’ve directly experienced under suitable conditions and what I’ve learned through reliable testimony. 

I'm not aware of any specific name for this error, but it falls under the general type "red herring" — offering information that's irrelevant to the point in question. The way in which the information here is irrelevant is interesting, but I don't think it presents an especially familiar pattern of introducing irrelevance (in the way that a tu quoque fallacy does, for instance). 

If it is the last of these you are interested in, I recommend starting with Thomas Nagel's essay “The Absurd” in the Journal of Philosophy 68: 716–27, and reprinted in his book The View from Nowhere. You can probably find it also online. Similarly introductory is Simon Blackburn's excellent little book Being Good, in which Chapter 10 and other chapters discuss the meaningfulness or meaninglessness of life, and what kind of reasons there might be that life is not meaningless. For a classic discussion of meaninglessness which is less straightforward to read and more tied to concerns about the supernatural, see Albert Camus's The Myth of Sisyphus. 

Prescript: I quoted the standard form of argument because its use of colours improves readability. Source: 6 minutes 01 seconds juncture; Lecture 13, Video 5 (transcription inexistent); MITx: 24.00x Introduction to Philosophy; by MIT Associate Prof Caspar Hare PhD (Princeton) Hereafter, imagine and pretend that the conclusion were unseen and unstated. To wit, pretend that you were given only P1 to P4, from which you yourself must discover and derive the conclusion. 

Source: Philosophy: A Complete Introduction (2012) by Prof. Sharon Kaye MA PhD (in Philosophy, U. Toronto) 

I'm self-learning philosophy, but am untrained in linguistics, and fear obscurantism. So I prefer and find more helpful 'paraphrases': (which I define to mean) other philosophers' rewrites and glosses, of the originals, in enjoyable plain simple 20th-21st century English (or French). Should I read the paraphrases before the original philosophical works? I assume: 1. that the author is a fair, learned philosopher, who genuinely tries to explain and simplify the original work, dispassionately and objectively. 2. the availability of (cheap!) such paraphrases. 3. the important worth in reading the originals, but dearth of time prevents reading both the original and paraphrase. 

In philosophical arguments, the premises are typically claims that either (a) other philosophers have already argued for, and so are recognizable from the literature, and typically cited to some sources, or (b) the arguer thinks can be made plausible on their own, either prima facie (at first glance) or by appealing to some briefer, further motivating argument. In the context of arguments, then, premises are generally not taken to be truths per se, but rather plausible starting-points. They may be thought to be true, but they may also be taken to be merely plausible, or agreeable to the intended audience of the argument. I note that in the experimental sciences data is not generally taken to be absolutely true. Typically, statistics assumes error. But that's of course apiece with agreeing that data offers a starting point for argument in empirical disciplines. 

The context is that Philo has just responded to Cleanthes's endorsement of teaching children piety. Philo's opening response involves expressing the importance of a general skepticism, of caution about certainty and thinking that we understand what we cannot actually explain. Cleanthes is then challenging Philo in this passage on how sincere his skepticism is. 

In [1.], Socrates says that you can't seek what you don't know, because you don't know what to seek. Yet in [2], he does believe in seeking what you don't know. So do [1] and [2] conflict? 

What exactly are the IFs? Which if-clause(s) does Nagel reference? How is 1 true? How do the If-clauses differ from ? 

Source: p , Introducing Philosophy for Canadians: A Text with Integrated Readings (2011 1 ed). Primary Source: Paragraph 5, Section 1, An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals (1751) by David Hume 

I'll abbreviate to Brokenness. (1) in (d) feels counterintuitive. How isn't (1) meaningless and redundant? 

I doubt 5 and 6: how is G needed for remembering a proof? For example, remembrance of a mathematical proof means the ability to reproduce the proof now and instantly. Otherwise, this assertion appears meaningless and deceptive (if the asserter really meant a past lapsed ability to prove the proof, but cannot do it now). Notice that this example does not concern G: so why does G matter? 

This is a form of begging the question. We beg the question when we either assume the answer itself as one of our premises, or assume a controversial premise that entails our conclusion. Ideally, to be persuasive, an argument should work from mutually agreeable premises. If we insist on working from a premise that is not mutually agreeable and is too close to our conclusion, then we beg the question. Suppose you and I disagree about whether lager is delicious. I insist on arguing from the premise that beer in general is delicious, which is disagreeable to you. I am begging the question. 

No, there is no contradiction. The apparent contradiction arises from an equivocation on “value.” The version of nihilism you express, that there is no value, makes the most sense if it asserts that there is no real value in the universe. When philosophers assert that position, that is typically what they mean. The alternative, that nobody values anything, is immediately refuted by experience. In contrast, when we implicitly attach value to the assertion of nihilism in so far as we find it worth asserting, we are attributing value to that assertion. One can consistently hold that while we attribute value to various things, we do so in a purely subjective way, and not as a reflection of any real, mind-independent value, since there is no such value in the universe. I can say that I like clouds shaped like pigs, and think they're great, but it doesn't follow from that assertion that they actually have value, in an objective way. The position that does contradict itself in this way, the position that nobody ever values anything, is so contrary to experience that I have never heard anyone defend it. One can certainly argue against popular forms of nihilism, but not because of this apparent contradiction. 

To emphasise the pertinence of the following to all other languages wherewith Logic can be communicated, I use grey font colour to denote the abstract lexemes. Abbreviate Necessary Condition to NC, Sufficient Condition to SC. I already know that: 

Source: p 193, Philosophy: A Complete Introduction (2012) by Prof. Sharon Kaye MA PhD (in Philosophy, U. Toronto) 

2 appears irrelevant to 1. Why would 1 need an independent variation of the world? To achieve 1, (omnipotent) God could have incorporated this difference (painless pinpricks) while creating the original world, by excluding pinpricks from pain and leaving the same everything else. I might have misunderstood 2; I am confused by the concept of 'independent variation'. 

I thought to quote some parts from this helpful website that answers the question above. Beware that I do NOT quote all of the website, only the pertinent parts. Source: 

I agree with the solution’s paraphrases (1.1 and 3.1), but I disagree with 4. To me, the missing premise should instead be 5 as follows: 5. Since women have as much right to self-esteem as men, women should earn as money as men. 6. So is 4 wrong? 7. Rather than ‘essential part’, should 4 be stated as a Necessary Condition or Sufficient Condition?