Above recommended books are very good. Also you can compliment the above list by adding books by Thanisaro Bikku who has done some good translations. Main thing is to always cross check with the source as the Venerable Sir points out. 

This is a form of Papanca or mental proliferation (). At first you should try to learn what is happening at your experiential level. When there is the is contact, there is feeling, feeling coupled with perception creates a metal reaction which creates more feeling which triggers more memories with similar association (either by type of feeling, situation, people or external objects involved). 1st you have to you have to practice equanimity towards the feelings and reduce the reaction. This in term reduces proliferation as there are lesser amount of bodily feeling to combine with perception to create to create new formations. Also equanimity reduces your hold on perception which again is needed to create formations. (Some of these relationships are covered in Abhidhamma for the Beginner by Egorton C. Baptist page 2.) The Buddhist path aims to put an end to creating volitional formation and also calm exiting formation. Also thinking and pondering is verbal fabrication (), which is something you have to actively calm. You should calm them by 1st looking at them and practising equanimity thus your volitional reaction. Also dissolving base off Sanna or perception which triggers this reaction. In addition you can anchor your mind on one object. 

In our body there a lot of sensations we are not aware of. In doing meditation you have to reach stage. This is where your attention spreads through out your body and you are aware of everything in your body. At a higher stage, bodily processors like breathing, arising and pass of all sensations. ( .. .. ) So keep spreading your attention and be mindful to the subtlest of: 

So what is in the world does have meaning but not conventionally accepted meaning. Like there is solidity, there is a permanent entity driving the whole process, there is and entity in one self which is permanent, there is no entity in one self and not process (everything is random and chaotic), the world is random and chaotic and lacking a driving process which brings about cosmic order, etc. The meaning is: 

Introduction to Yoniso Manasikāra Sampadā Sutta by Piya Tan. The next section discusses what is wise attention. Also see my other explanation in these answers. 

Source: The Discourse Summaries (day 5) by S. N. Goenka If I am to presume that you are still a beginner in meditation you are dealing with Dukkha at some conceptual level than seeing it directly at an experiential level. What needs to be done here is when some visitute or lifes pops up and also some unwanted thing happens or some wanted thing does not happen look at it as "this situation will not last forever, this will also pass, this is impermanent". And if it is something pleasant look at it as "this is pleasant but all good things will come to an end, am I ready to give ups then this ends". Thereby you are understanding impermanence nature of experience even when positive. See additional information in the above source. 

This is a good question. Always the mindfulness should be in the 4 foundations of mindfulness. One objective of mindfulness is to remove defilements or letting go. Pahāna Sutta gives an outline in brief. Another is to keep you on the path as outlined in Maha Cattarīsaka Sutta. Any sensation is unsatisfactory this is the link to understand the 4 Noble Truths and also with sensation, according to dependent origination, arises craving. If you miss this link you miss the path. That is the when taking the 1st foundation of mindfulness, the body, feel the elements like the temperature of the water, the texture of the plate, etc. and you reaction. The water is too hot, my hand is burning or water is too cold, etc., i.e., evaluation you give as this is desirable, undesirable or neutral and satisfaction, dissatisfaction and neutral feeling that follows. The look at the posture and position. The pain and resulting dissatisfaction from standing a long time near the sink, pleasure from changing postures when the previous posture becomes uncomfortable, the pain for wariness from hard work (movement - scrubbing), and the pleasure of rest, etc. [Dhātu Vibhaṅga Sutta, Titth’ayatana Sutta, Indriya Bhāvanā Sutta, Sal-āyatana Vibhanga Sutta, Dīgha,nakha Sutta] The examin feelings in general. Are you evaluating something as favorably, unfavorably, or neutrally and the resulting feelings of pleasure, displeasure and neutral feelings. [Mahā Sati’patthāna Sutta, Dhātu Vibhaṅga Sutta, Titth’ayatana Sutta, Indriya Bhāvanā Sutta, Sal-āyatana Vibhanga Sutta, Dīgha,nakha Sutta, Cūla Vedalla Sutta, Mahā Vedalla Sutta, Samma Ditthi Sutta] Also mental analysis of the situation. Plates are dirty hence displeasure. I have better things to do then displeasure. Or whatever else that might arise either pleasure, displeasure or neutral by your evaluation of liking, disliking or do not care. For more detail refer the 18 investigation in Dhātu Vibhaṅga Sutta, Titth’ayatana Sutta & Indriya Bhāvanā Sutta and also see Cha Chakka Sutta. Also note the feeling arising from whether you like it, hate it, what kind of thoughts are aroused (my friends are at a party while I am washing dishes) etc. and thinking pondering and planning that follows and what you feel about it. Also see if you are transgressing any moral principles. There is an ant in the sink, I should not kill it and perhaps save it. [Maha Cattarīsaka Sutta] Ultimately whatever feeling that arises you should be aware of its arising and passing nature. Also see The Satipaṭṭhāna Suttas: An introduction and Vedanā (Feeling) by Piya Tan 

The results are decided on your metal volition and that of the beings gaining benefit. More grandiose the ritual the effort put into it is more an at a certain point the intensity of volition may diminish and may not be as meritorious as a more simpler act with more intense volition. Say I have a pen which I am attached to. When I see it I get present sensations or experience. Now I decide to give it which can have either pleasant or neutral sensations. If the recipient is happy receiving the gift you may feel more happy or experience more pleasant sensations. By truly knowing the sensations are impermanent, unsatisfactory and non self only can you pratice true giving. Also having initial and sustained awareness of the thoughts of giving can intensify the results. Likewise of any other act which can be in form of a rite or ritual can be turned into something more fruitful. 

Feeling are 3 types which are related to unsatisfactoriness (everything is not satisfactory or unpleasant): 

At the link of sensation you react due to ignorance. Sensations are 3 types which are pleasant, unpleasant, and neutral. Pleasant sensations lead to craving, unpleasant lead to aversive and neutral there is still ignorance. In craving and aversion also here is ignorance. When ignorance is absent you maintain equanimity towards the sensations seeing their impermanence. The unwholesome / wholesome roots lead to volition followed by action. Removing the roots both wholesome and unwholesome removes condition for future existence and experience. The choice you have is when there is sensation you can react with craving, aversion and ignorance or be equanimous knowing impermanence. Volition always arise due to a stimuli. This is the contact - feeling part of Dependent Arising. 

Goenka's Vipassana techniques is very effective, hence I would recommend to stick with it. Also a similar techniques is taught at International Meditation Centre. Also Suan Mokkh is a pretty good place to study Anapana I would expect though I have not been there Ven. Buddhadasa's books on this are very effective. Also if you are going to Burma you can try Pa-Auk Forest Monastery. Also you can try out Mogok Sayadaw's Meditation techniques, there many monasteries but little web presence hence you might need to do a bit more searching. Also have a look at World Buddhist Directory. This might help you find more centres. If you are interested in coming to Sri Lanka there is a directory of meditation centres here: Information about Meditation Centers in Sri Lanka. 

5 Aggregates When you develop the path you get Disillusionment and Revolutions (Nibbida) towards the 5 aggregates. A normal worldling would get attached to the 5 aggregates. When you develop revolutions towards it the 5 Aggregates which you cling to as would become indifferent in your mind and you would not cling to them as self. Metta The goal of Metta meditation is to develop friendly feeling towards all living beings. This is achieved by breaking down the mental classification you have towards individual beings or classes of them into groups which you deem favorable, unfavorable or neutral and reacting to them with pleasant, unpleasant and neutral feeling associated with each classification. One such classification systems would be me, beings I like, neutral or unknown beings and being you do not like. When you break down the classification you will like everyone like yourself. Another classification could be same country, neutral country and enemy country. When you break down the mental classification system you will love everyone as your fellow country men. Another classification could be higher life forms, lower life forms and same level life forms. When you break down this classification you will love all living beings equally. When you classify if a being is from a favorable category you react with pleasant sensation, unfavorable category with unpleasant sensation and neutral category with unpleasant sensations. These sensation lead to the unwholesome roots of craving for the favorable and pleasant, aversion towards the unfavorable and unpleasant and ignorance towards the neutral, as discussed in the Pahāna Sutta. When such reaction stops you stop creating negative mental states and come out of misery. In order to develop Metta you should wish every one in every category you can imagine to be well and happy. Also know how the classifications are woulding in the back of your mind and know mental reaction and sensation. Try to be equanimous knowing the changes and and arising and passing nature of the sensations. Once the favorable and unfavorable categorisations are broken you do not despair if you meet with non loved one and with equanimity you do not attached to others. Others cannot cause you stress. Sometimes I suppose I notice a pain in the knee When you notice sensation notice how it's spread out, any variations and how it ends. There might be times where new sensations of experiences start. Look at the start, evolution and change and the end of the experience. Doing this you see impermanence and arising and passing nature of the experience. 

I believe these might have to be treated symbolistically, perhaps inline how science was taught in the time of Buddha. Ref: Mahābhūta, Patthana Dhamma by Htoo Naing - Ch 3: Rupa, The Abhidhamma in Practice by N.K.G. Mendis, Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma - Ch 6 by Bhikkhu Bodhi, Rupa (Form) by Piya Tan, Abhidhamma in daily life - Ch 18 Elements by Nina Van Gorkom Wikipedia give the following "better translation": 

Generally what happens is: Body sensation > Perception > Concept formation > Thinking and pondering. Being mindful and aware you do not let this stream lead upto Thinking and Pondering which creates mental fabrication or mental Karma. Being ardently aware is what helps you cut this off before it comes to the last stage of creating Karma. This can also be thought as: Feeling > Craving (for perceived experience - perceive as good, bad or neutral) > Clinging (concepts and thoughts) 

Also pay attention to sensations as this is proxy to experiencing anything regarding your mind matter process and the other foundations of mindfulness. Even if you take the elements, we you one of our senses doors to sense it hence the primary characteristics and secondary characteristics based on a particular sense door like colour. Based on: Mahā Sati’patthāna Sutta, Sal-āyatana Vibhanga Sutta, Pahāna Sutta, Saṅkhitta Dhamma Sutta 

Attachment is craving for sensation either in the form of direct sensual experience or a future situation or existance in which you can experience or be united with desirable sensations. Our mental reaction to either external stimuli or comparison of some mental models against what we sensed produce sensation. It is pleasant sensation that you are attached or crave for. The fact that we have friend is no attachment at all unless, where have some Perceived relationship in a metal outlook we create about the world and we react to the sensation this bring about. Each metal state resulting from the contact our our 6 faculties create sensation. We perceive these sedations as favourable, unfavourable or neutral and react accordingly with craving, aversion, or ignorance. Letting go is giving up your Perception of sensual experiences as favourable, unfavourable and developing equanimity towards any sensation always realising they arise and passes away. Love is a kind of attachment when you perceive some one in relation to you (myself, my friend, my wife, my child, etc.). See: 

According to Satipatthana Mula (By Sujato Bhikkhu edited by Piya Tan) Śāripūtrābhidharma versions of the Satipatthana contains a reference to food. What exactly does it say about food and does Theravada sources have similar references else where? Is food referenced as one of the elements (Mahābhūta)? 

Nobody can emancipate you. Only yourself. Reason being liberation is based on experiencing the reality and not doing things which are not conducive / unskillful and doing what is conducive / skillful. No bodies experience can be a substitute to your experience. Say someone describes a taste of a good dish, you cannot reconstruct this task by any description without tasting it yourself. 

Since if you take a being as parts in terms of the 5 aggregates or 6 faculties each part which constitute a being is not self. E.g. the eye is not self, what you see is not self, what you feel is not self, your corporeal body is not self, etc. 

Discerning the in and out breathing Discerning long or short breaths Experiencing the whole body (sabbakāaya) Calming bodily formations 

Whatever that exist outside we experience through our sense doors and paint a picture in our minds. This metal model we construct will not exactly correspond to what is outside will not the exactly the same from person to person depending on many factors like cognitive ability, sharpness of senses, etc. Hence that we know about the world is not perfectly in touch with reality and not always exist as we expect it to be. So it would be safe to say that anything we perceive as such does not exist in such a form that we perceive or expect it to be in. Also our outlook of the world is mentally constructed and does not exist in any form we expect or think it to be in. Also we have no ability to exactly know what exactly the world is as we are limited by cognitive ability and or faculties. So we will never know the world as it is, perhaps unless you become a Buddha as only Buddha can see all phenomena. 

I am not sure if there is any Tipitaka translation project at the Pa Auk monastery when the Ven. Sayadaws book Nibbānagāminipaṭipadā remains still to be translated into English. 

As you say this is the most important thing and what is relatively in your control. Best is to do Vipassana to make your mind. In doing this one thing to keep in mind is betrayal is a perception arise in your mind and why do not like it there is unpleasantness associated when you perceive something negatively. This is the Dukkha in this. 

Imagine some valuable has fallen into a well and you are draining it to get the items. Every bucket of water you take out has a value towards draining it. But if you take buckets of water far apart new water will replace the old and the water level will not go down. Same with Fabrication. You have to take them out faster than new ones forming, i.e., every moment you practice has a value as long as you practice often enough. 

Sadhu in this context is used for approval and agreement as well as saying "well said". Some other contexts it can be used for a holy or venerated person entity. Generally it is generally used for Hindu priests. See: $URL$ for details. 

Vitakka/Vicara are the factors which gives rise to thoughts. When Vitakka/Vicara subsides the through ability is lost. Papanca is the stream of thoughts in succession resulting from an initial thought. Say I get the desire to have burger. This is the 1st thought. This arises partly due to Vitakka/Vicara. If Vitakka/Vicara is missing the you cannot get this thought. Now you start planning the way to get this. This is your next thought, followed by a lot more thoughts on the subject. You will think shall I go to this restaurant or that. The road you take. Etc. This is Papanca. (The additional throughs arise due to the fact that Vitakka/Vicara is present.) Vitakka/Vicara is present in all Papanca. Papanca is the snowballing of thoughts starting from initial thought. In all proliferated thought Vitakka/Vicara is present. If the train of thoughts are represented like this: 

There is no Goenka School. Generally this is referred as the linage of Saya Gyi U Ba Khin and Ledi Sayadaw U Ñanadhaja. Also it is influenced by Webu Sayadaw Ledi Sayadaw U Ñanadhaja and Webu Sayadaw are Buddhist monks. Also there many teachers who are Buddhist Monks who are particle according to S. N. Goenka.