The section "Former Yugoslavia" of the Wikipedia article on War rape says that Serbs raped Muslims and Croatians with the intention to produce new Serbs 

The cartoon, recently publicised by this tweet, has seven children dancing around a US flag. The child in the yellow shirt is intended to represent an African-American child. What races are represented by the six other children, especially the three children with black hair clockwise of the African-American child? Also, what races within the USA were the US government trying to prevent racism against during WWII? 

I used to think older Japanese people wouldn't have studied English at school, and recently came across someone who thought likewise (link available on request). A middle-aged Japanese person told me that English became a compulsory subject by 1920, but I can't find any information online confirming that. (One site says that English isn't technically a compulsory subject nowadays, merely the teaching of a foreign language, which in most cases happens to be English - though perhaps English wasn't the dominant language in the late 19th century) When did English become a major subject at Japanese schools? If a definition is needed, then it being studied by a majority of students who completed high school, either of the entire nation, or of a particular prefecture. Also, did negative relations with some western powers before and during World War 2 lead to the reduction of English being taught, above and beyond the disruption to education caused by war in general? Yoshi Mori joked about English being an enemy's language for part of the time he was at school. The Wikipedia article English-language education in Japan mainly focuses on the private sector, plus modern-day education in schools. 

This is unfortunately the only source I could find which describes COMECON's imperialist tendencies in great detail. The article was written in Albania in 1981, so one should take it with a grain of salt as Albania was not in the Soviet camp but the Chinese, and it was not so long ago that China and the USSR experienced a massive deterioration of relations. The article also does not reference many sources but I think that Albania, being aligned to the Communists, would have a better perspective of reality east of the Iron Curtain than anyone in the west. I have extracted select statements of interest below. The article states that the intention originally was probably to control the satellite states but over time evolved into corruption on a state scale. For example, as was the case in Czechoslovakia and Hungary: 

The purpose of the Cruiser was to roam the high seas, picking off merchant vessels, troopships or stragglers of a group. So then why were heavy and light cruisers often attached to Battleship or Carrier groups, and how was their purpose different to the attached Destroyers? 

As far as I'm aware, in Australia, currently only countries which are predominantly made up of people not of European descent, such as China, are seen as a "threat" to Australia's manufacturing. Have majority European descent countries ever viewed other majority European descent countries as a threat to their manufacturing? I'm interested in both examples where the other country is seen as "inferior" (whether racially, religiously, or culturally), and where the other country is not seen as "inferior". 

In December 1967, then-serving prime minister of Australia, Harold Holt, disappeared while swimming at Cheviot Beach, Victoria. His body was never found, though an inquest held much later stated that the cause of death was drowning. Has such an occurrence happened in recent history, defined by being recent enough to have rapid communication such as the telegram and widespread recognition of what the individual looked like such as photography, to either a serving head of government, or a serving head of state, for any other country? I had a quick skim over List of people who disappeared mysteriously and "Real Life" in Never Found the Body in TV Tropes (warning: not productivity safe) and didn't find any other examples. 

Specifically, how did it supplant French as the international language? Even in the height of Pax Britannica, many English upperclassmen still saw French as the more romantic language. How was this status quo changed - was it Britain's empire and dominance of trade, or American dominance of trade and her soldiers being stationed in different parts of the world later on? 

In the late middle ages, every knight or even his retainers and squires were armed with a spear or a lance. When heavy cavalry gave way to pike squares, we still see the lance still in use among the demi-lancers. Somewhere along the way though, they completely disappeared, surviving only in the Polish army and appropriately enough to be resurrected by them in the 18th century when the effectiveness of the Polish cavalry was shown. Since then, the lance stayed with cavalry until they became mechanized. A possible culprit is the Reiter employing the caracole which showed tactical supremacy over the lancer in many battles such as Coutras but that doesn't explain why they suddenly became resurgent again in the 18/19th century. What caused the lance's short disappearance and why? If it indeed was firearms and caracolle tactics, then what made them become popular again later on? 

Having read all these comments, I am impressed with the amount of knowledge shared on this forum. Very informative, I am also a writer of Sci-fantasy and I found this to be an excellent well of information. But I do have to pose the question that as we talk about materials and their abundance I wonder if as a person dials back the gauge of time, how common do some of these materials become? There are stories in antiquity of kings being made of gold, of the rich lands of the fertile crest being laden with ore and jewels. So I wonder, how good the quality of arms and armor were? If ore is found on the ground and it is considered a gift from the gods so to speak, then it surely is a lower grade of iron and it could be possible that lower grade was made into a low grade steel. Upon looking at photos and pictures of the era that I write in, it was more common for sinew and wood or reed armor to be produced than that of bronze or iron. The expense was too expensive for any kind of metal and it was cumbersome for a solder to carry or wear. I mean if we take Hoplites for instance, the typical wear was greaves, leather skirt, bronze chest plate, semi closed helm and a large round shield. But that was not what made them so formidable for their day. I mean it helped, but they had the phalanx. I guess my argument for the middle ages was that if a lord or duke or viscount had to pay to arm and armor his army, chain would be the best way to go because of its 1) Durability, 2) ability to pass down to the next generation of solder after another one dies, 3) and the cost ratio. Plate was introduced due to better weaponry, it didn't last very long because eventually weaponry caused it to be too expensive to try and keep up and fit your army with it. It was cheaper to fit a solder with a rapier, flint lock musket and a simple metal helm to keep with the technology of the powder age. It was also the same reason that castles were not being built as often as soon as cannon were invented, it just simply became obsolete. Plate mail didn't really last that long, but Chainmaille was around for many centuries and used the idea of a medium amount armor with a decent shield was easier and cheaper. And though it was costly to make Chain mail at first, in the long run, it was cheaper. I think plate mail was reserved for lords who could afford to equip it to his very few and select solders, but if you were fitting an army, often it wasn't either Chain mail or plate mail, often it was just hardened leather, studded leather and a wooden shield. The cost of that for your army as a lord was enough especially when we start to get into armies that reach into the thousands. Not many, if any lords could afford to put chain or plate on their army when the numbers were that high. But they did on a few occasions, kings especially were expected to keep up with "The Jones" so to speak and bankrupted their countries doing so. Anyway, that is my take on it.