When riding long distances, either solo or with groups of people, it is obviously necessary to carry a first-aid kit in case of a crash or other injury. What are the most important items to pack, while still considering weight or space? What items can be included in 'travel-size', and which items should be 'full-size'? What items should definitely be left at home? 

It seems a bit unusual to me that your grip would be actually 'glued' to your handlebar. Typically grips hold themselves in place, but I'll take your word for it. =] If your grip is in fact 'glued' in place, the adhesive is likely mediocre quality, and rotation you're experiencing is due to heat from your hand and/or the outdoors slightly softening the glue. You may be able to un-rotate the grip by heating it with a hair-dryer, and therefore softening the adhesive to a point where you can move it by hand. Be careful not to burn or melt the synthetic leather, though! 

Is there some listing of Shimano component model numbers that can help me find a currently-manufactured part that is equivalent to an old model number that is no longer being manufactured? In particular, I'm looking to find a currently-manufactured replacement for a Deore LX V-brake, model number BR-M570. This brake pivots around an internal sleeve built into the brake arm rather than pivoting directly on the cantilever brake post. I need something like this since my brake posts are corroded and will not be a good bearing surface. 

I have a 20" Sun Rims CR-18 rear rim. This rim has a cylindrical metal sleeve that goes through the valve hole. Not sure where that came from, as I inherited the rim with the bike when I bought it used. When I was changing the tires after riding this bike through the New England winter, I noticed that the valve on my tube was stuck to this sleeve in the rim. I used locking pliers to attempt to wiggle the valve free, but instead, it sheared off the end of the valve and left the rest of the valve fused inside the rim. 

I think the investment casting of the entire headtube is something particular to BMX bikes. It makes sense, for reasons outlined below. Typical parts of a bicycle which can be investment-cast are: 

Yes, this has been done and is very often done for the exact reason you mentioned: far greater tire selection. In a general sense, the important considerations you must make stem from the difference between a 700c wheel and a 27" wheel. If we look at a more precise measurement than the common nomenclature, the bead seat diameter, the difference is more obvious: 

This means that the former is 8mm shorter in diameter than the latter, and when you mount a 700c wheel to a bicycle with brakes set for a 27" wheel, they will be mis-aligned by 4mm (a significant amount). Depending on what type and variety brakes you have, you may or may not be able to reposition the brake pads correctly. In the case that you can't, you will be able to replace them with brakes designed to have a longer 'reach'. 

I bought some road tires that were made for flat resistance, but within two months, the sidewalls on both got damaged to the point where I was getting repeated blowouts. I wrote to the manufacturer, and they were kind enough to send me a replacement pair. In the meantime, I bought some new flat resistant tires to replace the busted ones. Now I have two new pairs of flat resistant tires, but I only have a use for one at a time. How long can I store a new pair before I have to worry about the material degrading, dry rot, etc.? (not mentioning the brands here because I don't want to bash the manufacturer that sent me the replacement.) 

I'm looking for a rear rack for my Bike Friday New World Tourist (20" wheels). I've come across a bunch of rear racks like this one that sit high above the wheel. But I'm searching for one that is not so high - I want a lower height rack that will not block my rear light (clamped to the seatpost) when I put my bag on top of the rear rack and that will let the weight of my bag sit lower so that I have a lower center of gravity. Where can I find this? 

They are formed into a different shape from a cold, pre-formed piece of metal (Stamped, Bulge, Machined/CNC'd), thereby reducing strength, or They have some weak spot (Rolled, Welding/Brazing), thereby reducing strength. 

You're absolutely right--children's bicycles with training wheels are good for exercise and entertainment, but they do little to nothing for balance. In my experience, the best way to teach anyone--children included--to ride a bicycle is to take the pedals off, lower the seat, and let them scoot & coast around until they develop the proper balance. Then, add the pedals, and let them coast, pedal, etc. For children, there are several popular brand that makes 'run bikes', which are usually made out of wood, and have neither training wheels nor pedals. They are low enough that the child can sit in the saddle and place both feet on the ground, but high enough that they can still propel themselves & lift their feet to coast. These bikes allow the child to quickly and safely develop good bicycle balance. (See $URL$ $URL$ and $URL$