Plausible reflex rates for limited functions. But won't replace keyboard and mouse. A real answer could only come if someone tests the product in a laboratory and writes a solid review. But here's my educated guess: Many non-invasive brain-computer interfacing (BCI) systems are based on measuring P300 signals with EEG, which take about 200-600ms. So even if that amount of time gave you enough information, and you had efficient enough feature processing algorithms, you're not going to get much better than sub-second categorization of brainwaves -- so, a command rate of a dozen words per minute. With current state of the art, looking at these three papers, subjects can only select about 4 or 5 characters per minute with P300-based BCI, or about 25 bits per minute. However, the rates they are claiming for "reflexes" are plausible, because the OCZ NIA is not a brainwave reader: it's primarily based not on electroencephalography (EEG), but electromyography (EMG), which measures slight muscle movements. EMG is frequently used in prosthetic limbs, and the signal is trivial to process compared to brainwaves. For instance, this review describes how to use wavelet transforms to preprocess data (read: efficient) and classify motor commands with neural networks. I've also seen talks that describe doing the classification with Linear Discriminant Analysis (read: easy peasy). So they could be spot-on with their claim, if we assume that twitching a face muscle takes less time than moving a mouse. But it's more like strapping an extra button to your forhead and saying "do this when I twitch my eyebrow" than having it read your brainwaves and predict what you're trying to do -- so the romance is all but gone: With those limitations, we're not eliminating the keyboard and mouse any time soon! 

Igneous rock often forms under conditions that favor (1). But not always -- contamination of both types is common. To falsify K-Ar dating, as the claim is attempting to do, one must not only show that the predictions of K-Ar measurements lead to incorrect years, but that both assumptions (1) and (2) hold. The claim shows one sample that dated to 3.5 +/- 0.2 million years before present. While other answers are correct that the half-life of Potassium-40 is very large, the 0.2 MY error bars indicate that the measurements were accurate enough to establish the "age" with a high degree of certainty. The claim "the real ratio of elements would indicate a 50 year old sample" lies more than 17 standard deviations away from the mean measurement, so it is very unlikely that the sample matched that prediction. But here's a problem. The same flow yielded samples that dated to 1.3 +/- 0.3 MYA, 0.8 +/- 0.2 MYA, and 1.2 +/- 0.2 MYA. These are also significant numbers. (One sample also dated to less than 270,000 years ago, which appears to be the minimum measurable value, so is not a significant aberration). Radiometric dating would predict that, if the assumptions (1) and (2) hold, samples from the same flow would have the same age. But this is not what is observed, so the theory rejects (1) and/or (2). Therefore, radiometric dating does not predict that the rocks would date accurately. Therefore this data cannot be used to falsify K-Ar dating, because it does not violate a prediction of radiometric dating. Instead, the hypothetical contamination scenarios proposed by other answers/comments gain support. Other methods, such as Isochron dating could potentially be used to show that the data are still consistent with current geological theory. Note: This answer has been completely rewritten. I wrote the first draft thinking the entire range of reported dates represented the error bars on one sample, implying that the perceived dating error was not statistically significant. I later realized that this was not the case. 

The number is completely misleading. In many cases, the loser just goes away without complaining. If the loser tries to ask the supreme court, most cases are just rejected without anyone looking at them seriously. The rest, one judge looks at the case, and must of the time that judge says "the 9th Circuit Court was fine". There is a tiny minority, 0.15%, where that one judge says "I think this should be overturned, I present this to all the nine (or eight) judges". Of those 0.15% of cases where one judge has already said it should be overturned, the full set of judges agrees for 0.12% of all cases, which is 80% of the cases that he presented. That is in no way negative for the 9th Circuit. It is very positive for the judge who reviewed the cases and managed to pick cases where the complete Supreme Court agreed with him in 80% of the cases (0.12% of all cases). And it's not 0.12% of all decisions that are overturned, it's 0.12% of all decisions where the loser tried to involve the Supreme court. So the percentage of all decisions is a lot lower. If Trump had the power to force the Supreme Court to review a case (which he hasn't), based on statistics the chance would be 0.12% that the 9th Circuit will be overturned, the same percentage as for all cases with a sore loser. 

You can use this font on a website, as long as the website only tells the browser "use Times New Roman to display this text" but doesn't contain the font itself. That's what most websites do. Anyone with a browser on a computer having Times New Roman installed (practically everyone) can read the site. If it is not installed, then the browser will more or less cleverly select a different font that is installed. You can develop an advertisement with that font on your computer. Then you send it to a printer, and you can bet the printer has a license. You could technically embed the font in an eBook or PDF file, which would be illegal. For that you would need a license. However, there is no need to embed it, just rely on others to have it installed on their computers. The situation is different if you want to use one of the thousands of fonts that you can buy but that is not widely available. In that case you need to pay more for a more permissive license, because for example users wouldn't see your website with your font if you don't embed the font in the website. And your printer won't print your poster if they have to shell out for your font. PS. According to FontBook, the name of the font on my Mac is "Monotype:Times New Roman Regular:Version 3.05 (Microsoft)", but that is just a name, not something that gives Microsoft any rights. There is also the "Times" font, which according to FontBook has the name "Times Roman; 13.0d2e19; 2017-07-11", and copyright notices from Apple Computer Inc, LinoType AG, Type Solutions Inc, and The Font Bureau Inc. No license text available, but Apple has a generic license somewhere on their website which is not unsimilar to the MonoType one. 

For more background information read the review of Tononi & Cirello 3, or a recent review by Ribeiro 4. Now... what about these 15-20 minutes? Well I don't know where this advice comes from and don't know about scientific support for this claim. In the study of Gais the duration of learning (although not exactly mentioned) was "a few hours". I would say they are advantages and disadvantages to a learning period of 15-20 minutes as opposed to a longer learning period. 15-20 minutes rehearsal seems ideal in the sense that you'll be focusing on a limited amount of information. Strengthening this limited amount of information might increase their chances of being retained (I think this idea could be integrated with the synaptic downscaling hypothesis). When keeping study time or learning time shorter you might be able to increase focus. Keeping focus for a long time is more difficult and the efficiency by which one learns might decrease. However, you can also choose to learn for a longer time on a limited amount of information, thus increasing repetition and again increasing chances of the information being retained. It more or less depends on how you spend the time learning... In addition, the above mentioned claims might depend on what type of information you want to retain. Studies might report contradicting results, depending on what type of material is to be learned. E.g. complex material requires more investment. Also learning requires time... one has to invest in understanding the material and there are different strategies by which one can try to learn material that aren't covered in the studies. Personally I believe studies related to learning and sleep are really interesting to decipher what happens to the information we collect during the day. What happens during the part of the day where we are the least conscious of what's happening around us? When it comes to learning in itself however... I think it's more important to think about "how" you learn the material and how often you repeat learning the material, than the timing of learning in relation to sleep (e.g. paper on memory retrieval by Karpicke and Blunt 4). 

Gais, S. (2006). Sleep after learning aids memory recall. Learning & Memory, 13(3), 259–262. doi:10.1101/lm.132106 $URL$ (open access) Tononi, G., & Cirelli, C. (2006). Sleep function and synaptic homeostasis. Sleep Medicine Reviews, 10(1), 49–62. doi:10.1016/j.smrv.2005.05.002 $URL$ Ribeiro, S. (2012). Sleep and plasticity. Pflugers Archiv : European journal of physiology, 463(1), 111–120. doi:10.1007/s00424-011-1031-5 $URL$ (open access) Karpicke, J. D., & Blunt, J. R. (2011). Retrieval practice produces more learning than elaborative studying with concept mapping. Science (New York, NY), 331(6018), 772–775. doi:10.1126/science.1199327 

The website you quote makes it sound like the subconsciousness is a little man in your brain, with a book of knowledge, reviewing all the material during the night and "strengthening knowledge without your influence". Although the website doesn't properly support the idea about how post-training sleep might benefit memory consolidation, it does convey some "truth". Gais et al. 1 studied the timing of learning, sleep and subsequent recall, and indeed found that when learning is immediately followed by sleep, this improves subsequent recall as compared to conditions in which learning was followed by wakefulness. The task involved learning German words. In the picture below you can see the different conditions that were tested. In the first experiment (A) Gais tested whether sleep following learning or wakefulness following learning enhanced the consolidation of declarative memory (morning vs. evening). When comparing the different conditions, the evening-learning condition revealed a better performance than the morning condition. To control for time-of-day effects a second experiment (B) was conducted, consisting of 2 evening conditions. One evening condition where learning was immediately followed by sleep and another evening condition where sleep was postponed until the morning hours. Again results favoured learning when it was immediately followed by sleep. Different learning-sleep-recall conditions $URL$ Some mechanisms by which the role of sleep following learning (and the role of sleep in learning in general) might be explained are "memory replay" during sleep (neuronal activity reflecting the learning of a certain task during the day, re-occuring during the night), and/or synaptic downscaling (the synaptic homeostasis hypothesis).