Bike fit can affect breathing mechanics if the bike fit puts you in a position that impacts diaphragmatic breathing (i.e., "belly breathing"): 

What are your goals in upgrading? Shifting? 105 components are already quite good, and the bike is mostly 105. While 105 cranks will probably likely shift a bit better, perfect front shifting rarely has much impact on performance. Front shifting is more of an annoyance than anything. and you would be hard pressed to notice any stiffness or weight differences from the cranks that are already spec'd on the bike. Speed? If speed is the priority, removing drag from your clothing and position will be the first place to start. Skin suits (or form fitting kit) and low drag helmet will be the biggest bang per buck. Next up, wheels can also be a good upgrade, but to be honest you will likely need to spend more than the cost of the bike before you will really notice this upgrade. Bling? If you are upgrading simply to out do your friend or riding partners, well then all that matters is what matters to them. Ask questions and I am sure they will tell you to through your money. Just an opinion Honestly, the best would be to focus on maintaining the bike, ensuring your clothing and contact points are comfortable and just ride your bike. As it stands you have a good entry level bike. The performance should be quite good, getting that extra bit of performance that remains will be very costly endeavor if you take the upgrade route. When you are ready for a faster bike, save and purchase it outright. Used or old new stock can be a very economical way to go. I would largely avoid the upgrade game as it is often 10% performance, 90% playing with money. 

Caveat: As mentioned by @R.Chung if you are uncertain, it is best to seek clarification from your coach. You are after all paying for their services. Short Answer Bike positioning is always a compromise between goals, flexibility and ability. There are different aero positions and each will have different strengths and weaknesses (see my suggestions section). I suspect the exact aero position isn't too much of a concern to your coach, rather s/he is likely interested in getting you to do efforts in a more closed position to get you prepared for riding in an aero position during a race. What follows is a more detailed explanation. Why train in an aero position for XC racing? As previously stated, I suspect the coaching exercise is to get you used to working hard in a closed body position. All aero positions will get the trunk of your body lower (to reduce your frontal area, making you more slip through the air with less effort). Similar to road racing, XC racing can also be a game of marginal gains. If you can cut more drag on long flat sections than another rider, you might be able to pick up a position or maintain your positioning with less effort. While aero positions can be useful in a race, a closed body position also affects your pedal stroke and your sustainable power output (typically reduced power) as you will be recruiting your muscle groups differently due to a different hip and back posture than you spend most of your riding hours in. If you never train in this body position, it won't be an efficient position for you to ride in come race day. Furthermore, spending time in this position it will also require you to hone your the stabilizer muscles needed to maintain that position. In all likelihood your coach is trying to give you some training time in this type of position. The exact aero position chosen will likely not matter too much, as long as you have a closed body position so you can train muscle recruitment and stabilizers. Some Suggestions My suggestion (confirm with your coach) would be to try a variety of positions (the two you found pictures of is a good starting point), but stick to one aero position per interval effort. Then in each successive effort try a different posture. This will let you get a feel for how your body works. In the two pictures you included, the first aero position one will have the lowest frontal area (aka fastest) as your arms are tucked in, but this will make the bike less stable and is likely not a good choice for rougher terrain. The second position you show sacrifices some frontal area for stability. Both have a reduced trunk angle, so both will work on your ability to recruit pedalling muscles while in a closed trunk position. As a side note, you can also use the training time to find the best aero body trunk angle. If you go too low you will lose more power than you save in reduced drag, too little of an angle and you may still be working too hard against the wind. Keep an eye on the transect between power (if you got it), speed and heart rate to try and find the best compromise for your current flexibility and training. The "right" compromise is very rider specific and can change over time with training. 

I am suspicious your fitter is really only considering performance fits. If you are racing or doing large efforts (e.g., 250+ watts sustained effort) you need a way to resist the force generated by your legs. In this case a low body position and pulling back on the hoods works well. If you are riding in a more relaxed pace (e.g., under 175 watts), this body position makes little sense as you have less force to resist. This is why touring and endurance positions typically have shorter reach and more upright (higher stack) as you do not need as closed of a body angle to resist the force generated by your legs. If your cockpit is setup too long and low for the type of riding you do (e.g., performance fit cockpit given to an endurance or recreational rider), then you will feel you need to consistently push against the hoods to keep yourself upright as you are not generating enough force from your legs to fully support your upper body weight with your core muscles (i.e., your core muscle do not have enough force to resist against to keep you upright so you rely on your arms). Neck Pain 

Other Thoughts For the e-bike + Uber option, Uber is costing you $6,600 or 59.8% of the total cost ($11,035). That is crazy for 30 days. Are there other options such as car pooling? I think your sunk cycling costs are right (despite comments that suggest otherwise). Even if you found cheaper e-bike, lets say half of $3000, that is still only 10% of the total outlay. Bicycles are relatively simple machines, but cycling is not necessarily a cheap activity. 

Your current top tube, seat tube and head tube only give scratch the surface of bike fitting. Your proportions, seat tube angle, BB drop and frame stack are also important factors to getting a great fig. Caveat aside, 10mm in a bike's reach is relatively easy difference to accommodate by changing: 

Summary After addressing all of these issues I would then start looking at factors such as core strength, functional weaknesses and associated exercises. In short, narrowing down the cause of back pain is often can be difficult. I would suggest finding a someone who specializes in both physio and bike fitting. They exist and will likely be your best bet at tracking down the cause and finding a solution. 

I personally ride a steel bike and have no problems keeping up on fast rides (i.e., 40+ kph). Whether or not you stay with the pack has a lot to do with your base fitness, your max power threshold, how you ride (i.e., positioning in the pack and length and frequency of pulls), how well you anticipate moves within the pack and the condition of your gear. If your equipment is not kept up well, doesn't fit, or is highly inefficient then it becomes a hinderance. Without knowing what you ride this question is too open ended to answer. 

Cycling is a non-natural activity (i.e., homo sapiens did not evolve bio-mechanically over millions of years to ride bikes). As such, the only real rule is whether or not it works for you. Many road bikes are set up for racing, where the effort is high and the change in position small. Here the drops are often used for sprints and hard efforts. Because modern races are quite short most people spend the majority of time in some sort of aggressive position and as such getting up tall wasn't really needed (contrast this to historical races which were generally much longer so having a very upright position was important). For the few times where an upright position is required (e.g., extended climbs) the bar tops now fill this role. As such, over time the hoods have evolved into de facto position, with now a short distance to the drops (i.e., compact bars). It doesn't have to be though. If you go back and look at road cycling photos from the 1920-1950, the drops tended to be used more and the hoods less so. In fact the brakes were really designed to be optimally actuated from the drops. Drops were also much deeper (compared to modern road bars) as there was more of a need to have a bigger range in positions then. I would ask the following: 

Cable housing from the shifter to the frame has a kink. You made no mention of whether or not the cable housing (cable outer) was changed. If the housing is a bit short and/or the handle bars get over rotated this can damage the housing. This however should have been obvious from inspection, and I would hope a reputable shop would have looked here first, long before cassettes, derailleurs and shifters! Inside the frame, you are missing a sheath or the cables inadvertently became entangled during assembly. If the cables are tangled, then this would cause extra friction. You might be able to see this by activating one shifter and looking for movement on the other derailleur. Friction could also be increased if an internal sheath is missing. Most internally routed systems will run the cable inside a sheath to reduce friction. If is missing, then the friction is higher. The shop changed the inner cable, but depending on how this was done, they might have missed these type of problem (e.g., you pull the new inner cable through by using cable that is currently in place). 

Should work fine, assuming the BCD on the 105 52t chain ring is also 130 mm (and not 110 mm - compact). The 105 chainring will be profiled ever so slightly thinner for the 10 speed chain, but will not affect 9 speed performance. Make sure to orient the new ring in the correct position with the small metal tab (that catches an errant chain) pointing toward the crank arm. 

They are likely freezing because water is getting into the space between cable outer (cable housing) and the cable inner (the wire brake cable). Water expands as it freezes, in doing so it takes up more space than is available in an otherwise the restricted system. Because the cable housing is relatively inflexible to expansion (it needs to be otherwise your brakes would be mushy) this ends up binding the inner brake cable causing your brakes to metaphorically and literally freeze. About the only way to fix the freezing is to prevent water from getting into that space. Adding oil or grease will likely not be enough to displace all the water, and as the remaining water expands when turning into ice you are left with the same problem. As a quick fix you can bring your bike into someplace above freezing and hang it so that the water can drain out of the cable housing. A more permanent fix depends on whether or not you can fully seal the system against water ingress. This depends on the type of brakes you have and how the brake cable is routed. I have only ever experienced freezing of brakes in sub-zero conditions on a bikes that were using full length brake housing, with the rear mechanical disc brake was mounted on the lower chain stay with no real seal between the brake housing and the disc caliper. Rain water would slowly drip into the cable housing from the open end at the caliper and pool somewhere mid-chain stay. Then when the weather dropped below freezing the rear brake would freeze solid. The only to prevent this is to have some sort of seal that prevents water ingress into the housing from happening (e.g., see below) 

Typically, mini front racks have the type of mounts you are looking for. You will also likely need an arm to hold the light otherwise you will have to mount the light upside down, which the B&M is not designed to do. A number of manufactures sell these type of racks and arms. The racks will typically have a number of mounting points around the rack, mine happens to have five, two on each side and one in the front (which could use the same mount as the fork crown mount, but this would also expose the light more to knocks and bumps). In the attached picture my rack is mounted quite low to the tire (so I can attach the fender to the rack), and the light is mounted low below the rack so I can fit a bag on top of the rack without interfering with the light. As a result the pictured setup gets a slight shadow to one side. You could mount the rack and light higher which would likely eliminate most if not all the shadow. You could also mount the arm holding the light to the front set of mounts on the rack which would move the light farther forward again eliminating a shadow. I chose to mount in close to the rack to protect the light at the cost of a slight shadow. Finally, my fork has an extra set of braze-ons for these types of mini-racks. There are other types of mounting options so you don't necessarily need this braze-on to use this type of rack (e.g., via p-clamps). Some front pannier racks also have a platform like the one pictured built in, so you can use the regular mid-fork mounting point. 

Generally, being light weight you probably have more of a deficit on the flats, which would point to an aero bike. That is your frontal area per watt per kg will be higher than a larger rider who is heavier, can turn out more watts and has a bigger frontal area but also has a a relatively lower frontal area per watt per kg. As such, an aero bike would addresses your main deficit, would likely provide a bigger overall gain. Delving further into the details we can again see that an aero bike will likely provide the biggest gain in most situations. GCN (who's test riders were former pros - i.e., spindly and light weight) tested a scenario very similar to what you are asking. They compared a "climbing" to an "aero" bike over a time trial with a mix of climbing and flats. They found an edge to the aero bike by about ~1.5%.