Sputnik was launched 1957 Oct 4. At that time, what kind of radios were common in the Soviet Union? I'm interested in what kind of radios were privately owned and kept in people's apartments. What frequency ranges did they have? Were they AM or FM or both, or something different? Or perhaps was there a radio shortage instead? Could the people afford them? 

As you can see, it's very mountainous. In that respect, it's similar to Afghanistan. A war here would be very different from the war in flat East Europe. That does not mean it's impossible, but it would take a lot longer than normal. Turkey's area is about 783 thousand square kilometers (303 thousand square miles). This would actually be the 2nd largest country in Europe, if you considered all of Turkey to be part of Europe. (The largest, of course, is Russia---even if you only consider EuroRussia.) Population of Turkey in 1940: 17.8 million. From this we can estimate that the number of males aged 15 to 35 is about 2.37 million. From the mountainous regions, you would think logistics would be a nightmare too. However, the immediate question is, were there any railways in Turkey around 1940? And the answer is yes. I found a great site, trainsofturkey.com, that has a lot of historical info on this. First the 1914 map: 

There is also the fact that papyrus books were written on scrolls. You can't really write a continuous text on both sides of the scroll. 

The answer to your question is no. All fixed festivals remained on the same date, for example Christmas was celebrated on 25 December Julian, and then on 25 December Gregorian. However, the Gregorian reform did affect Easter and the movable feasts dependent on Easter. 

To qualify as “Aryan” you had to prove that none of your four grandparents was Jewish. In practice, this meant that you had to prove that they were baptised Christians. If you had a Jewish great-grandparent you would still qualify as “Aryan” if that great-grandparent had converted to Christianity and had his or her children baptised. So the Nazi “race” policy actually boils down to a question of religion. But that is because race is an essentially fictitious concept. There is a fairly detailed discussion here: $URL$ 

Historically, Syria and Assyria are the same. “Syria” is a Greek version of “Assyria”. In ancient times “Syria” designated the whole of the Assyrian empire. The Christians in Iraq call themselves Suryāyē “Syrians”. The modern country of Syria got its name in the period of French rule. 

I can't figure this out. Communism was supposed to be against nationalism. This would seem to favor pan-Arabism, which espoused the ideal of uniting the Arab lands instead of remaining divided up more or less in the same way as the British and French had established. I could be mistaken but this conflict seems to predate Brezhnev. Khrushchev seems to engage in the conflict too, with at least one exception, and it maybe even goes back to Stalin. So it does not appear to be linked to any leader's new doctrine or reform change. So what were the ideological and historical reasons for these two movements being at odds with each other? Was it more of a realpolitik thing? 

Traditionally gold has been much more valuable than silver, pound for pound. If silver is accepted, then gold should be too, unless there is some significant reason. I am searching for that reason. I learned that silver mining was very low in China at the time. Therefore silver would be relatively more valuable to the Chinese than to the Europeans. But what about gold mining? Did China somehow have more gold production than silver production, and thus silver was more valuable to them than gold? I also read that Europe developed a major trade deficit of silver over time. This would imply they sought out and tried other mediums, and in fact is one reason for the Opium Wars. Did they at least try gold? And if so, why was it rejected? If they never even tried, the question has to be "Would". Otherwise the question has to be "Did". If necessary I will open related questions about the domestic silver-gold exchange rates that existed in Europe and China at the time. 

This depends on what you mean by protest. Mexico was apparently the only country that protested officially to the League of Nations. The Soviet Union condemned the annexation of Austria, of course, as did the Spanish Republic, and (surprisingly) the Vatican. 

My understanding is that the CIA publicly acknowledged that the doctor Shakeel Afridi had informed them of Bin Laden’s whereabouts. Afridi was subsequently sentenced to a long prison sentence for “treason” against Pakistan. Surely he has a claim to the 25 million dollars. 

How democratic was the Roman republic? Slaves couldn’t vote; Women couldn’t vote; You had to own property… How democratic was the American republic? Slaves couldn’t vote; Indians couldn’t vote; Women couldn’t vote; You had to own property… Maybe a better question would be: What actually is democracy? 

If we look just at the up-market classical composers we see the following pattern: Up until the end of the 18th century virtually all of them worked either as court musicians in the service of some king or nobleman, or else they were employed by the (Catholic or Protestant) churches. Bach, for example, was a court musician in the first half of his career, and a church musician in the second half. A notable exception was Handel, who set up a profitable opera company in London. After the French revolution, when the number of petty noblemen in Europe decreased, we find composers like Beethoven, who lived from giving public concerts in big cities and by writing “Hausmusik” (music performed by amateurs in their own homes) and selling it to publishers. They also worked as music teachers for rich urban patrons. Alongside these you also have “folk” musicians traveling from place to place, playing at weddings and village feasts. 

Googling around only brought me results on current affairs. Apparently the mine is shut down today but the UN monitors it as a security risk with lots of rumors. 

For a submarine in the WW2-era, how long could it stay submerged if it was not running its engine? This is a question of crew size, oxygen, food/water, and CO2 scrubbers, and maybe other stuff I'm not aware of. I guess it's a question of battery life too, but not for powering the propeller, only for the lights and maybe air pumps. The reason I ask is because I want to know stealth capability for travels. I imagine a sub travelling on the surface at night, but at day it submerges and stays down and doesn't move (except drifting with the current). It may have to stay down longer than 12 hours if some ship happen to be nearby. I'm interested in subs of Japan, Germany, Russia, Britain, and America. Edit: I should have specified this, but I want to know how long the sub can stay down near max depth, not snorkeling. Snorkeling is done very near the surface where it can be spotted by aircraft or even other ships, and some naval surface radar could detect periscopes or snorkels around a distance of 5 miles. 

I think you are talking about Trevor Dupuy's modeling as talked about in his book Numbers, Predictions, and War. While I am skeptical of this kind of thing, I don't think it is controversial that a typical German unit fought better than the typical Allied unit. That's why we brought along more units. 

Here Curtius Rufus gets triumphal ornaments by sending his troops over the border to do some quick work Silver Mining in Germany. This is the same area that the lines would later extend out to encompass a generation or so later. 

In a recent book, "The Great Fire of Rome" Stephen Dando Collins puts forward the theory that Tacitus didn't say that Nero blamed the Christians, but that he blamed an Egyptian sect for the fire. Later writers, "knowing" that Nero persecuted Christians, changed the text. 

The usual way of discussing troop replacement is by regiment, not company. This would be under control of the regimental officers. Confederate regiments did get replacements periodically, although the system was not as formal as, say England's depot system where there was a permanent training force at home all the time. The adding of raw troops to experienced troops soon worked out the kinks in the raw troops. They would send people home to try and bring back recruits, even behind Union lines to occupied areas. They were trained with their own comrades at the front. Even so, regiments that fell too far below the line in size were consolidated into other regiments to make one more to size. So at one point, you might have the 1st/27th Tenn. Consolidated. Companies were often consolidated earlier, so a small regiment might have 5 co. rather that 10, to cut down on the officers required. The Union did not replace men in regiments until the draft, since most governors would rather appoint a new colonel in a regiment than beef up an old one. An exception was Wisconsin, which did replace like the Confederates and got a reputation as elite troops because of the improvement in size plus veteran skill over other state regiments. 

Kind of a brief ambiguous sentence there. Exactly which of Stalin's "blueprints" is it talking about? What exactly was it about Kharkiv that made this impossible? 

(Emphasis mine.) This is talking about a 3.7-inch gun (94 mm), and it begins to answer the question. However, there are no citations for it. I would also like to know where those guns were concentrated. London? Airfields? Ports? 

I'm looking for the average price of a horse, in British Pounds, around the year 1750. I'm interested in draft horses (they pull carts), not riding horses, but the difference in price between those two wouldn't hurt. And I'm more interested in colonial America rather than Europe, although I have no idea if the prices will be very different. 

Basically, Germany uses 1435 mm gauge train track while Russia used 1524 mm. I recently came across this question about the Germans re-gauging the track that they could during their invasion of Russia. I would like to ask the inverse question now. Did the Russians re-re-gauge it (during the war)? And did they re-gauge any railways in West Poland and Germany proper? What about places like Romania and Yugoslavia? 

To answer the second part of your question: William is indeed called "bastardus" in contemporary sources. However, this refers to the fact that his parents were not married. "Bastard" is not used as a term of abuse until the 19th century. 

The answer to your question depends on what exactly you consider to be an “official” national anthem. However, a case can be made for the priority of “God save the King”, first performed in 1745. Second place probably goes to the Marseillaise, which was officially adopted as the hymn of the French Republic in 1795. In the same year (1795) the great Austrian composer Haydn returned home from a long stay in England, where he had been much impressed by the fact that the English had such a sprightly national hymn, so much so that in 1797 he composed a national (or imperial) hymn for his own country, setting a pre-existing text (“Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser”). This is still the Austrian national anthem. In 1841 the German nationalist poet Hoffmann von Fallersleben took Haydn’s melody as the basis for his Deutschlandlied (“Deutschland, Deutschland über alles”). This did not officially become the German national anthem until 1922, when it was elevated to that rank by the Weimar Republic. It remains the German national anthem to this day (though the atrocious first verse is not normally sung in public at present). You can find some more information in the wikipedia article "Deutschlandlied", more detailed in the German version. 

Just as in the elections themselves, what actually went on in the USSR did not necessarily match what the rules and law said was going on. People might be cautious that if you weren't seen voting, there would be consequences no matter what the law said. 

First of all, the Missouri Compromise was not a law. It was a working agreement to avoid sectional strife over the extension of slavery into the territories. The pairing off of states meant that the balance in the Senate between slave and free states would not be upset for a time as well. The Mexican cession added new land, and the question came up on how to handle the new land. California was a difficulty, but cutting the state in half and introducing slavery into a currently free zone was repugnant enough that the South didn't really press for it. Instead, the Compromise of 1850 let California in as free, in exchange for a Fugitive Slave law that the South wanted, but soon turned out to be something of a sour deal, since the enforcement made for provocative news that irritated both South and North. The Missouri compromise was then extended over the rest of the Mexican lands. This was something of a second sour deal for slavery enthusiasts, as few thought the barren lands of Arizona would suit the plantation lifestyle. This 'peace' didn't last long. Stephen Douglas wanted to get the two territories of Kansas and Nebraska organized and did some horsetrading with politicians from Missouri. The prime slave land in the state was directly opposite the new Kansas land, and slaveowners were not keen on having free land a short distance away. Popular Sovereignty was the fig leaf to cover up this concession, and Douglas, who was tone-deaf to the extreme on the moral and political aspects here, went along. Far from being any type of moderate position, this was a direct violation of the 'deals' going back a generation and much of the North exploded in fury. Even most Southerners didn't see the point of a slave Kansas, seeing it as an untenable position. To make matters worse, Missourians poured across the border not to settle, but to fill the ballot boxes of the "Popular Sovereignty" elections with thousands of fraudulent votes. One district with a few voters turned in a ballot with 1800 or so votes, all in the same pen and copied from the directory of Cincinnati Ohio. The free-soil settlers, soon far outnumbering the actual pro-slavery settlers - repudiated these votes and soon actual civil war erupted between the bulk of the settlers and the Missouri "Border Ruffians". This conflict led to the creation of the Republican party, dedicated to the restriction of slavery into the current limits - a 'Free Soil' major party. The Democrats managed to tamp down the fighting before the elections of 1856 and won that election, but now the opposition had firmed up considerably and would likely win in 1860. While the actual line was more or less arbitrary, it did more or less include all the territory that most people thought suited for slavery in the nation, and its extension really didn't add much more. Westward extension was geographically a dead issue due to the deserts, and expansion North or into other lands such as the Caribbean would provoke a fight to the finish with the Northern majority. The South needed to accept the situation that slavery would not be extended, or pick a fight. In 1857, with the Dred Scott decision and the Lecompton battle, they chose to fight, and broke up the Democratic Party. 

Your question is like asking whether Americans like Trump. The answer – in both cases – is: some do and some do not. A part of the Austrian population – disturbingly, a rather large part – think that Hitler was a fine chap and that the conquest of Austria by Germany was just marvellous. Others, perhaps still the majority, think that the “Anschluss” was a national catastrophe. As I wrote in the comments, all of this has nothing to do with “The Sound of Music”. In general, Austrians are not impressed by that movie. That has nothing to do with any supposedly political content of the film, but with the fact that it invokes a stereotyped, sentimentalised picture of Austria; it is in fact what in German is so nicely called Kitsch. The last time I was in Salzburg a rather tedious English lady impressed on me that I should visit the Trapp family villa. I told her that I would rather pay my homage at Mozart’s birthplace. 

The general term in Ptolemaic astronomy is kyklos (cycle), which encompasses the epikyklos, the ekkentros kyklos etc. 

The Premise is a bit off here. During the Crisis of the 3rd Century as well as after, the Roman army usually could win a set-piece battle over barbarians or the Persians. The difference was that the Roman army usually wasn't around where these incursions happened, and the tribes could run amok without much opposition. With the distractions of the Civil Wars, the armies were often off dealing with succession business rather than remaining close to the border. If an emperor tried to move back to a frontier, often he was deposed. And if he was on one frontier, the others had nobody. Ironically, the first turn of the tide was the 'secession' of the Gallic Provinces and the East under Odenathus and Zenobia. These new 'emperors' marshaled the local forces much like the Emperor might have, but now there were three at the same time. This is were you started to see an improvement against the invaders, as each sector could concentrate on one area and start to make headway. The Illyrians then gave some superior leadership that began to make inroads into the indiscipline of the army (although with some setbacks as Aurelian was murdered by officers). This and the improved frontier situation allowed the Empire to be rather easily reunified by Aurelian, as the breakaway provinces really didn't want to destroy the Empire. This same solution was used by Diocletian with the Tetrarchy - having 4 emperors at once allowed each to readily respond to frontier threats. It worked well as long as Diocletian was around to be the unifying force, but broke down after that.