What would have caused this? My question is: This is the second time Australia has had 6 PMs in 10 years. What caused it the first time? 

Some have said this is mere evictions due to a failure to pay rent. Some say it is racially motivated. Some say it is a land-grab. My question is: What were the motivating factors in the Scottish Highland Clearances? 

Australian Federal Politics has been tumultuous for Prime Ministers. The last 10 years have seen 6 Prime Ministers (when a political term in Australia is normally four years). But this is not the first time this has happened. It is the second. When we look at the historic record we see the first time this happened: 

He was referring to India, Canada, USA, UK and Australia. Interestingly enough, many European countries developed democracies around the same time as these countries - but don't have this attribute. (The European Court of Human Rights is in an exceptional category). My question is: What is the reason that European Democracies developed without judicial independence? 

In general we think of Corporations as not acting on nations with force, simply with legal power. (Perhaps they maintain a fleet of security guards). We generally think of Corporations as leaving the military work to the government. (Not to say that the Corporations can't influence the government strongly for a particular military outcome - but the idea was they'd leave it to the government armed forces to take this action.) Yet when we read the history of the British East India Company, we read about the Presidency Armies. It does appear that a private Corporation in that period of history maintained an armed force for interacting with nations. In fact we read: 

When I was admitted as a graduate solicitor to the Supreme Court of the State I had studied in, the Judge said: 

In this episode of Planet America, the former House of Representatives member Barney Frank made the statement: 

My question is: What changed to make British Enclosures more profitable than tenanted subplots? -- Edit: Explanation: My reason for asking this question is that somewhere around the 16th-18th centuries - enclosures became profitable. Why did they become profitable? What changed? Here we read: 

Recently we toured the New Calendonia culture centre. Our guide pointed to this marking on a rock, and said: 

In the 2000 Sydney Olympics, we saw the teams of North and South Korea marching together. This was repeated for the 2004 and 2006 (Winter) Olympics. This didn't happen in 2008 (and we can understand that the relationship between Korea and China is very sensitive, so we allow them some diplomacy.) But in 2012 in London they didn't march together. So I'm wondering - what is going on? Have they stopped now? My question is: Why have North and South Korea stopped marching together at the Olympics? 

In school I learned about the British Agricultural Revolution - at the time this was explained as 'increased efficiencies due to crop rotation'. (This now seems a bit simplistic. We know that in Scotland, the Highland Clearances were in part driven by the fact that farming sheep became more profitable than having farming tenants. In this particular situation - something must have changed the economics of sheep farming. Was there increased demand for wool due to mechanisation of wool processing? Did a national market for mutton increase the price of sheep meat? But there were many improvements in agriculture at this time: 

This is an often discussed topic in German history lessons. Often in company with the novel The Wave. I can tell you that there is no single answer to the question, and it definitely was not the German nation focusing just on profit. Media control Look at today's media and try to figure out what is really currently happening in the Ukraine. You only see what your country's media is telling you. Watch the Russian media and you will for sure get a completely different image of what is "really" happening. The regime was no exception here. Many people in Germany actually did not know about the mass-murdering of Jews, because what the media told them what happened to them was something entirely different. There was even a special concentration camp just for the media, where everyone was happily living their happy life (while they actually weren't). Guess which one almost exclusively appeared in the media. And almost all Germans did never travel to any such camps, because why would they? Revenge There was a huge dispute between "the Jews" and most other religions (not only in Germany). I.E. greed is considered a sin, which allowed only the Jewish members of the country to operate a bank. People often felt like they were being cheated, which created a general antipathy for Jewish banks and stores. If people realized later on that Jews were "punished", some of them considered this a well deserved revenge, and media build part of their propaganda on this. Also after loosing the first world war Germany was forced to admit - against historical facts - that it was the only aggressor in this war and therefore had to pay reparations and endure other humiliating penalties. Many war veterans were still angry about this and welcomed any form of punishment against the "old enemy". Control If someone tells you to kill a Jew, you would probably refuse it, and thats a good thing. Now if they threaten you to either kill him/her or your life will end, you might start to have concerns, but probably go the heroic martyr way. Now lets say they won't kill you, but your wife/children/parents if you do not comply, also your friends and friends of your family. At some point you might consider a single life to be much less worse than the lives of your entire family and friends. And if you called them a liar, you found those people dead or mutilated the next day. This control was further established by having the so called Blockwart. Basically any random neighbor could have been working for the state (and receive benefits for everyone they report). Mention that you don't like the Führer, and next day you loose your job. Question what they do to the Jews in those camps, and your wife is in a camp next day. There was almost no limit in cruelty and creativity when trying to maintain control over the people. Propaganda Once can say many things about the regime, but they definitely were brilliant when it came to propaganda. Everything official was planned as well as any political campaign nowadays, just for the entire nation. People were told what they need to hear, they saw what they had to see and they felt - through expert engineering of events - what they had to feel. An entire nation was blinded to what actually happened by a massive machinery called the ministry of propaganda lead by Joseph Goebbels.