Will's answer is correct - this is to provide an identical example when driving: Source: Google Maps If you are headed northbound on State Road 213, the normal course of action is to continue around the left bend on SR213. However, a fair amount of traffic exits SR213 onto County Road 400 E. (I'm not sure why that little spur of road is labeled SR213 - that's not the case & needs to be fixed.) The traffic exiting SR213 onto CR400 E, should indicate they're leaving the main road by using their right turn signal, even though they are actually traveling in a straight line. (I say should because who uses turn signals these days? I know where I'm going, what difference does it make if you know where I'm going? /rant) Since bicycles, at least in the US, are supposed to be road vehicles and follow the rules of the road, you would follow the same logic, whether "exiting" straight onto another road or onto a path/sidewalk/etc. I think your biggest challenge is having people understand why the heck is this guy waving his arm about in the first place. 

Firstly, I do agree with some of the other answers that riding better can help - my main hazard is glass, and I simply got fewer punctures as I got better at spotting and avoiding it. Knowing how to avoid or handle bumps and potholes is similarly useful. 

if moving the rear wheel in the drops works, keep both tyres for the rear wheel and buy a single smaller tyre for the front (cost: 1 extra tyre) get wider rims, to flatten the tyre's cross-sectional profile (this is a lot more expensive than just buying new tyres though, and I'd hate to speculate on what width you need to save your 2mm+) (cost: 1 or 2 wheels, depending on 1) get a new front fork, only if 1 works (cost: 1 fork + maybe paying your local shop to cut the steerer tube) just get new tyres and sell the old ones - say they're unused and didn't work for your bike (cost: depends on what you can sell the tyres for) 

It seems that I'm old (my last good bike had a 5-speed freewheel and shifters mounted on down tube braze-ons - they were indexed, though!), and I've been out of cycling for quite some time. I've seen several references to a "compact crankset" and questions like this one asking about replacing the whole crankset just to change gearing. Back in my day (get off my lawn you meddlin' kids!) I would have (and, occasionally did) simply changed a single chain ring to one with a more or fewer teeth to change the gearing. Why would one now change the complete crankset instead of buying a single new chain ring? Does it bring specific advantages to the table, or are replacement/different size chain rings simply no longer manufactured? (The cynic in me says that means more profit for the manufacturers.) 

I think you're the only one who can determine if they'll be an advantage to you. In general, I'd think the extra position would be an advantage. Even with 4 positions on your standard drop bars, being able to take weight off your hands and put it on your elbows might be a welcome relief, even if it's just for a short period of time. 

It seems likely, since that is exactly NCN 4 - however, I haven't found any references to people riding the length of route 4, and the CTC route database isn't giving me anything either. For reference, I plugged Charing Cross to Fishguard into cyclestreets and it reckons a shade under 300 miles (for the balanced route). Whether that means three consecutive 100-mile days, or five 60-mile days will depend on you. I'd take the cyclestreets routes with a grain of salt, or at least study them carefully (and compare with the sustrans route description and mapping linked above). Oh, and I see about 2km of total ascent on that route, with what look like some steepish sections once you're into Wales. 

If you want foot retention without switching to clipless shoes, you could use pedal straps (like these, or these, or just search for "pedal straps"). They're fabric rather than metal or resin, so should do less damage to your work shoes. 

not in my experience. Many bike lanes in London are one bike wide, and even where the blue "cycle superhighway" takes a full traffic lane, there are no subdivisions inside it. In my experience, the space required for a safe overtake depends both on the absolute speed of the overtakee (slower-moving bikes are intrinsically less stable and, by riding closer to the edge, they're likely to encounter more bumps and obstacles) and the relative speed difference. Even a full-width lane isn't ideal for overtaking with much over a 5mph differential. By the time you're going much faster than that, you're probably closer to the speed of traffic than the cyclist you're overtaking, and will be better off using a regular traffic lane to overtake anyway. Caveat: typical London traffic speeds, doesn't apply to all roads, etc. etc. 

Go to you local bike shop. See if they have something (used will do just fine) with a cycling computer on it that has cadence measurement (any cycling computer). Ask to take it for a test ride, and get to where you feel your legs are spinning at about the same rate they normally are on your bike. Then look at the cadence read-out. About 90 RPM is what you're shooting for. If it's telling you that you're not pedaling that fast, downshift (smaller chainring, bigger rear cog), until you're hitting that number. Then, when you can get your legs moving that fast in your 48/11 on your bike, you can start worrying about taller gears. 

Can you? Sure! Should you? Well... You say it's a mountain bike - what kind of riding do you do? If you're mostly doing commuting on smooth roads, you should be able to get away with it through careful riding, avoiding curbs, pot-holes and other harsh knocks. If you're riding off-road on even moderately bumpy terrain, I'd say that's a prescription for a wheel failure which will end up in another accident, and this time it may not be just the wheel that ends up broken. As far as spoke wrenches go, when I last really worked on a wheel, the top of the nipple had a small slot in it where you could use a slotted screwdriver. It appears that they still do: $URL$ $URL$ stolen from Bike Parts Place.com You can remove the tire, tube and rim tape then use your screwdriver in this slot. I'd suggest that when you order your spokes you would want to order either a multi-size spoke wrench or a set of single-size wrenches (I just picked up a Parke Tools multi-size one last night for $10, the set was about $15) as that will make quick tweaks to truing much easier in the future. I'd also suggest ordering a few extra spokes, just to have them on hand should this ever happen to you again. Since it's your rear wheel and that takes the majority of your weight, I'd suggest that you'd want to temporarily replace both of them with spokes from the front. Where from the front you'd want to pull them, I'm not certain - I'd hope someone else will chime in on that. Pulling them from right next to each other increases the weakness at that spot, but makes it easier to maintain true, while pulling from 180° from each other spreads the weakness, but makes it more difficult to true up. As a side note, I'm curious where you are that you've got a bike with 29" wheels - I certainly don't know all there is to know about bikes, but that's a diameter I've not heard of before. 

Since the question never actually specified which part of the bike was to be oiled, I'll point out that linseed oil (specifically boiled linseed oil) is often used as spoke prep. In this case, it's used to lubricate the spoke threads during wheel assembly, and the fact that it dries afterwards is desirable as it acts like a threadlock to resist the nipple unscrewing. 

If the back wheel is locked, skidding it should still have some braking effect, so I'm inclined to view this as evidence for poor traction. 

I'm sure the driver's insurance can. Get an assessment from a bike shop, and a quote for any repairs possible, or the cost of a like-for-like replacement. Get the driver to pay for that. 

I present you with evidence that seatposts can, in fact, seize! Alloy and steel seatposts are both perfectly capable of seizing to both alloy and steel frames. IIRC, carbon seatpost/frame combinations may need carbon assembly paste for almost the opposite reason: to increase friction and reduce the torque required for a good grip. 

I have used one like this for many years: $URL$ $URL$ Amazon It's not ideal, and it doesn't hold the bike very far off the ground, but it's cheap, it gets the rear wheel up, the legs are wide enough to be stable, and though there's some flex, it's strong enough for some grunting to loosen a tight bolt. With careful balance, you can tip the bike & stand back to get the front wheel off the ground, too, but it's not ideal for that. This one (also via Amazon) has some adjustability, but it doesn't look like the legs are quite as wide, so I'm not sure if it would be as stable. No particular endorsement of Amazon for said purchase, they were just the first place I found an image of the product I was looking for. 

I have ridden roads like this, but only in large herds groups (30+ people) where we were able to draft and maintain 30+MPH in 55+MPH traffic. Also, there was a generally agreed upon "they'll have to get us all" mentality that if anyone was hit, the rest would ensure aggressive legal persecution prosecution would ensue. This ride was in the Gainsville, FL area back in the late 80's. It was very nerve-wracking for the first few miles, then it got more comfortable. We were always very conscious of the traffic, and had constant communication through the group of traffic approaching from behind. As I recall, we also had a bit more shoulder. Riding solo, I wouldn't touch it with a 10-foot pole!