This is a mistranslation. In respect to the five aggregates, the translation is 'unsatisfactory' because impermanent things cannot bring lasting happiness. 

The taste does make Adam 'who' 'he' believes 'he' is because there is no (self) 'becoming' without sense experience. 

The Pali scriptures show two basic audiences: (i) ordinary people (puthujjana), who have or are not capable of abandoning self-view; and (ii) the noble disciple (ariyasāvaka), who has or is capable of abandoning self-view. Thus there is a stock phrase in the Pali scriptures, namely: 

Although the term 'mental illness' is generally used in the world, imbalances of chemicals or neural structures in the brain are really forms of physical illness. It has been said: 

The Buddha taught in the scriptures if we see clearly we made a mistake in life, this is a positive step in our growth as a spiritual person. The Buddha had 100% understanding & forgiveness. It is good you have remorse because, as you know for yourself, abortion can make a woman unhappy. You must reflect (think) thoroughly about those good intentions for having the abortion & forgive yourself, with the understanding you have learned a lesson and you are now much more careful, wise, compassionate & loving in the future. Often in life, our real love for people & life grows from the mistakes & hurt we previously did. The Buddha taught it is from suffering the real spiritual path & development begins. 

Therefore, to answer the original question, feeling, thinking, studying, etc, have consciousness ('vinnana') as the common factor. Buddhism defines the composition of a human life into five aggregates, namely: (i) body; (ii) feelings (pleasant & unpleasant sensations); (iii) perceptions (labels); (iv) mental forming (emotions, thoughts, images, etc) & (v) consciousness. It is consciousness that allows each aggregate, including consciousness itself, to be experienced or known. Thus the common factor, in terms of 'experience', is consciousness. However, if we take a scientific approach, in terms of how these different mental functions exist, we would say the common factor is the brain or neurology. 

In response, the Buddha teaches Rahula about impermanence, unsatisfactoriness & not-self, which is a teaching leading to Nibbana (rather than mere mundane teachings about kamma & 'rebirth', which are not 'Dhamma' with a capital 'D'). 

I am suffering because I am attached to the car & do not want the car to be damaged. However, this wanting & suffering is ignorant because the Buddha taught all material & conditioned things are subject to damage & impermanence. Therefore it is ignorant of me to suffer over things that are inevitably prone to damage & impermanence. Also, the motor car is not-self. It is not really 'mine'. It is only something I use temporarily. 

Many people in general misunderstand the terminology the Buddha used, including Buddhists & even translators. If these people misunderstand the terminology then what is to be expected of Western philosophers? About 'being', the Pali scriptures report the Buddha discussed this word at length. For example, in the core doctrine of Dependent Origination, the notion of 'beings' is central to the meaning of the word 'birth' ('jati'). 

In Buddhism, 'wisdom' is something that cuts through & eradicates mental defilements (of greed, hatred & delusion), leading to the ending of suffering. Where as other types of knowledge do not. To quote: 

the Buddha actually called this painful feeling "death" ('marana') although most Buddhists believe the Buddha was referring to physical death 

loss due to natural impermanence, such as the death of a loved one hurt in relation to relationships, which have not worked out or which we were mistreated failure to achieve personal ambitions injury or dysfunction of body &/or mind 

Many Zen teachings seem to regard 'non-discrimination' as the highest thing, such as when Huineng said: 

Dependent origination is simply a more detailed explanation of the 2nd noble truth, as explained in AN 3.61. Therefore, both the Noble Truths and D.O. can be read in parallel with eachother. If Buddhaghosa's interpretation is followed, there will be a departure from the here-&-now into ideas about 're-birth'. 

In the Vinaya (monk's rules), it is said (somewhere) the Buddha's teachings would last for 500 years (rather than 5,000 years). Many Buddhists claim this did not come true therefore the Vinaya teaching is false, for example: 

What is being taught is not the teachings of the Buddha but another doctrine manufactured by others. Therefore, its not unethical in the sense of "stealing" something from Buddhism. However, it is bad karma because the "mindfulness" being taught is the suspension of moral judgment. The word "mindfulness" merely means to "remember" or "keep in mind". An assassin that must stalk a victim to shoot them must have "mindfulness". However, the mindfulness of an assassin is not Buddhist "Right Mindfulness" ("Samma Sati"). Similarly, the corporate mindfulness that teaches to suspend moral judgment in favour of having equanimity towards all corporate objectives & directives is not Buddhist mindfulness. Since Corporate Mindfulness is not Buddhist Mindfulness, it can be sold for money. 

The Buddhist tradition arose before the Socratic/stoic tradition and, since Greeks were very interested in Buddhism, it is likely the Socratic/stoic tradition was influenced by the Buddhist tradition. In other words, what is written in the question is essentially Buddhism. The following links are merely a small sample of similar Buddhist teachings: 

Seeing anatta is seeing the natural absence of 'self' in things; such as the absence of self in a drop of water. If the mind can see its knowing & consciousness (awareness) is without self; if the mind can see it is the physical body that breathes rather than a 'self' that breathes; if the mind can see the breathing is merely 'air' or 'wind' (rather than 'my breathing'); and if the mind can see the automatic happenings in meditation occur without any self; this is beginning to see anatta. 

I have been unable to find the word anumāna in the Pali suttas but found it in the later-day Milindapañha, as follows: 

When they say: "You are looking sad", this is a reflection of their own lack of knowledge, their own sadness & their own underlying fear. This has happened to me a few times before, when I used to work in an office. The Buddha taught that a person accomplished in meditation can in a 'finger-snap' generate metta (loving-kindness). 

No. 'Self' can be denied because it can be experienced to not exist. But life or the five aggregates cannot be denied. The original question is confusing 'self' with 'life'; confusing the 'name' with the 'thing'. Life is the thing. Self is the name. The name is not the thing. The name is only a name. Self is only a name given to a suffering disease. When the body of a child is hungry for food, the body cries. Later, when the child is older & can think, the mind develops the idea: "I am hungry". This shows self is the arising of suffering; is the arising of disease. 'Self' only arises when there is hunger & craving. The rest of the question is just more non-sense & is produced by lust & fear. The question is a disease born from suffering. 

For example, a small baby, before its mind/brain is mature enough to develop ideas of "me" & "I", is continually conscious of an image, sound, smell, taste & touch of a certain woman. Then one day, when the mind/brain became mature enough, it started to categorise (label & solidify) those images, sounds, smells, tastes & touches as "my mother". This categorising of "my mother" was the beginning of developing the ideas that dictate what we are or what we think ourselves to be. To continue the original quote from above so to incorporate the process of thinking: 

Therefore, on the moral level, you may straightforwardly, honestly & patiently communicate to the relative that their behavior is not constructive to a good family relationship & that you believe they should improve their manner of relating towards you. Families can be different to other social interactions in that families are a constant. Being a constant, we can be more firm in our expectations & hopes. If a relative behaves in a rude manner towards me, I straightforwardly tell them I am not interested in such interactions. The Buddha taught families that do not practise the five precepts (which includes good speech) will end up with troubles. The Buddha compared family members as 'fires' that must be tended safely. 

Also, it is a mistake to refer to SN 44.10 & insist the Buddha did not take a position on the question of whether or not there is a self. In SN 44.10, the Buddha kept silent because the questioner Vacchagotta was confused & befuddled. 

Most people are subject to greed, hatred & delusion therefore not all people will view you with friendliness & loving-kindness (metta). 

If a person commits suicide because of emotional suffering, in Buddhism, this is considered to be unpraiseworthy for at least three reasons: 

The "I" is a survival function of the (unenlightened) human mind & is actually created by the very impulses & urges it seeks to control. (Or otherwise this type of "I" is also created by social or religious conditioning). For example, sexual urges arise due to hormones & other physical & psychological mechanisms and then, a short time later, the mind thinks: "I feel sexual". Thus, the urge occurs before the "I". The "I" is a product (result) of the urge rather than the producer (cause) of the urge. A child (not conditioned by its parents or religion about right & wrong) does not attempt to control its impulses & urges. A child simply follows its impulses & urges. It is only later, when the child or adult learns through experience that some of its impulses & urges lead to harming itself or are dangerous that it tries to control its impulses & urges. However, in reality, it is not the "I" that is trying to control the impulses & urges that have lead to hurt, pain & suffering. In fact, it was not really the "I" that experienced pain & hurt. Instead, it is simply the 'citta' (mind-heart) that experienced hurt & it is simply the wisdom of the citta through feeling hurt that seeks to control impulses & urges. That is why enlightened minds (cittas) do not need an "I". Such enlightened minds are guided by wisdom (i.e. neurological sensitivity) only. It is like breaking a leg. First the pain of the broken leg arises and, a short time later, the mind thinks "I am hurt". The "I am" is not required for the mind to feel the hurt. The mind itself knows the hurt & the "I am" is extra or the commentary. That said, this business of "I" is very deep. It is natural for the minds of people to develop the "I". Since months after child birth, most feelings, sensations, urges & impulses have been deemed by the mind to be "I am". This is all part of natural human development. Generally, a mind without a development of "I" (to give it personal & social boundaries) will have some kind of mental illness. The best Buddhist explanation about the "I" is probably 'Anatta and Rebirth' by Buddhadasa. The citta (mind) certainly accumulates 'kamma'. An example is a drug addict, which accumulates addiction or craving symptoms for a drug. The drug addict decides to break the addiction and successfully enters into 'cold-turkey'. This shows the person is not the accumulated kamma of drug-addiction since the drug addiction (accumulated kamma) can be broken & cleansed. Similarly, the teachings (AN 6.63) state the Noble Eightfold Path is the path for the ending of accumulated kamma. Accumulated kamma is also something conditioned & subject to impermanence & change when the conditions that created it are removed. This is why the teachings (AN 3.61) also state what we experience is not due to past lives but to how the mind responds to (internal & external) sense experience/stimuli in the here-&-now. For example, a certain kamma in the past may have once hurt us (the mind-heart). But if there is a change in attitude or response towards that kamma, such as regarding that kamma as a "lesson" rather than "hurt", that kamma will stop hurting us. That is why the teachings state "old kamma" ought to be viewed as the eyes, ears, nose, tongue, body & mind (since "old kamma" is only sense stimuli arising in the present). Therefore, accumulated kamma is not something fixed & static but something that people can learn from, i.e., a teacher.