It sounds like much of your unhappiness is with the client company. You could ask for a different assignment, but don't hold your breath. I've tried to obtain a different assignment while in your position, but your employer won't want to put you in a different position without being able to simultaneously back-filling your spot with your current client. Your situation is actually far better than when you took this job. Currently: 

The offer you received was the first step in a negotiation. You can respond by saying you expected the advertised amount, and you can see where the negotiations go from there. Legal rights are almost irrelevant here, because you would almost never want to begin employment by taking your employer to court. 

My approach to this kind of problem is to ensure there is sufficient methodology and tooling in place to make the issue technical and not personal. For example, make sure you have automated builds and smoke tests. If these get broken, have a rule that the breaker must provide food at the next team meeting. Sometimes people will just boldly challenge the status quo in a selfish quest for personal progress. In a way, this is normal. It is entrepreneurial at best. The individual is moving forward in a framework that permits it. So, change the framework. Those types of people will not be thwarted, they will make progress in different ways. So as a manager your aim is to harness that spirit and direct it in a way that is positive for the team and the aims. Part of that strategy of harnessing will is to make sure people still feel a sense of ownership. The most popular answer here thus far advocates a philosophy of renunciation of ownership. I think this may be counterproductive. Let people passionately own their area. But make sure they do not trespass others'. 

My answer would be that this candidate did not only demonstrate arrogance, but also a lack of understanding of the difference between the things that he knows and the things that he does not know. Such a lack of understanding is crippling when trying to solve difficult technical problems. Since it appears that you role in the interview process was more on the technical side, you should focus on the technical failures. Evidently (and unfortunately) your input on the personal characteristics of the candidate are not being considered. 

My preferred way would be to tell my boss first, then privately tell those people that I work most closely with, allowing a chance to explain some of the reasons for my choice. After those that would be most effected by the decision already know (maybe 1/4 to 1/3 of the team) I would mention it in a daily stand-up meeting. I would speak positively about how I will help in the transition, and make sure to express gratitude for the opportunity to work with the current team. And be brief. The reason I prefer to leak the information slowly is to take away the emotional impact of a "big reveal." 

I would tell my old employer that they should have kept me closer in the loop. Beyond that, if this investment round is make or break for them, I would say that I had no idea I was so critical, explain I should have been told, and demand equity and access to the business plan in order to stay on. Another route I would consider is whether or not the two businesses could synergise. If so, I would suggest that a solution could be an overlap period where you work on something useful to both businesses while taking double pay. I have been in a similar situation a few times and my experience is that a) you should never walk on a project you committed to b) you should leave employers for new ones if the pay is higher and conditions better long term, where you are not on a contracted project 

This man is your colleague, he is not your friend, and he is not your brother. While it is natural and often healthy for colleagues that work closely together to discuss non-work issues, you are never required to engage with him on that level. Since your colleague has taken advantage of your willingness to act as a friend, you need to stop being a friend. You should adopt an all-business persona when working with him. If he starts with a gloomy monologue, cut him off politely with "I'm sorry, but we really need to make progress with the X project." If he takes a break for his leering at a passerby, say, "If you aren't able to focus on our work here, perhaps we should move this meeting to a conference room." In short, minimize personal contact with him, while clearly communicating that you expect professionalism from him. 

In Central Europe in IT it is expected that you join on a lower salary and undergo a trial period. In IT this can easily be 12 month, especially for a junior. To then expect a rise is normal. There is no logical implication that this would imply an annual rise. Since the financial crisis CPI inflation rarely has any effect on salary. The contrary. Since the crisis, the biggest effect on salaried employee living costs is consumer debt interest rates which have dropped annually. CPI inflation is much lower than asset price inflation. 

So re-open your job search, either immediately, or in a few months, depending on what you can tolerate. When you are asked about why you are looking so soon, just say: "I'm in a consulting role right now, but it isn't a good fit for me in the long term." Employers understand that consulting jobs involve less long-term commitment, even if you are a FTE of the contracting firm. In the meantime, do your best to learn and contribute all you can to your current team. Don't do heroic hours, but give a complete effort every day, and keep some hobby projects going to expand your skills. 

I will add one more answer to this question to emphasize several things that seem to be being overlooked. 

Do exactly as you wish. If you want a job where you can yawn when tired and dress as you wish, keep being exactly as you are, without compromise. If you feel you were unfairly treated, then screw them. You win. You avoided being treated like a monkey later. Hey this is a short answer but in a nutshell this is all you need to know. 

I would just get really riled with the coworker and tell them loud and plain that you can't work with the blind open and to damn well shut it when I come back in the room. If this doesn't work, get hold of a big mirror, preferably a fresnel lens, and point it so when s/he opens the blind,their monitor melts. This would be an interim fix until I boot management up the backside with a 'fix this before I call health and safety inspectors' warning. 

Your best bet here is to negotiate with the company that made you the offer. Tell them that you really hate giving up seven days of vacation, and ask if they could increase your vacation time in your first year. This is a negotiation, and they have no obligation to do it, but you do actually have leverage with them, where you have none with your current company. If they decline, you could ask if it would be acceptable to push back your start date a few weeks or a month to give you a chance to take some of your days off before giving notice. But asking for the company to do other than their policy with unused vacation days is a non-starter, and makes you look either greedy or naive. Try to leave well.