See: Vedanā - Attributes on Wikipedia Emotion pertain you your mental pleasant or unpleasant feeling. Also mental and physical unpleasant feeling influence each other. So if you are mindful of sensations of the body and you do get an emotional disturbance you feel unpleasantness in the body. If you are under physical pain then vise versa is true as well. This is not limited to pain alone but true to pleasant and neutral feelings also. So you if you are mindful of the body you still can feel the mental feelings through the body. Emotions give rise to thoughts and mental state. If you look at the 121 metal states all states contain Vedana. Also if you look at the metal content which are 52 each of them has Vedana intermingled, i.e., vedana is sabba citta sadharana. (Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma) Also the only way to sense any this is through contact with the sense faculties. (Pratītyasamutpāda) Hence only way to know something that happened in the mind or mental content is through the respective vedana arising from the respective contact of the mindd objects and their content. Verada is the unifying factor for all the 4 Satipatthana. 

What I do is I keep the area small and regularly change the point after while until I know I can instantly sense each point in the nose. Anapana is not necessarily Samatha. It has all 4 foundations of mindfulness. 

Nirvana is when you break out of the vicious cycle so it cannot be part of the dependent origination. 

In The Immaterial World this is possible. There might be times you fee so in meditation. Maybe when you enter Infinite Conciousness Absorption but even without this there maybe instances you may fee so. 

This is not interested for general householder. Generally you can enjoy the what this though it is called non pure. Also the joy of renunciation or joy born from parting from seeking sensual objects is considered pure. Extensive discussion see: Vedanā (Feeling): A study of the 2nd aggregate - Theme: A reflection on the Datthabba Sutta by Piya Tan 

In some cases where you get concentration unbalanced with efforts. The strategy to over come this is: 

This is through maintaining Sati, Samadhi and Sampajanna it self. 1st one should keep your mindfulness in the 4 Frames of Reference. You should have Sampajanna in the following way: 

The detail of the practice is outlined in Satipatthana Sutta and Anapanasati Sutta, but these instruction maybe difficult to follow for a beginner. Best is to take a course in it. 2 organisations with a reasonably wide outreach are: 

Kaya,gatā,sati Sutta mentioned that Jhana contemplation of the body. Though not explicitly mentioned Anapanasati Sutta, breath meditation also can be used. Do develop Jhana you have to have Vitakka & Vicara. That is you 1st bring your attention an object and retain the object by reapplying you attention. E.g in the case of breath meditation you continuously try to feel the breath going in and out. In case of body contemplation you try to feel any sensation in the body continuously and try to keep you attention on the body. This is too short to be practical meditation instruction just a pointer. In the case of Kasina you look at the device. Say you are practicing on fire. Offer a lamp to the Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha. Look at the flame for a little while and shut you eyes. Try to recreate this image. When you think about it the image will pop up an linger for a while. When the image disappears rethink about it again. If you cannot remember the details look at the flame again. As you practice the image will linger for a little longer. Adjust the rhythm of thinking about the frame to roughly to the level that you mental image of the flame looks continuous. Similarly for any other Kasina device. Beyond this point best seek advice of a teacher. I think Jhana developed through 4 Satipatthana in combination with 4 Brahmavihara would be the best approach. But having said this any of the 40 Kammatthana can be used. If you use anything other than 4 Satipatthana make use you contemplate the 3 characteristics of the Jhana otherwise you will just develop Samadhi but not Panna, hence will not be wholesome. Finally, developing Jhana without proper guidance can be dangerous. Therefore, try finding a teacher who can guide you. Currently one of the famous Jhana teachers is Pa Auk Sayadaw with many students in the west. You can try making some inquiries. 

At a more mature level how to look at this is to look at desire just as mere desire. Look at the implication of it on the 5 aggregates more particularly on sensations. Look at proliferation of thoughts what sensation this cause. The act is to get rid of particular sensations or to create new sensation. Get rid of the burning sensation of desire and the sensation when doing the act. Notice a mind full of desire is not a pleasant situation and act to overcome it by looking lust as lust at the level of sensation and that is impermanent and you cannot absolutely manipulate the desire as you want and being in desire is not satisfactory. 

There is Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) initiative where Mindfulness has been used for its therapeutic benefits in a scientific environment. 

Thai Monarchy But not sure the Dasavidha-rājadhamma is directly found in the constitution or any legislature any of the modern day Buddhist countries. At least it is not the case in Sri Lanka. Mainly because the constitution and legislature is modeled what was inherited from the British rule and constitutions and legislation of other countries. 

There istance a monk with psychic ability looked into the water and saw there were microbes and asked the Buddha if drinking will harm them. Buddha said don't look and drink. One intention of Buddhist morality is the stabilize the mind so it is free from remorse and so it can develop concentration and wisdom. So if you use antibacterial soap without much thought there are microbs and intention of killing microbes then there will be not issue. 

You can limit the pain. Due to different Niyamas you get experiences of pleasure, displeasure and neutral sensations. 1st when you experience this as and experience through the 5 faculties followed by mental experience. If you exercise equanimity the mental main is cut off. No mental reaction means you this experience is not proliferating into future experiences. All experiences are essentially unsatisfactory. 

This is the nature of the mind. Do not analyse and this is what I expect of my mind, this is what do not expect of the mind, this is I do not care where by generating pleasant, unpleasant and neutral sensations followed by craving, aversion and ignorance. 

You should have seen the dependent origination first hand in both direction The lower fetters would have dropped You should know the 4 Noble Truths 1st hand You can see the Marks of Existence (necessary but not sufficient) 

This seems like you self defence mechanism kicking in creating negative states. You are trying to protect or guard your creativity. In addition greed and craving may propel you to undertake more work as perhaps a source of income. You can still keep up your motivation without greed through proper intention. Without meditation you decision making maybe fueled by gains than creativity. Also craving and excessive desire (perhaps at the sub conscious level) to make a living may be having a detrimental effect on your creativity. 

Any experience you should be equanimously and objectively aware of perceiving (desirable, undesirable, neither) and sensation (pleasant, unpleasant and neutral) of the arising and passing or the sensation devoid of any craving or clinging while keeping though proliferation in check. When you let go there is a feeling of renunciation with again is 3 types according to Sal-āyatana Vibhanga Sutta. A house holder seeks sensual pleasure and is temporarily satisfied or unsatisfied by the experience by perceiving and desirable or undesirable or neither. When you renounce householders life you strive to stop this perceiving by understanding the universal characteristics of the experience (changing, unsatisfactory, non self). In this letting go there is a pleasure also whis is non sesual nature. See: Sal-āyatana Vibhanga Sutta, Pañcak’aṇga Sutta, Bahu,vedaniya Sutta There are 18 mental examination: 

The objective of Dhamma is the work yourself out of stress and misery which is to follow the Noble 8 Fold Path. These kinds of practices diverts from this focus. If someone start practicing being attached by such display then most likely their goal will not be tied with the Buddhist goal. Perhaps for this reason monks are not supposed to display such abilities. Even for lay, through there is not rule, it is not advisable as you are diverting the attention and focus from the true purpose of the practice. Also then meditation practitioners will be no different from magicians and illusionist, like David Copperfield. People will go to them to learn magic tricks and not to learn the dhamma with a view to Nirvana. People go to see David Copperfield for entertainment and not spiritual guidance! Also when displaying these abilities one might develop pride which would lead to one's downfall. Displaying these abilities may attract a following and belief, but for the wrong reason.