Call the front desk and ask. I've called the front desk before to ask about lots of things before an interview - parking, full name, phone extension, etc. As long as you are pleasant and it doesn't sound fishy front desk personnel are usually very happy to help. 

It's very reasonable to want to gather all your offers before making a decision. Sometimes that approach is viable, sometimes not. 

It depends what you mean by "backfire". If you honestly believe your friend would make a good employee at your company you should go ahead and heartily recommend him. A strong recommendation from a current employee (even a new employee) carries a lot of weight. If you are unsure of his abilities, you could still be a referral, but indicate to the hiring manager something along the lines of that you "know of a guy, but aren't sure how good he is professionally." Unless you are recommending an individual that you know to be a poor performer, this is unlikely to reflect badly on you. I wouldn't consider that "backfiring". 

Some choose to leave the future salary requirement open, and just refer to their current salary "I'm currently making $X, and feel that I'm worth more. I am open to hearing more about the benefits package and working with you to come up with an appropriate salary." Some don't even mention their current salary, thinking that it "anchors" the offer to a level that is too low. 

That's a great approach. Talking about it as a learning opportunity shows that you are self-aware, taking blame for your own actions, but are moving on. One incident like this probably won't be too harmful. You should probably have a discussion with your manager to see what "lack of professionalism" consists of in her mind. If it was solely the one curse word and being late a single time, well you are young and young people make mistakes - not a huge deal for many interviewers. But if there were other factors, then you want to know what they are so that you can address them. Many managers will give honest feedback to interns if you truly want to listen and learn. During interviews, don't even bring the issue up unless you must (some companies won't know you were fired or won't ask why). But if you must, I think you have the right idea. 

If the company has a culture of paying very low wages, and you don't see any exceptions occurring already, and you somehow know that you will be offered a $1 raise, then it's unlikely you can just go into a meeting with facts and figures and expect them to change their minds. They already know any facts you can bring to the table. However, if you go in with an offer from another company, it's possible (although still very unlikely) that they will make an exception in your case, and put you in a job that will give you more money. Look around. Find some other companies that would hire someone like you with your background, education and experience at the rate you desire. Apply, and get at least one offer. Then bring those offers to your meeting. Explain the additional value you bring to the company, how it benefits them, and why you are worth what you are asking. Explain to you boss that you would like to stay if they can match the other offer(s), but be prepared to leave. It's still very unlikely that a company with the pay scale that you indicate will keep you around at 50-100% more than they wanted to pay. But you'll only know by trying and by having the ability to decline their offer and leave as your leverage. 

Since you were given no timeframe, just finish and send your results as soon as you possibly can. Waiting as long as you are planning is unlikely to be a good thing. Almost certainly they will be expecting it back sooner. Maybe you will be lucky and they won't really care, or are planning a very long, extended set of interviews for this job anyway. However explaining that you won't be working on this test because you are taking 10 days off won't likely be received any better. Sometimes, timing is everything. And if a holiday gets in the way of learning enough to pass a test in a required language you don't know, then you miss a possible opportunity. It's unfortunate that you weren't capable of completing the test in the two days between the 2nd email and your holiday. In the best case, the delay doesn't matter. In the worst case it does matter, and you'll have wasted a bit of time on the test. 

It may or may not be different in France. For me, the best jobs I have ever held were in startups. They didn't always end well, but it was almost always a great ride. I far prefer working for startups. I always worked hard, learned a lot, and felt appreciated. For me it was personally very rewarding. Also remember that not all startups are in the same "stage". Very early stage startups have almost no funding. Later stage startups might have a lot of money already thrown their way. You'll want to learn this from the recruiter or during interviews. 

No. Many entry-level positions are often posted just like any other jobs. If you aren't seeing them, perhaps you just aren't looking in the right places. 

You probe for lies by the interviewer the same way an interviewer probes for lies from you. You stop asking simple Yes/No questions. Instead of just asking "Do you have CI?" ask "Tell me about your CI strategy". Instead of asking "Do you do code reviews?" ask "How are code reviews done here? And under what conditions do you skip the code review?" Longer answers tell you about what is really going on. And lies tend to fall apart as the liar goes on. Then, just as your references will be checked, you ask others follow-up questions. I always try to talk with at least one potential peer when I interview. Getting answers to related questions will give you more than just one person's view on the subject (CI or code reviews, for example). Often more nuanced views will emerge. 

I don't understand what you expect to gain by such a measure. I doubt that there is truly an "objective" way to measure something as vague as "cooperation". You might start by writing a formal definition of the term "cooperation", then listing as many cases as you can that indicate positive and negative cases. Perhaps you'll have a breakthrough one way or the other. I suspect you'll find that cooperation is a subjective term. What one individual would mark as non-cooperative, another would not. And if that's the case and you really want to make this a subjective measure, then a "diary of incidents" will suffice. 

If it were me, I'd have a talk with the boss and explain why I feel uncomfortable being the middle-man for all bad news. But knowing my boss, I wouldn't need to do that anyway, since she is perfectly willing to relay all of her own news - good or bad. So clearly your case is different. Consider talking with your boss first, explaining your feelings, and verifying what is actually being expected of you. If your boss insists on having you handle all the bad news, try to determine if it's acceptable to start the news with "The boss says..." or not. Then, you can decide which avenue you want to follow. 

In the US, it's general practice to give at least 2 weeks notice. This can vary by your position, as higher positions are typically expected to provide more notice. Executives often give a lot more notice than 2 weeks. You clearly won't want to give your notice until after you are confirmed by the Board in April. You could give your notice shortly after that, but you would need to gauge for yourself several things: 

I understand what you are saying, but I disagree. Having gone through a few years with 0% raises in the past, I believe that is what "no raise at all" really means. For those years, we would have been very happy to keep up with inflation. Contrast "Sorry, you get no raise at all this year" with "Here's a 3% raise" with "Sorry, I am cutting your pay this year". To me they are different. 

Omitting them as a reference may well avoid having them "bad-mouth you". Or not. When I'm interviewing candidates and they omit a well-known company from their references, I often have a friend or friend-of-a-friend who works there and can be a back-door reference. Thus, don't lie about the situation, or fudge the facts about why you left if asked. You don't necessarily need to volunteer any information, but be honest if questions come up. 

No. If it happened once, then it's reasonable to use this as an excuse, and tell your boss. But if it happened repeatedly (which you indicate that it did), then it's up to you to find a way to deal with it. Your boss was clearly expecting you to arrive on time. How you make that happen is your problem, not his. If you don't have any transportation other than the unreliable bus, then you'll simply have to plan on leaving for work earlier - perhaps a lot earlier, to account for that unreliability. Leave for work two hours earlier than normal for a while, and see how that works out. If that's too much, then start leaving one and a half hours earlier, then one hour, etc. At some point, you'll just make it on time - then you'll know you are cutting it too close. If you are allowed to start your job earlier than "on time", then you'll be demonstrating to your boss that you have great work habits. If not, find something useful to do before your work time starts. Perhaps you can skip breakfast at home and eat it after you have arrived early instead. 

Negotiate. Since you worked there previously, perhaps you know what the usual salary for that position would be. I'm going to assume that you are willing to meet in the middle somewhere and that this "middle" would be a "relatively good offer". Talk with your friend and say that you understand that they couldn't meet your salary demand but that you might still consider the position for a bit less. If he's really a friend you could ask him how high he would be willing to go, then base your Yes/No decision on that. Alternatively, and in particular if you are actually unwilling to work for any less than what you first proposed, then reply with something like "I understand. You have my contact information. Please get in touch with me if the situation changes, as I'd like to work with you again if we could come to an agreement on salary." That puts the ball back in his court without encouraging a lowball offer. It might get you a better offer or might not. 

I have no idea. You could certainly sit down with him and ask. But what does it matter? You have made your decision, so it would appear to make no difference to you if you go along with his wishes or not. 

The only way to understand your position is to discuss it with your manager. Talk to him. Explain that you want to do your job to the best of your abilities, but you are confused. Ask where you fit into the team. Keep asking questions until you understand. 

It's possible that they simply copied another job description and didn't tailor it adequately. It's possible they didn't put much effort into the job description because this is just a junior position. But for me, even junior positions are worth creating relevant descriptions. It's more likely that they just aren't very good at creating written job descriptions. Many hiring managers aren't good at that task. And for some reason, few companies do a great job of training their hiring managers in the process of writing job descriptions, interviewing, negotiating, and writing job offers. I don't really understand why, since these are rather important tasks. 

All of these things equate to money, and they can all be purchased outside of an employer. Life insurance, health insurance, Retirement accounts, time off (obviously), etc. can all be purchased. You don't need to depend on your employer for any of these. You already indicated that you "don't need as much money" as you are currently making. For the next step, simply factor in the cost for the "benefits" you wish to purchase in your decision regarding how many hours you wish to work and compare that to the hate you have for 40. There's nothing special about "benefits". If you want to be able to purchase more of anything, you must earn more. If you are willing to purchase less, you can earn less (and presumably work less). 

Ask your friend in HR. I'm guessing HR has a process to funnel referrals to the relevant department and thus CCing them will be unnecessary (and perhaps inappropriate), but HR will be able to guide you. 

Start with your boss. He/she will likely refer you to HR and/or payroll to correct the situation, or will explain why it is already correct (perhaps). 

Nothing you have written distinguishes IT from other teams. In any teams, many colleagues can be for good reasons extremely focused on the matter of subject and can become upset if tasks are not clear/formal enough. And many teams can be virtual, not just IT teams. I think you are imagining a uniqueness that doesn't exist. To the extent that you believe in this theory of leadership types it would apply across team types. I've seen both types of leadership in many IT teams as well as many non-IT teams. 

You haven't actually left yet. The most accurate and honest answer is probably "Furloughed". That's probably what you should write. Think this one over thoroughly, before you are interviewed. Be prepared with solid answers for the questions likely to arise based on your answer: 

As a hiring manager, I care most about knowledge and skills, just about as much about overall depth of experience, somewhat about years of experience, and not at all about number of projects. I would argue that 10 projects in 2 years or less may not be the same thing at all as 3 years of experience. For many folks that might amount to a few months of experience repeated 10 times. Your mileage may vary. This doesn't mean you can't apply for jobs which require 3 years of experience - it just means you don't meet that requirement. 

Probably not. It might not help but probably won't hurt. As you suspect, you may have to convince a potential employer that you really want to be in industry and not in academia. Some business folks would see a post-doc position as a sign that you don't yet want to be in the "real world". 

The recruiter may not be a "primary" recruiter for this company, and is offering this below-stated-range candidate (you) as a way of getting in the company's good graces. It also might be the only way for the recruiter to get a commission at all. 

Yes, there's a chance. You can play the "I'd like a little more" game as many times as you like. At some point the company will decide they don't want to play any longer. Then the company will either decide to say "No. This is our final offer. Take it or leave it." or will decide that you are no longer worth playing with and move on to the next candidate. The problem is that you may not be able to tell if you've reached the endpoint, nor what their next move will be. You've talked with them and worked with them - perhaps you have some sense of how badly they want you. So you have to decide if this particular job is worth risking in order to get 2k more. I like to go into negotiations knowing in my own mind what I would like, and what I'd be willing to settle for. Since you already told them that their original offer was "a little lower" than what you wanted, and since they sweetened their offer "a little", I suspect they are at or close to their limit. In the past when I felt that the offer was close, that I still wanted the job, and that I was willing to take the risk of losing this offer, I would say something like "If you could make if 35k, I'd accept the offer right now." So certainly there is a chance they would up their offer, and there is a chance they would not. You get to decide your personal risk tolerance.