Honestly, if you have enough time to react then you need to either swerve, stop as quickly as possible, or if you have very little time to react, get your hands (and feet) disengaged from the bike to brace for impact. The problem is you're unlikely to have enough time to react in the first place. I was hit by a car that turned left in front of me sometime back. By the time I realized I needed to react I was cartwheeling over the hood and my bike, then in two pieces, was left behind. The amount of time it takes for someone to turn in front of you is arguably more time than you'll have if someone opens their door on you in the bike lane. I've heard stories from friends that it happened to them so quickly that they had no idea how they ended up on the ground until they regained their senses and had a moment to survey the situation. What I'm getting at is that instead of thinking about how you can mitigate the damage when getting doored is inevitable, you need to concern yourself more with avoiding situations where it can happen in the first place. That's pretty simple to do. Avoid the bike lane when there are rows of parked cars. Even if traffic is bad, learn to assert yourself and take a lane when necessary. If traffic is always bad and cars are always parked on that stretch of road, look for alternative routes. Prevention is your best defense in these situations. Regarding keeping your fingers, i think your messenger friend has been fed some horror stories at dispatch and may indulge in enough alternative cigarettes to believe them. :) 

AFAIK all today's 105 and up Shimano cranksets are Hollowtech II, so when replacing your old you need to exchange the bottom bracket with bearing cups. You need to figure out what kind of bottom bracket shell you have and whether replacements even exist (only BSA68 and Italian are available). They are much better than old cranksets (easier to install, reduced weight, increased stiffness, much easier to remove). If you're changing crankset I'd definitely recommend switching to Hollowtech II, but I would not bother if you don't have a good reason to switch (wear, need for different transmission). I also recommend replacing chain and cassette when you're replacing chainrings - they are, for some reason, the most expensive parts of the trio, and you don't want to wear them excessively due to a worn chain. 

There is not that much load on the light - just add spacers or bend the mount as @super proposed, you'll be fine. 

What road pedal system can you recommend? They should be durable (pedal and cleats), have no tendency to fail hazardously and work well (a bit of float, support against rotation around the forward axis (unlike SPD), fast and reliable to enter (I can click into RXS faster and more reliable than into SPD, mostly because the pedals are in a predictable angle. I miss the Xpressos more often that not) I'm especially curious about SPD-SL and Look Keo, since I have no experience with them. Backstory: I'm currently riding Time Xpresso 4. The cleats wear far too quickly to be acceptable (5 month / 4 Mm to get uncomfortable, after a bit more I rip the cleats out the pedal on hard acceleration). So instead of replacing the cleats I tend to replace the system. I had Time RXS before and switched over to Xpresso because the RXS were good while they lasted (~30 Mm) but one broke and caused a near-accident as well as a nasty scratch from the exposed axis on my shin. I hoped Time had addressed this in newer pedals, since others report the issue as well. I realize similar question have been asked, but I still could not find one that answers the aspect of durability. 

I think those tubes of glue are pretty much universally the same and I've never had an issue with a tube drying up (surprisingly). Maybe try to get the tiniest bit of the stuff around the rim of the tube so that when you close it up that will dry up and create an airtight bond that will protect the glue inside. Come to think of if, that's probably why I've never had a tube dry up because I use the tube itself as the applicator. You can buy the tubes of glue separately but they cost roughly as much as the patch kit itself. If you really wanted to buy it in bulk, you could go to an automotive shop and purchase a tub of the stuff. Regardless of the application, it's referred to as "vulcanizing fluid" Glueless patch kits will get you home. That's about it. Not nearly as reliable as glue type patches. 

Yes, it's ok and to be expected. Even expensive dropper posts, which work via the same basic principles as telescoping suspension seatposts, have a bit of side to side movement. For the suspension seatposts, just ensure that the collar at the top of the stationary (outer) portion of the seatpost is firmly hand tight. 

Why would you blow $200 when it's the friend that refuses to learn to ride? Tell this person to get a 24" wheeled kids bike from a thrift store for 15 bucks and take the cranks off to turn it into an adult coaster bike. That wouldn't look any more ridiculous that an adult riding a bike with training wheels, and it would actually teach this person how to balance on a bicycle. 

Newtons second Law: F=ma where m is your mass (including everything, bicycle, luggage), a is acceleration. you look for solutions with a=0 here force F consists of: gravity: m* g* cos(α), g is gravitational acceleration, earth average: g=9.81m/s², α is the angle between path and vertical. air drag: ρ/2*c *A * v² where ρ is air density, c drag coefficient, A reference area, v your velocity friction: d*v, where d is your coefficient of friction your input: Fh. If you have a power meter Fh=P/v where P is your power. than you solve for α: α = acos((Fh - ρ/2 * c * A * v²- d * v) / (m*g)) now you're somewhat stuck, because some of the parameters are hard to measure: c *A and d. There are numbers around for that ( c *A= 0.4, d=1Wh/km ) but the air drag part depends on your clothes, how you are actually sitting on the bike etc. Friction coefficient depends not only on your tires and wheel ball bearing but also on the road surface. However as a cyclist you rarely get too choose your slope of descent, and there is always some equilibrium velocity where you neither lose or gain speed, since air drag grows with velocity squared - at high velocity it will dominate. At low velocity, without input of you, either gravity or friction will dominate, since they grow linearly in velocity. Of course that equilibrium velocity may be beyond what you can go through curves or what you're comfortable with, or what cars are going. 

Well there's your problem. The most wickable, breathable material in the world isn't going to achieve those properties if you put a plastic bag over it. If you don't want to be caught out in the rain, keep the raincoat in a backpack/messengerbag/pannier/whatever until it's needed. Regarding how tight the base layer should be, I would say it should be pretty tight, especially when you first put it on because it will shrink up in the wash and loosen up considerably when you sweat in it. However, if it's a little baggy it's not the end of the world, it just wont wick moisture away as well. Also keep in mind that everyone has different heat/cold tolerances. Two different people may require entirely different layers at the same temperature based on exertion, weight, preference, etc. If you're a hot blooded type, it might need to get a little colder before you put on a wool jersey. I know I'd catch on fire for anything above around 55°F 

You may need basic tools for most of the following, but if I were you I would check these components in this order: 

The two clicks are just one shift. You can do a half shift from the big ring to the small ring by pressing the downshift paddle about halfway. This is to keep the chain from rubbing when you are in a low gear in the back and the big gear in the front. This half shift is known as "trim". So two clicks up for a full shift into the big ring, two clicks down for a full shift into the small ring, one click down to trim the derailleur away from the chain when you're using gear extremes (big-big).