Michael, you've noted in a comment that legal and moral obligations are distinct, so the obvious answer to your question is: We are legally obligated to honour the legal obligations imposed on us by the government, but are only morally bound to execute our moral obligations. To the extent that the legal obligations coincide with moral ones, we are morally bound to execute them, to the extent that they don't, we are not morally obligated to execute these immoral, yet legally imposed, ones. Just to be clear, I consider the "presumed allegiance" referred to in this question to be a legal obligation, which may (or may not) lead to morally just actions. In this way of thinking of things, moral considerations come first; then one assess whether the legal obligations align with the moral ones. If they do, then your course of action is obvious, if they don't you have a moral obligation to take the moral position. In some cases the presence of the non-moral (legal) obligations may reduce our culpability for failing to take the morally preferred option, since, especially in the legal case, there are pretty direct coercive forces at play. This line of thought can be extended to other types of situations, e.g. we have social obligations to conform to the social norms of our community. These social norms may or may not have any moral aspect to them. For those that don't, e.g. some aspects of table manners, there is no moral imperative to conform. Edit in response to edited question (and some comments). This answer is somewhat unsatisfying due to the nature of the question, which is, "if you have these non-moral obligations, to what extent are you morally obligated to uphold them?", which has an obvious answer. It's pretty clear that there is no direct/logical/necessary relationship between what is legally or socially proscribed and what is moral; most people would claim that some things are moral whether or not they are legal or socially accepted etc. Thus these external influence are separate from actual moral responsibilities. The fact that these obligations are implicit does have significance for this: If you had given your word to adopt/adhere to the strictures, then you have at least the modicum of moral responsibility to uphold your word. However, since this question posits that these commitments have not been made, it is more clear that the external obligations are not really moral ones. Where I see the intersection is that these legal/social forces are a coercive force that can affect an individual's moral assessments. The usual example is when a criminal threatens you (or other individuals) with bodily harm unless you do something immoral. Most moral systems account for this type of external coercion by reducing your moral responsibility in these situations. I'd say that you can apply this same approach in order to account for the coercive effects of legal/social strictures as well. Of course, all this is predicated on (some degree) of objective moral truths. If you wanted to adopt the position of moral relativism, then you'd be deriving the moral truths from exactly these kinds of social/legal forces. 

In terms of practical reasoning, what are the constraints/conditions where one can infer that (putatively) two things are not identical on the basis of them seeming to have different properties? At first read this might seem odd, but consider the story of the blind men and the elephant: One day, an elephant is brought to town. The six blind men of the town, never having encountered one before, go to it. The first, at its trunk, declares "It is like a snake!", the second at the tusk declares "It is like a spear!", the third, at its ear declares "It is like a fan!", the fourth, at its leg declares "It is like a column!", the fifth, at its side declares "It is like a wall!" and the fifth, touching just the tip of its tail declares "It is like a mouse!". One place where this comes up is in Descartes' Meditation -- he infers that mind and body are distinct, but he could just be a blind man who touched the elephant in two different places and declared that it must be two things. It seems like one needs additional assumptions/constraints to make this leap. More Discussion I prefer to use natural(ish) language, so let "all properties same" indicate the formal statement "for a given x,y, for all properties p, x has p iff y has p" (or however you'd like to more formally state it). Leibniz's law is usually stated "if 'all properties same for x,y' then 'x,y are identical'". Implication from the properties from the identity. However, the converse implication is (seems?) obviously true: "if 'x,y are identical' then 'all properties are the same'". Thus the relationship is one of bidirectional implication. Therefore you should be able to infer "different properties therefore not identical", but it's not clear to me that you can make this inference in general; hence the need for additional constraints. 

If this definition is sufficent, then it is referring to the "conditional probability distribution". Suppose that you have two random variables, described by a probability distribution p(x,y). One can ask the question, "what is the probability distribution for x if I only considered those cases where y takes on a specific value, i.e. y=Y?". Thinking about it in terms of a finite sample might be useful. Suppose that you had a long list of pairs X_i, Y_i, were drawn from the joint probability distribution p(x,y). Out of this long list of numbers, only keep those entries match your selected (conditioning) value for y, i.e. those pairs (X_i, Y_i) where Y_i==Y. The distribution for the x values in this restricted subset is the conditional probability p(x|Y). (Formally you get the exact probability as you let the size of your table of pairs go to infinity). More often you'll see equations like p(x|Y)=p(x,Y)/p(Y) which embody the same idea, without the rigmarole of thinking about populations. 

given that U.S. recruiting officers have made this oath themselves (since they're members of the military), the recruiting officers have an ethical obligation to perform their duties as ordered; this obligation is both personal and civic in nature. Similar oaths are used for declaring citizenship and various official government positions in the United States (might be relevant for sub-question 2); I assume that similar binding oaths are used in similar circumstances in other nations as well. The primary professional ethics issues faced by recruiting officers are first dealing with legal issues of the applicants, second, not providing false information, and third not offering false inducements (or threats) to potential applicants, c.f. section 2 of these policies. The last two are similar to other "sales" types of positions, albeit with larger stakes. An example of an ethical failure of this type was an officer in 2005 promising the potential recruit that he/she would not be sent into a combat zone (Iraq) -- a promise that the recruiter could not ensure. For question 2, for anyone whose made an oath similar to the quoted one above (note that this includes all naturalized U.S. citizens), then performing their civic duty by assisting with recruitment rather than "front line" military service seems like a good way to discharge the obligations that flow from that oath. What I have in mind in the following situation: an individual has pledged their allegiance to a nation (not necessarily in a official/public way), is unable to directly serve in the military, and instead fulfills their pledge by assisting in recruiting. For 3, I'm unaware of a theory where the level of payment in and of itself transforms an otherwise ethical act into an unethical one (or vice versa). That being said, higher commission levels would seem likely to increase the prevalence of the types of ethical issues that are specifically relevant for military recruiting. The casualty rates are irrelevant per se; but again differing levels of risk would affect recruitment rates and thus put pressure on the officers to misrepresent the true casualty rate to potential recruits. To summarize, questions 3 and 4 don't in themselves automatically make the activity unethical, but they do create the conditions where ethical violations are more likely. I've structured this discussion to emphasize the the role of oath-keeping, including oaths of allegiance to a government, that apply to this activity, at least within the United States. The ethical responsibility to keep ones oaths is pretty incontrovertible, and sufficient for the discussion in this answer. One could also draw on broader ideas of civic responsibility, but there is complications in doing so. The tone of your question seems to imply that there should be issues with recruiting. I can only see this as a problem if the very fact of standing up a military is the ethical issue; if so that issue is prior to any of the detailed issues in this question.