I work remotely with a lot of people who are in another country and my substitute for the bump into them in the hall is to use IM just to say hello and chat occasionally. If you chat casually, you will start to get some of those same types of things brought up informally. We find it is easier to do this chatting if you have met people in person whcih it appears you have done. 

I do think it is fair to ask for a raise after being assigned to specialist work that requires a specific set of skills that are not common in the workplace. It sounds as if this may be a big data kind of project and those skills are highly in demand and pay much better than the average developer salary. This is also true only if the task will be an ongoing one. Raises for specialist skills for a one-time 3-6 month project are not appropriate (a bonus might be). Raises for the new permanent Big Data team are. As the lead, you might research the salaries for people with the skill sets you are asking your team to get and see if it might be appropriate to discuss salary increases with management after your team has proven themselves. However, normally that request would be for the whole team and would generally happen after they have acquired the proficiency, although it could be promised at a certain date later if the skills were acquired. The way he went about it refusing to get qualified without a raise is generally frowned on. Personally, since you have other personnel to choose from, I would move on to the next person who might be interested. I probably would have polled the team before requesting anyone to see who was interested in gaining these skills and then made my choice from the volunteers after each had a chance to make his case for why he should be chosen. There are not that many people who really are interested in the higher math skills, a more junior person might already have done some study in this area though because it was part of his interests. 

IF the manager has what he or she needs to fire the person, the he or she should simply start looking for the replacement now. Once you have hired a replacement, then you can fire the other person. Discuss with HR the best way to go about this. 

First stop enabling people. If you are the lead, then you make the assignments. If they don't do the work, then send it back to them with comments about what is wrong and insist they fix it. NEVER FIX ANYONE ELSE"S WORK WHEN THEY REPORT TO YOU. Learn to say no. You cannot be a lead without having the gumption to say no both up and down the chain. When someone says they can;t take on a task, ask what other tasks they are doing and then make the priority evaluation between what they are working on and the new task. If they don't like it that you change the priorities and move them to a new task, tough. A lead is not there to be liked, he is there to get the job done. Next what you apparently need is a priority list of deliverables, who they are assigned to and their priority. Then you can show that there is a delay due to higher priorities. This will also help you see who has the time available to work on a new task so they can't play you by pretending to be busy. If someone is not pulling his weight on the project, then get him removed and get someone who will do his job. As lead you may or may not be the actual supervisor, but if you are not then go to the person's actual manager and show them that the person is not performing well. If you are the actual supervisor, you need to sit each person down individually and talk about priorities and work accomplishments. You need to set clear expectations. Your age is irrelevant, stop using that as an excuse. You have the authority and responsibility for the project and the others do not. They need to respect that no matter if you were 12 or 85. You may however need to discuss the exact limits of your authority over these people with your boss and get his advice on how to take action. Lead is a very strange position, in some places they have much more authority than in others. You need to know what actions you can take and what you cannot. You need guidance on how to handle performance questions and how work should be assigned and prioritized. Only your specific boss can give that advice as it is company (and sometimes even project) specific. Stop spending 14 hours working, that is counterproductive and unhealthy. You will get so much more done when you stop doing this. 

Not every company calculates this the same way. Not every company pays out unused vacation. This is question for your local HR or you can look in your employee handbook which should describe the policy. 

The best thing you can do here is to make sure your own accomplishments get noticed by management. You don't need to put her down (and you should not), you need management to see you as valuable enough that they take any complaint from her with a grain of salt. Many people feel uncomfortable pushing their own accomplishments, but if they never hear the good things, then the only thing they will hear are her complaints. Eventually they will believe them unless you counter with the good things. 

Only you can determine what factors are the most critical to you. I can however help provide a structure for the types of things you need to consider in making the choice about what to do. First, this is an internship, are you getting college credit for it? Are you willing to throw that credit away if so? Next, do you have other professional work experience that will help you land a job in the field you want to go into? Are you getting any knowledge from this job that will help you land a better job in the future? In other words, is there something to be gained from continuing that you can't get any other way. Many people find their early bosses to be unreasonably harsh because they are not used to the pace of the workplace or nature of how business works in terms of deadlines and clients, etc. So as an intern, one the most critical questions you need to find the answer to is: Is this boss unusually bad or more typical of what is actually expected in the workplace? If you can talk to people who are not your peers about this behavior of this person and see if they think that he/she is as unreasonable as you think. If possible, talk to people outside your workplace such as professors or parents or other people of a generation older than you are. Do not at this point ask others at your workplace. Try for an objective, outside source who can hold the information in confidence. Next consider your own reaction to this. One of my early bosses was horrible nmicromanager (and I can still say that more than 30 years later) who pushed me really hard and insisted on following his exact process even if I thought there was a better way and checked in on me constantly. I did not however let it make me sick. Are there things you can gain from learning to cope better in the workplace? There are always going to be people who are difficult to deal with. There are always going to be stresses. Can you make learning to deal with those stresses a part of what you gain from this internship? Have you sought professional help for your depression? That said, and only you can make this determination, is the situation so bad that you need to get out now? Or can you stick it out until you land another job? Learning to deal with workplace stress is one of the most critical things you gain from an internship. IF you leave now, before getting another job, are you going to set a work pattern of running away from problems. There are times when it becomes the easiest thing to do. I am not saying that leaving one or two times is bad, but you need to be careful that it doesn't become your default response. 

You don't specify what the toxic environment is, but if you feel that you are physically in danger, then, yes, quit immediately. However if the environment you speak of is just a bad boss and/or annoying coworkers, then consider that running away when faced with a challenge is usually a poor choice. Do it a couple of times and it becomes habit. You don't want to become a person who professionally runs away every time that things are not perfect. It likely won't be the last time in your life you have a bad boss, you need to learn coping skills instead of running away. A two week notice period is nothing, it is good practice on behaving like a professional and dealing with an uncomfortable environment. You might be glad you have those skills when you are 30 with a child and can't afford to quit that job if you want to pay rent. In some ways it is also a matter of self-esteem. If you learn to cope no matter what, then you will be better prepared for life and work and you can be proud of yourself that you acted ethically even when those around you did not. You know that giving notice is the right thing to do, even if you don't want to (or frankly you wouldn't even be asking this question). Being able to phase you out of the work schedule gracefully will make life more pleasant for those who are still there. Quitting with no notice likely means someone will have to give up his or her day off with no notice to cover your next shift. If you wouldn't want someone to do that to you, then follow the golden rule and don't do it to them. 

If you are in a lower paid position, bi-monthly is harder to manage. People in well paid positions tend to forget that the extra 2 or 3 days makes it hard to get through the pay period if you make less than 50K a year. Look at the professions of your company and how many people would be negatively affected. To further my point, in most bi-monthly paycheck systems, they pay early if the payday is on a weekend. So it is possible to sometimes have the pay period be 15 days and sometimes it can be 18. That can make it three weekends in which you have to buy groceries for instance which is no big deal when you make a lot of money but is huge when you don't. On the other hand when many people pay most of their bills online and have exact due dates, it is handy to know the exact day. What you should do is an analysis of your workforce to see how many likely be more negatively impacted. You might also consider asking employees what their preferences are. 

First, your reluctance to properly delegate is part of the cause of the issue. If people know that you will get impatient and just do it, why should they put out an effort to do it correctly? There is no down side to them, they are not going to be held responsible, you are because you didn't properly delegate it. This is what you need to do. You give the person a task, you sit with him long enough to explain what needs to happen but not to do the task completely (unless is a repetitive task, in which case you do it in front of them once, then they do it in front of you once, then you leave them to it) and then you tell your boss that Person A is now responsible for task B and then you leave it to them to do and fail or succeed. Some of them are going to fail at first, but when you don't charge in on your white horse to save the day, they will have to get better or the boss will let them go. You are enabling them to be incompetent. 

I am on the other side of this - as the English-speaking person who has to frequently deal with people who are not native English speakers, I can offer some observations. The ones who communicate best ask questions and reframe what I have said into their own words to check to see if they understood me. The people who I have the most difficulty with are the ones who simply agree with whatever I said or who say nothing. Almost inevitably, they are the ones who go in the wrong direction because they didn't understand. I don't care if your English is perfect, I care about whether I think you understood what I was talking about or that what you are talking about makes sense in my business context. As one of my coworkers put it one day "If he doesn't have any questions about our database structure, he clearly doesn't understand it." We are all dealing with complex systems and complex, and sometimes downright strange, business rules. There are always questions to ask. Follow up is critical as well. An email after the call stating what you think was decided can go a long way towards making sure you have the same interpretation as the people on the other end of the phone. Sometimes it seems clear when we are discussing it, but later you start to wonder, "but what about..." This kind of thing happens to all people no matter what their native language. When a new questions occurs to you or a consideration we hadn't discussed, then please contact me and ask about it. Sometimes you won't even see the issue until you are coding (if you are a developer). I know that has happened to me. Very few of us will get upset when someone calls us again or emails us with more questions. We all want the project to go well. Sometimes, when people don't speak a language fluently, they may feel as if asking further questions will make them look as if they don't speak the language well enough and thus will be perceived negatively. But what it really does is give me more confidence in your communication abilities. 

What I have noticed is that motivated people accomplish things. They deliver products, they do the hard stuff and they are more than willing generally to tell you about their accomplishments. Note the difference between the following two answers to a question on what you do in your current position: "I write code to maintain the XYZ system. I do code reviews. I answer technical questions." "I just delivered a module that did XYZ last month and it was quite an involved project using a technology that was unfamilar to me. In fact it started from a suggestion I made when I noticed...I had to do a lot of research to pick out the tool to use and I had to solve this really interesting problem...." Which person do you think is more motivated? Now you generally have to be careful to filter out the BS artists who also can sound very enthusiatic. They however are generally not able to answer technical details when you pursue the questions further and the truly motivated who really did do what they claimed to do can. 

I think part of your problem is in your title. You don't have an insubordinate coworker, you have an insubordinate subordinate. You appear to have not yet changed your own thinking to what a manager has to do when faced with a performance problem. You appear to still think you should be nice. It is telling to me that management went right to "fire the person" when you discussed it with them. This tells me either the problem is worse than you have shared or the person has a history of being insubordinate with the previous manager and they are tired of dealing with him. You may need to to talk to HR and find out if this person was already on a performance improvement plan. In any event they are expecting this to be fixed pronto and the person to be gone if it isn't. I think Amy has some good points in her answer, but if management has already decided this person must go, then you have to fire him or show an immediate improvement. If they had not directed you to fire him, then you would have more options. So you have a problem you can't ignore. Your job is at risk in this too. Senior management wants him gone and if you don't get rid of him or very quickly turn him around, they may conclude that you are not management material. It sounded like he didn't take you seriously when you told him he could get fired. So likely you were too gentle with the message. There are times to be gentle and times when you need to be blunt. This is one of the "be blunt" times. Call him into a private place and tell him exactly what has to change and how you are going to measure progress of lack thereof and how long he has to turn himself around before getting fired. Consult with HR on the firing process, so you can tell him exactly what the steps are and where he currently stands on those steps. You aren't doing him any favors by being nice. You are making it more likely he will get fired because as long as he thinks you aren't serious, he won't change. Tell him that you respect his technical work and that you don't want to lose him from the team, but that his behavior is not acceptable. Give specific examples. Tell him the specific problems his behavior causes. Tell him what he will need to do to in order to keep his job. Then be ready to document every bit of what he does and have a weekly session to discuss progress. If he makes no progress, you need to fire him within a couple of weeks or as soon as you can get through whatever process steps your HR has. You say he gives orders when you are gone. Make it clear to the rest of the team that he is not in charge when you are gone and they should not do what he tells them to do if it goes against their better judgement or if it goes against what you have previously told them to do. It is better in the short term to accept some delay in a decision while they wait for you to return. While you are working through this issue, I would take care to be out of the office during work hours as little as possible. You suggest giving this person responsibility for a small team. This is a horrible idea at this point. If senior management had not already been involved, it might be made to work, but at this point you have to assume that he will be gone soon. Don't put a project at risk by putting him in charge. A viable alternative for future problem children is to see if they want a transfer to another team. If someone doesn't want to work for you, then moving them elsewhere can be a win all around. However, given managment's reaction, it is unlikely they will approve such a move for someone they think should be fired. Also for the future, don't bring these problems to management too soon (if you don't think the person should be fired, you need to work it out without going to senior management). Try to work with the person and get the improvement on your own. Bringing it up too soon makes you look ineffective. The first thing you need to learn is to not accept this behavior from the start. The first time he was insubordinate, you should have called him on it (privately) right then. the longer you let something go one without addressing it, the more sure the person is that there will be no negative consequences.