As Cort Ammon points out in his excellent answer, there may be roles in the economy that cannot be acceptably performed with such a law in place. This will be handled in one of two ways: Either that role becomes an exception, or the negative impacts become a plot element. There is a bigger issue of whether the productivity of labor is sufficient with such a policy in place. If that productivity isn't high enough, the problems it will cause cannot and will not be solved by paying everybody a higher hourly wage, but that won't stop a government that thinks it can rewrite the laws of economics to suit its whims from trying. Doubling the amount of money, while leaving the amount of actual consumer goods the same, will only double the price of those consumer goods; the number of people who are doing without these consumer goods will remain the same. What is required for this system to work is that with the populace limited to working only 26 weeks out of each years, all of the consumer goods desired will still be produced. There is only so much that people can do in the 130 days per year they are allowed to work. If that is not enough to meet their needs and desires-so-strong-they-are-taken-as-needs, there will be problems. If the government remains jack-ass stubborn about this policy (and governments are nothing if not jack-ass stubborn about policies with which they are enamored), the people will try to get around the law: 

Let's not forget culture. If the apes are still a tribal culture, we can put then out of business by sending in a few special ops guys to bump off the leadership. Then we wait until the contenders to replace them prevail in whatever internecine struggle takes place, and then a bit more for them to get their act together to the point where anything can get done. Then our special ops guys go in and whack those leaders. The apes become a far less predictable force, but any action requiring large-scale coordination become impossible. 

Craft up a bunch of other languages. Pick a few of the words from each, and substitute them into the existing words in the language of focus. Take a handful of other words, and make them more general in meaning, more specific in meaning, or give them a meaning related to the original meaning, and have a few of them completely flip meaning. Take a language feature that seems really complicated, and simplify it. 

Will the AI gain the capability to coerce other intelligences (whether natural or artificial) and would it have the capacity for pride? If the answers to both questions are yes, then the AI will be capable of desiring and imposing a top-down society. 

Locating potable water. You are gone in a week if you cannot do this. Hunting. Farming won't cut it, because law and order will have ceased to exist. Robbers will take your harvest and you will starve before the next harvest comes in. If that happens when you're a hunter, you can hunt the next day. Building a simple shelter. Building and tending a fire. You'll need to keep warm. 

Not just deforestation, but also de-deforestation. Before humans got the ability to fight wildfires (not all of which are started by humans), they burned out of control. Now we can put them out or create firebreaks. The other major change to the landscape, courtesy of humanity, are dams and other hydrological projects. 

The God only wants followers who accept His teachings. He doesn't want false followers. People whose hearts aren't in it are always looking for excuses to bail. The impostor provides them with a ready-made excuse. 

I may have missed this in the other answers, but there is another point to consider. Any protrusion from the armor will provide another way for a spear thrust to catch the armor instead of sliding off. This could be the difference between staying on your horse or being roughly pushed off of it. 

I am surprised that the reasons given in the Lensman series appear to have been forgotten. The race that is uplifting humanity is locked in a life-or-death struggle with another race that is ruthless and tyrannical. Although the Good Guys can presently hold their own, they are reaching the limits of their potential, whereas the Bad Guys' ultimate limit is much higher, which means that unless the Good Guys can find someone to take up the mantle, the war will end with the triumph of evil. The Good Guys survey the various races in the galaxy, and discern that humanity's potential far outstrips their own, but it will take too long for us to develop naturally; so they work to accelerate our development. Read the series. It's a classic of the genre. 

Pick the language whose native speakers form the highest proportion of the people whose input led to Ganystravian. Write Ganystravian using, as best you can, the alphabet of that language. Note that unless you are going to visually represent the written language, or a language barrier of some kind is an important plot element, you don't need an alphabet for Ganystravian. Instead, use the alphabet of the language in which the story is written. 

I'm going to suggest a different tack, and advance the idea that the radical collectivism came first, with complete prohibitions on recognizing any distinctions between individuals, except that of the Great Leader. At some point, implants that provide the capacity to monitor an individual's thoughts and to punish any dissent (by directly stimulating the parts of the brain responsible for sorrow, so that the dissenter is instantly and supremely miserable) are developed and implanted into everyone, except that the Great Leader's circuitry does not allow others access to his thoughts, or the capacity to punish him. He uses this imbalance to set everyone else against each other, so that anyone who rises one hair's breadth above the rest is immediately dragged down by the rest. In short order, everyone but the Great Leader is ground down to the same level. Then one day the Great Leader goes to the Great Reviewing Stand in the Sky, and everyone else, now all dedicated to monitoring each other for non-conformity and punishing any such, continues on. Since the only individual with any real creativity in the bunch is now dead, all scientific advancement slows to a crawl and the society stagnates for centuries. Then, one day, they are contacted by species 2. Having accepted for centuries the notion that the end justifies the means, they implant their monitoring and compliance hardware into the members of the landing party and compel them to lie about the nature of species 1's society, so that species 1 is given access to the scientific and political leadership of species 2. This access is then leveraged to bring all of species 2 into the fold. It snowballs from there.