This is all just my theory of chain slippage, but it checks out with the rates of how mechanical wear occurs. It also explains why or how anybody can have those pictures of completely worn cogs while still able to bike (if your chain is the right length for most of the time you wear down your cogs, it'll all be gradual, individual link wear). If chain length weren't a major factor in slip, as soon as the teeth wore down a little bit, the effect would be the same mechanical situation as an increased inter-link distance, the chain would slip like crazy, and they wouldn't be able to bike any more to produce that massive amount of wear. 

Arkel: £154 Reviews aren't great which is a bad start. When wearing it as a backpack the dirty side would be on your back. It doesn't look waterproof. It's very expensive compared to other offerings (at least in the UK at the moment). I can't tell why it's this expensive because (despite the current weakness of the pound) the Arkel website states it ships from the UK. Vaude Cycle 22/28 

Sounds like there's been some good progress since this question was asked. I've found the following options. My use case is a 5 mile commute Mon-Fri with some approx 50% commutes requiring transportation of a tiny mobile office followed by walking that office around a city. Here are the options I've found (UK). Ortlieb Pannier Carry System 

Exactly as per the title. This is surprisingly hard for me to google. I found one estimate of about 10 pounds, and the tech at my LBS "guesses" that a standard 30 x 8 x 53 box weighs 2 pounds. For long distance shipping, that much of weight difference can save a lot. 

Brake pads for a rim brake are usually treated with Carbon Black (powered carbon) to make them last longer. This is what makes them black. When I ride a road bike in hilly areas, the carbon black accumulates on the rim and on areas surrounding the brake pads. Later, if I ride the bike in the rain (without fenders), this powder mixes with dirty water kicked up by the wheels, and spreads around on the frame of the bike, and into gaps on the headset and bottom bracket. If allowed to dry, it becomes extremely difficult to remove. Right now I remove as much as I can with elbow grease, and then make an abrasive paste out of water and baking soda. The paste works pretty well, but leaves a residue. Further, on some of the really bad stains, it seems to spread out the carbon as much as clean it off. It still needs a lot of rubbing. Is there a standard cleaner in which carbon black is soluble? Is there a better way to remove it? 

SJS: £53. This looks promising. The mounting equipment is on the opposite side to the straps so not digging into your back. Also in favour of this arrangement is the observation that the side away from my rear wheel doesn't tend to get as dirty so my back should stay as clean as it can. I can't see any sign of a rigid frame so packing it carefully is probably required to make the backpack comfortable. The silver coating looks to be retroreflective which is very desirable. It seems quite large; could be a good thing but on panniers this tends to result in heels knocking on the bag, hitting the bag going through narrow gaps, and losing your keys down the bottom. Arkel Bug 

Daniel R Hicks had the right idea in the comments. (It should have been an answer). I replaced an old, barely skipping chain with a brand new one, and it skipped a lot more, right away. I finally figured out that it was too long (by 3 links), but by this point, my two most commonly used sprockets had been worn down by all the slipping. When I was looking around for this same answer a while back, I found most people talking about worn teeth/sprockets, narrow chains, and minor adjustments. I think a properly sized chain is the best foundation for avoiding this problem, and should precede all the other troubleshooting steps. Edit: There is a commonly held belief that a stretched chain causes a lot of wear on cogs simply by virtue of the increased spacing in the chain. This makes only a little sense. While an increased inter-link distance will put more stress on an individual tooth as you pedal, it's only causing a very minor and slow amount of wear compared to a chain that is slipping. (The movement plus friction of a slipping chain is going to remove a lot more material from more teeth than a static pressure on individual teeth or a tiny amount of single-link slippage). I think what's going on when a chain stretches is the following: 

The other answers rightly point out that being able to pull up on peddles can help improve power output but completely overlook low speed bike control. To help with balance when the bike is stationary it is very useful to be able to pull the forward pedal up just slightly and apply a tiny amount of pressure. This can allow you to stay clipped in and immediately accelerate rapidly when a traffic light turns green (because proper cyclists stop at red lights). And that applies to a fixie or a freewheel. Toe straps and cleats both allow this kind of pedal control. 

SJS: £25. I already have two Ortlieb classics so this would be great, but I can't see how this would work day-to-day. Sure it looks solid and comfortable but I'd need to carry that around too? Carradice CarraDry Rucksack Pannier - Grey - 27 Litre 

Is it safe to cycle while holding an Umbrella? Obviously it's at least a little less safe than biking without holding something in your left (or right) hand. But how much more dangerous is it? Specifically, suppose that I'm biking on a flat-ish, smooth surface, on a day with almost no wind (say 5km/h), at moderate speeds (say 15km/h) and in enough rain that the umbrella is helpful. I commute by bike every day, and have recently moved to a new location where the weather often produces these conditions, and where the folding bike and roads I ride on often lead to the above scenario. Recently I have begun riding with an umbrella in hand after observing several other riders doing so, and have fallen off thrice while learning, producing one minor injury to my toe. For comparison, I had one fall and no injuries while learning to use clipless pedals, and one other injury-free fall in the last 5 years. What I really want to know is this: Assuming someone does this regularly (presumably like the other riders I see), is someone who rides in the conditions mentioned above 10% more likely to suffer a serious accident or 10 times more likely? In the former case, I view the enjoyment / safety tradeoff as being clearly in favor of the umbrella, in the latter I take the opposite view and will stop doing it. Ideally I'd like to see a study on the subject, but since such a thing doesn't exist (AFAIK), guesswork or anecdotes will suffice. 

A tiny amount of cog wear occurs when a chain begins to stretch. It does not cause slipping (beyond a small amount that happens on an individual link basis). This tiny amount of cog wear doesn't cause slippage, but it sets the mechanism up for step two. When the chain becomes long enough from the stretch (or a new and excessively long chain is installed), a number of things can allow step one above to lead to extreme slippage. The rear derailleur may not be at an angle or tension that will hold downstream links to the cogset in a way that prevents anything more than single-link slippage. A new longer chain won't be straight, and any misalignment in either the front or rear derailleur will cause the chain to skip off the cogs. Etc. As soon the chain is too long to contain slippage to one link at a time, and the whole chain slips at once, massive amounts of wear occur. The cogs become unusable a lot faster than they would with the same inter-link distance but a shorter chain. 

Always Cycling: £62. This looks pretty good. The pannier mounting brackets looks sturdy. Worth noting it looks like the lower fixing requires a horizontal tube at the bottom of the rack to clip onto. These days not many racks (including mine) have one. The part which would touch your back is hidden underneath the zippable cover whilst riding so although conversion between backpack and pannier might be a bit messy, once done you should be fine. Doesn't look very visible in the dark, and doesn't look very waterproof, but it does come with a waterproof cover in a zipped pouch. Looks like it has a rigid frame as well. I own another normal Vaude backpack which my Dad gave me and he wishes he never did it's such a well designed and well built bag. Conclusion so far I'm on the fence between the Vaude and the Carradice. Both seem reasonably priced and very practical. Carradice seems a little large but extremely well designed and therefore more suitable for being on a pannier. The Vaude looks more suitable for being a backpack. I'll update this answer if/when I purchase one/both. 

So apparently at least some of the more sophisticated thieves will go to the trouble of separating the cutting from the theft, if they know they are under surveillance. 

As a simple measurement, look at the size of the chain ring (the big gear that the pedals attach to). If it's bigger than the biggest one on your current bike, you'll probably be able to go faster. If the chain ring on the new bike is about the same size as the biggest one on your current bike, look at the little gears on the rear wheel. If the smallest one is about the same size as the smallest one on your bike, then then new bike will have about the same top speed. If the new bike's chain ring is smaller than the one you have now, it will probably be slower, unless it has a much smaller gear on the rear wheel as well.