To properly determine the orbital path of the asteroid, you'd need to do a numerical simulation (the three-body problem here likely not having an analytical solution). There are certainly $n$-body tools in place, although you would have to modify them a little bit to use them (you could also build your own using a symplectic integrator. You would have to specify the position and velocity vectors of the asteroid and Earth at the time of impact (both masses should have a negligible impact on the Sun, pun intended). After that, you simply reverse all of the velocity vectors and the sign of acceleration due to gravity (essentially, treat it as a repulsive force); the latter could involve modifying the source code to an $n$-body integrator. Then, simply watch as the asteroid - and all three bodies, in fact - trace their paths back in time. Add the other planets for a more computationally expensive but far more accurate asteroid trajectory. If you don't want to do all that, you could just pick and choose a random Near Earth Object (NEO) that might do the trick and look at its orbit. As of this month, we've identified over 15,000 of them, so chances are good that there's one with detailed enough information that satisfies your criteria. In general, many NEOs have elliptical orbits, as the following graphic of Potentially Hazardous Asteroids shows: 

Water is different from air, and sound waves propagate through water in a different way than they do in air (caused in part by interactions with the bottom of the body of water). For a society living underwater, this could lead to some interesting innovations in music, and musical instruments. For example, currents might help or hurt control of string instruments. What types of instruments would develop in an underwater society? There a few main groups to focus on: 

Well, a meteor strike would be devastating. I'd predict a large crater, as well as other effects, such as an impact winter. A lightning strike wouldn't be on the scale you asked for, so that's out. A nuclear explosion - eh, not really large-scale. So I think your only plausible option is the meteor, which will have severe global effects. 

It is true that this type of star - massive and luminous - will not last very long, and it will be difficult - not impossible, but difficult - for planets (and life!) to form around it. However, as the last paragraph of the question states, 

Climate change Let's say that a species lives in a world that used to be temperature. Over time, though, greenhouse gases were released from deposits in the soil, thus increasing the temperature of the planet slowly. Over millions of years, the species evolved to better survive in these warmer conditions (for example, by getting rid of fur). Now, when they have developed this genetic engineering, an asteroid hits. Suddenly, temperatures drop substantially, bringing the climate back towards where it was originally. The species doesn't have the technology to adapt to this using machines - but they can "devolve" back to having fur or other characteristics they had gotten rid of when temperatures rose. I don't know the details of the members of the genus Australopithecus, but I do know that given that they dwelt in Africa, they were most likely suited for hotter climates than many humans are today. So perhaps we should use the reverse of my example - a case where it suddenly gets much hotter, not much colder. 

Napoleon declined because he thought his victory was assured. However, he underestimated the strength of the coalition against him. The conservatives of Europe (see above) wanted to maintain a balance of power among the top nations (chiefly Russia, Prussia, Austria, and Britain), which would be shown again in the Congress of Vienna. A powerful France did not fit into that picture, and so they would do whatever it took to stop Napoleon. They had enough force on their side to do it, too. And if it didn't happen in 1814, it would happen later, because none of the major powers would be willing to align with France for anything. At that point, it was France vs. the rest of Europe. France lost. But it could have salvaged the war. And yes, it could regain its power with time, even if it accepts the proposals. It just has to wait for Europe to become unstable again. 

Specifically, the calculation for $\Delta E$ is $$\Delta E=\frac{GM_*^2}{R_*}\left(\frac{M}{M_*}\right)^2\sum_{l=2}^{\infty}\left(\frac{R_*}{r_p}\right)^{2l+2}T_l(\eta)\tag{2}$$ However, this only becomes important at a radius $$r\approx\left(\frac{M}{M_*}\right) R_*$$ For a planet, though, this radius could be pretty large, given the enormous mass difference. However, the smaller radius might shrink the radius. For a planet like Earth, $r\approx 2.12\times 10^{12}$ meters . . . which is over 1 AU. So tidal heating would be important at orbital radii less than this. 

There have been questions as to whether or not the emission spectrum of a Dyson Sphere would match that of a brown dwarf. It is certainly the case that the peak wavelengths would match that of a brown dwarf, with the most radiated in the infrared. In other words, if you looked at a Dyson Sphere and a brown dwarf with an infrared telescope, you would see two similar sources. If you measured the emission lines, though, you would definitely see different materials in the two objects - there's no way around that. And yes, the radius of the Dyson Sphere would be much larger than that of a red dwarf - so certainly larger than that of a brown dwarf. And, as pointed out by jdlugosz, a brown dwarf is much smaller than a red dwarf, even without the Dyson Sphere - so that would - as s/he said - be a "dead giveaway." So I will completely revise my initial response, admit that I was completely wrong, and say that a Dyson Sphere could not disguise a red dwarf as a brown dwarf. Thanks to all those who commented and pointed out inaccuracies and errors; the answer is the better for that. 

1 Three of them are in resonance with one another, and perturbations by other bodies do ensure that the system is chaotic, but it does not seem that their orbits are unstable. 

Use chicken manure. Other animals, besides livestock, also produce good manure, with different qualities. Now, not all manures are created equal; they differ in composition, volume, and production rate. If we define one "animal unit" as 1,000 pounds of animal, then one dairy cow unit produces 15 tons of manure per year, while one chicken unit produces only a little bit less than that. So in terms of animal mass alone, chickens are as good as cows. There are also some compositional differences. Cows can, under good conditions, produce up to 17 lbs of nitrogen per ton, and 11 lbs of phosphorous per ton. Poultry can beat that by a lot - 32 lbs per ton and 56 lbs per ton, respectively. Not all of the nitrogen and phosphorus in the dung is usable, but that's fine - chickens still beat out cows by a lot. Per animal, yes, chickens come nowhere near cows. But that's fine; chickens don't eat as much as cows. And besides, that's pretty much your only option for non-human-based manure. Also, chickens have other uses - and when selecting an animal for manure, that's something you want to take into account. With chickens, you get . . . 

I've done some reading, and the situation is plausible. Accretion rates can be computed, and whilst encounters between stars this close are extremely rare, they're still possible. I didn't list density parameters, but those can be found rather easily in the scientific literature. Taking all this into account, I'm looking for answers based in hard-science. 

Abramowicz, M. A. and Fragile, P. C. "Foundations of Black Hole Accretion Disk Theory" (2013) Backman, D. et. al. "Epsilon Eridani’s Planetary Debris Disk: Structure and Dynamics based on Spitzer and CSO Observations" (2008) Bondi, H. "On Spherically Symmetric Accretion" (1951) Debnath, U. "Accretion and Evaporation of Modified Hayward Black Hole" (2015) Gavnholt, J. et. al. "Calculations of the Flow Around a Sphere in a Fluid" (2004) Janson, M. et. al. "The SEEDS Direct Imaging Survey for Planets and Scattered Dust Emission in Debris Disk Systems" (2013) Nesvold, E. R. and Kuchner, M. J. "Gap Clearing by Planets in a Collisional Debris Disk" (2014) Paczynski, B. "Evolutionary Processes in Close Binary Systems" (1971) Stark, C. C. and Kuchner, M. J. "A New Algorithm for Self-Consistent 3-D Modeling of Collisions in Dusty Debris Disks" (2009) 

I think another defining factor is how large the ship is to begin with. If you have more components (more engines, wings (for a spaceplane), landing gear, etc.), there's a greater chance that something will be damaged, but a smaller chance that everything will be damaged. If you take 10 engines and spread them out along a spaceship, the craft would have to be totally obliterated for none of them to work. Chances are, you'll get a couple that are okay. And if one of the crew is mechanically adept (I hope!), a few more could be salvaged. That said, you won't be able to rebuild the original ship. A lot of crucial components will be damaged or destroyed. But you can probably make do. If an X-wing fighter crashes on a planet, the upper (or lower, depending on the angle) two engines could be intact. You might also have damage to one set of wings (again, it depends on the approach angle and, in this case, if the wings were spread out or bunched together). You won't be able to re-build the X-wing, but you might be able to cobble together some two-engine craft that can get off the planet. 

I'd suggest that they may lose at least partial immunity to a decent extent within a decade or two of leaving Earth. According to Smith et al. (2014) (explained for us laypeople here), the number of disease outbreaks has been rapidly increasing over the last few decades: 

Finale Thanks to everyone for the comments and answers. I've thought a lot about the various suggestions over the past few days, and I've realized that no one method is going to be enough. I've decided on a combination of methods: 

Nope. I am a moderator on Stack Exchange. If you put me in a position to control a country's military, infrastructure, and economy, the government will collapse within the week and we'll all die. Moderating internet trolls and the good-natured bunch of y'all that make Stack Exchange sites tick is one thing. It poses its own unique problems, and there are some analogies to real-world government: 

$R$ is the radius of the pink circle; $r$ is the radius of the red circle. We set $r$ to 5 and find $$R=\frac{10}{4 \pi ^2 (0.5)}=1.59$$ The width of a torus is $R+r$, which becomes 2.09 miles, a slight improvement. Note, though, that a sphere would be the shape which is the easiest to travel through. Cons: