We know exactly how much it had of something when it began We know exactly the rate of the accumulation of the thing, and the rate is constant. 

Diamonds are expensive. Really expensive. Even "cheap" synthetic diamonds are orders of magnitude more expensive than conventional fossil fuel. By using them as fuel, you will increase demand, thus increasing their price even more. And synthetic diamonds have to be made somehow, and you need energy for that. Diamonds burn, but they don't burn well. For example, look at this video of diamonds burning in pure oxygen. The burning sustains for about a minute after the heat source is removed, but then it stops. So then, you need to apply a constant source of heat, and this requires energy. You will probably have to put in more energy than you get from the combustion of diamonds. Kinetically, diamonds just don't burn as well as other things with carbon (like fuel or wood or coal). One of your arguments is that diamonds burn "cleanly" (let's not forget that CO2 is a pollutant as well). Burning of natural gas emits only CO2 and H2O, so it's a much better alternative when pollution is a consideration. Diamonds are so much more useful for other things. Don't waste diamonds on energy production! 

The simple answer is that you can't drill to 50 km depth. The deepest holes ever drilled were to a little more than 12 km, one is named the Kola Superdeep Borehole in Russia, which was a scientific drilling project. The very few others were oil exploration boreholes. Drilling that deep is extremely expensive and hard. If you go and ask anyone who ever worked on a drill rig, drilling the second 100 metres is always harder than the first 100 metres. And we're talking about kilometres here! There are several problems with drilling that deep. It's extremely hot down there, and the drilling equipment just breaks and stops working. You also need to pump cooling water in and pump out the stuff you're drilling and it gets harder with depth. This is simply not feasible. Now let's say that you did somehow manage to drill a hole to that depth. How would you put monitoring equipment inside? That equipment has to sustain heat and pressure and still keep working, while being able to transmit whatever it's reading back to the surface. This is not going to happen, not at 50 or 10 km depth. Another problem is that not all earthquakes are that deep. Some earthquakes originate near the surface, or just several km deep. Having a monitoring station down there isn't going to help. The 2011 Tohoku earthquake (the one that triggered the tsunami at Fukushima) was only 30 km deep. Same thing for the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake. 

Source: Steel Data You can see small fields for "Diop" and "wolla" slightly above the centre of the diagram. This is not an easy diagram though, and it's of limited use to geologists. If you're studying ternary systems I recommend you go through these instead: Ternary Phase Diagrams 

The movement of molten rock (magma) underground is the cause of volcanos and earthquakes associated with volcanos. Note that these kinds of earthquakes are usually very weak and their destructive power is very small, at least compared to the actual volcanic eruption. 

The diopside–wollastonite–silica system ($\ce{CaMgSi2O6-CaSiO3-SiO2}$) was never studied for crystallisation paths in igneous systems. This is not a system encountered in terrestrial magmas, so no one bothered. However, it was studied as part of a more general lime–magnesia–silica ($\ce{CaO-MgO-SiO2}$) system by material scientists and they came up with this: 

This question (if you can call it like this) is not even wrong. Let's ignore the fact that the title has little to do with the actual content of the question. Let's discuss your statement: 

The best place to ask this question is going to be at xkcd: $URL$ but I will give it a shot. I'm not a geophysicist, but I'll try to give you a reasonable enough answer. As you said, making such a hole is not possible. However, let's try to think what if some magical force made a hole 1 km wide and then suddenly released it. This is what the Earth is made of: 

No. There is no such thing as "serpentine patterns". The image you link to is of "folded serpentinite". The "serpentinite" bit of it are the green layers, regardless of whether they are folded or not. The nice photogenic folded part is a later tectonic event that is unrelated to the formation of the serpentinite. 

So by saying that mountains never existed at all, you are implying there are no tectonics. That would be a sad thing - one of the things that make Earth so alive and interesting is the fact that we have plate tectonics. Go and have a look on Mars, the Moon, etc. There are no active tectonics there are those are dead places. 

Melting lunar dust of basaltic composition will result (unsurprisingly) in basalt lava. There might be some volatile loss - if for some reason the basalt had some H2O or CO2 trapped in the solid you will most likely lose it. It's probably not going to change its chemical properties much though. On Earth, as lava cools down fast, for example when it's erupted underwater, or when it's the top of a lava flow in contact with air, it quenches to volcanic glass. When it cools down slower, there is enough time for small crystalline material to form in it. These are usually tiny crystals in the μm size. On the Moon, I reckon the lava would cool down slightly slower than on Earth (since there is no air to conduct away heat), but since you're talking about a lava layer which is only 2 cm thick I'm pretty sure it will cool down fast enough for the formation of glass, and any crystalline portion of it will be negligible. I am not sure whether it will crack or not. From my own experience of melting rocks, when you have a similar amount cooling down in Earth's atmosphere, they crack. But then, silicate glass does not crack when cooled down in air. I guess it comes down to the composition of the rock/glass. The lava will not percolate down to the regolith. Lavas hardly penetrate soils on Earth, so it is probably not going to happen on the Moon where the gravity is much weaker. If I were looking for construction materials on the Moon, I would just build a quarry. Seems easier than melting down dust. 

Not necessarily. Their final crystallisation temperatures (aka "solidus") are also lower than mafic magmas. That's why they are liquid at temperatures that mafic melts would already be solid. This has little implication to the distance they travel (to a first order approximation). 

It's slag. Usually when you find something that you think is a meteorite, it's usually a slag. My biggest hint is the presence of what seems to be air bubbles visible in the first picture. You don't get those in meteorites. Also, the brown rim? It's weathering (aka rust), not a fusion crust. 

Your rock is chert. See this answer for reasons why: $URL$ I would add that it is a nice example of natural chipping of chert, seen by the circular pits all over the rock. The sample principle was used by prehistoric peoples making their flint tools. 

tl;dr: no. Hydrocarbon deposits form by thermal maturation (i.e. slow and mild heating) of buried organic matter (i.e. dead things) in sedimentary rocks. This is exactly why you find hydrocarbons... 

"How does it look" is only one criterion out of many for rocks, and it is commonly the most misleading. A granite has many different appearances. Quartzite, limestone, basalt, can all take many forms. Weathering, alteration, fresh surfaces vs broken surfaces, desert patina or stream-polished can all change a rock's appearance completely. Grain size affects colour. Lighting affects colour. There are many more than 10 types of rocks. Basalt, gabbro, granite, rhyolite, dolomite, limestone, sandstone, shale, diorite, trachyte, ijolite, kimberlite, komatiite, eclogite, blueschist, greenschist, a conglomerate containing all of the above, and the list goes on and on. Some rocks may not even be rocks. Smelting slag, coal, hardened dung, a piece of concrete or any other kind of synthetic construction stone. The many other tests used to identify rocks may not be applied properly by people with little experience. Is the mark left by your knife on the rock really a scratch on the rock, or is it the streak of the knife? Is it really hard or is the scratch you just did was actually silt sized grains of quartz dislodged? What's "heavy for its size"? Everything is relative. Where a geologist sees green, brown, yellow, black or red, a non-geologist sees brown, brown, brown, brown and brown. Even professional geologists sometime disagree on what a rock is. I've seen (and been part of) so many arguments about rocks, and I have 7 years of experience in this thing. Occasionally the verdict is given by... Methods to positively identify a rock (thin sectioning, scanning electron microscopy) that are not available to the general public and probably not even to the amateur geologist. 

source: $URL$ ...where a granulite was rehydrated along a joint to form eclogite, but it's usually very localised and uncommon. Most prograde metamorphic reactions are exothermic, i.e. they release heat. Retrograde reactions are usually endothermic. They require heat in order to proceed, but in the event of exhumation, temperatures are decreasing. There is simply not enough heat around to support the retrograde reactions. Furthermore, you have to remember that lower temperature also lowers the reaction kinetics. 

Source: nature.com Recent research shows that not all water is lost. Some of it may actually survive the way down deep into the mantle. The identity of the carrier minerals and the exact conditions are still a field of active research and new discoveries are constantly being made. This would most likely form water-rich and water-poor regions in the mantle. The water content of the mantle will thus be quite heterogeneous, which raises the question of how representative was the ringwoodite discovery. After all, it's only one data point. So to summarise it, yes. Water from the surface can end up in the mantle. This doesn't necessarily mean that this is what is happening, and it may be equally likely that the mantle water is indeed primordial. 

First, a small correction: Fe, Co and Ni and considered chalcophile. Mg, Sr and Ba are lithophile. Ar is atmophile. Here's the classification, just in case you need to have it in front of your eyes: source: the Wikipedia article on Goldschmidt classification 

Finding what is the norm of the rock. A norm is an estimation of the ideal mineralogy of an igneous rock, based on the chemical composition of the rock. The most common norm calculation method is the CIPW norm, but there are other methods as well. For starters you should do fine with the norm. Instructions on how to calculate the CIPW norm are available in your favourite petrology textbook, here, or here. I've also seen some algorithms that do it for you, but their success varies on the silica undersaturated side of the rock spectrum. Now that you have the norm, add together anorthite and albite to count how much plagioclase you have. You are also given the rest of the minerals. Now all you need to do is use the normalised relative proportions of each triplet of minerals to place them on the diagram. Here's a refresher on that. 

Both are correct to some degree. Basalts are usually the result of direct mantle melting, below the crust. This is the case in the famous volcanos of Hawaii and this is also the case in the most common type of volcanism on Earth: the mid-ocean ridges (albeit hidden below several kilometres of sea water). Most other eruptive rocks (rhyolite, andesite, etc) are usually the result of either melting of the crust, or interaction of mantle melts (basalts) with crustal rocks. A very large portion of these rocks erupt above subduction zones (most obvious example being the Ring of Fire). The reason is that wet subducting oceanic lithospheres get heated and lose their water. We usually think of water as something that puts out fires, but in the deep Earth it actually lowers the melting point of rocks. This causes melting in the crust, and eventually erupts as volcanoes. This is a very simplified overview of the subject, and it's a very active area of scientific research with sometimes opposing opinions. But the basic story is somewhat established: some volcanoes (mostly basalts) are products of mantle melting, while others (mostly other stuff) are products of crustal melting. 

That earthquakes open cracks allowing magma to flow. It may actually the other way around: when magma flows, it cracks rocks under pressure, causing minor earthquakes. Large earthquakes, from the kind that destroys things and kills people, are usually unrelated to magmas. That there is magma everywhere underneath the crust, and it's deeper than oil deposits. Again, not necessarily true. The overwhelming majority of the crust and the mantle are solid. There are localised areas where melting occurs (the location of active volcanos is a sign of that). Usually, these locations are not where oil deposits occur. And even then, magma chambers can be very close to the surface. In some cases about 1 km below the surface or less. Oil deposits can be several km deep. 

This is not correct. When calculating that acidic or basic character of a rock, you have to take into account the entire rock, in what is known as a "whole rock" or "bulk rock" composition. You don't separate $\ce{SiO_2}$ of various minerals in the calculation. 

The better site for sample collection would be the accessible site where it's possible to pick up a sample. Unless you have a drill rig or an excavator, you are limited to what's exposed. If you still have access to several zones of the pluton, take all of them. The more samples you have, the better it is. By choosing not to sample a certain zone you might be missing out on information. The dating method should be zircon U-Pb dating, unless you have a very good reason why not to. Zircons are stable and robust, and with modern analytical methods it may be possible to resolve more than one age in a single zircon, representing for instance recycled detrital zircons. 

It has sharp conchoidal fractures. The top of the first image and the right of the second is extremely characteristic of chert. These fractures are what makes chert a perfect raw material for flint stones used as tools in pre-history. See that chipped off bit in the bottom-centre of the first photo? That's 100% chert. It is hard. Although you refuse to scratch it, I can tell it from the picture. Such a rock with so much chips and fractures has no obvious scratches on it. Chert is very hard - and it is almost impossible to scratch it with a knife. Go ahead and have a try, you have my word for it (some random guy on the Internet). It has those reddish-brown bands and colours in it. Very common in cherts, usually formed by small amounts of iron. I'm guessing this is from Western Australia, where iron ore is mined from. That place is full of chert with bands like that. 

I'm also suspecting that the black porous part could be magnetic. You can try that, but it could be that it's just a less-pretty part of the chert itself. Chert is one of the most common rocks on Earth, composed of almost pure SiO2. As yours isn't particularly spectacular it probably has little monetary value. 

Yes. Both igneous and sedimentary rocks can be metamorphosed. For example, a high grade metamorphic rock of the amphibolite facies could have been originally either a sedimentary rock or an igneous rock. It's not always straightforward to figure out if it was one or the other. Note that because igneous rocks already consist of "high-grade" minerals such as pyroxenes, amphiboles, feldspars, etc., and their grain size is already occasionally coarse, it may not be obvious than an igneous rock have been metamorphosed. Sometimes it takes a closer look to distinguish a metamorphic igneous rock and just an igneous rock. Sedimentary rocks, on the other hand, are originally composed of clays and other "low-grade" minerals so it's obvious when one is metamorphosed. A metamorphic fabric (foliation and the likes) is also much easier to develop in originally sedimentary rocks than in igneous rocks.