You would ideally title yourself as a software developer or software engineer. In your case, you have experience with back-end languages and frameworks which, in some companies put you squarely in programming the back-end of websites, far removed from the design. Other places would have you using a lot of HTML, CSS, PHP and some frameworks, bridging the contexts of design and function. The degree of specialization often depends on the company size. Website/graphic design is concerned with the presentation and organization of information in the medium. In a perfect world, having an expertise in graphic design would carry over well into website design, but website design comes with its own idiosyncrasies and rules for good practices. So those designers have to understand the technical requirements and limitations for design for an online medium. 

I have an unusual problem in finding work. I have been in many interviews (over 10 in the past year), but none of them produced any job offers. However, the employers I've interviewed with are impressed by my resume and ability to solve the problems given to show that I would be productive. This leads me to find an observation for most jobs that I apply to (mainly a hard-skills technical job). Everyone needs soft skills to survive the interview process. But for those more inclined for technical work, once the job is held, these soft skills are suddenly not as important or used with the same sense of urgency, or at least they're not the same type of communication skills. They feel underused in the job compared to the interview. As an example, I do not know how to translate my ability to communicate well with co-workers on a long project into the ability to convincing interviewers and play the salesman for saying why I should get the job. Speaking to an interviewer to me feels a lot different and more difficult than speaking to a team member to discuss project goals. I consider then different kinds of communication skills. I probably don't know how make them work at an interview, so here is where I want improvement on. 

To me this is a problem, since everyone was involved except for the one that could actively fix it: the consultant. Have you had an open discussion with him regarding the problem? Maybe he isn't even aware of it and doesn't change because he doesn't see a reason to. I'd venture and guess said employee will become fairly frustrated being dismissed from a project without even having a chance to improve, particularly one where he set some expectations. All of this is based on the assumption that his behavior isn't critically rude and/or misplaced, rather being a mild problem. Besides from that, I am a firm defender of honesty in both directions, and you can even use the opportunity as a chance to make sure the problem doesn't occur somewhere else. Just sending him off to a different client without proper and frontal communication of the reason is an excelent way to make sure it will happen again. 

I'm also portuguese and unfortunately this is very common, not to see if you're valuable or not, but because students are seen as disposable. Granted, this doesn't mean you have to put up with it, and you shouldn't. At all. Talk to whoever is in charge of your internship in your school and tell them about your situation, stating that you'd like to change to a new "client" (this is the first point where knowing if you have a signed contract with them can change things up). 

Don't. I understand you may be angry at them for using you, but don't start a war you're bound to lose. I'm not sure if they can sue you (again, a contract matters a lot here) but I know that they can give you a piss poor evaluation, not handing a recommendation letter, etc. In sum, making so your experience there counts zero towards your curriculum. Unlike other answers you may have, I am of the strong opinion that if you bring value to a company, it doesn't matter if you're a student or an industry veteran, they should pay you. Imagine going to a store and saying "I won't pay for your shirt because since I will be wearing it so much other people will see it and come racing to buy it". It's ludicrous, and accepting it only perpetuates the problem. edit: a couple of extra thoughts. The "students are disposable" mentality is so ingrained that even your teacher might tell you that "that's how it is, sorry". If that's the case, look it up yourself. I can tell you from experience that there are a lot of companies willing to provide paid internships. They won't pay much, but it is something. Regarding stealing the company product, I may have come out wrong when I told you not to do it because of the consequences. You should never do something like that even if you think you can get away with it. It isn't ethical in the slightest. 

Sounds a lot like my previous job... I was contracted to get a start on .NET and Flex projects and in the they put me working on LAMP/WAMP stacks (which is what the company eventually got into and dropped everything else). But in my case I was already familiar with those stacks whereas you will have to take on something new as a challenge. I would say just go with what you've learned already because in the end, these languages/systems are just a tool to meet the end of a goal. As someone just coming out of a training program, you won't have much say in the company until you can produce some results. Leverage your back-end experience to work for Javascript, and learn a framework or two. You'd be surprised how complex the language can be. Also, you'd get a better understanding of how server-client interactions work. Also, understand that the demands of a company may constantly change, as it was in my case. However, we cannot tell exactly from your question if this will be for one project only, or if the company wants to keep you in front-end for the long haul. If you are being compensated fairly, I wouldn't complain about it for now. Part of being a competent and reliable worker is to adapt to the dynamics of the company. 

The last two weeks have fallen really short of these expectations. If I don't have work, I don't have hours to report, so I do not get paid. This makes me feel like I've been put on furlough, but doesn't that usually apply to paid employees and not contractors? 

I have signed a contract a month ago to start getting consistent work from a company. The boss promised me an average of 25 hours a week (but that wasn't explicitly written), but for the past two weeks there have been no reasons for me to come into the office, as there was, to my surprise, no work being offered to me. Even my boss hasn't shown any concern at me not showing up. Project managers typically come to the employees for more things to do, but they are paid on salary. Here are some relevant statements from the contract: