Give them some financial stake in the outcome. I say financial as this is developing country and financial incentives are likely to be very welcome. The simplest way I feel would be to simply give people bonuses where proactive actions benefits the company. This balances chicken/egg of not paying more till you get results and not getting results until you pay more. Commit the company to paying non regular bonuses. Of course this system can be gamed like any other - so you have to manage it. 

The point was that I would be lonely during work, but I'd mitigate it by interacting with people every day. These days I use IM and make sure I have non work & work related conversations with colleagues too. An important thing to remember is that you are working, so you need to focus. If you're clever you can use the isolation to help you focus on the work better. This means that you may be more effective but at the same time you have to watch for mental fatigue and a good way to combat is to follow the steps above. These days are lots of things that are accessible via the internet such as meetup.com where you can get together with people for professional or non professional networking. One person I met like this a fellow programmer who lived locally and we used to code review for each other. 

In short, it's because you don't get paid for something based on how long it took you to learn it. You get paid for something based on how many jobs are out there vs. how many qualified people there are for those jobs and how necessary the job is to the viability of any one project. Animation is a creative field so there are a lot of people out there who want to do what you do (and as implied, the issue isn't that what you're doing is considered "less valuable" but really the opposite: in spite of all the training there are a ton of people out there who want to do what you do). Additionally, only a relatively small slice of jobs require animation (really, it's pretty much game development and that's it) so unlike, say, web development, you only have a few game dev companies and the odd smattering of medical professionals on the labor demand end instead of virtually every medium to large business in existence. Since there are more animators out there than there are animator jobs, some of those are going to get filled by people willing to make less money than they "should" be making, and then you, as an entry level person, are where you are. 

We are a small startup of 10 people (web tech in heavy industry). We have a rather peculiar setup since 2 of our founders and 2 devs are situated in one country (call it location A) while the other founder and 4 devs including me are in another country (call it location B). 1 dev is working remotely. We are one company though. Until two months ago, there were no devs in location A and until one month ago I was alone with the founder in location B. We then had three people working remotely. I am the head of software development. Ever since the founders in location A decided to also get devs at their place, things have started to become turbulent. It starts with them all being of nationality A, while we are very mixed here. Before they also got devs (they essentially just hired them), we had the agreement that the technical development was taking place only at location B, and business development would happen at location A. They plainly said they needed some devs there, too (of nationality A), to get certain government funding from country A, not giving us a chance to try to convince them otherwise since this would make communication quite hard. We by now at least managed to have those devs develop one separate aspect of the product, so that we have some kind of clean separation of concerns here. But this is not where it stopped. They since then hijacked pretty much all Slack channels by simply using their super user powers. They are not just listening but actively taking part, even in the dev channels where we have some heavy dev talk. They just throw in a question or suggestion which to date has always only led to confusion, waste of time and was plain wrong from the beginning in the first place. Also, they tend to joke around in those channels, while it is clear that we have special channels just for that. Furthermore, they have begun to start watching each and everyone of us. They monitor what everyone is producing and pretty much only talk with all of the devs directly, circumventing my and 'my' founder's authority. They essentially never talk to me directly. For example they give a junior dev certain instructions which I only realize a few hours later since the dev thinks this is how it is. Like this, they are heavily undermining our scrum process by practically assigning tasks as they please. I have talked with 'my' founder here at location B about this. He then told me that one of the junior devs also approached him about this. But at the same time he says he cannot do anything about it, his hands are tied. Earlier this year he once told me that he had given up arguing with the other two founders since it didn't lead anywhere. I told him that he would nevertheless have to strengthen his position to oppose the other founders, but he has given up doing that. So my question now is: Can I do anything about this? How can I make the founders in location A leave our Slack channels at least? My approach would be to set up regular meetings to inform them about everything they wish to know, at the end of every sprint for example or more often. Is this the right way? Telling them that is also costs a whole lot of their time? Additional information: To my knowledge nothing has gone wrong in the past that would require supervision. I do assume that they kind of are not happy with 'my' founder and therefore decided to do everything by themselves, however not having any clue about software development and its processes. 

There is no point in getting well paid if you're going to be stressed out and unhappy. This is a large part of your waking hours that you'll be spending there. 

This doesn't preclude either, but it might give hints as which might be more suitable in the near term. The second criteria I'd use is this: 

Try and get a paper trail with the request. Determine if you think doing it is likely to be either illegal or not. If illegal you should immediately get legal advice. This may prove in valuable in the future. Make a decision as whether you're doing it or not and for what reasons. Face the consequences of doing it or not. 

I'm not disputing your claim that you will likely find racism. It can exist in even the most tolerant of societies. However experience has shown me that there are at least two kinds of bigotry that can sometimes affect immigrants. The first may well be overt/covert skin/nationality based racism such skin colour or national history. @shauna's answer has some excellent points about this. The latter I find is that your experience/qualifications may not be accepted as 'good enough'. I doubt this may be the case in your situation, but it's worth bearing in mind. To counter this you should perhaps consider that being a member of professional societies and/or having professional qualifications that are respected in that country may well help. Also consider networking with pople from that country first - perhaps though international conferences and or internet fora where you can meet people in a strong business context first. For example I would consider starting with LinkedIn. In the end you have to work harder to prove yourself. And you may have to set the groundwork now by increasing your reputation within your working network while you are still in your original country. 

It's possible that your boss took this in the joking way that your dad inferred. Nevertheless, if it's bothering you then that's as good a reason to sit down and talk this out at work. Explain to them the truth about the situation as truthfully as you can (my one admonishment would be to avoid throwing your dad under the bus; just maybe say that he has an "off the wall sense of humor" or something along those lines), including that you in fact think they are a very intelligent person and you are grateful for their tutelage. My experience is that people like to be complimented, and even if there's no lingering bad feelings from that conversation, hashing this out has nothing, I don't think, but good consequences for you. 

To the unanswered question of how you, the prospective employee, handle this, I would attempt to head things off at the pass. If you're concerned that people will see all of your experience and assume you're stuck in your ways, come to the interview prepared to talk about that new technique you've learned. If you keep getting fired from jobs, don't try to blame multiple firings on people other than yourself; ideally you want to try to pinpoint what you were doing wrong, fix it, and outline how it is that you fixed it. If you just need the job, you probably owe it to the other company to tell them this - if they're hiring in the industry they probably know if times are tight. You might not get a job you were planning on quitting in six months anyway but at the same time that company might find opportunities for you come in humble and ready to work. In a sense, "you are overqualified" is one of the worst cliches in the business of business. It almost always means something other than "we think you are too qualified for the job at hand and think you will do too well at it". Your key as a potentially overqualified person is to figure out what they really mean by that phrase and speak to it instead of the stated concern. 

If you can't get anything in writing (including proper emails). then you need to immediately move to step two and seek legal advice, even if it's just to determine if the work is likely to land you with negative consequences. 

Not that I'm saying you should either or . Rather I'm saying you need to define these things and put them into the equation. Finally, and this is very important. 

Number number numbers + analysis + numbers! What I'm basically saying is that you need to present a business case to whoever makes the decision as why you need one. The easiest case is usually to determine how much more your work costs the company using the existing hardware and how much they'd save if you got different hardware. The costs are not just financial (though they will come down to this at the end), they could be things like impact to other people in terms of delays in getting things to them. Log each time something has gone wrong or taken too long. Did you have to log a support call. How much time did you waste? Did you have to get help from others. Every 12 x 5 minutes adds up to a wasted person hour. Every 5 of these adds up to a wasted day. I've done this for clients where server performance was inadequate, and for where I've need better hardware for specific tasks. Also it's not jsut about asking for "a new computer" - it's about telling them exactly what computer they need to get for you and why it benefits them to do it.