I think there is a confusion in your question between the premisses and the empirical consequences of a theory. 

Here is an article (in french--abstract in english) from Bitbol on Destouches: $URL$ The most notorious result on contextuality in QM is Kochen-Specker theorem. See this entry: $URL$ The theorem says roughly that one cannot assign non-contextual, definite values to all observables of a system in pain of contradiction. Some interpretations solve the problem by selecting a priviledged observable (generally the position as in bohmian mechanics and GRW), other by assuming the contextuality of measurement results (Everett-like interpretations). Concerning the link between contextuality and wave-like behaviour, I don't know Destouches' contribution on the subject. The closest I can think of is this article which explains intuitively why QM can be seen as a generalization of a probability theory (with complex numbers as probabilities) and how this is related to some fundamental aspects of QM $URL$ A complex number can be represented as a positive coefficient and a phase. If you impose continuity constraints over space-time, you get something pretty much like a wave (sorry this is not a rigorous proof). 

To the extent that a philosophy of organism is required for a biology book, Dawkins already does that, with his (or Niko Tinbergen's) concept of "survival machines". 

Robert Nozick, I believe, was the first to propose an argument for something like this, in his book Anarchy, State, and Utopia, pg. 169-172. I quote from pg. 169: 

Most Indic scripts are not as linear as Latin scripts. Devanagari features compounds and conjuncts where some letters modify other letters from left, right, above, below, or within. But why is that relevant? Indian languages can be written in a linear form as well, commonly with IAST or ITRANS. The same goes for mathematical expressions. Your two-dimensional example is often written in a linear way in LaTeX or Mathematica. 

This video gives a good overview of many kinds of implications. The source material for his lecture was mostly Jonathan Bennett's A Philosophical Guide to Conditionals. 

"One must imagine Sisyphus happy". Yep ... because imagining the likely reality would be too painful. I think Camus is using 'severity by opposites'. (I am quoting myself as I don't know the proper term for this.) This means there's no words that carry the weight needed so instead you use words from the opposite end of the meaning spectrum. For example if our waiter asks if we enjoyed our meal, given that the plates are clean, we could say 'inedible ... hated it ... We want our money back and we didn't even pay yet.' The absurdity gives weight to the depiction. Alternatively, nope. Sisyphus has free will and that means one can choose (to pursue) to be happy regardless of the situation. Camus is saying that, conventionally, it's not possible for reality to give us the external circumstances for instant gratification. Every single conscious person, through free-will, can choose to pursue desensitizing themselves to an otherwise unpleasant reality, and possibly, ultimately, learn to love, be happy with, something you previously hated. I will offer the very very dissimilar in scale example of me and broccoli. I hated it until age 30. I forced myself to eat it ... masking it with spices or such, and now it's my favorite veggie, and I also prefer veggies as my main food group (previously being 'junk food'). 

The best expression of how quantum mechanics conflicts with realism is the so-called measurement problem. Assuming scientific realism (that the theory describes an independent reality), one faces the following trilemma: 

There is no problem studying unique systems in science (the earth or the sun are examples). As for the problem of totality: cosmology is not about the totality of facts but about the global structure of the universe. 

In complement to other answers, I'm wondering what conception of probabilities you have to assume for your paradox to go through. The paradox seems applicable not only to discreteness, but to the idea that the world would have an infinite number of possible configurations more generally. So even if the world is discrete rather than continuous, it is enough that it would be infinite in size (and so could have an infinite number of possible state) for its actual state to have probability zero. But in such case one could be tempted to say that there's no contradiction in the idea that the universe would have a specific state among an infinity of possibilities. If you assume ignorance probabilities, that would mean that the actual state of the world, or the table in your example, is "unbelievable". Now we only form beliefs on the basis of our observations and concepts so perhaps conditional probabilities would be more appropriate, but you could obtain the same paradox with conditional probabilities (given that our knowledge is finite). But one could object that what we are disposed to or have reasons to believe is irrelevant to the actual state of the world and that your reasoning is spurious. So you have no reasons to believe that the table is at any specific position, yet it is, but there's no contradiction here. Assuming nomological probabilities instead of ignorance, the conclusion of the paradox would be that it's nomologically impossible that the universe or the table is in the state it is. But in the case of nomological probabilities, why assume an uniform distribution on possibilities? For example, if the universe is deterministic, there's probability one that it is in its current state given its past state and no paradox ensues, except for the initial conditions of the universe, but why assume that all initial conditions are equally probable? This seems quite metaphysical at this point. Finally, note that in the case of quantum mechanics, nothing has a perfectly determinate position and probabilities are generally defined over quantified (discrete) possibilities so the paradox doesn't occur, even though space itself is continuous: this is because measurements would be discrete events and would never be of infinite precision (at least in some interpretations). In any case you raise an interesting paradox having to do with the relation between mathematical formalism and reality. It seems that physics needs continuous space (real and complex numbers, differential calculus) to accurately describe reality, even though our measurements are always discrete, and even though infinities and continuity leads to paradoxes. 

Academic philosophy is open to discussing all sorts of questions. Your own question is of the form . However, this seems relevant only for theologians, generally not for philosophers. I'll cite just two of the many cases that discuss the . Should the baby live?: the problem of handicapped infants 

Electronics: We use boolean logic at the level of predicates. I've not come across propositional logic here. Some of the advances in the field are from finding optimal circuits for complex tasks. Linguistics: A few different kinds of logic are at the heart of many grammar formalisms such as CCG and Logical Grammar 

There is a famous, humorous resource for that, called Hundreds of Proofs of God’s Existence. Since you listed a few bulleted items, this page fits the bill quite nicely. 

They are in a sense ubiquitous. Take for example the principle of inertia in newtonian physics which states that an object will keep moving at the same speed if no force is imposed. First, such situation is almost impossible because there are gravitational forces everywhere. But more importantly, you need an inertial frame of reference before measuring a speed (and testing the principle). An inertial frame of reference is a frame attached to an inertial body and that makes the principle a circular principle. Another circularity occurs in the way mass and force are defined relatively to each other. The lesson is not that newtonian physics cannot be tested empirically. It is that the theory is only tested as a whole (and under suitable idealisations). No fundamental hypothesis is ever tested in isolation. What scientists do is build models from all the fundamental hypothesis taken together and confront them to empirical data. So one can say that the fundamental principles of the theory are never tested directly. After all the fact that the empirical consequences of the theory are true doesn't mean that the theory itself is true. The principles could well be false, while only the empirical consequences of the theory would be true. The principles would be mere convenient tools for building models and making predictions more easily. This view is entertained by empiricists. This is also true of more metaphysical or methodological principles underlying the theory (atomism, reductionism, causality...), or for example the conservation of energy, which are never tested directly. And I think this applies well to your example of unifying two different theories (although their combination might yield new empirical consequences). The fundamental principles of a theory look very much like the unifying principles you're refering to: a good theory merely unifies disparate observational regularities. However all these hypothesis contribute to the models or their application and are tested indirectly. If you were seeking hypothesis which do not contribute whatsoever to any empirical test, you'll probably won't find any because then they are superfluous and should be eliminated. 

The meaning is perfectly clear to the person who understood each of my words. It is true that I want espresso, in that context. It is false that I want sugar, in that context. 

While one could say anything at all; neither was she, herself raised on any such tradition, nor did she try to mentor others into following such a tradition herself. Based on what I know of Rand, I'd say any such resemblance is only coincidental. From what I know about Rand, she does not seem to be a discursive philosopher. Her methods seem more like the methods of Marx or Nietzsche. 

The idea of like-minded people trying to start afresh is not really original either. But then, I don't see what this has to do with Italian Futurism. 

Maybe the text you quote is a bit misleading in that it uses counterfactuals ("if we had f...") which we could be tempted to interpret in terms of possibility and necessity as you do (since you talk about necessary conditions). However the right interpretation to have of the text is not in terms of possibilities but of hypothesis: "if we had f" means "let us make the hypothesis that f is true to show a contradiction". I can't be sure but I suspect that you're not convinced by the explanation because you interpret it in terms of necessity and possibility, not as a demonstration by contradiction. I don't think one should talk about necessary and sufficient conditions here because first order logic is only about what is actually the case or not. For necessity statements, one should use modal logic, not first order logic. "f->w" does not say that w is necessarily the case when f is true, it only says that it's not actually the case that f is true and w is false. Talking about necessary or sufficient conditions only brings confusion. Modus tollens can be explained intuitively as follows: if it's not the case that f is true and w is false, yet w is false, then it's not the case that f is true. Having said that, it is true that an analog of modus tollens transforms necessary conditions into sufficient conditions. "w is a necessary condition for f" means that w is required for f to occur although it might not be sufficient. As an example, imagine you need a passport to enter a country. It is necessary but not sufficient (you must not be blacklisted, you must not carry food, etc...). If w is necessary for f, then it suffices that w is false for f to be false. In the example: not having a passport is a sufficient condition to be rejected at the frontier. So something like a modus tollens indeed transforms the negation of necessary conditions into sufficient conditions and thus this is not the right way to flesh out your intuition about what could be wrong with the text. 

Free will is being able to choose AN alternative. Free will is not being able to choose ANY alternative. Here's an example: How many numbers can you name? Would you not say you can't because there are an infinite number? So here's a new question: How many different choices are available to you right now? Well it's also infinite number of choices is it not? And you might say "Yes, but I can't choose to fly like Superman." to which the reply is that physics has nothing to do with free will because if it did then the question would be moot ... I can't will myself to fly like Superman therefore there's no discussion needed (any more than a discussion of 'why isn't superman real'?) Another opposition to free will is that 'it's the reactions in your brain that effect your choices'. Well, yes ... can one 'be' without having physicality? Just because there is 'influence' doesn’t mean you don’t have free will else the argument would be that reality itself precludes free will! ... which would again render the discussion senseless. My thinking is that consciousness means the capacity to distinguish infinity - that as being is a feedback loop then it's endless recursive. How can self-consciousness be 'bounded'? ... is there some end to the recursive feedback loop that is the 'schema'? of being? 

Youth and technology have been celebrated by an innumerably large number of people, especially the former. Rand abhorred violence, except in self-defense. 

I am not an expert, but if you ask "how can you understand why they acted the way they did?", that's beyond the scope of praxeology. I quote from Mises' Human Action: 

I concur with Eliran H, so I'll answer mostly the second part of the question. First, I don't understand the pairing of Dawkins' "selfish gene" and Dennett's "consciousness explained". I am not aware of any collaboration between the two on either of these works. I know they did not coauthor the books, but I'm talking about collaboration for the concepts dealt with by them. I have read The Selfish Gene, but not Consciousness Explained. Because of this, if I am missing some connection between the two, please add an elaboration in the question for the benefit of all who have missed the connection, including myself. 

As phrased I think the question isn't properly representing the issue. To me the question is "What is my moral obligation to be altruistic." because your sole example is a shared cause, not a personal one. Are you morally obligated to campaign for a cause you believe in? ... absolutely, 100%, if it's a personal one. Isn't personal health, both mental and physical, a cause you believe in? Making a living? Using the recycling bins. Paying taxes despite the dental bills from gritting teeth? How about happiness? If you have a cause to 'keep the world safe (so I can be happier)' then isn't practicing the skill of being happier (mental health) a cause you should champion? (If you think happiness is not a moral obligation then why would any participation in society be one ... putting out the trash, regulating one's emotions, etc. People who practice the skill of happiness don't usually commit crimes, hurt others, etc. Why is happiness not a moral cause we all share?) I think because you do not exist as a Borg you have no moral obligation to be altruistic. You DO have a moral obligation to maintain personal integrity. Very practically speaking this usually means spending whatever altristic time you choose on local causes. Most people are most often more effective making small changes on a small scale. For example a person who refuses to have children (despite wanting them) because the child will increase the carbon footprint of the world is not thinking in a healthy way.