It's not possible to make a pure fusion bomb because the weight of the equipment to achieve fusion temperatures, and the electric power station to put in that energy, would be a lot more than the weight of the biggest planes. If you were to concede the Pure constraint to using a dense energy input, it still wouldn't detract from us needing to use fission as an energy input. That already exists, and the result is that, whereas previously you could destroy the world, now you can destroy the world... even more? Same as you being dead multiple times. logical? The power of the explosives is already high enough and practical enough, the only difficulty in practical warfare is interception, surprise and large numbers. 

I am working on a story where ballistic weapons are completely banned across the entire planet in favor of smell, sound, and drug-weapons. For example, the police are equipped with somnambulizers and hilaritazers, depending on the situation... somnambulizers make someone sleep instantly, and hilaritazers have a LSD related substance, which makes people laugh and forget where they are. A huge metropolis in Texas has become rebellious and has 3D printed guns and ballistic weapons and has walled off the city, and the big brother has to make everyone flee from the city safely, using only smell, sound, and drug based weapons, so they can attend citizen-responsibility classes to read the little red book. What kinds of sensory and drug based tactics can the government use, from rotten fish, tranquilizers, LSD, fluffy toys that sing, to make the city completely docile and make people flee from it, without killing anybody? 

Your moon would be there for the effects only for a while. The stars orbit around each other, so the gravitational force on the planet and moon would change. That means that the planet's orbit isn't a ellipse; the planet will "wobble". The moon, in the planet's gravitational field, will "wobble" too - but because the planet wobbles around it. Soon (a few years to millions of years, but most likely years), our moon would get wobbled too far off it's orbit; One of the following scenarios would happen: 

According to this planet simulator and many, many tries, scenario #5 is the most probable (67/80). But until that happens... Assuming each sun and the moon covers the same angle distance as here on Earth: You'll have eclipses a bit (almost 2x) more often; The main change is that partial eclipses, eg. when at least a part of one sun is visible almost 10x more often against full (both suns covered) eclipses; Eclipses covering one sun only would be 2x more often in this binary system then in a "normal" one. If the moon gets torn apart by the gravity of the planet, a spectacular view would occur: The planet would have it's own rings! Imagine half the derbis blocking the sun... and a few years later, crashing into your spaceship! Astonishing! Helpful links, some used to calculate values: 

It's an animal behaviour question. Ants and bees and to some extent cows do this. Can humans have no territorial, sexual, racial, criminal, adventurous instincts, and no fear of death in service of it's community? Primates typically don't. It's the same as news reports about racist and sexist issues, they bypass the human rational system because they act on primate self defence instincts that act in the periphery of your concious vision and make you react emotinally faster than you have actually visually identified the subject, through a primitive fast neural pathway. It means that you have to re-program the brain significantly to make the individuals less carnivorous and tribal and more like ungulates like cows. Cows don't have tribal wars and they are settle their ownership disputes once a year and are relatively peaceful, the female cows are not very agressive. Indian Sadhus are supposed to live selflessly, but they have to defend themselves because most of the population still acts with ownership. Legal structures to turn primate instincts into a benign society are very complex in our own society. You have an idealist argument of a utopic nature which sidelines the human behavioural aspect. Everything in the human sphere today is about crowd control and primate emotions, personal thirst for blood, racism, sex, socialising, playing, thrills, and territory. The communist doctrine was written at a time with very low workers rights and worker pay in factories and was relatively good, except that it didn't give a mechanism of action, Ghandi did, and if communism and Ghandhism had some kind of combination of fervor and method, perhaps communism could have survived a bit long in spite of it's flaws. 

TL;DR: It would take 10 YEARS only to refund this project. With a \$224M input, nobody will really do this, but it's possible! Of course, that doesn't mean that it will happen. PS. If you see I made a mistake, please tell me (but don't try to find a mistake, please :) ) 

So, altogether, we get $$9700 + 244000 + 889500 + 3000000 + 554550 = 4700000$ $$ Every day. That is $4700000 × 365 = 1715000000$ \$ a year. How much does the project cost? What is needed to buy: 

It's George Lucas's marketing manager here. We are now working on a new Indiana Jones movie: Indiana Jones and the Blastproof Fridge, where Indiana Jones goes for a quest to find the sacred Superfridge, made by God himself. We're now developing a new blastproof fridge, which will not only be used in our movie, but also put into sale. Here's how it looks like inside: 

Organic speech changes over time. If the androids were programmed to be able to track and adapt to variations in speech, which they almost certainly would be, this is a non-issue. The androids are capable of learning new slang and dialectical variations at least as fast as teenagers. The critical thinking and decision making involved with making deals is actually considerably more complicated. I would expect it MUCH more likely the androids would succumb to charlatans and predatory exchange rates LONG before they were challenged by shifting languages. 

Abundant resources, low/weak predation, female dominant breed selection. You look at peaceful megafauna and they tended to get there by simply having enough to grow larger, and predators that couldn't easily take them... There are multitudes of variations on how this could happen. Think of an evolutionary path where the "smaller" ones would get killed or die, leaving the larger ones to continue to breed. As long as the environment can support the increase in dietary/shelter/space needs relatively easily, they can grow larger. This isn't too far from what you see in disparate races here on earth, different environments have different requirements of our bodies skin tone, muscle mass, and size until they become "traits" of our heritage... your world just takes it to another order of magnitude. Ensuring that the females are fighting over the males, or at least choosing the males in a method other than who can punch who the hardest, will remove the genetic benefit of males growing larger. === Edit for the clarification about the "matriarchal" requirement === You get larger females the same way you get larger males... have them fight each other. It benefits a male to have a breeding pool, multiple females he can keep pregnant and safe... A matriarchal society tends not to fight over males... cause why? There is no genetic advantage to them keeping a harem. There is no "downtime" for the male where he will need a strong female to provide for him or protect him. You would have to find a motivation, a genetic one, not a social one, to enable this. Extremely long (months) refractory periods where the males are not only unable to breed, but maybe too lethargic to hunt or protect themselves? Even then, at that point the female, biologically speaking already has what she needs, there is no reason to "protect" the male... she can just find a new one later. An argument could be made that the females have to be bigger and sturdier to be capable in a predatory environment during pregnancy... but that only makes sense if the males are somehow not able to provide them with safety. This doesn't add up... whatever time it took for the females to get stronger would make the males stronger as well. The "easiest" way would be socially... but there would have to be cultural motivations in place for tens of thousands of years before this would be significant... which is extremely unlikely. 

Even cows and goats aren't peaceful animals. peace is a human imaginary ideal. Peace from uniformity, on earth is due to herd structures like bees and ants, and this would have to keep huge intelligence structures available to organize the society. similarity can be due to lack of partiality in the brain, so perceived facial equality, wether emotional or monotonous, actual physical equality, by miosis or genetic engineering, clades of workers and nurses and things. An evolutionary logical adaption towards equal beings, is unlikely, because survival requires change and flexibility and improvement, so equality reduces survival and flexibility. superintelligent beings coudl have just a chip in their head that overrides their antisocial instincts. 

You can check out simple radio electronics, and design one using nanotechnology... So, Graphene is used for the antenna, it's a tiny long graphene ribbon implanted somewhere rigid, because it has to be as long as a radio wave, i'd say an endoscopic implant in the top of the head. The capacitor would be a few microns, made of a futuristic ceramic perhaps, and the diode would be a few microns of germanium. describe a radio circuit in nanotechnology and connect it to the ear/the brain. Radio-Waves travel far, because they interact very little with matter. If there was a radio wave signal on earth that helped survival, for example weather forecast or food that transmitted radio waves, I believe animals could have evolved to hear them, but it would be as complex as ocular apparatus. 

Hollow is potentially a problem because it could be designed to strike and stab well enough, but when you tried to block with it it would crumple (think chicken eggs, ridiculously strong against pressure in one direction, but flimsy against it in another). My recommendation would be bird bone structure. To maintain weight and strength bird bones are "hollow" but with internal struts that protect them against being flimsy... Not an "easy" solution in terms of manufacturing, but it would be worth exploring. 

It might be an interesting challenge, but a curious experiment... but even at the time, the south insisted the north didn't care about slavery, they were just using it to galvanize their people into action. Assuming slavery WASN'T as important as independence/taxes/commerce as they claimed there is a move they didn't pursue. The south could pre-emptively abolish slavery... sorta. They could replace it (as is the way of our species) with something that was nearly the same thing (a company store creating debt slavery, for instance). Their "property" becomes "free" but has little choice but to continue to work for basically nothing, while knocking the arguments of the north out from under them. It would be a lot harder to rally people to fight and die for interstate commerce regulation. Of course, it does NOTHING to correct the moral issues related to the conflict... in fact, it probably puts in place structures that would take much much longer to deconstruct... but it could stop the war itself. Todd... if he could use his skills to become important and valuable enough to the confederacy, he could eventually get the ears of those who could hear the logic and be led to make those decisions. 

If you are in a world of SkyNet and Terminators, it could be technologically possible. The fastest ones in Greenland move 10 miles a year. A city under a glacier would be transported away at that speed in it's entirety except for the basements, it could be similar to searching for bullion from a ship in the deep ocean. SkyNet has large energy capabilities, and it could blast large access holes through 2km of ice, maintain them, and then mine for debri in the rock bed. if you use nuclear and TNT or major heat sources you can completely get through a glacier and divert it. They could literally just put in black substrate and lazer it using the sun. The gold would not move fast if it was protected by overlying material, and it would always tend to sink under other rocks. If you got there within a some years and you said that the vault was on a protected hillsidre or in a basement it would be ok. A glacier doesn't dig that fast vertically every year. 

(Planets and stars are not scaled right) This animation is a bit hard to get, so I made another one which shows the same, just without the stars rotating: 

Most probably this can exist, but will be stable for only a very short time. If the planet had really small mass or maybe was just a comet, it could be stable. Here's an animation (I know it's not much - made by eye) showing how this idea would look like - it seems insane to me: 

(Planets and stars are not scaled right) So, for me, this is not possible long-term, with a normal-sized planet, and this would be even more unstable, if one of he stars had a much bigger mass. Edit conducted by the flags: this answer adds perspective - shows through an animation how chaotic this concept is. But the animation isn't the main part - The text (answer) part is. The answer is no, this is not possible long-term.