Usually, when a star dies, it will usually form a planetary nebula or supernova and most of this matter will reach the interstellar medium. When it collapses due to some disturbance, a protoplanetary disk forms, it will cool off eventually. Once it is low enough temperature to form compounds, usually molecular hydrogen (H2) will form first. Here is something that may help you: No, H2O cannot exist in stars, but H and O separately can. Hydrogen is the basic building material of the universe, created in the Big Bang. Oxygen is created by nuclear reactions in stars. If you put H and O together in the cold of space, you get H2O. There are enormous amounts of water in space. In fact, nearly all of the oxygen in space is in the form of water or carbon monoxide. Similarly, most the carbon and nitrogen in space are also in their most hydrogenated forms: methane (CH4) and ammonia (NH3). (Source) Since water is H2O, it is likely to form because nebulae contain so much hydrogen and some oxygen. The Earth was most likely hit by comets and asteroids that contained water, and when our planet cooled off, we got our oceans. 

It's said S/J needs to be equal to or greater than 24.96 for the system to be stable. For a stable system there's a ceiling on J, it can't be more than 4% of S. My question: Is there a ceiling on mass T? If T were as massive as J, could the system still be stable? 

You can get moon centered position and velocity vectors at the Horizons Ephemeris Generator. Here's a screen capture: 

I'd like to know a little more about the geometry of the ship's trajectory. I would be asking for clarification in comments but I don't know how to put images in comments. A good distance away the ship is moving nearly a straight line with regard to the large mass. As the ship gets closer the path gradually bends towards the large mass. If you're still a fair distance from the star, the path can be fairly well modeled with Newtonian mechanics and the curving path can be modeled as a hyperbola. The straight line the hyperbola is gradually deviating from is called an asymptote: 

If you did a burn in the opposite direction from your Vinf vector, it could reduce your Vinf and drop you even closer to the mass. If your burn vector is at right angles to your velocity vector, it would increase your vinf (and thus raise point of closest approach aka periapsis). It would also change the direction of the hyperbola's asymptote. To better answer your question, I'd need to know more about the geometry of this scenario, what Vesc and Vinf is and how much delta V the ship was capable of. It would be helpful to know at what distance our heroes discover they're in trouble. If the ship has already fallen close enough that it's traveling an appreciable fraction of c, the above doesn't apply. Conics from Newtonian mechanics is a good approximation until you get too close to the black hole. Then you'd need general relativity to model the trajectory -- and that's above my pay grade. 

Yes, you are correct. Since Alpha Centauri is four light years away, you see it as it was four years ago. For example, if the sun was to suddenly disappear it would take eight minutes for us to see it disappear. The reason is that light takes eight minutes to travel from the sun to us. Also, the Moon is nearly one light second away, so were are looking at as it was one second ago. 

After doing research it said that nebulas are made of gas and dust. Are they actually gases and solids, or are they plasma? 

This may sound a little bit confusing, but I will try to explain. (I have done research on this topic already) I have looked at the temperatures of planets and I was wondering, is there a point where a planet is at perigee and it's temperature cannot reach any higher? Let's just say the planet is tidally locked, and is currently at perigee. Would the planet be at a point where it's temperature can no longer be increased at the current distance from its star? 

I was curious about the same things. I believe it was in the astronomy stack exchange I was referred to an online data base that gives position and velocity vectors for neighboring stars. From those I put together a spreadsheet. Here's a screen capture: 

Assuming circular, coplanar orbits, Trans Venus Insertion (TVI) is 8 km/s from Mercury's surface. That's with horizontal take off and no gravity loss. That's for the minimum energy Hohmann transfer. Exiting the Hohmann transfer and soft landing on Venus would take 11.9 km/s if Venus had no atmosphere. But much, maybe all of that 11.9 km/s could be done by aerobraking. I used my Hohmann spreadsheet to get these numbers. 

I don't think it's doable to pulverize a dino-killer on such short notice. But years of movie and TV sci fi have stretched my WSOD bubble enough that I can consider this. For an 3 km diameter asteroid moving 13 km/s and having a density of 3 tonnes per cubic meter, I get kinetic energy of about 3.6e21 joules. If my arithmetic's right, earth receives about 1.75e17 joules of sunlight each second. So my BOTE seems to indicate about the same energy as 6 hours of sunlight. A hemisphere receiving the energy equivalent of 6 hours of sunlight over a brief time -- it wouldn't be pleasant. I believe we'd be screwed whether the impactor was one chunk or a cloud of gravel. 

I have been researching this on google, and I think there is a process. What is this process called? I have forgotten. 

I've read that Uranus has a lower surface gravity due to its lower density than Earth. However, does this mean Uranus has a weaker pull on its moons than Earth does for the same reason? 

I know that a a planet or moon's rotation will slow down or speed up until it is tidally locked with a body, is Pluto's rotation being affected by the sun or is it being forced by Charon just to to be tidally locked with Charon? 

Keep in mind that there are probably more ways for binary stars to form. Also, a collision isn't very likely to form these systems. 

I was looking at a wikipedia article ($URL$ and I came across an interesting aspect that said pulsars turn off from rotation. What I don't understand is why emission of EM waves would slow a pulsar down? 

Fragmentation, as the protostar forms, the disk may fragment under its own gravity, or like the method listed below, it may rotate enough until some of the mass breaks off so another star may form. Accretion, another object in the system may "steal" matter from the forming star, and when it's mass reaches a high enough point, a second star may start to form. Breaking up, if the star rotates fast enough, it may split apart into two separate stars. But like HDE 226868 said, it is no longer favored. Normal formation, when the stars are forming, both may acquire enough mass without any of these effects to form a binary system. Capture, a nearby star may capture another so that they orbit each other. 

(Emphasis mine) The idea that the core is "rocky" or composed of metallic hydrogen is still unknown. Determining more about this is one of the objectives of the Juno mission currently in orbit. We may obtain better models of Jupiter's internal structure in the coming years, but at this point we just don't know. 

I'd use a visual here - just tape some Lego people to a basketball, then explain that down is to the center of the basketball, and it only looks to him that there is a "universal down" because he too is standing on a much larger basketball. For someone that young, and for people of any age, a demonstration like that will make more sense than any explanation. 

An answer to your question is not known at this time. From the Internal Structure section of Jupiter's Wikipedia page, 

I'm far from an expert in this, but I have a reasonable guess at an answer. The White Dwarf page on Wikipedia describes what would probably happen. It seems that the WD would consume mass from the companion star until it can either sustain fusion, or fuse so much so quickly that it explodes into a Type 1a supernova. 

L4 and L5, the Lagrange points 60 degrees leading and trailing an orbiting body, are famous for being stable. A well known example are the Trojan aseroids at the Sun Jupiter L4 and L5. Nodding to these bodies I label the central mass S, orbiting mass J and the L4 mass T: 

I only entered 48 of the closest stars so it's by no mean an exhaustive list. It looks like your graphic matches my estimates which is reassuring. I don't know why the Ross Stars aren't in my list, possibly the omission is an error on my part when I was entering data to the spreadsheet. Looks like the closest approaches are around 3 lightyears. If each star has an Oort cloud, I believe the comets' velocity with regard to our sun would be pretty close to the star's relative velocity. Slowest star wrt our solar system seems to be Gliese 729 which is moving ~14 km/s wrt the sun. If, for example, some of Van Maanen's Oort cloud came within a light year of our sun, they would have been moving 270 km/s. Those snowballs would have zoomed in and out of our neighborhood. With these distances and relative velocities I don't see much opportunity for swapping comets. It's speculated that our sun swapped comets with neighboring stars when our solar system was being formed. From Wikipedia: 

In a way. Light particles (photons) take eight minutes to travel from the sun to the Earth. Because it takes these particle eight minutes to reach us, we see the sun as it appeared eight minutes ago. Another example in the Andromeda Galaxy, in which it takes 2.5 million years for light to reach Earth. That's basically what a light year is, the distance at which how long i takes the light to reach Earth. So we are seeing the Andromeda Galaxy as it was 2.5 million years ago. In conclusion, in measuring distance in light years, light hours, light days etc., we are seeing how long ago it appeared as far away as it currently is. From Earth. Like I said, the sun is 8 light minutes away from Earth, so we are seeing it as it appeared eight minutes ago. 

If I understand correctly, red dwarfs consume all of their hydrogen and will eventually shrink into helium white dwarfs, whereas the higher mass stars will consume a fair amount of their hydrogen fuel, not necessarily all of it. Correct me if I'm wrong. 

A circle is an ellipse with eccentricity zero. And in fact tidal evolution can drive orbital eccentricity to values negligibly close to zero. See Regarding the Putative Eccentricity of Charon's Orbit. From observations we already know Pluto and Charon move about each other in very nearly circular orbits. I expect when New Horizons flies by the system in July, 2015, we will know their orbits more precisely. 

You are correct that an hyperbola's outgoing speed is the same as the incoming speed with regard to the body lieing at hyperbola's focus. The direction is changed. But with regard to another body, the change of direction can mean a change of speed. Here is a diagram of how the moon might be employed in the capture of an asteroid to reduce it's hyperbolic orbit with regard to the earth to a capture orbit about the earth: 

There are other ways to lose atmosphere. For example Jean's Escape. If average velocity of a gas molecule exceeds escape velocity, the planet will lose atmosphere. Venus' atmopshere is mostly $CO_2$ which has a higher molecular weight than the $0_2$ and $N_2$ of our atmosphere. So, for a given temperature and pressure, the carbon dioxide molecules have a slower speed. Venus' gravity is about the same as earth's and about twice Mars' gravity. In summary, Venus' steep gravity well and massive gas molecules might be helpful in letting Venus hold on to an atmosphere.