I believe you are confusing "belief" with "believer." Belief itself, is just an abstract, not a physical object, therefore impossible to act directly (or indirectly). It is the believer that acts! 

The best mathematics can do, is prove that its axioms, theories, and "laws" form a consistent system - most of the time. This is a "long way off" from being a "sufficient example to assert the existence of absolute truth"! 

It might be possible to artificially create "emergence" and if it is created, it would not be a contradiction. This is based on the fact that some times "the total is greater than the sum of its parts." This is also known as "synergy." So, since in some processes there is synergy and in others there isn't, there is no guarantee that "emergence" will be recreated, even if you assemble the same parts again. 

It is not unethical to make available to others food that you don't want to consume, regardless of the reason for making it available. The reason for this is that the other person(s) has the choice to consume it, or not. 

No, it is not possible that the universe doesn't exist. It would take the consensus of "around 7 billion people" to agree that they don't exist. Let me put it another way. What ever the size of the group, I am one of them, and since I would never agree that I don't exist, there would never be a "consensus" (a unanimous agreement) of all the people. Therefore, it is not possible that the universe does not exist. 

Although we should not "blindly" trust our senses, likewise we should not "totally" distrust them. Just because we cannot "sense all of reality," it does not mean that our senses cannot be trusted for the part of reality they can sense. Also, since we have had, and continue to have, communication with each other, our collective "sensing" ability has allowed us to "sense" (become aware) that reality is much larger than the reality revealed by our individual senses. Our grasp of the "whole reality" will increase as our individual senses are augmented by our technology and our greater number. 

As I understand Aristotle's "Natural slavery," he makes a distinction between those humans that don't have cognitive powers,and those that do. Those that don't, he would call "natural slaves." Those that do, if enslaved, would rebel and cause enmity. In your first statement, you are agreeing with Aristotle by thinking that one should submit to other humans that are in a higher position, wealthier, etc., "...because they can help us achieve our desires". In the second statement, you imply that if we are not "slaves" to God (",,, if we don't do enough labor..."), we will get nothing from Him. This statement would also reinforce Aristotle's premise - if true. However, it is not true! Whatever we get from God, it is due to God's generosity, not because we "...labored hard for it." Therefore, we are not God's "slaves"! 

The answer to the main question, is no. Your consciousness cannot exist irrespective of your body. Also, the "I" you refer to, cannot exist without your brain. The best example/analogy I can give you is the brain is a computer, and the "I" is a program that performs a unique function. If the computer is destroyed, the program is "erased" and the unique "I," no longer exists. 

No, we would not be able to recognize very strong AI. We would think it's "just another person" until it gets into an "accident," and we get to see its internal components. 

The sentence is either an "opinion" or a "logic statement" depending on whether it is to be interpreted in "ordinary" conversation, or in the context of "critical thinking" logic, respectively. In ordinary conversation, the statement would be an opinion. However, in the context of "critical thinking," the sentence is an ambiguous example of a logic statement. 

The answer is a conditional YES. We can conclude that Bob believes Q, if the following conditions are met: 1) P and Q must be absolutely equivalent, 2) Bob must understand the "equivalence" of P and Q, and 3) Bob must be "perfectly" rational. If any of these conditions is not met, the answer is NO. My example would be: 1) Bob believes that "predestined events do not happen." (P) 2) Bob is aware that "predestined events do not happen" (P) is equivalent to believing in "free will" (Q). Therefore, we can conclude that Bob believes in "free will" (Q). 

I find that your question is very ambiguous, as well as the arguments. There is nothing wrong with "if everybody did it" argument. What makes it wrong, if anything, is what it refers to. If instead of "killing people at random," we use "making random acts of kindness," then: A would say, "There's nothing wrong with making random acts of kindness." B would say "if everybody did it, most likely I would be a recipient of kindness." There is nothing "wrong" and there are no fallacies. 

You have asked two questions. To the first - yes, happiness is relative. An example of this, is a poor and humble person being very happy to receive a gift that a more affluent person would consider "trash." As to the second - whether you may want more happiness or not, that depends on your current state of satisfaction and whether you consider the "cost" to obtain more happiness - worth it. 

Although the example is not suitable for formal logic, it can "make sense" in ordinary logic, if some implied conditions/requirements are met. There are two possible scenarios: 1) two beneficial offers, 2) two detrimental offers. For option 1), the larger of the two would be preferable. For option 2), the smaller of the two would be preferable. Therefore, if we restrict our inquiry to only option 1), the the premise, "better than nothing," would be logically correct. 

The answer to the main question is that the surfaces (circles) are the same size. This is a direct consequence of a plane having (by definition) zero thickness. Thus, only one surface (circle) is (mathematically) created. This answer does not lead to Democritus second conclusion because: 1) the statement that "two adjacent intersecting planes are equal..." is wrong. If two adjacent intersecting planes are equal, then "they" are one (and the same) plane. 2) since a plane has no thickness, any information perpendicular to it is not "available", so whether the circle came from a cone or a cylinder, is no longer known, so the object can not be "reconstructed." On the other hand, in the "real" world, a saw blade does have thickness, so if you cut a cone with it, each of the two surfaces created will have a different size. 

Yes, you may help someone self-actualize, even though you are not "fully" self-actualized. Further more, you may even do it without you being aware you are doing it. 

IBM 370 ------------ transistors Human brain------- neurons Both, IBM 370 and a Human brain are capable of manipulating symbols, so it's clear that a "computer" is capable of manipulating symbols, whereas, an "implementation" is not. Therefore, it is sensible, to define a computer as a symbol-manipulating device. As to what was Searle's purpose for doing so, I would guess that it lets the reader know that when he uses the term "computer," he means its capability, not its implementation.