I love Anthony Trollope for his characters but, sadly, he often characterizes Jews in late 19 century London as prosperous but dangerous moneylenders to the elite ("The Eustace Diamonds" and "The Duke's Children"). Some of his least sympathetic characters, who are probably Jewish, although it is not totally clear to the reader, are psychopaths: Ferdinand Lopez ("The Prime Minister") and Mr. Bonteen (The Pallister Series). One of his most complex and interesting, although reprehensible and abusive, characters is almost certainly Jewish, Mr. Melmotte in "The Way We Live Now," who rises from neglected orphanhood to great wealth and influence while who also abusing his wife and daughter. But, arguably, one of Trollope's most intelligent and noble and most fleshed-out characters is rumored by some of her peers to be Jewish, and who is definitely the widow to a Jewish businessman (Madame Goesler in the Palliser Series). In his shorter fiction Trollope shows that has sympathy for the historically persecuted Jews while still negatively describing their features and personality traits ("Lotta Scmidt and Other Stories"). Sadly, Trollope, like many authors of his time as well as those who came well before and after, despite being a remarkably empathetic observers of human psychology, was a purveyor of antisemitism. So many authors and artist were, from well before the 1900 century, not the least of which was Shakespeare. Bigotry against Jews was baked in to the European and American culture from the middle ages and before. It's a fact that sullies great authors and poets from times past. Bigotry is apparently a human flaw. See the American authors, many of whom were also anti-Semitic, that partook in anti-African American stereotypes that were prevalent from the 1900 century up until the very recent '60s and '70s, maybe even the '80s, in American culture. On a happier note, one author who is a standout in a non-bigoted sense is the late 1900 century American author William Dean Howells. Although not taking on or propagating antisemitism, he was clearly against anti-black racism and the anti-labor sentiments of his time. His father ran an abolitionist paper before the Civil War and Howells himself was very explicitly a socialist. He bravely, and uniquely, stood up for men who were put on trial for an anarchist bombing, the Hey Market Affair, which they were clearly innocent of by having alibis showing they weren't even present. Even his best friend, Mark Twain, wouldn't stand up for the men when they were on trial for their lives, basically saying, and I'm paraphrasing, they're radicals who deserve to put to death their non patriotic views, so who cares about saving them. (They were put to death.) At the same time, Howells shines a realistic spotlight on his characters who make clearly racist comments, like the adolescent the daughter in "A Hazard of New Fortunes" who observes that New York is getting "Mickey" (as in too many Irish immigrants) in the late 1800s novel. In the same story, an old Southern gentleman writes a book in defense of slavery after the Civil War that one of Howell's most optimistic and likable characters (Fulkerson) publishes in his new literary magazine. Fulkerson is also sympathetic to the side of greedy capitalists against the striking streetcar workers demanding livable wages. Unlike Trollope, Howells shows his sympathetic characters while not making observations as a narrator that apparently agree with the bigotry of his time. Authors and artists hold a mirror to the attitudes of their times. Some partake in the prejudices, some observe and condemn by observing. As a reader, I love Trollope for being a marvelous story teller and I try to understand, though deplore, his apparent bigotry. But I love Howells more for being an author who was brave and prescient enough to rise above the prejudices of his time to observe characters just as minutely without agreeing with his society's horrible stereotypes on race and class. 

You make a lot of good points here. I would like to offer a slightly different perspective, though, that add something to this. To me, A Wind in the Door is all about growing up, which you touch on in your comments. I don’t see conformity as the real issue here, certainly not in the same way as in A Wrinkle in Time. In AWT, the crucial point is that IT was using force to elicit compliance and conformity from the residents of Camazotz for ITs own benefit – all taking, no giving. Camazotz no doubt represents Meg’s view of her experiences at school, but it also stands as a warning about what can happen, has happened, if certain parts of Man’s sinful nature are allowed to operate unchecked. This theme returns a couple of times in AWD. In AWD the issue, to me, is not so much that Sporos must conform to some vague cosmic plan, but rather that he needs to be true to his own nature. His task is to step up and take his own unique place in the world. The idea of a unique individual embedded in a social matrix is a major part of the message of AWD. It is first overtly stated in the scene where Jenkins, still unnerved by his Echthroi impersonators, realized “Nobody should be exactly like anybody else.” (chap. 7, p. 128) This stands in distinct contrast to the situation in Camazotz, where everyone was exactly alike, and highlights the difference between forced conformity and the natural order. The two examples are again contrasted in the final scene. On the one hand we have the adult fara Senex filling his role in the natural order. He helps the mitochondrion function properly, giving energy and life to Charles Wallace. In turn, Charles Wallace provides the environment where the farae can live and thrive. It is a mutually beneficial relationship, each serving the other. On the other hand is the immature farandola Sporos, who temporarily buys the Echthroi lie that he doesn’t have to, indeed shouldn’t, grow up. The young farandolae cannot fill an adult role, so they maintain a parasitic existence on the adult farae. In fact, so long as they are under the influence of the Echthroi they revel in their parasitism. It is all taking and no giving again, just like IT. But Sporos and the others cannot become other than adult farae; that is their nature. Their only options are either to become adults and take their place in the world, or remain parasites, kill their host, and die. Yet each is an individual, just as Senex is an individual. They will not be cookie-cutter replica farae. Each one will bring his own personality to his new role and make his unique contribution to the natural order. When Meg sees the situations beginning to look hopeless, she panics and falls back on her sinful nature. She is ready to invade the dance, grab Sporos, smack him around, plant his punk butt, and make him deepen. Senex stops her, saying, “Not that way. Not by force.” He might just as well have said, “No, Meg, that’s the way things work on Camazotz.” (Except he could not know of Meg’s experiences there.) Instead, Calvin, Meg, and Proginoskes get Sporos to see and understand the truth of the natural order. They “raise him up in the way he should go” so to speak. Fortunately for all, it works and Sporos leads all the delinquent farandolae to deepen and become adults, and Charles Wallace recovers. The key point is that Sporos made the transition voluntarily, based on his understanding of the natural order. He and the others then come into proper relationship with each other, their host, and the universe, as Proginoskes said. That it was voluntary is what makes the difference. That’s why there is not really a contradiction here. Instead, it is a contrast between people being forced into roles for which they are not naturally suited, like the little boy on Camazotz who was not very good at bouncing a ball, solely for the benefit of the coercive authority, and people who are true to their nature and take their unique place in the world in a web of mutually beneficial relationships. For L’Engle, the quality of one’s life is defined by the nature of one’s relationships. A lesson for our times, possibly even more so than when the story was first written.