I think I understand the problem here: you're thinking of exchange rates as "units", i.e you're thinking that looking at GDP numbers in dollars tells you the same thing as looking at the same numbers in the local currency after adjusting for inflation. Unfortunately, exchange rates need not reflect what you think they reflect at all. In a world without capital flows between countries and with floating exchange rates, exchange rates would adjust in order to ensure that the current account position of any given country is balanced. This adjustment means that exchange rates primarily reflect relative prices on the international market of tradable goods, like commodities, for instance. Services such as medicine, education, finance (the capital account is closed) are not easily traded, therefore the exchange rate would carry little information about their prices, which are relevant to any person living in the country. However, the real situation is even worse, because in reality there are capital flows between countries; there's borrowing, there's portfolio investment, there's direct investment, etc. Therefore, the condition I mentioned above fails: instead, the exchange rate adjusts so that the balance of payments balances, i.e such that $$ \textrm{Current account} + \textrm{Capital account} = 0 $$ This means that if investors in the US decide to cut exposure to Turkish assets in the face of increasing political risks, the lira would depreciate and the nominal GDP measured in dollars would fall. However, such a devaluation would likely be expansionary for exports, and if the country has no problems of inflation (which is not true for Turkey), and there is no currency mismatch on domestic balance sheets (which is, again, not true for Turkey) their central bank could maintain monetary policy at low interest rates, causing the depreciation to become expansionary. Turkey would be producing more goods and services, it would just be that their value measured in local currency and then converted to USD would be less than it was before. 

Yes, and they don't need any "unconventional" policy tools to do this, all they need to do is precommit to a future path of short-term nominal interest rates which they will maintain no matter what. The reason that in practice the Fed is unable to control the long end of the yield curve is because the Fed is not an institution which precommits to these kinds of policies - their policy decisions are always contingent on the information available at the date they take the decision, which means bond investors will try to forecast Fed funds rate movements not by looking at what the Fed says they will do in the future, but by forecasting the relevant macroeconomic variables that enter the Fed's decision process and thinking about how the Fed will react to what they expect will happen. Long-term bond yields reflect investors' future short-term nominal interest rate expectations, and by Fisher you may split that into inflation and real interest rates, so inflation expectations are a part of it, but they are not the whole story. Could the Fed set the entire yield curve to zero? Sure, if it could convince investors that it would maintain a zero interest rate policy for 30 years. If government bonds bear no liquidity premium, then buying up lots of long-term debt and replacing it with short-term reserves will have no effect on long-term bond yields given the short-term nominal interest rate path the Fed intends to follow in the future. If long-term debt is important for some other purpose, for instance to meet some regulatory safety requirements, as collateral in secured lending, etc. then the Fed buying up long-term government bonds may create a shortage of long-term debt, increase the liquidity premium and force long-term bond yields down, but this policy is not optimal. When the Fed tries to reduce long rates, they intend this to have a stimulative effect on the economy today; reducing yields through this kind of mechanism would instead lead to inefficiency a la Friedman's rule. In practice, a lot of the correlation between QE announcements and bond yield movements comes from what Bernanke called the forward guidance effect: investors interpret QE as a sign of the central bank's commitment to maintain lower policy rates in the future. According to Bernanke, this effect was the primary reason for the "taper tantrum" in 2013, and when the Fed clarified that "tapering" would not mean that the Fed would start raising policy rates sooner, bond yields came back down again. 

The basic result about the effect of trade on income distribution is Stolper-Samuelson in the Heckscher-Ohlin model, which says that trade liberalization is associated with a rise in the prices of the factors of production that are used intensively in the production of goods the country has a comparative advantage in, and vice versa. If you take "skilled" and "unskilled" labor to be two different factors of production, for instance, Stolper-Samuelson says that a country with abundant skilled labor lifting trade barriers should lead to an increase in income inequality. A welfare state committed to keeping relative incomes of workers within a certain range may need to raise distortionary taxes to expand various income transfer programs to "unskilled" workers in this case, which could lead to inefficiency for various reasons. (Even if the taxes used to finance the income transfer are lump-sum, as long as the benefits phase out this leads to high effective marginal tax rates on the lower end of the income scale, i.e a disincentive to work and to acquire new skills.) In this sense, it's indeed true that a generous welfare state can reduce the efficiency gains from free trade. The rest of the answer is a rant about the concept of "strategic market dumping" that was brought up in the comments, so if you're not interested you can skip that part. Things like "strategic market dumping" are ill-defined concepts that are usually used to justify tariff increases without having much backing in theory. If "dumping" is expected to go on for a finite period of time and the associated good can be stored at no cost, for instance, then in a perfect foresight world there's an arbitrage bound on the price of the good today which forces it to grow at a rate less than or equal to the real interest rate available in the broader economy. Adding storage costs does not change the basic result very much. In that case, "dumping" is not a good strategy to begin with - if you try to do this, people will buy up the goods you're selling at low prices, hold them until you reverse your policy, and then flood the market with goods they have stored up in their inventories once you stop the "dumping", leaving you worse off. To justify a policy of industry protection, you have to argue that the government can see the reversal of the dumping policy coming and private agents can't - in this case, the real return on an investment in producing and storing oil would be higher than the market real interest rate is saying it will be, so the market outcome will be suboptimal. It's easy to justify any government intervention by saying that the government is clairvoyant and private agents are not, however. What about labor market (or, more generally, factor market) frictions? Isn't the point of "dumping" to eliminate your competitors through "artificially low" prices which force them to go out of business? Well, here you're making the mistake of assuming that the government knows about labor market frictions and the private sector doesn't, therefore the government should do something about the situation. In real life, the private sector is well aware of the search frictions in the labor market, the difficulty of firing workers in some countries, etc. This means that if they expect the "dumping" strategy to be reversed in the future, they will choose to borrow money or raise capital to stay in business. They will downsize in response to the "dumping" policy, but not as much as you think they would, and certainly not as much to make a government "protection" of the industry a good policy. Does this mean markets can never allocate resources poorly? Of course not - if the country doing the dumping manages to fool private agents into thinking their "dumping" policy was permanent while it was temporary, then the market allocation will be suboptimal. However, in hindsight every price and every allocation is wrong. We certainly don't expect market allocations to be optimal ex post, so it's not surprising to see cases where it seems like the market allocation was poor and led to many workers being stuck in jobs where wages fell due to international price changes of goods. In fact, this would happen in a stochastic world where markets were functioning perfectly and giving you an ex ante Pareto optimal allocation of resources. Even a social planner with access to all information available at a given date and the mental capacity to solve the associated economic calculation problem would act in ways that sometimes seem foolish ex post. This doesn't mean the social planner is not doing his job properly, it just means there are things about the future that even a social planner can't know with perfection. The argument is no different for market allocations - allocations that are poor ex post do not justify government intervention ex ante. 

The distinction is between "nominal" and "real" recessions and booms. Real business cycle theory was developed to point out the fact that variations in employment and hours could occur even in an economy where markets were working competitively and there were no pricing frictions. In the RBC world, recessions and booms are driven by "real" factors: variation in technology, variation in the supply of commodities used as input in the production process, etc. A consequence is that in the RBC world while increased government spending on consumption goods indeed raises output and employment (the fiscal multiplier in RBC models is between 0 and 1), following such a policy during a recession is socially suboptimal. (You force people to work more and consume less.) To justify government spending during a recession is no easier and no harder than to justify it during "normal times", and then the argument becomes one about market failure, public finance, etc. In contrast, Keynesian theory (and its modern cousins) say that while "real recessions" in the above sense may indeed exist, there are also "nominal recessions": these are recessions caused by "less spending" (for instance, if you're working with MV = PY, they are recessions caused by a fall in V). The reason this creates a recession is because there are nominal rigidities in the economy - workers are unwilling to accept nominal wage cuts, producers face "menu costs" which make price changes infrequent, etc. Because of these rigidities, a fall in "aggregate spending" manifests itself not only in the form of lower prices, but also in the form of lower output. So far, everything I said is also consistent with monetarism, for instance. However, this is not all there is to Keynesian theory: Keynesians go further and claim that the solution to a shortfall in spending is for the government to increase spending and "make up the lost demand". In other words, if you think of the AD-AS model, Keynesians think that government spending can raise AD. This idea has been discredited in academia for decades because it ignores budget constraints - there's only so much money available in the economy, if the government borrows money from you and spends it, that's money someone else did not spend. It's not clear how government spending boosts "money velocity", and in fact there are New Keynesian models where increased government spending is deflationary and makes a nominal recession worse by creating more demand for real money balances. Keynesian ideas have made a resurgence in the past 10 years thanks to the zero lower bound. The argument above about budget constraints is no longer true when nominal interest rates are stuck at zero, because now people will actually start hoarding cash instead of spending it. Therefore, increasing government spending does not "crowd out" private spending, because households and firms are just sitting on the cash they have anyway. Monetary stimulus is ineffective because any additional money is just held by the public. This is the "liquidity trap" a nutshell. Critics point out that permanent monetary stimulus as opposed to a temporary one can still work in a liquidity trap (as pointed out in Krugman (1998)) and that monetary models (say, with cash-in-advance constraints) are indeterminate at the zero lower bound: without anchoring consumption and prices in the future to some level chosen arbitrarily, it's not possible to pin down a unique equilibrium of the economy today. There's more to be said on this subject, but this should be enough for an answer. 

You can think of the capital account as "exports of liabilities" - a capital account surplus means that a country is exporting liabilities (borrowing) from abroad to pay for imports of goods and services and/or for income transfers abroad (a current account deficit). An increase in foreign assets owned by the US is an import of liabilities: the US is buying liabilities from rest of the world by sending them goods and services (or reinvesting the returns from the assets they already own). The increase in foreign asset holdings corresponds to a current account surplus (as it must), but they are not the same thing. The capital account and the current account of the balance of payments measure the same thing: the absolute change in the external debt stock (defined generally to include all liabilities, equity is in here as well) of a country. They just go about the measurement in different ways: the capital account measures the change in the external debt stock directly by looking at financial asset holdings, whereas the current account notes that an increase in the external liability stock of a country has to come from either a net import of goods and services or income transfers (interest payments, dividends, etc), so it measures these instead. In practice, measurement errors mean that the two come out to be different, but as a matter of accounting they have to be equal. The reason increases in holdings of foreign assets is in the capital account is simply because that's what the capital account measures, and it's not in the current account because that's not what the current account measures. The question is a bit like asking "Why is rental income not in the expenditure method for calculating GDP?" Rental income is in there, but due to the way the expenditure method measures GDP, it is measured implicitly as part of expenditures. 

It wouldn't "ruin the US economy". The US (the country as a whole, not the government) bought goods and services from rest of the world by selling them IOUs. So far, the world has been content to let the US roll over these obligations. If the world decided that they wanted to trade these IOUs for goods and services, the US would have to start running current account surpluses and shipping goods abroad to pay for its past current account deficits. These surpluses have to come from somewhere, and they would result in less consumption and less investment in the US economy. Of course, an economy can't borrow its way in global capital markets forever - the US does eventually have to ship some stuff over to China in exchange for all of the stuff that China shipped over to the US in exchange for (electronic) green pieces of paper. If China decides to unilaterally impose capital controls and stop lending goods to the US, then this hurts both China and the US - the reason capital in China was flowing to the US is that it could get higher returns there. (The functioning of domestic capital markets in China has become a lot better over the past decade, which is why China can now allocate its savings to productive uses domestically instead of lending large amounts of it to foreign countries.) What some people are specifically afraid about ties into the USD's status as the international reserve currency - the Chinese government and central bank own plenty of US government debt as part of their foreign exchange reserves, and if they want to redeem this debt in exchange for goods and not roll it over, the scenario I mentioned above comes to pass. This seems to me like a grossly exaggerated concern at a time when global real interest rates are quite low. If China wanted to sell its US government bonds and the US had no intention of stopping the rollover process, returns would rise until the market for US external debt cleared, and there's no reason to think that the return response would be large given the low level of global real interest rates. The US (as a country) would have to pay more interest on its debt outstanding, which isn't great, but it's not a disaster of a scale that would "ruin the US economy". 

A loan is an agent lending funds to another agent. This money can be used for investment spending, or it can be used for personal consumption expenditures. It can be used to buy fixed assets like real estate, which may or may not be "investment" depending on how you use the terminology. In the case of the IMF, the role of the institution is to ensure financial stability by providing funds to countries in an emergency; for example, a country which becomes insolvent and is unable to service its sovereign debt is likely to seek help from the IMF. The IMF would then provide a bailout loan along with a stabilization program aimed at improving the country's public finances. This is not investment, in the sense that it does not grow the country's capital stock; it just allows it to meet its obligations to past creditors. Investment is an expenditure which will yield revenue in the future, and hopefully amortize itself through that revenue. In the case of a household, investment can take the form of acquiring financial assets; in the case of an economy, investment often refers to actions which improve the country's productivity. This can be the construction of new factories, higher wages at state subsidized education institutions, higher research and development spending by the private sector, etc. The reason the two are related is that quite a lot of investment is done through borrowing. A corporation can borrow to ramp up capital expenditures, a country can borrow on international capital markets to invest more in infrastructure, an individual can take out a mortgage to acquire a house. All of these can be legitimately described as "investment". China is said to be investing in Pakistan (and quite a lot of other countries) under its Belt and Road Initiative because of two reasons: these expenditures are aimed at boosting domestic productivity in those countries, and China expects to reap benefits from its program. The potential benefits for China are plentiful. China is still very much an export-oriented economy and a global manufacturing hub. Strong growth in underdeveloped countries is likely to increase demand for Chinese goods, allowing the Chinese economy to experience faster growth. China also hopes to get direct revenue from its investment operations under this program, and they have the additional goal of expanding their political clout. Contrast this with the case of the IMF, whose founding goal is to ensure financial stability and to prevent crisis contagion and panic. The two forms of lending are evidently quite different in their desired goals.