Ok, this is an answer to the literal question, not the spirit of the question: The largest place named after an animal is the Tadpole Galaxy as it has a volume in the millions of cubic light years and appears to be the only named galaxy named after an animal. 

Even the Mongols, who killed over thirty million people in their conquests and were some of the most bloodthirsty invaders on record found it more worthwhile to set themselves up as leaders. Why would they make China a desert when they could make the Chinese build them a pleasure dome? Invasions occur in search of resources. Land is only one particular resource. People are by far the most useful resource for any ruler. Natural resources without people are useless. Consider that the Roman empire, one of the most successful conquering people, built its power not on the land that it took, but on the people it took. Killing a population upon conquest would be like dumping all the captured gold into the sea. If, say, the Romans had wiped out every person in Gaul, it would have not made them more safe. It would have made them less safe, because they wouldn't have had the people to occupy it and the vacuum would have been damn attractive to all those Germans over the Rhine. Better to create a nice, assimilated Romanized Gaulish population as a buffer between those nasty Germans and Italy. Keep in mind that the nationalist revolts of the 19th century were the result of an entirely new way of viewing the world. Before than, nationalist revolts were relatively rare. If you look at the history of the great conquering peoples (Macedonian Greeks, Romans, Mongols, etc.) you see little if any "nationalist" revolts against their rule. For most of the common people in those eras, it was just new boss, same as the old boss. Why should they care if their masters spoke German or French? They still owed the rent. 

I would suggest reading Book 1 of The Gallic Wars (link has both English and Latin if you want to see the untranslated text), which is as much a political history of the conquest of Gaul as it is a military history. Julius Caesar starts the book with a description of the political landscape at the time: 

The following passage from Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas and Yucatan would lend some credence to the first two explanations of remarkable discoveries of a fallen civilization: 

...and in countless other engagements from North Africa to the Eastern Front. As to your follow-up question, whether there was a different type of tank used to counter infantry, the obvious answer is that any tank is useful in countering infantry. That said, there were some purpose built mobile howitzers and assault guns such as the Sturmgeschütz III or the Wespe, but these were frequently pressed into anti-tank roles. 1 Military Intelligence Service, United State War Department, 1943-02 Intelligence Bulletin Vol 01 No 06, p 39 2 ibid. p 41 3 Angier, John C., A 4F Goes to War with the 100th Infantry Division, p 50 4 Smith, James, Western Front: The Second World War, p 84 

This is further echoed by Mieth and Bork, who make a strong case that evidence of agricultural activity on the Island points to a much earlier settlement date. 

(Note that there are no Kings and Queens of England anymore. The last person with that title was Queen Anne. Victoria and Elizabeth II are more properly "Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland".) Elizabeth I reigned for 45 years, and ruled during the defeat of the Spanish Armada, which marked the rise of England as the pre-eminent naval power, and also during the flowering of English letters represented by Shakespeare and others. Victoria reigned for 63 years, oversaw the zenith of the British empire, ruling over more land and people than anyone before or since. So those two aren't random people, but both among the longest reigns in English history, both at pivotal points in English history. Elizabeth II is of course the current living monarch, and so obviously popular by that token, and also the longest reigning English monarch. In contrast... Mary I reigned for a five years and was unpopular as a catholic ruler in a largely protestant nation. Mary II also reigned for only five years, and was a co-ruler with her husband William. Anne reigned for twelve years. So you have three women who are among the longest reigning monarchs in history, all who oversaw pivotal moments in English history vs. three women with short reigns, who in one case, was explicitly ejected, the other two reigned during relatively uneventful periods. So the relative popularities should not be unexpected. Or to look at it another way, Elizabeth I, Victoria and Elizabeth II represent over 160 years of English history. Mary I, Mary II and Anne represent 22 years of English history. 

Based on some digging through the limited primary source material that is available online, I have some doubts that this is verifiable. I also can't find a reference in any of the secondary materials that I have access to other than the un-cited Wikipedia entries. Note that the dates below shouldn't be used to build a timeline, given the fact that different regions were frequently days apart on the calendar (some documents from the period even use conventions such as 4/14 Oct.) The following is from a letter to John Thurloe, head of intelligence to Oliver Cromwell (my emphasis). 

It apparently didn't have much passing power, as the top speed was specified at a blazing fast 4.8 miles per hour and it didn't achieve that in practice. Edit: After a bit of searching, I found a reference to a specific date that the testing started, which is given as October 20th, 1769 at the Paris Arsenal. Note that there aren't any citations given on the page, so I can't verify it (even if I could read French). The original concept seems to have been proposed in Cugnot's 1766 book Éléments de l'art militaire ancien et moderne, although work didn't begin until a commission was granted in 1769. I can't locate the date that the commission was given, but if you read French, this document might be a good starting point for more research. 

So we can see that the Burmese at the time used both horses and elephants. Another major country the Mongols was unable to conquer was Japan. According to wiki again the horse arrived in Japan around the 4th century AD. It was certainly a major component of Japanese society in the middle ages. Of course, jungle terrain is far less conducive to the use of horses than the open plains of Mongolia, so you likely saw much less usage in places like Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam, but the animals were certainly known throughout the region, given that the horse is one of the animals in the Chinese Zodiac and that the entire region of Southeast Asia looked to China for much of their scientific and philosophical knowledge. 

It's a big assumption that they knew. At the time, Salem was the middle of nowhere, with a colony founded specifically to keep to itself. The trials themselves would likely not have attracted much attention, especially since witch trials were happening all through Europe during that period. In the 250 years before 1750, around 40,000 witches were executed The Salem Witch Trials only became famous because they happened in a small place that ended up as a cultural core of a powerful country. Asking what Newton thought of the Salem Witch Trials is a bit like asking what Neil DeGrasse Tyson thinks about the a particular couple killed for homosexuality in Dubai. 

He eventually arrived in Le Harve on June 20th, after brief layovers in Santander and La Coruña in Spain and Plymouth, England. The picture below purports to be of the Ypiranga entering the Le Harve harbor with Díaz aboard. 

The long strap you are referring to is called a "Guige" strap, and the original intention was likely not to allow the shield to be transported on one's back (although it would have been an added bonus) - the primary purpose was likely to distribute the weight of the shield during use. Given that a shield could weigh upwards of 5-10kg, being able to support the majority of the load on the shoulders would be a considerable advantage even with any loss of mobility. For soldiers wielding spears, the guige also allowed a shield to be used in combat while freeing both hands for the shaft of the weapon. In addition, they were also used on horseback to either entirely support the shield to allow a free hand on the reins or again lighten the load enough to allow the shield hand to do so more effectively. In fact, you can sometimes see how they were used in period art, such as this plate from the St.Etienne Bible for Cîteaux. 

In 1774 James Cook gives a slightly different picture, noting that while he didn't see abundant surplus, it was attributable to the extent that crops were planted and the amount of labor involved. He also comments on the apparent lack of fishing as a food source given the low abundance in the coastal waters. What is conspicuously missing is any characterization of the population as undernourished. 

If you define "traitorous" as "rebelling against a country you once served", then there's Joseph Wheeler who served in the US military, went to fight against the US military as a Confederate officer, then later fought for the US military in the Spanish American war. There are many in the US who take great exception to the idea that Confederate soldiers were "traitors", though. 

Horses were omnipresent in Asia at the same time periods that we call the Middle Ages in European history. In the 13th century, the Mongols were riding roughshod over all of Asia, and given that they were probably the best riders in history (certainly of the time), any area they conquered (all of China, much of the Middle East and India) can be assumed to have the horse as a major component of its society. In regards to Southeast Asia, wiki states: 

Before the Romans took over Egypt, Sicily and Africa were the primary sources of grain. ("Africa" in the Roman context means just the Northwest portion of the continent.) These areas continued to be a major source of grain until the provinces were lost to first the Vandals and later the Muslims after the fall of the Western Empire. Italy itself ceased to be able to feed itself quite early. Basically the only way Rome could support the population it had in the late Republican and early Empire (over a million people) was through massive grain imports from throughout the whole Mediterranean. The Western Collapse accelerated when Africa was lost to the Vandals, and the loss of Egypt to the Muslims hurt the Eastern Empire critically. Without the grain shipments, the city of Rome fell to a population of less than a hundred thousand. 

Note that this does not use the Articles of Confederation as the legal basis of the decision - it uses arguments based on the Constitution. You can read the full decision of the court here - Wikipedia pulls a couple of quotations out of context. 

More specifically, a couple of passages from the book American Commando: Evans Carlson, His WWII Marine Raiders, and America's First Special Forces Mission by John F. Wukovits speak to the hesitation of the Marines to even allow him to re-enlist (p17): 

According to the Wikipedia article on Trinity, the estimated yield of the device was between 18 and 20 kilotons from a 6.2 kg plutonium 239 core. Complete fission of Pu-239 yields 19 kilotons per kilogram, giving an efficiency of somewhere between 15% and 17%. 

A "boat crimper" is synonymous with a "boot crimper" - a person who specializes in manufacturing and repairing boots. The process of crimping is used to make leather conform to shapes that can't be created with folding, and involves stretching wet leather over a form with clamps or pliers. You can get an idea of what is involved here. A good example of the term being used in this context is in the following excerpt from the 12/25/1890 edition of the Daily Alta California (emphasis added): 

Keep in mind that Stephens' books were the among the first western studies of Mayan sites and the first to gain wide circulation. On top of that, Stephens is quite a talented writer and writes in the style of similar works in during the period. Given that (as you point out) most earlier books and references had been systematically destroyed, these books would have been about the only point of reference to draw from. The books themselves read more like travel literature or real-life adventure than an anthropological or archaeological study - he was out to sell books and doesn't hide the fact, for example: