It is a one-hour drive from the Ailefroide camping, according to google maps. The Alps are really outstanding for the variety of rock you can find in such a short range. 

You're done. If you're going back by the same route, leave it there. When you will get back last, you will dismantle the top anchor and then the bottom one. If not, the last member of the party will need to untie the bowline and get up with the rope not tight. Practice it in a safe place several times. Go to any park and do that with threes, fences, or whatever you may be able to find. Remember that any person would be way safer if scrambling with her foot and hands than by leaning onto a rope that is not tied properly and that would slip off. Just think of it. If you don't use any rope while moving, your weight is on your feet. If you hang on the rope, you partially unload your feet to weight the rope. If the rope fails now, you're out of balance and very likely, fall. 

How can there be such a massive difference? 6 percent of people dying from trauma from hitting trees and rocks in Europe and 50 percent in Canada... with the US being about in the middle of that statistic. The very first - quite rough - idea that comes to my mind is, there may be much more trees and rocks in the average Canadian ski route compared to European ones. But, it sounds quite superficial. Still, those numbers differs too much; there must be some reason behind this spread. Does anyone knows what this reason is (or are)? 

I second the recommendation of taking a course, don't just learn it from a single picture. Travelling on glacier doesn't only requires to know how to tie (and, there's not one-way-fits-all-situations way to tie in, you got to know how to tie according to the situation, that is, number of members of the party, their expertise, their weight, the kind of glacier, and weather (visibility affects a lot the distance between members, the less visibility, the longest the distance as a rule of thumb). Also, there's not only one way to tie-in, and that may also vary according to the situation. If you are going to need to frequently vary the distance between members (for instance because you have to cross rock sections, or because the slope severally changes of inclination) then a clove hitch on a carabiner would quickly allow to change that distance without never untying. And then, there's how to walk, that is what you asked for. There's no point in being perfectly tied if you walk all close together. A whole Dutch family died in the Alps so close to the hut because of that some years ago. As a general rule, you should stay as distant as possible, but turns change that whilst moving up. So again, practice on sloping terrain with no crevasses. And practice how to stop a fall. So, summing it all up: get trained. If you can't afford a course, then then this is a very serious book about the topic: Glacier Mountaineering despite the graphics may look kiddish. The content is indeed very serious and complete. Hope this helps somewhat. Enjoy your training and the ice! 

This is a type of plug, you find some more information above You use them to catch predatory fish. Depending on the action you can just cast-and-reel these baits, adding some more action yourself. Depending on the baits action, you will use reel-speed to get it to your preferred depth, and then slow down and start working your bait. You reel slowly, you stop and let the lure rise to the top, then you start reeling again to make it dive. Or you just reel at a constant speed. Plugs have a diving depth at which they don't dive much deeper. You are constantly pulling it upwards, and the shovel pulls it downwards, at some point you will reach a balance. You will catch predatory fish with it. It it eats living fish, you catch it. I even had birds attack wobblers of mine. 

The sole difference between a locking and non-locking knife is the blade folding in without any locking/unlocking mechanism. For this comparison i will assume, that you can close the blade with locking mechanism one-handed, otherwise you have an advantage right there. Short FYI: The (legal) reason is that non-locking knifes can not be used as a stabbing weapon as easily as locking knifes (could be considered a downside in the great outdoors?). Some laws (for example in germany) even disallow folding knifes that can be opened with one hand, as they can be used as a hidden weapon. Now back to your question. There are no obvious advantages for a blade to not have a lockable blade. But we can get creative! If an accident seriously disables you, closing a non-locking foldable knife with one (impaired?) hand might be easier. Also, when using your knife for batoning (for which you SHOULD use a FIXED blade knife!), the folding blade might put less stress on the pivot, so you don't break the non-existent locking mechanism. Finally, an anecdotal advantage of normal looking, non-locking, red, classical victorinox knifes: you can take them out of your pocket and use them without having everyone else around you think, that you were up to no good. - As opposed to those tactical folding knifes (which usually lock!). But this is off-topic. So, you might get creative and find advantages for non-locknig folding knifes, but apart from the fact that their non-existing locking mechanism can't break, there is no real advantage to them, especially in an outdoor situation. 

I stumbled across it and I saw it in a showcase. I couldn't recognize it. It looks like it's a way to tie fixed loops in the middle of a rope. 

I thing this is too broad and too personal to get a definitive answer. Mine is: go try out for yourself as much as you can in a safe environment. Experiment with different setups as much as you can: tarp vs tent, foam mat vs inflatable, try several sleeping bags if you can borrow them, or just buy and eventually resell them as I did. If you have a garden, go sleep in it. I don't, so I spent several nights on my balcony in town, by using a thermometer to measure the temperature outside and record my feelings in the morning. My purpose was to test in practice what setups could keep me warm at what temperatures [this also includes going to bed properly feed and hydrated]. Also, I experimented peeing in a pee bottle (that is, a bottle with a wide opening) so not to need to leave the sleeping bag during the night to pee. That helped a lot. I also tried a bivy bag when it was raining, although not much rain was entering the balcony, I had quite a feel of it. By sleeping on a garden (or, if you can't, on a balcony) you have a safe way to see in practice what you are going to feel later on and to get back in, onto your bed if anything goes wrong - like, you are too cold, you are too unconfortable, you installed your tarp poorly and it falls over your head, and so on. 

If you only use PET bottle try to put a neoprene sleeve around them. Neoprene is used to insulate the tubes of the so called "hydration systems", that is those bladders with a tube going from the bladder to your mouth when you want to suck water from it. Neoprene works pretty well both in keeping the heat in winter and the opposite as you need. It doesn't do any miracles but it helps. 

Edit: It is a McKinley. The difference is the padded hip belt vs the frame extending to the side of the hips. The backpack in OPs picture features the padded hip belt. $URL$ Previous post: It is the D2 or McKinley. I can not spot a difference in the picture and description below. I think they revamped the pack at some point, newer images of the D2 show a slightly different version of the backpack. 

This looks like a Pedostrangalia revestita (i totally ripped this from the site below. I have no idea if this is correct, I am still looking for the English and German terms (in German it is a kind of Bockkäfer)) $URL$ I am by no means an expert, but those look alike. The wing-covers have similar shapes, red legs, big eyes, the butt-brush. Some coleopterist might come to improve on this answer with proper terminology, please don't forget to laugh about the word butt-brush. Edit: on a German page i have found another similar one: Rhamnusium bicolor, the "Beulenkopfbock" (german) (but, similar to the other source, I found conflicting images on different sites) $URL$ 

Unless there is a certain terminology for "backside" plugs, this is a plug (or as I know it: a wobbler. No idea which term is more commonly used around where you live). Wikipedia Link I had to bust out my detective hat and pipe to find information on these ones, but I stumbled upon this: an article about this bait They are(?)/were made by bomber, and nowadays you find them as Arbogast Mudbugs. (Note the two notches vs one notch in the bomber) Now on to plugs as I understand you question being for plugs in general, not your bait specificly. There are some different types, some with shovel, some without. The ones without shovel usually sink, and depend on you to perform, you twitch your rod and work the bait to make it "jump" through the water like an injured fish. With some skill you can walk it through the water impressively (you make make it do sharp 90 or even 180 degree turns). But I don't want to focus on these baits, lets focus on the baits with this "shovel". The shovel can determine how deep your lure runs at certain reeling speeds. These lures typically float (or suspend in the water), and only start to dive once you start reeling them in. You can make it more attractive by adding some twitches again, sometimes you even have to. But usually it "wobbles" from side to side, which attracts fish. To answer your questions specifically: 

Peanut butter and tahini sauce are very high in calories and I am searching for a lightweight but safe way to carry some while backpacking. They are soft and oily, so of course I really don't want any leak from the container. But also, I'd avoid a container that is so big and heavy to cancel the advantage of the high calories-to-weight ratio. I am thinking about sturdy freezer bags (would you recommend any?) that would resist some impact or scratch that may accidentally happen, closed with a clip like this: $URL$ but I did not try it yet, so I don't know if it would work and how well, or not. Any reccommendations would be much appreciated. Thanks! 

Most sleeping bags have a rating with several temperatures, one for the upper temperature limit, one for the average woman to sleep in a comfortable position ("Comfort"), one third for an average man in a curled position ("Lower limit"), the last ("Eemphasized") for bare survival, as defined in the EN 13537 Standard Here's two examples: 

I would like to know if I can stock some of my gear out there so that it won't get ruined not even in the long run. Just to give you an idea I left my skis in a similar circumstance (it was out on the balcony, not in a closed but in their own case) and they rusted a lot, in only one winter. So, I would of course everything indoor if leaving them out would reduce their "life expectations". But perhaps something (carabiner? backpacks?) can be left out without any damage. Here's what I own. 

Make a big fire. This may sound silly and couterintuitive, but the reason is pretty simple. If you make a small fire you need to put your stuff pretty close to it to have any chance of drying it in a decent amount of time. And if you put clothes or boots near the fire, then you concretely risk to burn them. While if you make a bigger fire, your equipment can dry while staying at a safe distance from it. That's pretty much it. For what matters exploding rocks, please see the comment by Benedikt Bauer to this very reply. 

This depends on the state, and the kind of course. In some states you don't need a license any more, or could even purchase a tourist-license valid for few weeks. The course can take just a few days, with a final test at the end, but sometimes it is difficult to find a course in a certain time frame. It can happen that you will have to wait a month, or even more, to be able to take a course at all. If your brother actually has a course with a fitting time frame, he should be able to tell you how long the course is, ask him. Otherwise you should check out which laws apply the the state, when courses are offered, and how long they take. 

Others experience this too (the internet is filled with similar stories). It does not look like you were really sick - this would have lasted longer than a day. However a weakened immune system is a concern after exhausting exercise. It is difficult to tell you what happened to you, but we can still guess. For example people with high blood pressure can experience fever after too much unprepared exercise. You might want to get checked (and while you are at it, check other stuff too, your doc will be able to tell you what to look for). The vomiting could be a side effect of feeling ill due to the fever, but it can't hurt to ask if you drank enough. Especially after long breaks of exercise. You tend to sweat more, and your body loses salts etc, electrolytes in general. This is no big deal for short workouts, but after long trips this may add up - and you will feel sick. There are several possible reasons, but to be save you might want to get checked up by an expert, and "listen to your body signals" (thanks, mom!) when exercising. 

All these things are important, however there are some nice quality-of-life features, or gimmicks you could look into: My head torch allows me to lock it by holding the power button for some seconds. To unlock it, I have to press it for some seconds again. No more empty batteries after your torch lit up the inside of your backpack for 20 hours straight! It even has a battery life indicator - very useful! If the angle of the lamp is adjustable, you can more easily do stuff in front of your face, or the normal height, when you are tying knots, or do anything that requires your light to not shine at something at 90 degrees of your forehead. I never realized how much I love this feature, until I didn't have to temporarily move my crappy old head torch down to my neck to do something in arms reach below nose level. For a more "serious" use, you might want to have a strobe function to defend yourself, or signal SOS.