But, as others have pointed out, this is the equivalent of Mary actually going to the art gallery. In order to have this new knowledge of an experience, Mary must first have it -- whether this is via an art gallery trip or the simulation of same does not make any difference to the argument, namely that complete knowledge of the explanation of how an experience works is not the same as knowledge of the experience itself. However, this does not seem like a strong objection to physicalism, only epistemological hair splitting. 

The mind does.1 Although conceptualizing the mind as a complex physical entity may require quite a number of _________ blanks, it is not (or should not be) that difficult. Keep in mind (pun) that the difference between the physical and the metaphysical (required by dualism, but not monism) is not the same as the difference between the map and the territory, although I think it is commonly misconceived or misrepresented that way. Of course the map isn't the territory, but both the map and the territory are still just physical. Likewise, I could give you a physical description of yellow and you could say, "Oh that's not yellow to me, yellow is yellow", asserting that explaining color in terms of wavelength does not capture the experience of seeing it. This is true, but it does not mean the experience of seeing color is non-physical (although you will find piles and piles and piles of philosophical literature trying to insist something like that). It means the map is not the territory. So too the (really, very physical seeming) experience of pleasure and pain. Since there are many other products of the mind that can be easily replicated via physical stimulus (a material change in the brain that might be mapped to the production of entities in the mind), more abstract phenomenon such as the experience of love and hate might easily be physical events in consciousness stimulated by the (physical) activities of consciousness itself. In other words, consciousness, as a physical thing, may affect itself physically. 

It's obvious that relative wonder is compatible with a scientific perspective. My first instinct was to say that Dawkins only feels relative wonder, while Keats feels absolute wonder. But I don't think that has to be true. There's a way in which the scientist's rainbow is no longer absolutely wonderful. One of the great things about rainbows is that they don't require any analysis; just look at them and you'll feel joy. The experience is sort of unmediated. But then look at the rainbow through the eyes of a physicist. The rainbow is no longer mysterious and no longer experienced unmediated. That's not to say a physicist can't enjoy rainbows; they can, but not in the same way as usual while they are investigating its electromagnetic properties. But I think Keats goes too far if he says that science must destroy miracles. Instead it can defer them. The miraculous thing is no longer: Look, a rainbow!, but: Look, the amazing intricacies of refraction and wave motion! This may well be the wonder Dawkins is describing. I know some mathematicians who feel the same way. To your last thought: On what principled grounds can we say rainbows are wonderful but the US tax code is not? I'm not sure that any exist, but do we need them? It doesn't seem to me that there's an exact science of wonder. Nor should there be. Part of the wonder of wonders is their fuzziness, the way they appeal to me, not some lifeless objective standard. 

Now I haven't read Sartre, and I'm not in a position to do so any time soon, so I can't check this, but this statement seems very wrong. If only and all human beings lack essence, doesn't that mean our lack of essence is essential to us? That we do have an essence, and that essence is a lack of itself? The problem is obvious, I hope. And I find it hard to believe Sartre didn't see it. So: 

You're begging the question. There are in fact Native American Colleges in the U.S. As for the other groups, I would imagine the issue is more fiscal than legal. 

Going back to your three questions, at least two of them are obviously not answerable with common sense unless one uses the term pejoratively (as in political rhetoric). Different people will give very different answers to, "What is the purpose of life?", and, to a lesser extent, to "Do good and evil exist?" It is also probably a matter of common sense (obvious to everyone) that the very nature of these questions makes them bad topics for common sense to tackle (since common sense requires a "simple perception of facts" and there are few simply perceived facts here). Your approach to the third question is actually an example of philosophy, albeit with a little bit of the aforementioned political hyperbole thrown in. Is it common sense that we can make choices? Probably it is, but this is a case where philosophy might take issue, and you do, by saying 

But what makes a religion genuine or acceptable from a secular perspective? Simply that some group of adults profess to regard it as their own, as such (i.e., they explicitly say, "This is our religion"). As a philosopher, I'd go one step further and say it must also involve metaphysics ("What is metaphysics?" being another question).1 That's two straightforward defining characteristics. So this would be a very open definition of religion, pretty close to the one answer you've perhaps said is not good enough. "Group" there is part of the definition. The esoteric beliefs of an individual, metaphysical or otherwise, cannot constitute a religion until they convince others to hold them -- which is how a lot of religions explicitly got their start. Of course, it may often be important for pragmatic purposes, under the law, to define religion in a more strict way. For example, simply on the basis of the size of the group, or, as I think is often the case, on the basis of a decision made by a government appointed board that presumably includes experts in the field of religious studies and prominent members of prominent religions (Bishops, Rabbis, etc). However, those pragmatic purposes are not philosophical. They are to account for people who may abuse an existing legal situation, e.g., to form a religion for tax purposes, to get more days off from work, etc. There's also pragmatic considerations such as, "Does the religion preach violence toward others?". But I don't think this is what you meant by (un)acceptable in your question, i.e., you could have something which is acceptable by a given definition of religion that is still not an acceptable institution socially. I do not think we can define religion politely and say, e.g., that the Spanish Inquisition doesn't count as part of the history of the Catholic Church because "those people weren't really religious". See #2 WRT Scientology. 

Hegel, Nietzsche, Wittgenstein, and Anscombe all write mostly in numbered paragraphs. (Of course Hegel and Nietzsche have chapters. And many of Hegel's lectures aren't written in this way, but both Logics, PR and PS are.) To some extent this makes sense for Nietzsche---aphorisms are supposed to stand on their own, yet exist in context. But the Genealogy is not a collection of aphorisms and could easily have been written in a continuous flow. And I think the same is true of Hegel. I could guess that early Wittgenstein was following Russel in writing this way. Perhaps each statement in the Tractatus is supposed to stand alone uncontroversially, like a theorem. But he keeps the form up all the way through his life, and Anscombe copies it in Intention. Have any of them ever explained this strange organization? Who has written on why these thinkers thought it necessary to write in this form? 

"Always already" is a strange phrase/concept I see cropping up everywhere in post-structuralist discourse, used by a wide variety of authors. I was curious as to its origin; Wikipedia says Heidegger popularized its use. But I don't know much about Heidegger, and Being and Time is too big to search through. In what passage does Heidegger first employ the term? What work does it do in his description of Dasein? (This is equivalent, I think, to asking what it means that Dasein anticipates itself.) 

In Affect: What is it Good For?, Mazzerella distinguishes affect from emotion. The key difference is that affect is presubjective. I have a pretty good idea of why emotions have to be subjective, and what it means for them to be subjective. But I want to say that anything capable of experience is a subject. Is that true? If so, how can a component of experience be presubjective? 

Yes, but this is not an objection to physicalism. This is (I referred to this in a parallel discussion), the difference between the map and the territory, not the difference between a physical phenomenon and a non-physical experience. If I show you a map of a city and you use it to find a building downtown, the map and the territory are, indeed, very very different, and our power to reason allows us to make the connection between them. 

It's not much of problem to start with. Most ethical theories are not intuitionist, that is, they do not depend upon "common-sense moral intuitions" -- they derive either from rationalism or theology. Although theological systems may posit (e.g.) a role for a God given sense, this does not mean that the distinction between right and wrong is founded in such a sense; rather, the sense is founded in the distinction, which is dictated by God, and in such systems there will never be a case where the sense deviates from correct. WRT rationalist theories, "intuition" may be a starting point for inquiry but it must be assumed that intuition is not necessarily correct. For example, if someone says, "My gut tells me killing is wrong" (or "..the Earth is flat"), a rationalist asks, "Why should this be accepted as true? What arguments can be made for and against the intuition?" A rationalist critique of intuitionism would be that intuitions are neither divine nor biologically hard-coded (instincts), and instead purely psychological phenomenon. They might represent unconscious beliefs, that is, things we have uncritically absorbed and accepted as truth without reflection, and/or things that simply "seem obvious" on the surface. Going back to the Earth is a flat plane example, on the surface, it might seem "common sense" and our senses tell us this, but if we inquire further, it is easy to posit a counter theory, that the Earth is spherical, and state that our senses can tell us this also (even if it does not jibe with common sense). So if it is not purely a matter of the empirical, moving from a flat to a round Earth involves working through some (un)conscious assumptions to see if they are rationally justified.1 To sum up, in most secular ethical theories deviation from common sense intuition would be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the intuition is not rationally justified. In theological systems, true mortal intuition can never be wrong; the problem is that you are confused/corrupted or the victim of interference from a supernatural entity. 

The best response to a "counterexample" to Kant is, "So what?" Providing counterexamples completely misses the point. Kant's task is to start essentially at the beginning, by analyzing the pure concepts of morality, duty, freedom, etc, and to see what he can make with them. While we would of course like to have the results of this investigation match up with our every moral intuition, we cannot possibly require this. Then we would be stipulating the correctness of our intuition, something which we have no justification for. 

For Kant, we are prohibited from using people as purely means. Unfortunately things like physically stopping someone from doing violence onto you just because you don't want to be wounded seems to very much be using them as a means and not an end. If we are unable to literally escape* being submitted to unethical treatment, do we simply have to grin and bear it? *In the "what if an ax murderer asks me where my friend is, shouldn't I lie then" the obvious solution is to just remain silent. I'm thinking of cases where there is no similar way out, e.g., you are trapped. 

EDIT: For any future readers: I've picked virmaior's answer as I think it answers the question fullest but Patrick R's answer is also great and gives some very useful context about the translation. 

In Three Dialogues, Berkeley advances a theory of subjective idealism. Things only exist as experiences of individual consciousnesses. These things are static and themselves unthinking, as they are pure ideas. And they persist even when we are not looking at them because God is looking at them all the time. Here's the thing, though---if esse est percipi, how do we exist? We aren't always perceiving ourselves. We sleep, for instance. And our actual selves are not just pure ideas. We are active and thinking. So we can't exist in God's mind in the same way that, for instance, a tree does. If only unthinking substances can be perceived, and only that which is perceived can exist, how does anything exist to do the perceiving? 

Not all physical phenomenon are "objects". The belief that our conscious experiences are derivative of physical phenomenon is a dualist/metaphysical one, not a materialist one. The materialist position is that our conscious experiences (qualia) are physical phenomenon. 

This last point might be considered a minor semantic one, if your dualist conception ends at the mind (which is why, again, the distinction doesn't change anything about secular psychology and so on). However, it is a little hard to see the point of such a conception, and arguably this would likely be a remnant of some more elaborate (theistic) metaphysical system. I think there is a lot of confusion about what "physical phenomenon" refers to. It refers to things which can, or could (assuming perfect knowledge) be explained in terms of physics. The "perfect knowledge assumption" is important; it could turn out that human beings are simply not capable of achieving such a thing. The point of the assertion is that if they did, the mind would be understood to be completely physical. This is in contrast to the claim that, assuming perfect knowledge, we would know the mind is decisively something other than a physical phenomenon. 

1 As we shall see, he does have a very capital-R Romantic vision of the artist, and romanticizing disorder as a natural state unfettered by excessive civilization fits that too. 

I'm presuming you say that because most people aren't interested by "hard core philosophy" and feel there are better things to do. However, the same is true of math, science, and literature; most people do not engage in the study of any of these things except to the extent that they are forced to by law. Being "atypical" does not mean you are mentally deranged, prone to hallucination, etc. This is why psychology is not just "mental pathology"; people can end up with very different beliefs but still pass the same basic tests of sanity.