First off, can you explain a bit more about how you "don't feel very good"? Do you feel at all queasy? Do you feel especially weak? Also, how often do you exercise so intensely, and how long have you been doing it? And how long does this period of feeling unwell typically last? Anyway, there are several possibilities (though most apply to rides longer than 15 miles): -- Dehydration. Especially in warmer weather you need to drink plenty of water or other fluids. We've had arguments here as to how much, but it's not a bad idea to down a 21-oz bottle of water every two hours or so, as very rough guide -- more in hotter weather. -- Low sodium. Again, in warmer weather it's quite possible for someone who exercises intensely to sweat off so much salt that the sodium levels in their body are not sufficient. (This effect can be doubled if the individual consumes an extremely low-sodium diet.) This results in fatigue and lethargy, and in extreme cases can be life-threatening, especially if mistaken for dehydration (which has similar symptoms) resulting in "water intoxication". -- Low blood sugar. When you exercise you first consume the sugar in the blood stream, then the liver and muscles start converting stored glycogen to sugar. Several other mechanisms kick in as well. Especially in someone who has not trained extensively, this mechanism may not be able to supply the body with enough sugar and low blood sugar can result. In addition, some people suffer from what's known as "reactive hypoglycemia", where blood sugar drops paradoxically after a meal, after exercise, or at certain times of the day. -- Ketosis. If blood sugar gets too low for too long the body begins to burn fat and protein directly. This results in the production of ketones which are released into the blood stream. This again results in an unwell feeling, including nausea, extreme fatigue, lethargy, and "brain fog". (Ketosis in particular will knock you on your butt for 2-3 days if it gets bad. Most other conditions listed here you can recover from in a few hours at most, if properly treated.) -- Blood pressure fluctuations. Some people experience fairly extreme changes in blood pressure after exercising. This is usually short-lived, but can produce a wide variety of symptoms, from pounding headache to fatigue and fainting. -- Neurotransmitter fluctuations. It's well known that exercise (especially intense exercise) causes the release of a number of neurochemicals. This is cause of the so-called "runner's high". And, of course, when one is "high", one will eventually "come down", and the result is a sort of "withdrawal" from the endorphins produced while exercising. My guess is that you're experiencing a combination of slightly low blood sugar and the neurotransmitter "withdrawal", maybe combined with a touch of dehydration. Eating some sweet or starchy snack every 30-60 minutes while riding will help to level the blood sugar (and if it's a bit salty, all the better). Drink a cup or two of water with the snack. And when you finish the intense part of the ride, take a leisurely spin around the block or whatever for 5-10 minutes to "cool down" -- not your temperature so much as your endorphins. (You can, of course, experiment with different combinations of the above to try to narrow down what's the primary cause of your particular symptoms.) But (though the doctor's checkup is never a bad idea) I wouldn't worry about it too much. After all, you've just participated in the second-best activity a man can experience, so a little let-down afterwards is to be expected. 

Most hubs these days claim to be "sealed". This basically means that if you look the hub from the axle end you can't see the balls of the ball bearings, because there is, at least, a "dust shield" that leaves only a very narrow opening between rotating hub and fixed axle. There are also "cartridge" hubs, which were the original sealed hubs popularized by Phil Woods, back when standard bearings had no dust shields and were pretty crappy. These use a (theoretically) replaceable cartridge on each side of the hub, where the cartridge is an industrial bearing cartridge similar to what's used in electric motors (and similar to what's used in bottom-bracket cartridges). However, replacing the cartridges requires special tools, and likely many bike shops would just give you a dumb look if you talked to them about replacing the cartridges. Both of these schemes are a significant improvement over the original open bearing style, since, not only do they keep most moisture out, they also keep out dust and dirt. For the average rider, though, the cartridge scheme is probably not worthwhile, since it is not possible to simply rebuild the bearings. 

What I've found, after the first 24 hours or so when the wound is oozing, is that leaving it uncovered but coating it with ointment works best. (Preferably use an antibiotic ointment, but plain old petrolatum is OK.) If the wound is in a place where it might get bumped, or you consider it terribly unsightly (though how can a biking wound be other than a badge to wear proudly?) then you can lightly cover with gauze. The ointment holds in the moisture, which is what you need most to promote healing. And antibiotic ointments have been shown to increase the speed of healing over non-antibiotic. 

To answer this question (which is different from asking "Which mask?") you have to define what "pollution" means and then examine the available masks to see if they do anything to reduce it. Just offhand, I believe that "pollution", in an urban traffic setting, consists of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide (and various other sulfur compounds), nitric/nitrous oxide (and various other nitrogen compounds), and soot (which contains a significant amount of unburned hydrocarbons). (Lead used to be a significant component of exhaust but is no longer, with unleaded gasoline.) Of these, only the soot is really "visible", while the sulfur and nitrogen compounds can contribute to "yellow haze". A simple filter mask will remove only the soot (if that). You need a mask containing at least a reasonable layer of activated charcoal (ie, a canister) to remove much of the others. The masks I see advertised just have a thin layer of "activated charcoal cloth" or some such, not enough to make a noticeable difference. I was unable to find any evidence of rigorous testing of these masks anywhere -- by the manufacturers or independent bodies. They do test for particulate filtering, but that's of minimal value, and, besides, you can buy (much) cheaper particulate filters if you skip the "pollution" moniker. 

The cable needs adjusting. A new cable will tend to stretch and go out of adjustment, so they should provide a free adjustment after replacing it. 

Look between the big gear and the hub to make sure there's nothing (eg, a pebble) jammed in there. The nuts on the axle (including some you can't see) may have somehow become overtightened. You can try loosening the nuts you can see and see if that improves things, but you might as well take the wheel to your local bike shop since they have the tools to take it apart and know how to adjust it. 

Frankly, what you want is impossible. A good bicycle helmet provides substantial protection from head-impacts-pavement and head-impacts-vehicle events, but basically only those where the velocities involved are small. The helmet functions by slowing the skull down slowly, avoiding the skull-brain impact which often does the most damage. But, where the helmet is effective we're talking about impacts which, if they involved another body part, would only result in a bad bruise or maybe a relatively minor fracture -- impacts not much worse than slipping on the ice and going down hard. Yes, body armor would help with such impacts, but the cost (in terms of weight/comfort)/benefit(in terms of reduced bruising) ratio is very low. Getting broad-sided by a car is an entirely different situation. If, eg, the car strikes your body at the hip, your spine will be subjected to enormous torsion and a spinal injury is very likely. Body armor (short of the stuff used in Iraq) will not stiffen the spine. If the impact is at the knee, similarly no practical body armor will prevent the knee from being torn apart by the impact. 

Well, the freewheel/freehub is frozen, apparently. Generally nothing to do but replace that component (repair is possible but difficult). But there are two other possibilities: 

Basically you just need a tube that's the right size (diameter and width) for the tire. And of course you need the right stem -- the thin Presta stem, or the thick auto-style Schraeder stem -- depending on what your rim is drilled for. There are various grades of tubes, but you most certainly want just the standard grade. Thin ones designed for racing leak down rapidly, while thick ones designed to resist punctures are really bulky and hard to deal with. Be wary of a shop that doesn't have the right size tube (the range of sizes should be printed on the box the tube comes in) and tries to sell you what they have in stock. While a "slightly wrong" size will often work, it will be hard to install and will be apt to not run smoothly. [Also note that for a small cut in a tire you can often get away with using a "boot" behind the hole. This can be a specially made piece of thin, flexible plastic, a piece cut from the sidewall of a lightweight tire, or even a piece of folded currency, if yours (as in the US) is fairly rugged.] 

Low limit High limit Cable adjustment -- selects where the derailer stops for intermediate cogs Height above crank Angle on seat tube 

If you're saying that, off the body, the sprockets move slightly relative to each other, that's not a problem. The sprockets are only just "tacked" together so that they remain in the right order and orientation while off the body. The body provides the strength to hold them. If, on the other hand, you notice that the sprockets slide up and down the body after installation, or if they seem to wobble as they turn, that suggests that they were installed incorrectly relative to the notches or that a spacer is missing. 

Unclear whether the question is about "freewheel" hubs or "coaster brake" hubs. With a freewheel hub, if you roll backwards, the pedals will necessarily turn backwards. If you "lock" the pedals with your feet it will be impossible to roll backwards. With the standard coaster brake hub, if you roll backwards and do not exert any force forwards or backwards on the pedals, the pedals will not move and you will roll freely backwards. "Back pedaling" will apply the brakes, and pedaling forward even a little will engage the pedals with the wheel and hence convey the motion of the wheel to the pedals (and vice-versa). (Though I have to admit that it's been so long since I've used coaster brakes that I may be misremembering some details.) 

Based on the pictures on the web, that's a fairly standard 3-cross wheel. You can try replacing the entire wheel, but the new one may not be any better. The other option is to have the wheel rebuilt with high-quality spokes. It depends a bit on the history of the bike. If it's fairly old (more than 5 years or so) and the failing spokes in something new then it's likely just age and fatigue (and possibly corrosion from being out in the weather). In such a case simply replacing the wheel is probably the cheapest option. But if the spokes have been failing regularly all along it's likely that the spokes are poor quality and rebuilding the wheel with better spokes would be the better option., 

A little tricky. It is hard to guess how bad the bike is -- I've seen some left out that long (in Minnesota) with only a scattering of cosmetic rust, others that were pretty well trashed. First thing to do is to clean it off. Get a nylon scrub brush or a non-abrasive "scrubbie" and a bucket of soapy water and work it over pretty well. Rinse well with a hose, but DO NOT SPRAY HIGH-PRESSURE WATER AT THE HUBS OR OTHER BEARINGS! Next, get an old toothbrush and some WD-40 (yes, people will scream that's a no-no, but ignore them) and clean the chain and derailers (if it has derailers). Take care to keep the solvent off the tires when you do this. (I like to lay a section of newspaper against the wheel, tucked behind the derailer.) Then oil the chain and derailers well, wipe with a cloth and oil again. And wipe again. (It's best to use some chain oil from a bike shop, but regular 3-in-1 or some such will do for starters.) Now check the bearings. Spin the wheels and see if they seem to spin freely and smoothly. Turn the crank with your hand and feel for any roughness as it turns. Sit astride the bike and turn the handlebars, feeling for any roughness in the "headset" that the fork pivots on. If the bearings seem to check out, give it a test ride. (If not they will need to be disassembled and rebuilt.) Check the brakes, and shifters, if it's a multi-speed. To test the brakes, one should do several stops at various speeds and in various conditions, including a few panic stops. Here you're very likely to discover that the shift and brake cables have rusted up -- the most likely problem. There are a few ways to deal with this, the most obvious being simply replacing the problematic cables. Short of that you can try to work the cables free, then work some sort of lubricant into them. A trick I like to use is to somehow dribble "oxalic acid" (available from paint stores as a cleaner) into the cables. This actually dissolves rust. (Oxalic acid is also useful for removing cosmetic rust on handlebars, et al.) After this, you could consider repacking the bearings, but that depends on how much you really like this girlfriend. ;) 

Depends on how "little" the accident was. First double-check that the handlebar really is "square" to the fork, and not slightly cocked one direction or the other. (Though this problem shouldn't cause the wheel to turn when you let go.) Next, oddly enough, do the same check with your seat. If the seat is slightly angled to one side or the other then it will put your weight off-balance and you will get the tendency to turn. (Also, note that you'll have this problem if you put weight in a basket on one side of the bike or some such.) If not those, pick the front end of the bike up and spin the wheel -- make sure it doesn't wobble at all as it turns. Do the same with the rear. If not those, I'd suspect that the frame is bent. If you stand in front of the bike and imagine a line going down through the center of the steering shaft, that line should be exactly in line with the frame of the bike behind. If it twists to one side or the other then that's your problem -- bent frame. Also look at the fork itself (a slightly more difficult thing to do accurately). In your accident one "tine" of the fork may have gotten pushed back relative to the other. Especially likely if the accident involved hitting something. In any event I'd suggest you take the bike to a bike shop (or a knowledgeable friend) and have it checked out. 

Halo headband combined with a "maxipad" (stuck to the inside of the helmet) is what I use. The maxipad can be changed at every stop if need be, but usually one is sufficient for an all-day ride. (And I sweat quite profusely.) 

That washer is a part of the "seal" system for the hub. If you look at the hub there is a lightweight metal cap pressed into the hub over the area of the bearing race, and that washer (which is plastic) fairly snugly fit into the hole in that cap. This doesn't create a water-tight seal, but it's tight enough to keep out a lot of the dust. I've never studied closely how the washer is placed there. I would assume that the cone is made of two pieces that are swaged together during manufacturing, but I can't say for sure. 

The tire was poorly installed. This would be the most common reason for such a failure. The tire is simply the wrong size. Not only is it possible to install some tires on the wrong diameter rim, but also a tire that is too wide or narrow for the rim may blow off. The tire is a poor fit to the rim. Some manufacturer's tires are a hair large or smaller in inner diameter than "standard", and the same is true of the mating surfaces of rims. Ie, some tire-rim combos are just a poor match. The tire bead failed. This could be due to damage while installing, or it could have "just happened". The rim failed. It's not at all uncommon for a rim to be worn through by rim brakes to the point that the rim side buckles outward. This may or may not be obvious on first inspection of the rim, but should be obvious if you look for it specifically. The tire was simply overpressured. This is unlikely, but can occur when tire fit is poor.