My personal opinion is you may be being a little bit optimistic on your speed. I would probably aim for 20-30km per day (~15 miles) if you have not done such a long trip before and are reasonably fit. Although there are several factors to consider: 

I taking a bunch of scouts camping next week. While we are staying at a Scout campsite with facilities and some organised activities. We have decided we want to have a bit more of back to basics/survival focus. Do people have suggestions of any good activities that are survival/scout skill orientated? So far I have the obvious ideas of firefighting without matches, making a bivy/shelter for a night and pioneering (what is yet to be determined). I'm particularly looking for any interesting but non-obvious ideas. Age range is 11-14. 

While heights do change slowly by natural processes such changes are likely to be on the order of centimeters barring any extreme events. Most changes in published heights of hills since people started measuring these things accurately (only the last couple of hundred years) are due to improvements/investments in technology. Measuring the height of a hill is surprisingly hard. One of the earliest ways to determine hill height was trigonometry. If you have two points with a known distance between them and one known height (sea-level works well here) then by careful measurement of angles you can determine the height (and distance) of a third point. The accuracy here will depend on the the ability to measure an accurate angle and the distance to the third point. I haven't done any accurate calculation but with tools of the late 19th/early 20th c. I reckon accuracy of a few meters is reasonable. Possibly a bit higher with careful repeated measurements. Interestingly this is what lead to the introduction of the system of trig points in the UK and other places. Which used this principle to map out distances and heights across the country. Even in modern times calculating heights is not trivial. Here is an interesting article but the ordnance survey describing the process. Primarily, they use photogrammetry (and probably related techniques such as LIDAR) to measure height by air. This is a quick way to cover large areas by is limited to accuracy of a couple of meters. If you want to measure height accurately you need to leave a fixed GPS receiver in place for several weeks. While the accuracy here can be a few centimeters it is too expensive to be used in most situations. Therefore there is significant uncertainty about some Munros height considering how close they are to the 3000' (914m) cut-off. The two post 1997 Munro re-classifications have both been due to interested parties hiring an team of surveyors to do very accurate measurements of some mountains which are more accurate than what the OS would normally do and they found that these two are just below the cut-off. 

The best solution will depend a lot on your particular tent and general set-up but here are a few pointers. Try and keep kit in your tent neat and to a minimum. If you are trekking you probably won't have too much kit anyway. If you are car camping try and keep as much stuff in you car as possible (its nice and dry in there). Keeping your kit tidy and backed away is generally good practise (I'm terrible at this). In particular, I find if you have a big pile of stuff it is easy to just push to one side/into a corner where it will touch the walls and get wet. If you have one or two bags they are easier to place somewhere sensible. Generally, I keep most of my kit in the inner tent where I sleep. I have a small two man so if it is just me I will lay my bag next to me, and try and keep it off the walls. For larger tents you can also put your bag at your feet. I've also seen people use their bag as a pillow which seems quite good, especially if space is tight. Most larger tents will have a sort of porch area and even small tents tend to have some extra space at the door. You can leave your kit here. If it is a relatively small space lean your kit into the inner so as to avoid the outer. Also if this area doesn't have an groundsheet you kit may get wet from the ground. Finally, as Liam pointed out dry bags are good. If its raining you'll probably get a lot of damp kit anyway so they can help keep your dry stuff separate. 

I went to this area about 6 years ago. We started in Zakopane and did a couple of loops staying at the mountain huts. While its probably possible to stay in Zakopane I think it would restrict you a lot in what you can do. For example Rysy itself is about 20km from Zakopane would be a big round trip in a day. There are some buses which I seem to remember went to better starting points to get into the mountains but if you rely on buses you will be restricted on return time. Personally, I would stay at the huts, they were quite good. From what I remember they were similar in quality to places I've stayed in Italy/France but significantly cheaper. Here's the website for the hut at the base of Rysy on google translate. It was very large and commercial and not my favorite hut (but has a website I could easily find). The accommodation is about 50 zl per night (~£10). 

I have several suggestions of how you could do this. If you are going to use rope I would use 3 pieces of thinner rope 2/3mm paracord should be more than strong enough. I would then tie a shear lashing (see picture) on each leg. You want to try and use a significant length of the pole or possible even tie to lashings per pole to reduce the amount of twisting you get. However, using rope takes relatively long to setup and is relatively hard to do if you are not experienced, so I would probably use a different method. 

Such small bags are often known as daysacks. However, in my experience the best way to search for bags is by their size. Bag size is generally measured in L (even in the US I think). Most larger bags will have their size in the name. Some smaller bags don't, but is you can find the bag online it will generally have size information. Looking at this bag I would say it is probably a 20L (or even possibly smaller, 15L) A quick google search gives the bag you picture as probably a High Sierra XBT TSA Backpack. Which according to the High Sierra website is 2500 cu in or 40L. So it looks like my guess of size was a bit off. 

In the UK you should probably contact the RSPCA or RSPB. I think RSCPA is probably best as they actually do welfare stuff whereas RSPB is about conservation. They should have the best knowledge of whether the bird needs to be killed and how best to do it. I presume other countries have similar charities. If you need to kill the bird yourself I think the best way, without specialist equipment, is to wring its neck. If you do it properly it should kill the bird pretty much instantly. However, you need to make sure to commit fully and not do a half assed job that will cause it more suffering. This is mainly an issue if you are a bit squeamish about it. Another option which I've heard is reasonably humane is to put the bird in a carrier bag and hit it hard against a wall. This seems horrible to me, but may be easier to actually do than to wring its neck Here is a guide for how to kill a chicken by wringing its neck. The principles should be the same for other birds too. The basic process is as follows: 

Many areas in Scotland can be quite quiet, especially outside the peak season. There are also many long distance walks ranging from the well known to the less so. I've heard the Rob Roy way and the Cape Wrath trail are quiet good although I've actually done neither. There is no system of manned mountain huts like in many places but many unmanned bothies which can be used and you can wild camp in most places. Another possibility is the Tatra mounatins on the Poland Slovakia border. There is a good network of huts but they aren't that remote (and were reasonably busy) but are not well known (at least in the UK). 

Most things I can think of would stop it working even when full. My one suggestion is, is the pump below the fuel line when on its side? The fuel line is the white tube in the picture. If it is in the middle of the bottle and the fuel is low it might not be submerged when the bottle is horizontal. Have you tried putting the bottle vertically or rotating it? 

To add to Liam's answer, it depends what minerals/chemicals are in the water. Many of these are harmless (e.g. peat or clay), but other can be dangerous. In general, mineral contamination is not effected by boiling. Some chemical impurities can be removed by filtering, but most filters are primarily designed for removing microbes and will be of limited use for removing chemical contamination. There are lots of filters available (e.g. these or this). Most filters are not effective for chemical contamination as most of the chemicals are small single molecules and/or soluble in water, where as filters designed to remove bacteria have a pore size ~2um. To somewhat effectively remove chemical impurities a carbon filter can be used. Some ceramic pumps have a carbon filter built in. It should be noted that carbon filters clog up and need to be replaced or will stop working effectively. Depending on your location mineral contamination is not likely to be an issue. It is mostly a concern in areas where there has been significant mining, industrial or agricultural activity, although does occur naturally in some areas. Some chemical contaminates to be aware of are: Heavy metals: e.g. lead, mercury, arsenic. Are not normally a concern for surface water but if mining or industrial pollution has occurred in the area the wash out may contain high levels heavy metals. Severe exposure can cause vomiting, nausea and diarrhea. Longer term exposure can also lead to many unpleasant illnesses. Pesticides etc.: Mainly occur as run off from agriculture can also get organic chemicals in mine run off. Can cause liver and kidney problems, primarily after long term exposure. Uranium: Occurs naturally in some areas, but is more a concern where mining has effected the water supply. Primary health risk is from long term exposure. Hydrogen sulphide Occurs naturally in some areas and can also be introduced by sewage water. Has a notable rotten egg smell. Drinking such water can cause stomach cramps and diarrhea. Iron and copper Can occur naturally or from mine run-off. results in foul tasting water. In high concentrations they have been linked to liver failure but are not poisonous at low concentrations. 

Start small and work your way up, walk round your local parks etc. You will probably be surprised how many options there are even within a short distance of where you live. Also start with what you are comfortable and build up from there. Challenging yourself is good, but deciding to do something you're obviously unprepared for and failing horribly is only going to be painful and off putting. I would recommend going hiking with friends or family, while many people enjoy the solitude of hiking having people to talk to on route can make it more interesting and they can also provide encouragement/support if you start to struggle. If you can't persuade anyone to go with you maybe consider joining a local hiking/ramblers club. This also has the advantage of giving you a ready supply of more experienced people who can give you advice and know of interesting walks in your local area. For kit: 

A third suggestion you be to use cable ties or jubilee clips. You would probably need two of these per leg. Cable ties are plastic, much lighter and easy to attach, but generally have to be cut off and so are one use only. Which may be an issue depending on how often you use the tripod. Also you need to dispose of the old clips sensibly, easily in an outdoors environment. Jubilee clips can be a bit of a pain to attach and generally require a screwdriver to tighten or remove. This could be an issue for outdoors use. My final suggestion would be to make a connector to attach the poles to the end of the the legs. From your picture I cannot tell but this would work best if the tent poles are not attached together, but it might work anyway. There are many ways you could make such a thing but my suggestion would be for each leg use a short piece of PVC pipe, just slightly larger internal diameter than the poles so that they can slide inside. Drill a hole right through the middle of the pipe and put a bolt through it. If you want to make it more secure and have the right tools you could but a threaded hole on each side and put a bolt in to act as a tighter. This method requires the most work beforehand but would probably result in very easy assembly in the field. 

Unfortunately being Europe the situation changes from country to country. But I will try and keep my answer as general as possible. I most places wild camping is not allowed. Main exceptions are Scotland and Nordic countries and some other places where its illegal but widely tolerated. I Alpine and other mountainous areas (except in UK) there is a widespread system of mountain huts that are located on hiking trails in the mountains. You would need to look where the routes go exactly to see what huts are nearby. Hostels are common in larger towns and some other popular backpacking areas. These are probably the cheapest non-camping option if you don't mind being in a dorm room. In smaller towns/villages there are often B&B/guest houses which are slightly more expensive than hostels (but nicer). Campsites are fairly common in rural areas and in valleys in some mountainous regions. They tend to be manned and have basic facilities (toilet, shower, drinking water), but exact setup can vary a lot between sites even in the same region. Camping is probably a viable option for sleeping on most routes, except possibly some areas of the Alps/some other mountainous regions where a long detour would be required to react a campsite each night. 

Theoretically, a 1L flask will keep the liquid warmer as there less surface area and greater mass. However, in practise it is really a question of what size insulated (Thermos/vacuum type) flasks are available and how well they work. Non-insulated flasks will not be much good in either case I would guess your liquid would definitely cool within an hour, and probably quite a bit faster. For insulated flasks 1L ones seem to be the standard and many smaller ones are more mug designs which are not great for storing while walking, although I'm sure there are some which would work. Other factors are two flasks are likely to be slightly heavier, due to the extra insulation needed. Which may be something to consider, I haven't looked what the likely difference is. Also weight can often be balanced through sharing other kit if using one flask. 

Another suggested method is to place the birds neck under a broom handle or similar. Stand on the handle to secure it, grab the bird's body and pull up hard. 

If it has a wick in the priming pan it is most likely an international. The other main difference is the fuel tube on the international is slightly larger diameter. Although, this would be hard to tell without a comparison. However, as I commented to ShemSeger's answer there is a different diameter nozzle for kerosene. Therefore if you don't have this nozzle I wouldn't try and use kerosene. You can probably get new nozzles from MSR. I think there are some in one of the service kits, but didn't check if they are the right ones for Kerosene. 

This seems a bit low to me, but there are lots of other factors to consider. The main ones are temperature and exertion/walking speed. Different people also definitely need different amounts of water. One of my friends was nicknamed desert-man as he drank approximately 4x as much as everyone else. If you are in the UK or a similarly cool climate, then 100ml per hour is not entirely unreasonable (although still on the low side). But if you are somewhere hot, then it definitely wouldn't be enough. Another major factor is what do you drink while not walking. If you drink 100ml per hour for an 8 hour walk then drink 2L while setting up camp that is very different from continuing to drink 100ml per hour.