They are marked on OS 1:25K Explorer maps as "Byways open to all traffic". But it's a good idea to research your route beforehand as some (like the Monk's Trod) are now closed by traffic regulation orders - primarily because of the damage caused by off-roaders. 

It Depends. Actually, it depends on pretty much everything: Weather, terrain, fitness, group size, and of course, how long a day is. It's better to think of 'How much can I do in an hour, and how many hours do I want to walk/climb for?'. I'd start using Naismith's Rule. But, as you get experience about your own group's speed and fitness, adjust it up or down as appropriate. 

On a backpack, you'd have the quick-release buckle, but no clasp. The clasp is really doing two things - stopping the buckle loosening, and making it look tidy. If the buckle is decent quality and condition it's unlikely to loosen much by itself in normal use. I'd just remove the clasp, and shorten the webbing as much as possible (which helps keep it tidy). Carefully melt the cut end of the webbing to stop it fraying. 

Heat up some coals, pour the peaches into a dutch oven, and pour the cake mix evenly over the peaches. Put the top on the dutch oven (including coals on top), bake until it's done: The peach syrup should bubble over into the cake mix over much of it, the rest of the cake mix should be just starting to brown. How long depends a lot on your fire/coals. If you're hiking and a dutch oven is too much, you can probably get away with putting it in a fairly wide pan on a camp stove. You can also experiment with other fruits and cake mix flavors; but note that the heavy syrup is important, it keeps the syrup below the cake mix in a place to bubble up properly. Pound cake 

Melt the butter in a dutch oven. Pour in the sugar, mix quickly, flour, mix quickly, eggs, mix quickly and then thoroughly. Put the lid on, bake until it's done. I imagine this doesn't translate to a camp stove quite as well as the peach cobbler, but if you have a pot that can handle the temperature and you don't mind getting it dirty (and possibly melting, if you misjudged its sturdiness) you can try putting it in a pit surrounded (beyond a bit of a gap) by coals piled up. Also, this one can obviously be scaled down to smaller portions (e.g. 1/4 lb of each) if you are in a smaller party. 

...and the second showing effect of different clothing. In this test with 10degC water, subject (wearing 'street' clothes) had core temperature of 35.6degC after 30 minutes. 

"list" questions can cause problems on stackexchange sites, but, anyhow... From a UK perspective, Robert Macfarlane's "The Wild Places" is excellent. 

Based on last Wednesday (May 16th) in the Carneddau (Snowdonia, N Wales), I'd be well prepared for temperatures below freezing at night in Scotland, even in May. I camped at Ffynnon Llyffant (at about 820m) and the temperature inside the tent was no more than 4 degrees C (measured by suunto core, suspended in tent), and when I got out of the tent in the morning there was around 1-2cm of snow covering it, and it was snowing down to about 700m. Obviously it depends on how high you plan to camp (subtract 1-2 degrees C per 300m). Anyway, specific recommendations, some obvious:- 

I know that's all bit of a leap, but if you had a problem our running in remote country and had to wait for rescue, having all your layers soaked with sweat is giong to be pretty uncomfortable. 

Take a bath. Fill the bath tub with water and the pad with air, and put the pad underwater (if it's too big to all go under at once, check section by section). You should see bubbles coming out of the leak. 

My mother, who is a doctor, has always told me to let blisters be. Keeping them unpopped keeps them clean and sterile, and (if I recall correctly) the fluid in them actually helps them heal faster. If you're in the wilderness, you really don't want to pop them and risk infection. Even if you have antibacterials, a popped blister is likely to contact dirt and pathogens through use, you can't be putting antibacterial on it all the time. And I never really thought a popped blister felt any better anyway. 

It's been a while since I went rock climbing but I'd like to get back into it. What are some hand exercises that will help with climbing? 

It depends on precisely how big the kit is. A couple other answers have covered bigger packs, so I'll mention what could be in a much thinner pack. If it needs to be flat and relatively small: 

I've never had a pack failure 'in the wild' but I think my usual repair kit of duct tape, tie wraps and a bit of paracord should be able to handle most things. Minor strap and buckle failures aren't likely to cause you major problem - but if a shoulder strap fails, that's quite a challenge: Just remember your pack is a vital part of your gear, and look after it well! 

If you're staying out overnight, consider digging a snowhole instead of using a tent. A snowhole can be much warmer than a tent and give significantly better protection. And, as Andy Kirkpatrick writes, they can't blow away. 

Each scenario is probably different, so you'd likely make a plan on the hoof: How far are you from your previous 'checkpoint', and how far is it to the next? What time of day is it, etc... If the 'lost' couple were at the rear of the group (a likely scenario) and you're following a rerasonably well defined trail, then backtracking for a while (or at least, sitting and waiting) to look for them seems common sense: An accident or injury could have slowed their progress significantly, and the next checkpoint could be a long way off. And, who's carrying any group medical kit..? 

I have, unfortunately, not had the opportunity to go climbing (and thus use my climbing equipment) for a couple years. I know that such equipment, especially the rope and webbing, can degrade over time. So how can I check my equipment to tell which pieces are still OK to use and which need to be replaced? 

The CDC says Picaridin and DEET* are the best, with Oil of Lemon Eucalyptus** being something of a shorter-lasting runner-up: 

I have no personal experience with sailing a raft (though I do sail), but as it's getting on three weeks without an answer I'll give it a shot. I see two primary concerns here: the stability of the sail on the raft and the overall stability of the craft. To make the boat stable, the center of gravity has to be below the point on the mast directly over the edge of the boat when the boat is tipped as far as you want to let it go without tipping. The boat is all of five pounds, so how heavy and tall the mast is matters quite a bit; a sailboat has a good deal more weight to counterbalance the mast. You will be able to help a bit by leaning like in a real sailboat, but not as much. And the sail and boom add a non-negligible amount of weight higher up and towards the side of the boat. So you'll want a light mast, boom, and sail, preferably bottom-heavy. After considering this for some time, I have come to the conclusion that your best bet is a windsurfing sail. That will also help some with the center of gravity problem when you're not actively using it because you can lay it down in the boat. It ought to be big enough to get you moving, though probably not as fast as a full sail. It should be relatively light, and you can tilt it so that its center of gravity is in the center of the boat. But you will have to hold it while you're going. Now consider that an inflatable raft isn't going to have a solid spot to put the mast. How are you going to secure the mast to the raft? Honestly I don't have a good suggestion for this beyond rigging up an ugly frame somehow. 

For compasses, it will depend on the model. You can get globally balanced compasses like the Suunto M3 Global, but Silva compasses (probably the most common in Europe) tend to be balanced for the Northern Hemisphere. As LBell says, they'll point the right way, but just won't work smoothly so you run the risk of taking inaccurate bearings. It's worth looking at a declination map to understand the scale of the problem. We're not talking just a degree or two out. Large parts of the world are 20 degrees or more away from polar north. Another point: when you correct for declination, you need to correct from magnetic north to GRID north (which will not be the same as polar, and the difference will vary according to your location on the grid - as well as over time). Some smartphone apps (e.g. Eclipsim's GPS Status) can help by using GPS to determine location, and then lookup using declination map data to give the required correction. You can then set your compass accordingly and switch off the phone. Good background material here and here. 

*: To make it flat, take a bit, stretch it out a couple inches, fold it over on itself, and wrap it around itself until it's about as thick as you want it. My friend and I use these and mini-rolls made essentially the same way for climbing. **: Aspirin and ibuprofen reduce fever and inflammation; Tylenol reduces fever but not inflammation. As a commenter pointed out, it may be beneficial to have both. Aspirin and Ibuprofen are also mild anticoagulants (prevent blood from clotting), so if you already take blood thinners or have less-than-minor cuts, you should take Tylenol instead. 

When I was younger, I had a flashlight where the cone part pulled out and it became essentially a lantern. I would tie it to the top of the tent (most tents I used had a hook there), and that provided good light throughout the tent. Lacking that, if you have a Maglight (or, I'm sure, many other brands), you can screw the cone off that for essentially the same effect, though you'll have a bright spot and you can/should really only do this with one of the smaller, lighter ones. Beyond that, your method does sound reasonable. 

Here's one study: $URL$ And a couple of snippets, the first showing how water cools faster than air. In this test with 10degC water, subject's core temperature was still over 36degC after approx 40 minutes. 

Hypothermia is likely the least of your problems after an involuntary dip into icy water. Drowning and cardiac arrest are the killers here. Read these, and maybe watch the videos. It's all good stuff, and difficult to summarise. $URL$ $URL$ Basically, adults need over 30 mins in icy water before you get even mildly hypothermic. From beyondcoldwaterbootcamp: 

FWIW, I used a short NeoAir mat (with the platformat from my OMM pack under the feet), PHD Minum 500 down Bag, TarpTent Scarp 1. I left my lighter Marmot Atom bag at home, which I think was the right call. 

Liam's right that you can't/shouldn't overhydrate, but based on my experience it's easily possible to start the day under-hydrated. Maybe you're office-bound and don't drink enough water, or you've had a spot more alcohol the evening before than you should, or too much coffee... Either way, you start walking under-hydrated, and end up drinking more water than expected early in the day. If I'm doing a day hike, I tend to take a 1 or 2 litre water bottle in the car (in addition to what I'm walking with...), and use this to improve hydration as I drive/before I start walking. Whatever's left in the bottle is great to rehydrate with when you return to the car. 

You will probably need, as you mention, a mallet/hammer or rock, but if you find a particularly resistant spot, you may have hit an underground rock, and you should move the stake around a bit, see if you can avoid it. 

Perhaps this is too naïve a solution, but I would take a tarp, lay the tent out on top of it, trace the outline with a sharpie, and cut on the outline you just drew. 

Say I'm hiking outdoors and I get a scrape. I've forgotten my first aid pack, or already used up the appropriate supplies. Is there anything in the wilderness I can use to sterilize and perhaps cover it? 

If I'm out in the wilderness and find myself in need of a rope I don't have with me (forgotten, not enough, another snapped), how can I make one? Are there any natural ropes I could use with minimal extra preparation? Rope for use in hanging a bear bag, maybe some lashing or other round-the-campsite miscellaneous uses, in the U.S. northeast.