Twice the daily variance of earth and no seasons. Extrapolate the climates you know with those rules. During daylight weather is always an extremely hot spring day and nights are always an extremely cold fall. My hometown's climate was high altitude arid. We had spring and fall swings of 60F-80F daytime to 25F-50F during the night. If my hometown were on one of your planets I'd expect it to have afternoon temperatures at 110F and frost every night. No crops would grow outside of greenhouses and in most climates plants would have to be very hearty to handle the high temperature of the day and freezing temperatures at night. (most climates can see frost early in the spring and late in the fall extend that to every day and you've got serious problems for food production) Our temperature swings were extreme due to thin dry atmosphere. You'll see much lower swings at low altitude and with more humidity in the air. I currently live in a very moist sea level area. We see 60F-70F basically all year (with some outliers up or down by 10F) I'd expect the long intense eclipses on the near side to actually be a nice respite from the long and hot day. I'd expect wind due to temperature variance at the edge of the eclipse area and eery twilight darkness sometime every day. On the far side of each planet people wouldn't have even seen the companion! (imagine growing up on the far side of the moon, you'd have never seen the earth) 

I don't think the mechanism of memory storage is well understood. People here are saying that memories are stored in the connections between neurons. While this might be true in the sense that destroying those connections destroys memories it's probably quite a bit more complicated than that. Imagine you meet me at a party. You remember my name and occupation while we're talking. That's short term memory. Now imagine I made an impression on you, because of course, I'm funny and charming. I might make it into your long term memory. It's known that sleep is a critical part of this process (because if you don't sleep enough your ability to form long term memories suffers) and that the hyppocampus is necessary (because if you cut it out like they did in the case of HM, you can no longer create long term memories) But we have no idea what that brain structure does or how it does it. We literally have no idea precisely where or how long term memories are stored. Any assertion here will be speculation. If we did know we'd be half way to reading storing and even creating and implanting memories which would be hugely powerful and terrifying. Once we unlock the storage mechanisms of the brain we'll be able to read a whole mind and theoretically store it, run it on a computer, write it to another mind, modify it along the way, implant knowledge and skills, create fake memories, run minds in simulations, everything. Sometimes I wonder if the reason we're not able to do cool stuff is that we'd inevitably cock it up. Maybe in all the possible worlds where this is possible the world ends in fire and pain and the reason the world still exists is that this earth hasn't discovered the secret of godlike powers. 

The good news though is that if the hanger was built to last it could maintain integrity. (Think of Buddhist temples that have lasted thousands of years in the jungle). The plane itself being made of aluminum would be recognizable basically indefinitely. Aluminum oxide creates a very strong protective layer which basically prevents it from rusting away. I'd expect to see a recognizable fuselage and wings of a plane even after a thousand years. 

In this explanation every person inhabits his or her own universe distinct from all others. What's more, each person experiences multiple universes and they change all the time. When they're sleeping, drunk, traveling, changing careers or friend groups. This is interesting to think about up to a point, but what of reality? That thing which still exists when you stop paying attention to it? Everything else is hallucination, imagination or dreaming. The question is: are any of these hypothetical universes actually real. Meaning, can multiple people experience them, can independent experiences of the universe be lined up and compared to find common ground? Can a new person show up and experience a similar thing? If one of your odd universes was actually real and other people could reliably (or even unreliably) share it, that could be very interesting. Philip K Dick explores these questions at great detail. In fact that might be what he was all about. Eye In The Sky explores the universe of desires. Several novels posit alternate shared realities accessible through hallucinogenic drugs. Several other novels posit that it's possible to experience a life skipping between universes. He once said "Please take my word on it that I am not joking; this is very serious... often people claim to remember past lives; I claim to remember a different, very different, present life." What other universes are possible? All of them. Everything anyone can imagine and then some. More importantly though, which of these possible universes can be shared? I'm not sure, but please think deeply on this and then write about it and maybe in a small way I can share something of the universe you create. 

I met a golden chow mix one day. I love dogs and I'm pretty good at reading them. He was wagging and happy to see me, but that was the golden talking. The other side of his nature was chow, fiercely distrustful of outsiders and prone to attack suddenly. The minute I got within two feet of him, a change came over him. He was no longer happy to see me. He lunged and snapped. His owner apologized profusely and explained: he really was happy to see you till the moment you got close. The temperament predilection of different dog breeds has been cultivated for thousands of years. I could see how with a little advanced biology a trigger could be implanted causing a dog to go from faithful companion to terrified and vicious. I refuse to believe that the dog could be capable of malice and foresight though. If you want that, you'll need to go with a cat. 

Ground under original site not as firm as expected Subterranean lava tube in danger of collapsing Porous rock can't handle supports for planned expansions Increased Solar storm activity predicted which will increase radiation exposure past safe levels. Dust fines eating rubber seals Relocating to newly discovered caves to reduce wind exposure and minimize exposed surfaces. Much better location found (large lava tube for radiation protection and structural support for inflatable habitation, better access to water and mineral deposits) 

Just war. Just widespread, long, desperate war. "I can't tell you what weapons world war three will be fought with, but world war four will be fought with sticks and stones." -Randall Monroe (He didn't say that first, but the other guy probably didn't either so at least I can misattribute with intention.) Mash the political parts of world war one and two together, eliminate the pause in-between. Throw in some of the desparation of revolution and the tactics from conflicts with force imbalance. Add bleeding-edge modern technology. Mix and serve hot. Half of the major powers of the world came together to form alligances against their age-old enemies and some new ones their allies hate. None of the members has the same motives, but there are plenty of motives to go around. It's not importatnt who the sides are or even what the interests are. Just that the war starts. Nuclear exchanges destroy most of the major cities in the early days. Those first to die can be considered the lucky ones. The remaining poplation learns not to bunch up and make targets, a lesson they'll live to regret. The war creeps as war does. Soon no part of the globe is safe. Tailored plagues attack the food supply and genetic markers specific to the other side's populations. Both sides claim the other side started it. In truth they were both working on it in secrect and some mis-step, some poor decision caused happened --like the cuban missile crisis but with biotech and somebody says "Screw it" and pushes the button. The conflict to escalates, an arms race of weaponized biotech emerges. Nobody notices it happening, but suddenly there are no engineers or biologists or scientists or mechanics anymore. Everyone is busily trying to think up the next scariest weapon (I could mount a gun on that, or make poison from this). Motivated in part by fear, in part by anger and partly just caught up in the insanity of the war. Nobody even remembers what started the whole thing, or if they do it seems so trite and pointless. Those who do remember can't say it with a straight face. Seriously that? That started all this. No I don't beleive it, I won't believe it. But it doesn't matter anyway because the people, nations and alignaces that started it are all gone. Nuclear ash, the toxic remains of the city folk and their useless things swirls in clouds, landing on the earth and water poisoning everything it touches. Terrible diseases are released, diseases which can literally re-write your genetic code and that of your offspring (this is actually plausible with current technology a little time and some dark inspiration). They run rampant in the plants and animals of the planet. And of course Man is just the animal that lies so we are in no way immune. Nature is turned toxic by gene-mod plagues specifically designed for that purpose. Plants engineered not only to be poisionous to eat, but also to poison the air and ground. Poisoned thorn bushes not of any species, but created when a disease infects a rosebush --each one different and terrifying. The very idea of speciation is obsolete. Monsters everywhere and monstorism is contageous. Everywhere you look there are monsters poison, radiation and death. The best thing you can do is crawl in a hole and pull the it in after you, and if you hear someone knocking, for god's sake don't open the door. 

Hardening magic and stress fractures. The magic sword could be enchanted with a relatively simple spell to harden the other blade -- a spell refined and mastered over a lifetime by a sect of simplicity mages/smiths. They spend decades refining and perfecting the spells everyone learns in the first year. The first strike hardens the other blade, the edge is able to cut better (but the last time it was sharpened it was a soft metal so it doesn't get sharp all of a sudden, just harder, better able to cleave a branch perhaps) however, after several strikes with the enchanted blade the opponent's sword gets harder and harder, more and more brittle. Stress fractures start to form. After the third or fourth clash it becomes so hard and brittle it snaps or shatters. Added bonus, people who know this can contrive to have their blade struck once and get fantastic blade hardening out of the deal. But they better have some trick up their sleeve to end the fight quickly.