At times, the emperor took an active role in Italy, for example Frederick I. Henry IV had to publicly submit to the pope, but he still meddled in Italy. He bribed the cities with privileges. 

There are a couple of different questions here ... Could people view public records? A very qualified yes. Some people could view some public records. Public life had to go on. People bought and sold houses, not just during Arianization. There were ordinary civil and criminal trials, not just political trials. Could people sue the state? A qualified yes. There was still a public administration, and people who thought that mistakes were made in their tax assessment or whatever. They could sue. Could people sue the state over Nazi policies? Not healthy. The Nazis set up special courts to sentence their enemies, and from 1936 the actions of the secret police were beyond judicial review. On the other hand, the Nazis were terrified of a crumbling of public morale as in WWI. Some people could defy the Nazi administration and get away with it, at least for a time. Was there fraud in public records to cloak Nazi policies? A clear yes. This applies to death certificates, notably cause and place of death. 

I'll add some metallurgy information to complement the answers. There are several different kinds of steel. The basic one, which is iron and carbon, has different behaviors depending of the % of carbon in the alloy. Few carbon and you have mostly iron, which is soft and malleable, while a lot of carbon means that the steel will be hard but fragile. Since is difficult to achieve the correct amount of carbon in an steel alloy, or to remove all carbon to have pure iron, not always the steel is better than bronze. Therefore, depending of the quality of the smith, bronze would be still competitive against a bad iron/steel. 

Do not confuse world war with peace time. Even though during the cold war there were military actions, the magnitude is not the same. During WWII USA built almost 100 carriers of many sizes, while in the cold war usually only 12 big carriers were available. During cold war, USA actually used several carriers at the same time in a single theater whenever it was required. For example in the Gulf War, where several carriers were in the Red Sea. In the present, since USA has many interest worldwide, they must keep military presence in many places, as result they divide their forces in all oceans. While in the WWII their influence was inferior, because many seas were covered by the Royal Navy. As result its ships where concentrated in less oceans. 

After World War II, tens of millions of ethnic Germans from Central and Eastern Europe were forcibly expelled into Allied-occupied Germany and Austria. What happened to all the homes they left behind? That is, to whom was ownership transferred—were the expelees given the opportunity to sell their real estate on the private market, or were they obliged to transfer ownership to the newly installed or restored governments, or was the property simply abandoned with no legal formalities? If the properties were typically nationalized or abandoned, then how were homes reallocated? Did the governments systematically survey the evacuated properties and try to match them up with locally displaced citizens, or was the process more haphazard? Were there any less war-torn countries that ended up with a housing surplus? 

At the first Nuremberg trial, twenty-one defendants were tried in person: Karl Dönitz, Hans Frank, Wilhelm Frick, Hans Fritzsche, Walther Funk, Hermann Göring, Rudolf Hess, Alfred Jodl, Ernst Kaltenbrunner, Wilhelm Keitel, Konstantin von Neurath, Franz von Papen, Erich Raeder, Joachim von Ribbentrop, Alfred Rosenberg, Fritz Sauckel, Hjalmar Schacht, Baldur von Schirach, Arthur Seyss-Inquart, Albert Speer, and Julius Streicher. The official trial languages were English, German, French, and Russian. The participants (including the German-speaking defendants) were provided with headphones for simultaneous translation. However, in many photographs of the proceedings, not all of the defendants are wearing headphones. While it may be the case that these defendants simply weren't paying attention, or that they had removed their headphones during a lull in the proceedings, it may also be the case that they already had a sufficient command of the foreign language(s) being spoken. Which of the Nuremberg defendants could already speak English, French, or Russian at the time of the trial? And of those who survived the trial, did any of them later learn English, French, or Russian? I know only part of the answer already: there are video recordings of Karl Dönitz speaking English, and Albert Speer speaking French and English. However, these were made long after the war, so I don't know whether they understood these languages during their trial. 

World War I was originally called Great War, only after Second World War the denomination was changed. Hence is quite probable than in the future the names will still be subject of change. Some authors talk about European Civil War instead of World War to cover the period from 1870 to 1945 or 1914 to 1945, including here Russian and Spanish civil wars. Others say that this period was actually a religious war between communism and nationalism. Summary: Names of events and periods are constantly changing according to new theories, sources of information or events. 

Religious and cultural diversity were part of the Ottoman Empire during its whole life, hence this alone can't be the reason of its decline. Also, the Empire reached its max size around 1680 and remained stable for a century or more. What weakened the Ottoman Empire was: - European industrialization - Colonialism - Nationalism In short industrialization gave the european powers enough weapons and strength to defeat the Ottoman Empire. But also gave to european powers motives to search for new resources to supply their factories, new markets to sell their products and enough money to invest in other countries. This surplus gave to Europe the need to control foreign lands. This is one of the reason that starts colonialism, were Europe starts to colonize several regions of Africa, Asia and Oceania. This turned Ottoman territory into a potencial place to colonize. Finally, the surge of nationalism, one of the effects of French Revolution. This is somehow related to the question, because nationalism is related to cultural and religious differences. Nationalism gave a reason to european minorities (serbs, greeks, bulgars, romanians, etc.) inside the Ottoman Empire to fight for their autonomy. Now, even though cultural and religious differences had an effect, the main reason was industrialization. Because the same effect ocurred in China, India or Persia, were european countries started to divide these countries in influence zones since they had the strength to do it. Only Japan was able to remain independent because they accepted western industrialization, and they were able to become a colonial power as well. 

Regarding official use, consider how births during the DST change are recorded. Germany uses "A" and "B", as in 2A o'clock and 2B o'clock. I would expect that professional news organizations would use the standard. 

There were plenty of European revolutions which led to terrible casualties and not much democracy, both before and after the French revolution. 

For survivors who went undercover the whole time, her story is not all that untypical. The German term for such people was "illegals" or "U-Boote". They needed helpers, they needed hiding places, they needed money for bribes. Wikipedia quotes estimates that several thousand survived that way in Germany. For a Jew who lived in Germany or German-occupied Europe, her story is untypical, because she survived so long. 

Then a lot of history happened. Some monarchies disappeared again, others prospered. Ursurpers stole the throne but did not question the monarchy, revolutionaries overthrew the monarchy, counterrevolutionaries restored it. Of course that raises the question where chieftains came from. Same principle, in a smaller area ... 

The exact number is unknown and will remain unknown. We're talking about social sciences numbers here. That being said, one of the best rebuttals to the holocaust deniers are people like Oskar Gröning, who admitted his part in the mass murder. He can't testify to the total number, but he did testify to the fact that there were mass killings. 

I'd say that instead of the weakness of Morocco, the strength of Iberia at the end of XV century is the cause of the exploration of the new world. For centuries Spain and Portugal had been fighting against the islamic kindoms in the peninsula. So by the time they liberated the peninsula they started to look for other challenges. Actually, once Portugal ended its conquest of the peninsula and liberated from spanish influence (1383), they invaded Morocco, by taking Ceuta (1415). Later Spain did the same, they defeated Granada in the peninsula (1492) and later invaded Melilla in north Africa (1497). Both countries started their naval exploration once they liberated (either foreign influence or muslim kindoms) their respective territories. Hence, Morocco during the XV and XVI centuries was under a strong pressure from Spain and Portugal. By not being able to sustain its own territory it was also incapable to create an armada capable to explore the world or repel the invaders. 

According to the source of Wikipedia: "they shot the captain [Magellan] through the right leg with a poisoned arrow... [while the battle continue...] One of them wounded him [Magellan] on the left leg with a large cutlass, which resembles a scimitar, only being larger. That caused the captain to fall face downward, when immediately they rushed upon him with iron and bamboo spears and with their cutlasses, until they killed [Magellan] our mirror, our light, our comfort, and our true guide." Hence, we might say that Magellan was wounded by a poisonous arrow. But he was killed by other means. Source here 

The answer has multiple aspects. If there is a big, unexpected war coming, the training gets accelerated. 

The Russian civil war was 1917-1922. In 1922 Germany and Russia signed the Treaty of Rapallo. Also, Germany had facilitated the transit of Lenin from his exile in Switzerland to Russia. Keep in mind that Germany had a Socialist government from 1918; they remained strong in 1920. While Socialists were feuding with the Communists, they were not exactly in favor of monarchies, wither. 

Follow-Up: I'm saying that early speeds were systematically overstated and that current top speeds show interesting patterns which might suggest disinformation or classification. 

I presume you're not talking about the Byzantine half of the Roman Empire here. Those ties are well known. So, taking the subject line of your question, Romans of the western half of the Roman Empire meeting Vikings would be impossible because Rome fell before the label Viking was generally applied to Scandinavians. Taking the text of your question, the answer regarding trade is yes, but mainly through intermediaries. Regarding seriously scouting for invasion, I don't think so, but one cannot prove a negative. 

An old German once told me that he, personally, saw groups of people being led into a forest in the East, and none coming out. A court would call that hearsay. He told me that he thinks they were Jews. Not just hearsay but speculation. He says another soldier told him "he didn't want to know what happened to them". Again hearsay. Besides, I'm just some guy on the internet, not a reliable source. You don't even know my full name. But a historian might take this piece of oral history and put it together with many other ones. 

The reunification of Germany in 1990 was effected by a treaty between the governments of East and West Germany (the German Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, respectively). The treaty was voted on separately by the respective legislatures, and passed with large majorities of 299–80 in the GDR and 440–47 in the FRG. I'm interested in learning more about who voted against the reunification treaty and why. The German Wikipedia mentions that the "no" votes came from members of the Party of Democratic Socialism (the successor to the Socialist Unity Party that had ruled the GDR since 1949) and Alliance 90/The Greens in the GDR, and members of The Greens and the Union parties (the CDU and CSU) in the FRG. From what I can tell, the PDS had largely renounced Leninism and expelled most of its Leninist-era leaders. On what basis, then, did they campaign for keeping East Germany as a separate state? (Or were they in fact in favour of reunification, but not on the specific terms given in the treaty? If so, what terms in particular did they find objectionable?) The reunification treaty was also voted against by The Greens in both East and West Germany. Was this an official policy of both Green parties, or was it only a faction who voted this way? Regardless, what was their stated motivation? Finally, in the FRG, the CDU/CSU alliance held 255 seats at the time of the treaty vote, so it seems only a small minority of them voted "no". Who were these members? Did they act in concert, as a faction? What reasons did they give for voting against reunification? 

I'd say nothing related to population, climate or geography. It was a problem of timing. In fact, if you shift places, changing Germany by Gaul for example, Caesar would have conquerer Germany in the same way he did with Gaul. Rome greatness was due its institutions, once they fell, Rome declined as well. After the fall of the Republic, Rome grew only when efficient emperors stayed in power for enough time, like the Antonines, after that civil wars consumed the energy of the Empire. The only thing related to population might be the lack of citizens in the army, because with time the army was composed by mercenaries working for its general, instead of former army composed by citizens working for its city. 

During the first winter of war in the eastern front, Russia used several units of cavalry because they had few tanks during those months, some of these units as part off the called "shock armies". They were not designed for frontal attack, but instead as units to deep explotation of openings in the enemy line and to harass rearguard. Since the eastern front was so big, there was enough space to use cavalry, but once Russia improved their tank contruction they started to create more mechanised armies instead of the former shock armies.