Most probably the cable is too loose so that the derailleur is resting against the high (outer) limit when in the highest (smallest sprocket) gear, and there is slack that the shifter needs to take up before moving the derailleur to the next sprocket. Shift the derailleur to the smallest sprocket and make sure the shifter is on the highest gear setting, turn the barrel adjusters in to their slackest setting, undo the cable pinch bolt and pull the cable with a pair of pliers to take out slack and do up the pinch bolt again. If you have trouble getting slack out of the cable, a trick is to change gear to the second smallest sprocket, then without pedaling click the shifter back to the highest gear so the chain stays on the second smallest sprocket, then re-tension the cable as above. There are plenty of how-to videos for bike adjustment and repair. Park Tool Company does some really good ones. Their rear derailleur one is here. 

Personally I'd stay far, far away, it's not worth the risk. Especially as you intend to load the bike up for bike-packing. Cracks are not the problem. Structural tubes are severely weakened when they are buckled inwards too much. That looks like too much to me. Also, such deformation is likely to have work-hardened the steel. The only way to repair this would be to replace the whole seat tube - which would cost more than the frame. 

You are correct about replacing the wheels (or at least rear wheel). Note you will need special tools for fitting the cassette. If you get a double crank, yes you will need to replace the shifter and derailleur. You could look at getting a bigger set of chainrings as an alternative to a whole new crank. See this answer for info on front ring/crank up-gearing. 

I googled the current Trek Fuel EX bikes a bit. The EX series feature internally routed shift and brake cables the down tube, with entry points near the head tube. The EX 9 comes with internally routed dropper post, and seems to share the frame with the EX 5, so I'd say yes. 

I would not try to polish off an anodized finish. It's hard and you would probably have a difficult time getting it off evenly. For bare aluminum - go for it. Note that the AL may have a clearcoat finish on it already though. Polishing will take off very little material - nowhere near enough to change the strength of a rim significantly (assuming you are starting with a fairly high grit - at least 800). I'd clearcoat the polished surface with polyurethane, making sure to keep it off the braking surface. 

It sounds like you have isolated the issue to the rear wheel, and probably the rear hub. I doubt that that cassette or it's attachment to the freehub body is the cause of the problem. It may be the freewheel assembly, or the hub bearings, or even a crack in the hub body. To rule out the cassette, you could replicate the creaking using a chainwhip tool as show in your second video, then remove the cassette and see if you can replicate it by torquing the freehub body. It sounds like you don't have the tools to do this though. Do you think you could you work with a repair technician at the bike store and have them use a chain whip tool demonstrate the creak with the wheel out of the bike? You say the problem has existed since you bought the bike. Were all the previous unsuccessful attempts to fix the problem performed for free by the store you bought the bike from? (In order to make good a faulty product that they sold you) If so, you can try requesting that they replace the entire rear wheel, or at the very least the entire hub. You may or may not have success depending on how long ago you bought the bike and warranty it came with. 

First thing to do is check the rear wheel bearings. Get the rear wheel out and inspect the axle. If there is any play between the axle and hub or roughness or 'notchiness' when you turn the axle, the bearings are worn out. If you have a cup-and-cone style hub the bearings can be serviced. There are several online resources that show you how to do that. I recommend Park Tool's articles and YouTube videos. Some hubs have replaceable cartridge bearings. If the gear shifting is not working, that could be due to a number of different things, including the issues with the shifter, but most likely poor indexing adjustment. Again, there there are number of online resources that show you how to troubleshoot and adjust indexing. I note you have an older Shimano Tourney, which is is lowest level Shimano groupset, which does not offer great shifting in the first place. 

Update: Sorry your three year old frame failed. I would not expect a full suspension frame to fail in that time. You may want to contact Rocky Mountain to see if they will do anything about it. On the other hand, kudos to you for being able to ride the bike hard enough that you broke it :-) 

Should be. Both Dura-Ace SM-RT900 and Ultegra SM-RT800 discs are center lock and come in 140 and 160mm versions. Sources: $URL$ $URL$ 

So you question is actually: is there a drive train system that I can abuse as much as I like and it will never fail? The general answer to that is no, there is not. There are systems that require much less maintenance than a traditional derailleur and chain. There are belt drive systems with internal gears, either at the bottom bracket location or in the rear hub. However these systems are relatively heavy, can be more fragile and have greater losses than an unworn, clean derailleur setup. Consequently they appear on city and commuter bikes. There are systems employed on mountain bikes to retain the chain. '1x' systems with a single chainring and a clutch rear derailleur. There are also many chain guide products available. Newer derailleur drivetrain designed are also just generally much better at resisting chain suck and dropping the chain. If you hate dropping your chain, invest some time and money in getting your drive-train set up properly. Your chain and sprockets are probably worn and your derailleur limit settings may be out. Also, you can add a mechanic's disposable nitrile glove or two to your trail riding tool kit. Update: I noticed the question does not actually state the bike has a derailleur. If it's a single speed or hub geared bike and dropping the chain, the chain tension must be far too loose. 

Unclamp the cable from the derailleur Find where the cable is seated in the shifter, you'll have to pull back the rubber hood covers to find this, check the boss on the end of the cable is actually seated in the shifter properly Check the cable run: verify the cable runs the housing unimpeded, especially at the shifter end, make sure housings are fitted in bosses properly, look for snags in the cable To test, hold the cable where it run exposed or at the derailleur and put a little tension on it, actuate the shift levers and feel for the cable moving 

The Fuji Aloha is a Tri-bike with a aero shaped seat tube, therefore a generic replacement binder for a regular circular seat post will not work, You will probably have to contact a bike store that carries Fuji products (at the time of writing that is Performance Bikes) or Fuji Bikes directly to order a replacement. 

You should never break the chain at the connecting pin. Once a connecting pin is in there, it should not be removed. Removing a regular rivet enlarges the holes in the chain plates slightly. A connecting pin has a slightly greater diameter than a regular rivet so it fits properly. When you push out the connecting pin the holes get enlarged slightly again, so now a new connecting ping is slightly too small. So you have weakened the chain and run a increased risk of breaking it. You'll have to decide if you want to take on that risk. Personally, I would fix the chain for peace of mind. If you want to fix it you have a couple of choices: 

refers to the wheel diameter. This means a rim with a rim tire bead seat diameter of 622mm, also known as 700c (and 29 inches for mountain bikes). means, well, the tire is 28mm wide. Typically tubes have a minimum and maximum tire width they will support. See here and here for determining what valve type you have. You need valves long enough to reach through the rim with at least a couple of centimeters protruding. 

Update: To get a feeling a tire is coming off a rim in a turn you would have to be running a very low tire pressure, probably less than the minimum specified. 70 - 80 psi in that tire should be fine. If increasing the pressure does not help, there may be another issue with your rear wheel. 

So your goal is to increase the gear ratio range of the bike for better performance on paved surfaces. Know this: unless you are running a too-high cadence in your highest gear or completely spinning out on the road i.e., you cannot pedal any faster, there is absolutely no point in changing gear ratios. Speed is determined by the rider's power, not gear ratios. That said... If the picture is your bike it seems to have a square taper or Octalink bottom bracket. You can fit any compatible triple crank you want. Depending on the BCD of your spider you may be able to simply fit a set of larger chainrings. You may be tempted to just increase the size of the big ring, but that has negative consequences: 

The maximum height of the stem is therefore constrained by the length of steerer tube. Forks come with a long steerer tube to accommodate different length frame head tubes. When fitted to a bike the steerer tube is cut to length, usually with a few inches protruding from the frame, so the stem can have 1-2 inches of spacers underneath it. The length of tube left protruding depends on the type of bike. I would guess from your picture that your steerer tube has not been cut down at all, and the stem is obviously at the top of the steerer tube. Some possible solutions: