There is evidence that the High Command of MK had at least been considering future guerrila warfare: Operation Mayibuye. There's reason to doubt that Mandela personally endorsed this plan: 

This article claims that you should wash your hands, for two reasons: Yes, washing hands works It's based on interviewing experts, not based on studies: 

The following is a link to the complete text of the speech: TOPIC: Our Past, Our Future & Vision for America June 28, 2006 “Call to Renewal' Keynote Address” It opens with his reaction to someone who claimed that, "Jesus Christ would not vote for Barack Obama. Christ would not vote for Barack Obama because Barack Obama has behaved in a way that it is inconceivable for Christ to have behaved." At the end he shares two prayers: 

I interpret this as saying that the Book of Genesis is a product of its time and is not scientific, and that the theory of natural evolution is not incompatible with Catholic theology. The same goes on to list the various things which (unlike evolution) are important articles of faith, for example: 

On its page 11, Marilyn Churley's report cited above says, "average bus occupancy is about 20 people": but without explaining that figure. For all I know, that figure might be rush-hour-only: but if so that wouldn't be the first time that some expensive system is engineered to cope primarily with peak demand (it's ditto electricity generation, for example). 

Like the above, this Wikipedia article doesn't list iatrogenic causes at all, as a leading or significant cause of death; however, this other one does (it claims "44,000 to 98,000" deaths from "Preventable medical errors in hospitals", citing To Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System (2000)). Page 41 of these CDC statistics from 2010 state 2,490 deaths due to "Complications of medical and surgical care", plus 40,393 deaths due to "Drugs" (which number has a breakdown here and includes illegal drugs and suicides). 

Every search result on the first page of $URL$ repeats this story. I've previously read that story attributed to Nasrudin by Idries Shah. Nasrudin is approximately 13th century. So: 

There's a story about quitting eating sugar (or about verifying that you can do something before you order someone else to do it), which is attributed here to the Mahatma Gandhi, and which is told as if Gandhi himself were the actor in the story. The story ends with, 

If you do get into what people believed, you may find that miracles used to be common-place: in the Dark and Middle Ages of Europe for example there were relics of saints (which had miraculous powers) everywhere. 

According to that same document, "women are more likely to report being assaulted" in almost every category of abuse. 

The MPI paper which they talk about is available here: The Economic “Impact” of a Downtown Casino in Toronto. 

Compared with Pius, who 'doesn't forbid men who are experienced in human sciences and theology to research and discuss evolution, both for and against, while submitting to the judgement of the Church which has the Christ-given mission to interpret Scripture and defend dogmas of faith', Benedict seems more sure that there's some merit to the theory of evolution, when he opined, 'the antithesis [between believing in God the Creator and believing in evolution] is absurd because, on the one hand, there are so many scientific proofs in favour of evolution which appears to be a reality we can see and which enriches our knowledge of life and being as such'. IIRC Benedict had a reputation for being well-versed in and supportive of the traditional Church doctrines; so I infer that Benedict's view is the result of the 57 years-worth of "opinions, favorable and unfavorable to evolution, weighed and judged with the necessary seriousness", to quote Pius. 

You might find that many royal or imperial dynasties have claimed themselves to be divine descendents. I don't know of specific examples but for example Google suggested these: Shinto -- Divinity of the Emperor: 

He says that being a 'top teacher' (however that was measured) doesn't correlate with having a master's degree. That's not quite the same thing as saying that getting a master's degree won't make you better. It's saying that it's something other than a master's degree (and, he said a few seconds earlier, something other than long experience, too) that's important. 

There's a famous short story called THE VERGER (by W. Somerset Maugham), from much earlier in the century (probably the 1930s), whose ending is as follows: 

The Pearson manual, a training manual for such clinics referenced in the NYT article quoted above, is (some, old) evidence for this being a matter of 'policy'. 

Cavendish bananas are an artificial cultivar which is grown from clones and (because it so rarely has any seeds) does not exist in the wild. MSN's article Is it time to say 'bye-bye' to the banana? says, 

To summarize/conclude: there are many confounding factors (changes in money and climate and population and trade), and many ways in which this or any plan could fail -- but the amount of money being talked about seems useful, and if the plan did fail it might not be for lack of money. 

FYI here are some other quotes from the introduction and first two chapters of the same source. I chose quotes which don't really agree with my more 'modern' understanding of physiology. The added emphasis in each passage is mine: 

The rest of this answer will therefore deal with its current status: whether Uruaguay is the first in recent history to legalize it. 

Effectiveness of USDA inspections USDA inspectors do not detect or prevent all instances of cruelty: at least one animal welfare group claims to have discovered (and has corresponding video of) several instances of 'cruelty' over the years. This document shows that in 2008 and 2009, there were 80 or 90 "suspensions" per year, issued to federally inspected plants for violations of humane handling and humane slaughter regulations. It does seem true to say that USDA inspectors do or have "condoned" cruelty: 

This paper, The History of Persecution of the Buddhist Faith, provides some extra detail: Just before the first invasion (early 7th century AD): 

It goes on to say that universal immunation is also "cost-effective", in that on average it saves one year of life for each $10,000 spent. 

I too find sites, like this which publishes translations such as "Europeans to become negroid mongrels" ... IMO to get a more authoritative source than that (and this site normally requires that an answer be mre authoritative than the sources you are questioning in the OP), an answer might need to read and reference Praktischer Idealismus in the original German. 

Eating range-fed Australian cattle is not feasible for the majority of the people (vegetarians or otherwise) in the world, and for that reason the article isn't wholly or generally true (because it's impossible). If you are interested in this subject (i.e. if you want to do something about it) there may be other options which you can explore locally (in whichever country you are living in): for example, "organic" farming might be less deleterious to wild-life ... but deciding that would be a topic for a different question. I am inclined to praise the author for at least making me think more about the subject. 

I don't want my interpretation of the video to be part of this answer, but I say this in order to explain a limit/limitation of my answer. When I answer "yes" (i.e. that it's possible that he couldn't breathe enough, that he was "choking" even though he could say a few words) that is because, IMO: 

The article People Getting Dumber? Human Intelligence Has Declined Since Victorian Era, Research Suggests says, 

Chrétiens d'Irak : rester ou partir? says (italics are the original french, followed by my translation from French to English): 

Medicinal Use of Marijuana — Polling Results (from a 2013 poll in the New England Journal of Medicine) says, 

Does he call it a fraud or a hoax? Maybe not: I don't see his saying that. I can only see that he says that what's prohibited are the praesumptiones (or in English "presumptions"). A definition of the post-classical meaning of that word is, 

"225,000 deaths" seems to be often quoted/requoted when I Google for iatrogenic statistics. The reference in the Wikipedia article is to Is US Health Care really the best in the world (2000) reprinted from The Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA). Those deaths break down as: 

To be honest it doesn't say that the lions deliberately rescued her, but that they chased off her kidnappers. This reprint of an Associated Press article adds, 

It suggests that such research could be (but hasn't been) made, using as datum the records of past interrogations (including e.g. interrogations of American POWs). Is torture sometimes useful? Anecdotal evidence suggests "yes": 

Maybe that doesn't cont as a "human" body, but whatever. I Googled for for poupee+stroumph and found them being sold on ebay.fr 

The reference cited in the OP explains the reason for many final silent "e": they mark feminine nouns, which are inherited from corresponding Latin feminine nouns. The example word shown in the illustration/image in the reference cited in the OP is of the word "beaucoup", whose etymology is given here: $URL$ In this case the final silent "p" is to show that it derives from the same word as "couper" meaning "to cut"; one of the reasons for silent letters is to distinguish homonyms: French already has another word "cou" which means "neck". $URL$ gives an example of words which are homonyms in French, which are spelled differently: cinq, saint, sain, sein, seing, ceint. The Ordonnance de Villers-Cotterêts in 1539 replaced Latin with 'the mother tongue' (i.e. French) as the language used in law: that was another reason why they wanted the spelling of French words to be regularized (across the country) and unambiguous (across homonyms), and therefore started to latinize spellings. On the subject of Middle Ages scribes, ibid says, 

Therefore the argument is applicable only for 10% of meat (i.e. range-fed cattle and sheep). Furthermore, almost all the relevent hits from the first three pages of the $URL$ Google search are from Australia: so "mouse plagues affecting wheat" seems to be, more or less, a specially-Australian problem. Thirdly, the author is IMO cherry-picking his foodstuffs: 

I think the claim is, not only that there is a difference, but also that the cause of that difference is genetic. The quoted claim includes: 

Instead of the original "we have striking evidence" he is now being quoted as "we heard unconfirmed reports". You asked, "Is this true? If so, where is the evidence?" This answer cannot tell you whether the reports are true: I posted this answer because it clarifies the evidence on which the claim was made (i.e. that the evidence was, allegedly, unconfirmed reports from activists and local journalists; and that CNN was unable to authenticate the reports). 

Maybe that's sufficient evidence: the standard for this site requires that the evidence referenced in an answer must be better than the evidence presented/questions in the OP; I hope that national news stories (in this answer) are better, more fact-checked, than an unknown Facebook page (in the OP).