You can also compare and contrast the Platonic/Neoplatonic concept of the demiurge, a semi-divine creator who makes the world as a work of art, in imitation of the Highest Good. There are certainly things in the world --the Mandelbrot Set, for example, or the coincidence in the apparent sizes of the sun and the moon --that seem extravagantly beautiful; to have aesthetic rather than functional or necessary motivation. From a religious humanist view, human beings, with all the paradoxical beauty of human nature, are arguably first among these aesthetic features of the universe. Interestingly enough, Psalm 8 explicitly asks your very question, although without providing an answer, except perhaps implicitly. 

Every philosopher faces this problem. It's a small minority of people who have a natural inclination towards philosophy. Unfortunately it is often the case that even those who are most passionate about the sciences will be hostile towards the prospect of questioning the underlying foundations of scientific concepts. Some philosophers just accept this and address themselves solely towards the already philosophically engaged audience. Of the well-known philosophers who did address a wide audience, here are some of the major approaches: 

The best answer, although it may be unsatisfying, is that it's a mistake to ever take Plato too literally. At root, everything he says is just a metaphor to help people conceptualize a deeper level of Reality that defies more straightforward explanations. This is particularly true of the Theory of the Forms, which rapidly falls apart if you try to make too much of a science out of it. As mentioned in this article, even in the dialogues themselves, Plato admits to certain inconsistencies and paradoxes stemming from the details of the theory. The point of it all, as is true of every word Plato wrote, is to make you think past superficial appearances to the deeper truths that they hide. 

The work of the thinkers and writers we typically classify as "existentialist" (although few of them loved the term), Kierkegaard, Sartre, Dostoevsky, Camus, de Beauvoir, and so forth, can be viewed as collectively comprising responses to the conditions of life and the basic metaphysical assumptions that otherwise lead to nihilism. So if you want to start from nihilistic assumptions and find a way to keep on living, those would be good places to start. On the other hand, if you want a refutation of nihilism, the best one I know is the Neoplatonic idea that only the good, beautiful and meaningful things in the world truly demand an explanation, because all the bad, ugly and meaningless things are easy enough to explain as deficiencies. We don't need to ask where cold or darkness come from, because they are just lack of warmth and brightness. What really demands an explanation is heat and light. Similarly, it's useless and counterproductive to focus on all the bad and evil of the world, all the cruel vagaries of fate. It's when we turn our attention to the mysterious, inexplicable existence of good in the world that we truly learn whatever there is in life that is worth knowing. 

"Justified" in the phrase "justified true belief" means that you have a good reason for your belief. A belief could be justified, yet false, meaning that you have a good reason to believe it, but yet it is not true. (For instance, you could believe it is raining, because it was when you entered the house a few seconds ago, yet it could have stopped in that short of a span of time --your belief is justified but false.) What counts as a valid justification is controversial. 

I've been studying this particular theory recently. While I agree that it has significant flaws at a deep level, it's harder to debunk than it might initially seem. You might want to read the originating paper, by philosopher Nick Bostrom, it is neither long nor difficult. In the case of your particular objection, the answer is that the simulation proposed is not an exact, full simulation of an entire universe, but rather the simulation of a portion of the universe, with the rest faked up. The obvious analog is a video game. Usually you're supposed to feel as though your video game character exists in a big huge world, but all that is actually simulated is the portion you interact with. So a person in a simulation could potentially actually be in a smaller, simpler universe than the one he thinks he inhabits. This doesn't account for the concept of indefinitely nested simulations, however, and in fact, the core theory does not depend on nested simulations. The very large number of people in simulations is a result of the simulators running many simulations, not because each simulation is necessarily part of a large chain. Bostrom does consider the possibility of nested simulations (explaining it largely with some vague handwaving), but only as a non-functional coda to the main argument. That hasn't stopped it, of course, from capturing people's imaginations! 

This is a "Hasty Generalization" which is drawing too broad a conclusion from too limited a dataset. It often results from taking personal anecdotal evidence as decisive. It's a very common fallacy, because we all tend to do it unless specifically on guard against it (or is that statement itself a hasty generalization?). 

The answer to this is wholly dependent on how you conceive of morality. In many philosophical traditions, judgments of morality can only be applied to sentient beings with free will and knowledge of the consequences of their actions. That is roughly the standard applied in the law in most western countries. However, it's possible to conceive of a universal moral system capable of making moral judgements of all things, living, non-living, sentient, non-sentient and so forth. Only under such a system could we apply a moral judgment to mosquitoes. Personally I'm very sympathetic to the notion of universal morality, and my moral sense tells me that the parasitic life style is indeed immoral. But if we allowed a lawyer for the mosquito to make objections, I'm sure she would point out that the individual mosquito cannot choose other than to suck blood; and also that the typical human lifestyle is arguably much more immoral in terms of its consumption of the lives and resources of other living beings than is a little theft of blood from a creature that hardly notices its disappearance. 

In several places, most notably the discussion of the "Allegory of the Cave" in The Republic, Plato's Socrates identifies the Ideal of the Good as the singular source of all good things in the universe. Plato's followers, the Neoplatonists, further identified this Idea of the Good with God, a perspective that was very influential on early Christian theology. If the Neoplatonists were correctly interpreting Plato, and if Plato was accurately depicting Socrates, then we might reasonably conclude Socrates was a closet monotheist. He certainly speaks of the gods in a non-standard manner in Plato's dialogues --in fact, guiding youth to disbelieve in the Greek pantheon was one of the main charges against Socrates in the trial that led to his eventual execution. The following is a set of excerpts from a lengthy section in Book II of The Republic where Socrates/Plato explicitly dismisses much of what is commonly taught about the gods as lies. The last statement in particular, although it references "every god", certainly appears to imply monotheism, if followed through to its unspoken conclusion (as there can only be one "fairest and best" thing conceivable). 

In nearly all commonly accepted ethical and religious traditions, human life is considered intrinsically more valuable than animal life. However, there are significant exceptions. Most notably there's a school of Utilitarianism, dating back to Jeremy Bentham, and most closely associated in more recent times with Peter Singer, that holds human life to NOT be intrinsically more valuable than animal life. Outside of Western thought, Jainism is notable for the high value it places on animal life, although it still maintains a hierarchy with human life at the top. 

Modern science is defined by reproducibility. It is not enough to work, it must work consistently. Art, almost by definition, is the individual work of genius. Art that is too closely based on a prior model is dismissed as hackneyed, cliched and unoriginal. It serves both a scientist and an artist to be exceptional technicians. But that's where the resemblance ends. You might find Thomas Kuhn's The Structure of Scientific Revolutions relevant for the way in which it distinguishes between the normal practice of science, and the occasional leaps of logic beyond it. You might say what is exceptional in science (going outside the pre-existing framework) is the normal expectation in art. 

There's nothing intrinsically fallacious about defining a term as pejorative or derogatory --that just indicates how people typically use it. And for most people, the descriptor "conspiracy theory" is not used either neutrally or positively. I think what you're actually describing is an argument of the form: 

One resolution to this problem is to view God's omnipotence and our free will as taking place at different levels of reality. For instance, consider a book: From our perspective as readers of the book, the events in it are set. But from the perspective of the characters, they have free will to make choices, within their reality --as the book was written, their free will partook in the free will of the author. 

Your translation is potentially correct but ambiguous in English, it could mean that every football club has at least one player. A better translation is "there exists a footballer who plays for every club." 

Science is completely possible in a world with an active God. This can be proven by analogy. Consider a role-playing game such as "Dungeons and Dragons." Most of the action of the game takes place in a highly structured and consistent manner, according to the rolls of dice, and a complex system of statistics. However, the "Dungeon Master" (an additional participant in the game, who moderates rather than plays) has wide latitude to create and discard game scenarios, tweak the statistics, and even ignore the results that the dice dictate. From the viewpoint of a character within the game, the statistics are the science on which his world is founded, the actions of the Dungeon Master that contradict those statistics are the miracles. Both can certainly coexist, in fact it is a necessity for an entertaining game. However, the players tend to strongly prefer that departures from the statistical expectation be kept to an absolute minimum, in order not to endanger the realism (and sense of consequential import) of the game. An accurate knowledge of the science of the game is valuable to a character or a player of the game to the same extent which that science is not customarily suspended. 

Perhaps you're perceiving this as an example of a larger pattern in which some religious laws are presented as ironclad and exceptionless, and others are not. Depending on how the such distinctions are made, it could be a case of "special pleading" where one of several things that are otherwise alike is treated differently without adequate reasons and/or "cherry-picking", where a blanket rule is based preferentially on examples that support the rule (where counterexamples are ignored). This is a particular issue for Christianity, which inherits both from the legalistic, rule-governed morality of the early Old Testament Jewish tradition, and from the profoundly anti-legalistic ministry of Jesus. Many believers do disagree on which (if any) Old Testament commandments still care binding force, and which have been properly superseded. Nevertheless, you are yourself committing a fallacy if you think that the fact that some such arguments are fallacious means that all of them are illegitimate. In this case, you might disagree with this argument's premises or conclusions, but there's nothing wrong with the structure, and it cites an accepted religious authority, so it's not special pleading, and it can't be cherry picking by itself (outside of a larger context). In general, it seems like an apt example of the general Christian claim that the "external" elements of Jewish belief have been translated into internal elements within the Christian tradition. 

For Plato, all the higher virtues stem from letting the better part of your nature rule the worse part. So the just person --as is true for the wise person or the good person-- must have reason ruling over appetite and spirit. The idea that there should be some fairness or equality between the parts of the soul isn't really a Platonic idea. The only virtue reserved for the spirited person is honor (or at least the love of honor), which accordingly must be lower in the Platonic hierarchy. 

Many philosophers have spoken on the necessity of a certain level of self-sacrifice to moral duty. However, to take that point of view, it is important to distinguish between self-indulgence and happiness. Let us consider Plato. In his system, the highest happiness is to do the right thing --and as it happens, that door is often only opened through forgoing lesser pleasures. This is also a strong strain in Christian theology. True joy is found in service to God and humanity, the fact that this may bring about physical pain or death is insignificant in comparison. Similarly, in Islam, true happiness is absolute submission to God. If you do the right thing, it may bring some discomforts and difficulties, but if it brings you misery instead of happiness, it may be that you are misunderstanding or misconstruing your moral duties --at least from such a perspective.