I think that you need to consider whether or not the rotator cuff exercises before lifting are a light warm-up or performed to the point of fatigue. If the exercises fatigue the rotator cuff muscles, then as @Mephisto cautions, the humeral head will migrate superiorly especially with overhead exercise such as the shoulder press. This is an unwanted consequence causing less room for the cuff between the acromion and humeral head. Dr. Wickiewicz did an xray study looking at the effect of rotator cuff muscle fatigue and humeral migration. He found (pg 6) : 

Your parents are wise to supervise what you are doing to help you prevent injuring your body. An injury can be for life, so it is best to prevent them, by learning proper form and having expert instruction. Your parents are aware of your maturity level and how much they can trust you to follow your coach's instruction and how serious you are about safety and form. That being said, you may want to share this link with them from the ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS, Committee on Sports Medicine and Fitness, Strength Training by Children and Adolescents 

The study found that it didn't matter whether the grapefruit was in the form of fruit or juice, (even water achieved the same weight loss) as long as they were "pre-loaded" meaning consumed before the meal. With the preloading: 

All of the above, combined with a healthy body fat percentage can help you determine your health risks. If these values are in the healthy range, you have good data to give your health insurer or other companies. If these values are not in the healthy range then see @JohnP's comment :) 

Your physical therapist would probably be the best one to answer that question. Because there are different causes of kyphosis, the results of doing your corrective exercises may very well depend on the cause. If the cause of your kyphosis is postural, then strengthening the upper back and scapular muscles while adding flexibility to the shortened muscles should help to balance out your posture. As long as the "Y, W, T" muscles mentioned in this posture exercise answer test weak, you probably want to continue with your corrective exercises and minimize work on front muscles like the pecs. As to the abs, they can be strengthened without crunches using isometrics such as planks to stabilize the trunk. Strengthened in this manner they should compliment your trunk strengthening exercises by using stability in the lengthened rather than shortened position. 

Hopefully some of this info will help and you will find the right combination of stretching and strengthening exercises to balance out your pelvis and muscle tone. Good luck. 

Tai Chi is an active meditation. The more it is performed, the greater the focus and skill level is achieved, resulting in greater results. 

Increase in stroke volume - how much blood the heart pumps with each contraction making it more efficient with each heart beat. The heart muscle increases to meet that need. Lower resting heart rate so it beats less frequently. 

This quick video shows dorsi-flexion, plantar-flexion, eversion and inversion with a resistance band. 

Hope that helps. (If you are interested in getting any of these books through Amazon, I would appreciate it if you would use the link on our site.) 

Your caffeine consumption, practically speaking, probably does not affect your workouts positively or negatively. As @JohnP pointed out, caffeine studies are on greater amounts than a couple of cans of tea per day. According to the Sports Med. 2001;31(11):785-807, "ingestion of caffeine as coffee appears to be ineffective compared to doping with pure caffeine." 

Given that I am not a doctor and cannot give you medical advice I can't tell you which tests would show that your are healthy. Some of the tests your doctor performs will show if you are at higher risk for heart disease and other health conditions. According to the National Institute of Health risk factors include: 

When looking for a therapist, ask questions to make sure that you are getting one who specializes in backs and who will help you establish a good long term exercise program. I think you will find that you will get the best results with professional help. Otherwise you will have a lot of trial and error. Also to reduce weight be sure to adjust your intake to your activity levels. Good luck. Hope that helps. 

You have some good answers already so I will just add to the list and give you some other points to consider: Regularity - Increasingly studies are showing that Regular Exercise: 

You already have some good answers so I'll just add to keep in mind specificity of exercise. Specificity of exercise means that if you want to get better at cycling, you should cycle. If you want to be able to run fast, you should train for speed etc. And if you want to be able to squat, lift, and carry you should train specifically to squat, lift, and carry working your way up until you are able to lift the desired amount without strain. Keeping specificity of exercise in mind, part of your training should actually be to practice the floor lift and stair carry with graduating weights (ideally with a stretcher, a carry chair and your lifting partner). Also look at all the different components to each task as you have described: squatting, lifting, carrying, walking forwards and backwards, climbing up and down stairs forwards and backwards, pushing, pulling, gripping etc. Focus on building core muscle strength with planks, side planks, bird dog, bridges etc. so that you can stabilize your spine when you lift and carry. Work your trunk muscles in functional and diagonal patterns with exercises like chops with resistance bands and rotational movements using a staggered stance for stability with pushing and pulling movements. I'm assuming that you are looking towards working in patient transport. Given your "slight" frame and ever increasing patient sizes :), make sure that you develop enough strength, endurance and flexibility to handle the tasks without straining to avoid potential injuries. Good luck. 

I'm no expert, but lack of hydration is usually the reason given for headaches after sauna. Here are some points to consider: 

To give you an idea of an effective schedule of intensity and frequency, a study in 2005 found that: 

There are things that you can do to help each phase of healing, but you cannot alter the fact that it takes time for tissue to heal. So you may want to check with a sports physical or physiotherapist to help guide you to successful recovery. Good luck. 

So with this study, it was the preloading, whether with water, juice or fruit, that increased the weight loss of people on a calorie reduced diet (who were also wearing a pedometer). However, if you are interested in improving your HDL levels, adding grapefruit or grapefruit juice prior to meals will help according to this study. 

According to a study in the January 2008 issue of "Current Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metabolic Care", 

Different types of resistance exercises will strengthen targeted muscles, but matching the specificity of the exercise with a specific goal gives you the greatest success. 

If you live in an area where you have a choice here are some considerations to help you decide who you want to see. 

Finger injuries from climbing often involve strains of the tendon and/or tendon pulley, inflamation, partial or full tears and/or joint ligament sprains. You would need to see a doctor for a diagnosis, preferably a hand specialist with experience treating climbers. If you need treatment, look for a specialized hand therapist (either a physical or occupational therapist who has specialized in evaluation and treatment of the hand). According to an abstract by the Tokyo Hand Surgery and Sports Medicine Institute climber's finger symptoms are described as: 

Corrective Measures The most direct way to get an appropriate exercise program for your weak, painfull shoulder is to see a physical therapist. Their evaluation checks for the stabilization and positioning of the scapula and shoulder joint. Muscle imbalances are addressed with stretching and strengthening of the involved muscles. Very often the painful shoulder rolls forward, placing more strain on the rotator cuff, tightening the pecs, and weakening the upper back and scapular muscles. Below are some suggested exercises, but a personlized program is best. 

The wide grip requires that your shoulder have full range to abduct and externally rotate. Limitation from tight muscles or from weak scapular stabilizers can cause an impingement at the shoulder joint, so it may or may not be a pinched nerve. To find out what you actually have and to get a good exercise program to correct it, you should see your doctor (orthopedist) and/or a physical therapist (physio). Any info here will only be general information which might help, but may not address your complete problem. If your main problem is poor shoulder positioning the following may help: 

Maybe the safest thing to do at this point is spinning. You won't have to worry about falling off and re-injuring and you can maintain your fitness for cycling. The AAOS, American Association of Orthopedic Surgeon's site, OrthoInfo points out that fractures of the scaphoid at different locations require different treatments and recover differently. They recommend that during healing you should: 

Anaerobic - First the body uses the anaerobic system which has energy ready to go as soon as you start to use your muscles. Anaerobic means without oxygen. Aerobic - The second energy system, the aerobic system, kicks in when your short term, initial energy from the anaerobic system is used up. Aerobic exercise requires oxygen to produce energy. An exercise is determined to be aerobic vs anaerobic depending on which system is used to generate the energy needed for a particular exercise. Using running as an example, sprints are anaerobic and longer runs are aerobic exercise. When you sprint, you need explosive, quick energy to get going, so you use the anaerobic system. Readily available stores of ATP, glucose and glycogen provide energy quickly, but also deplete quickly. As these stores of ATP, glucose and glycogen deplete, you need a different system to produce ongoing energy. As you run longer distances, you generally lower the intensity so that you can keep going. You need endurance and a system that produces energy as long as you need it. The aerobic system uses oxygen and produces ongoing energy needed for endurance activities, exercises and sports. To exercise aerobically, you generally workout within a target exercise heart rate of between 60 to 85% of your maximum heart rate. Aerobic exercise trains your heart and lungs to become more efficient. Aerobic exercise is sometimes referred to as cardio. Examples of aerobic exercises are walking, running, cycling, hiking, swimming, water aerobics, aerobic dance, singles tennis etc. To exercise anaerobically, you generally work at a higher intensity for a shorter durations or intervals. Examples of anaerobic exercise are sprinting, strength training, and doubles tennis. 

HIIT stands for High Intensity Interval Training. The "interval" portion suggests short duration intervals followed by rest intervals. The "High Intensity" portion does suggest that you give a maximal effort during that short interval. However, for this technique to be effective you must include the short rest intervals to allow for recovery so that you can put forth a maximal effort during the next high intensity interval. Generally your heart rate would increase to 80% to 85% or more during the intense phase and drop down to 60% to 70% during the recovery phase although this can vary. A HIIT example is the Tabata Protocol where your exercise maximally for 20 seconds followed by a 10 second rest. You repeat this cycle 7-8 times. There are other protocols such as 60 seconds of intensity with 30 seconds of rest or 30 seconds on, 30 seconds off. You can workout which fits into your routine or which you feel gives you the best workout. Craig Ballantyne gives some interval training options. Be sure to include a good warm up and cool down when doing HIIT. Hope that helps. 

The main things to look for in a heart rate monitor for exercise workouts is its accuracy, readability, functions and ease of use. Accuracy - Check your radial pulse and compare it to the heart rate monitor for accuracy. At rest you can check it for 60 seconds. During exercise you can check your pulse for 6 secs and multiply by 10. If you need a heart rate monitor for cardiac rehab, ask your healthcare practitioner for recommendations. Readability - If your vision is a factor make sure that the display is large enough and clear enough for you to read it easily while exercising. A night light or backlight function can help readability especially in dim light. Functions - As you mentioned you want estimated calories burned and the ability to transfer data to your computer. Other considerations are the ease of set up, ability to set target training zones, alarms or percent-of-max heart rate display, lap timers, water resistance, and the ability to change the battery by yourself vs having to send it back to the manufacturer for a new battery. Ease of Use - Having more functions than necessary can complicate its use, so choose according to your goals. Consider the chest strap comfort and ease of application. Price and warranty are also a consideration.