The confusion here is that W, X and Y don't represent variables, they are premises with internal structure. It might make it more clear to call them P1, P2 and P3. What Baggini is saying is that any argument of the form 

A fallacy is a structural flaw in an argument. An argument based on a fallacy is a bad argument --in a technical sense-- regardless of the details of the argument. In this case, it's not clear that the team is committing a fallacy at all. In fact, in the case that there were more than two alternatives, and Peter illegitimately reduced them to two, then he would have been the one committing the fallacy ("Black or White"). If there were in fact only two alternatives, than Peter is stuck in a "Catch 22" where he would have been blamed by his team no matter what choice he made. This is not, however, a fallacy, just a symptom of the unfairness of life. If the team argues that Peter should be blamed because his decisions made them worse off than they would otherwise have been, then their argument is bad because it is based on a factually incorrect premise, not because it is structurally flawed. 

A given philosophy offers a unified viewpoint on a diverse, arguably universal set of what would otherwise be viewed as disconnected phenomena. It is of crucial practical value in terms of bringing into alignment the activities of people who are acting independently. At a more personal level, I have found my philosophy degree has offered me a valuable perspective on every subsequent pursuit. In addition, all the symbolic logic I took was directly applicable to my current job as a programmer. 

As Conifold alluded to in the comments, this is a well-known topic in philosophy, most closely associated with the great German philosopher Immanuel Kant, who called this feeling "the sublime". He uses this concept, which he sees as most directly related to the awe-inspiring qualities of nature, as a way of developing his theory of art, which he believes taps into similar territory in the human experience. Your best bet of finding philosophical approaches to this idea, therefore, is probably to start with Kant's Critique of Judgement and work your way outwards from there. 

This is a variant of appeal to perfection, which itself is a type of false dichotomy. The general form of a false dichotomy is a forced choice between only two options, "it's either A or B," when it could in fact be C. In this specific variant the choice presented is between a perfect solution or giving up entirely. The way to defend against a false dichotomy is to identify the plausible third option, and in the case of the appeal to perfection, that option is to improve on the default, even without reaching perfection. In the case given, the impossible "perfect" solution A kills no animals, but the "pretty good" solution C kills fewer than the default solution B (to continue as is). 

The problem with scientism is that it's generally philosophically incoherent. Examine your own statements of scientistic dogma: 

There is no one universally acclaimed standard or set of criteria. One possible way of conceptualizing this is that philosophy is an earlier step on the road to understanding a subject than science. The philosopher may either be considering a topic that has never previously been formulated, or one that has proven resistant to analysis. Sometimes the philosopher's chief contribution is just posing the right questions --it falls to someone else to organize the concepts in a testable manner. In retrospect, it may look like the philosopher's ideas are ridiculous, because we've all gotten used to the later, more developed version. But the real brilliance of the philosopher was thinking such a thing was even possible. 

You are correct, structurally speaking this is the fallacy of appeal to authority. The person isn't providing any actual argument against your position, he is merely claiming to be in a position of authority to judge between the two positions. As with all informal fallacies, this argument gains its force from superficial similarity to a good argument. For instance, if I tell my child "I was once your age, and I ate a whole bag of candy, and I was sick all night, so you should not eat that whole bag," that is a good argument that is very similar to the bad one, except in this case I've actually provided support for the relevance of my experience. 

At a strict logical level, this is an if-then statement with a counterfactual as the antecedent. Anything could be inserted as the conclusion with equal validity. Even folk culture recognizes this pattern, with such mocking replies as ...and if 'ifs and ands' were pots and pans, there'd be no work for tinkers! and ...and if your aunt had [testes], she'd be your uncle! At a more expansive philosophical level, this hinges on both questions of causation and responsibility. What qualifies your birth as a "cause" of your actions? Thinkers such as David Lewis have done work on counterfactuals and causation, but it turns out to be far from trivial to make such intuitions rigorous. Even once a causal relationship between the antecedent and the consequent are established, however, there's still the question of assigning responsibility. From a Sartrean point of view, for example, your own personal responsibility for your actions is an absolute that cannot be diminished, no matter how many others can be shown to have contributed to a given outcome. 

I can't speak to other Greek philosophers, but Plato and Socrates shared --at least apparently --an idiosyncratic view of the Greek Gods that was at odds with the religious views of the time. In other words, they did not believe in the popularly accepted myths. The key piece of evidence comes in the Republic, where Plato depicts Socrates as explicitly rejecting all myths that depict the Greek Gods behaving badly, and strongly hints at a commitment to monotheism (in contrast to Greek polytheism). It is true that one cannot always take Plato at face value. In the context of his other writings, however, it is plain that he would never accept that a higher being (a god) could have a lower moral standard. He also generally sees higher things as being more unified and less differentiated, which argues for his monotheism (and is part of the reason Plato was embraced by the monotheistic religions of Christianity and Islam). It is also true that we cannot ever be sure Plato's Socrates represents the views of the real Socrates. But we do know that impiety --teaching beliefs counter to the accepted religious beliefs-- is one of the major charges that led to Socrates' execution, so his religious unorthodoxy is well-established. 

You could certainly ask the question, but would it be meaningful? It's hard to think of any case this would apply to other than your example, since it would take a godlike being in order to create something like "existence". However, what if we aren't as strict in terms of the concept of A "creating" B? Let's say A is Thomas Edison, and B is the quality of being well illuminated, electrically. Just because Edison invented electric lighting, doesn't mean he can't also use it. Or, suppose I'm a pop-culture tastemaker and I invent the concept of "funkicool". There's no reason I couldn't also exemplify "funkicoolness". On the other hand, if I'm a writer and I write a book about a planet where everyone is either "Alpha-neutral" or "Alpha-polarized", it might not make sense to ask if I, the writer, exhibit Alpha neutrality or not, because the concept only exists within my made up world, it doesn't mean anything at my own level of reality. In the specific case of your example, if we take it as a given that God created existence, the concept of "creation" already implies the existence of the creator, therefore it doesn't make sense to ask the question, but not for the reasons you suggest. 

a -> b is a statement within a logical system, while a |- b is a statement about a logical system. This is a distinction I also found very confusing when first encountering advanced formal logic. The compelling superficial similarities between the two statements make it tempting to blur the distinctions between them, but the high level reasoning is as follows: We need to keep strict barriers between the statements we make within logical systems and the statements we make about them or else a variety of significant paradoxes arise (notably the Liar's Paradox, see the notes on Tarski for more). When modern formal logic was first developed, distinctions like these were not made, but it soon became obvious that some kind of intervention of this sort was necessary in order to save the entire enterprise. 

It's basically a matter of form matching content, and presentation aligning with philosophical commitments. Plato's Socrates only asks questions, rather than answers them, because he believes wisdom cannot be bestowed from without, but that the student can only be guided to discover the answers from within --this necessitates the dialogue format. The existentialists have similar commitments to the primacy of choice in the life of the individual. Neither Kierkegaard nor Sartre believe we can dictate absolute truths to another. Accordingly, they dramatize their philosophies, and leave the reader to draw his or her own conclusions. As with Plato/Socrates, Kierkegaard's work is often a progression where the reader is left at the lip of the last leap to complete the journey alone. For Plato/Socrates and Kierkegaard, this is because real Truth is something they consider to exist in a "realm" beyond ordinary human experience, it cannot be expressed in ordinary ways without debasing it. This can be contrasted with that wide range of philosophers (from Confucius to Russell) who possess more faith in the objective truth of the sensible universe. They accordingly have a higher level of comfort with saying "this is the way things are", "this is what you should believe" and "this is how you should behave." 

Thus, even though Catholicism is monotheistic, the panoply of saints has echos of polytheism (similarly, there are strains of Buddhism that revere a canon of bodhisattvas). Conversely, Hinduism is polytheistic, but there are Hindu sects that are essentially monotheistic. 

There's nothing structural in this statement that lets you know whether it's a class statement (about a set of things, considered as a group) or a generalization (true in general of the individual things in the group). Like many other statements in natural language, you need to rely on your knowledge and common sense to make the determination. In this case, out of the two possible ways of interpreting the statement, only one makes sense. Once you know what kind of statement it is, you can classify the resulting fallacy based on that information. 

I would argue that I can, at a minimum, establish that if I am a fictional character, the writer must exist at some deeper level of reality, not at the same level of reality in which I exist. If the writer and the fiction are at the same level of reality, then the concepts of reality and fiction become meaningless, and paradoxes of causation are introduced. In addition, I can compare the experience of reading a book with living my life. The fictional world may be powerfully immersive and vivid, but I can still distinguish it as less real than my experience of my own life. In additional, a book that contained the level of detail of real life would need to be impossibly long and dense. (I use the pronoun "I" since I can't independently verify that you actually experience life as I do, see Descartes.) None of these objections, however, necessarily apply in the case where the writer's reality is in some way deeper than our own. So, if we allow that the "meta-writer" Z is at a deeper level of reality, could that meta-writer create a closed loop of writers all at the same level of reality? I would say yes, but that level of reality could not be identical with the one which we actually inhabit, for the reasons above. True, the meta-writer could simulate the effect of a writer existing in the same world as her creation, by arranging the events of A's life to echo the plot of character B's book about character A*, but that, in my opinion, is not the same as B actually creating A. If we allow that B's agency can be conceptualized as a subset of Z's agency, then we might grant that Z could in fact create a character B actually capable of creating a character A, but that character would either need to exist in a level of reality lesser than that of character B, or both B and A would need to exist in a reality whose nature would be quite different than the (apparent) nature of our own reality. 

It reminds me most strongly of Albert Camus' version of absurdism, in which people live their lives and strive towards moral choices, in spite of the "objective fact" that there is no meaning in any of it. This position is perhaps best captured in his novel The Plague which dramatizes the variant reactions of a group of villagers to an unexpected disaster, a disease that kills mercilessly, and without regards to people's individual traits. While we, the readers, may admire those who find a way to survive and carry on, Camus is careful not to imply that the universe cares one way or the other. 

The three faiths referenced have some significant differences. There is a fairly sizable number of atheists who consider themselves "culturally" Jewish, and there's a certain extent to which the religion focuses more on behaviors than beliefs. There are also people who consider themselves "non-theistic" Christians --followers of Jesus as conceptualized as a purely human rather than divine teacher. The mainstream Christian church, however, definitely does not accept such people as actual Christians. "Non-theistic Islam," on the other hand, doesn't even make sense as a theoretical concept. With that said, when each religion is considered in its core, theistic form, each presupposes the existence of God as foundational. It's hard to see any way clear to make a statement of the form "I don't think I'm justified in believing in God, but I do think I'm justified in believing that the religion of Christianity is right." It might be the case, however, that a specific religion conceptualizes God in such a way that there is new and better evidence for that view of God than for the more general one you previously rejected. For instance, Kierkegaard's existential Christianity embraces the absurd. When considering God in the abstract, you might take certain perceived absurdities as counter-evidence. If you came to embrace Kierkegaard's perspective, however, you might no longer find that counter-evidence decisive.