There's a cycle tourist with a carbon bike a bit heavier than yours here so it can be done. Most of the carbon bike people tape their frames where the bag will rub to prevent the bag slowly grinding through the frame, but that seems to be the main concern. 

Those ones fall out easily and are annoying to deal with in general, so they've been replaced by "shim washers" which are equally thin, very flat washers made specifically for the purpose. Normal washers are stamped out of sheet metal and are rarely flat and often not even either, so using them as shims will leave your caliper at a slight angle and often slightly twisted as well due to the two washers not being exactly the same. In the worst case that will make hydraulic brakes leak. You can fake these to some extend using washers cut from aluminium cans, but you're better off using proper shim washers despite the price. 

It depends a lot on the fine print of the bike, and how good you are at guessing where forces will go. Broadly, if you make a solid structure and mount it properly the bike will usually be fine, but most parts of a bike are not designed for forces in new directions. Generally muffler tube is 1.6mm or more and mild steel, where even cheap bikes are 0.9mm or thinner and a harder alloy. If you're confident stick welding muffler pipe you can probably weld the thicker parts of a cheap bike, and if you can somehow magic up some really thin rods it'll be much easier. You want to be down around 30 amps for much of the welding, and most transformer stick welders struggle to maintain an arc at that sort of current. Modern switch mode ones work better, even without HF start, because they can up the voltage to keep the arc active and drop it back when the arc starts, on a millisecond-to-millisecond basis. You can't do that by hand :) If you can get gas a TIG kit for a switch mode welder might be worthwhile, but I suspect you might struggle to do that based on your comments. Normally I wouldn't spit on a gasless MIG, but for you it might be the least worst option if you get the chance to try one in civilisation on day (FFS don't mail order one sight unseen). Maintaining the flux cored wire is not much more hassle than keeping welding rods dry, but you can weld thinner tubing more easily. Or you just just decide to burn 10 or 20 rods getting the hang of thin wall tubing (or just design so you don't need to weld it very much). Running a bead along something solid so you're just barely melting into the thin tube might be the least awful solution. You can't easily join two thin tubes, but you can still do a lot. Or maybe "pre-set your filler" rod by tying non-galvanised wire along the join before you weld, to bulk it up a bit. I haven't done that with stick, but I do it occasionally with TIG with I have something really tricky to weld (a sudden transition from 6mm dropout to 0.6mm tubing, for example) Welding a new stand plate on, for example, should be fine as long as you can weld the thin wall bicycle tubing. Look closely at the existing plate, most of them are kind of )o( shaped, with the tapered ends designed to give a gentle transition in the amount of force applied, so that the thin tubing of the bike can better cope with the load. Cheaper bikes sometimes fake this with tack welds, or just don't bother because the cheap tubing is thick enough that it doesn't matter. But then you go and load the bike to twice what it's designed for and it does matter. Panniers and load platforms can often mount to existing attachment points. The hassle is that welding to the seat tube has to be done very carefully, and if you can back purge with TIG that's even better. If you even roughen the inside surface of the seat tube it can make getting the seatpost in difficult to impossible. Filing that smooth requires a half-round file hand patience (or a rotary tool with a filing bit plus skill and luck). You're trying to file 0.1mm off a tube that's 0.9mm thick at most. Ideally you'll add vertical loads to or very near the axles. If you're lucky the dropouts will be cut rather than cast, and will take welding well. In that case you can just leave enough space to do up the wheelnuts and weld directly to the dropout. Making a rack out of whatever you have, as one piece, is usually fairly easy. Making it light and strong is the hard part/ So give up on light :) My limited experience is with chopping up bikes to make prototypes, and they seem to survive that better than I expected. Skim the "I built it" section of my site and you'll see a few hacked-about-with bikes. $URL$ and specifically the "Bin Bike prototype" which was a BMX with extras, including a rack largely made of 10mm reinforcing rod. 

I have seen different lengths of hose for sale. I have a topeak mini track pump which is a combination of both the styles that you mention. I recommend it. It has been useful so far. In my experience pumps tend to wear out way to fast, and are often poorly designed for what you get for the money. 

I wouldn't imagine it is normal for them to be over-tightened - what would be the point? However, its generally advised after buying a machine built bike / wheels to check that spokes / hubs haven't loosening after a breaking in period. This in in comparison with a hand built bike. 

and I want to know if I can use v brakes with them. It looks like there is a thread to screw in some bosses, but I'm not 100% sure. 

I've got a XC mtb which 1. I'm trying to cut the weight off , 2. I want a bit extra reach. I've got a longer road bike stem made by 'Deda' (I think Planet X)? and I was wondering if it will be strong enough for XC mountain biking use? 

I'm concerned about the offset as you can see above in this picture. On the non drive side the crank looks like it is designed to be much further in and on the drive side it is really close in. Please advise me how one knows which bottom bracket is right for X bike. Shell width is reasonably obvious because otherwise it wont fit but what about axel length. The frame is a late eighties / early 90s cinelli steel frame. Some BB shells also have different design for the casing which means there is more space between the side of the shell and the crank. Are there any hard and fast rules for BB choice? 

The latter is somewhat hard to get experience with, since metal pulleys are sufficiently rare and expensive that few people use them. Also, people who pay extra for them tend to maintain them so I haven't seen them fail other than via "full of mud, not going round". In that case, though, the chain will not go through the rear derailleur at all, so the bike needs to be converted to single speed before you can ride it. Which is an ugly ting to have to do when you're out on a bike ride. Note that recumbent idler pulleys have the same concerns but often they're on the drive side of the chain so the forces are larger. So are the pulleys to reduce chain bend angles and thus losses. In that case metal cogs are usually also lighter and quieter but significantly more expensive (more than double the cost). Derailleur pulleys would also benefit from being larger, but that's relatively rare, I suspect because weight and air resistance also increase with size (and a larger cog would mean extra chain, further increasing weight) 

You can see that for each of the three chainrings every cog on the back can be used. In this case that means 3 chainrings times 7 cogs = 21 gears. Gears in this case is short for "gear ratios", meaning the ratio between the pedal speed and the wheel speed that you get from that gear. It's terminology used in industry and anywhere that gearboxes are used. The bicycle labels like "10 speed" and "21 speed" are an advertising term that's become common usage and is, like much advertising, inaccurate and causes confusion. Speed is the product of the gear you're in and the speed you're pedalling at, not just the gear alone. The different colours are showing the gears that work well (green) compared to those that don't and should be avoided (red). This is called cross chaining (google) if you want to read more (wikiworks). 

If it is a cruiser bike it might be the laid-back angle that makes it feel a bit more difficult to pedal as you generally push bigger gears with such bikes rather than spin due to the position of the seat in relation to the cranks. 

Tubus logo is a great rear rack and I used it on my touring bike with magura louise disk brakes for around 13,000m. More information and my experience on my websites at Cycle touring across Europe Caucasus to India The alternative would be to go for a seatpost mount or one of the other options mentioned here. 

I'm trying to figure out if I can make a replacement part for an old pair of Marzocchi MX Pro 2003 forks. Its part of the rebound damping rod and is the metal bit in this photo on the top where the hex rod is sticking out. Does anyone have more info about this piece? 

Usually with old bikes like this - the drivetrain (chain, gears, cogs) can be rusted up. You can free these with WD40 to an extent. Inside the hubs may be corroded / rusted. If you can dismantle and regrease these it would help. The cables might be rusted inside- you can use WD40 again or replace them. Check for movement in the headset - check there isn't any knocking there- depending on how much use it has had it might need new bearing or at least a rebuild of the headset bearing. Check the tyres aren't perishing as the old ones tend to - you can see this by cracks in the surface which appear when you pinch the material. Check the spokes aren't loose. Hope that helps. You can also check for movement in the bottom bracket which may indicate needing a new one. 

At the simplest level you may simply be able to unbolt a chainring and re-set the limit screws on the front derailleur to stop it shifting onto the missing chainring. I assume you're trying to remove the smallest chainring, and those are fairly commonly removable even on cheaper setups. Slightly more expensive setups will have all chainrings removable, so you could remove two chainrings. If you can't do that it's probable that your bike is so cheap that buying parts for it is a waste of money - while you can buy cheap parts the markup and distribution costs mean you're not saving much over the cost of a better part. But spending $100 on a new crankset for a $300 bike doesn't usually make sense. What you will probably find is that even with a single chainring you still need the front derailleur to stop the chain falling off. Derailleur systems are designed in many ways to facilitate that, only they call it "changing gear". If you look at many of the 1xN setups on the market they have a chain retention device that does the same thing. If you just want to find out whether you can deal with only having one chainring, I suggest simply not shifting gears on the front derailleur. See how you go, if you regularly find yourself having to either shift it or get off the bike, a single chainring setup will probably not work for you. 

Stop. Back up if necessary. Don't risk running over it. Snakes almost never chase people, they will only attack if they're cornered or you're lying very still (for very large snakes that eat things the size of people). Running over a snake is probably your worst approach if you don't want to get bitten. Not only do you have to be very close to the snake, you're going out of your way to threaten it. Almost any animal in that situation will try to attack you, purely to stop you killing them. I've seen several snakes, one on my commute route. For me that's a chance to stop and go "Wow! A snake!" and maybe get my camera out so I can take a photo from a safe distance. But even snakes that aren't venomous are best left alone. Either because they're wild animals that you respect and want to encourage, or because the gap between non-venomous and harmless is significant. A bite or accidental impact from a snake can still injure you. Also, many are protected, and I'm not sure whether being bitten by a venomous snake is actually worse than being prosecuted for interfering with one. 

I need some new sunglasses for cycling - what features will actually be helpful - I've seen ones with vents, polarized lens, rubberised frame, replaceable lens . I just need the best value model that looks good. 

Contact British Cycling and ask them for information. I am sure that there will be some qualification that you will need to be an 'official', but you would also be able to get a lot of practice volunteering at smaller races. If you are a veteran racer, that would probably help, because you will have expertise. 

I've got some Sun Rhynolyte rims and one of the features is being welded and machined. What does it mean when said in relation to a rim? 

There are so many different kinds of shorts available for mountain biking. I would like to get a pair that is: durable, can have padding shorts (either insert or worn under), stretchy and flexible material, doesn't make a huge amount of noise when I pedal, lightweight, quick drying. Usually I would wear just lycra but having done that last season and taken a couple of falls with no protection I'm looking for something a little more protective. There are so many kinds of shorts out there though how do I know what is purely fashion and what is function? and is it worth wearing anything but lycra for xc? 

It might not be the disc brake. It might be that the hub is seized up from rust. You can check if it is the brake or not by loosening the caliper and spinning the wheel. If it spins freely it is the brake not the hub. If it is the hub you might need to get it regreased. Alternatively it might just be overtightened (although its not likely to tighten by itself in the shed). If it is the disc, check the alignment of the caliper and that the pistons inside are not pushed in too far, e.g. from putting on the brake where there is no disc in the caliper. you can take out the pads, prize apart the piston, put the pads bad in then pump the lever (with the wheel and rotor in place obvs). 

No, the cable pull is different between 8 speed and 10 speed. You will need to exchange it. There is a detailed explanation here, but the short version is that there are no 8 speed rear derailleurs that are compatible with 10 speed shifters, or vice versa. 

The reason for that is safety - if the mudguard or stay gets caught in the wheel the stay pulls through that hole in the bolt rather than jamming in the wheel and stopping it. So you have a noise and rubbing rather than being thrown off the bike. 

As you can see from the wear marks on the tensioner fixing bolt (the lower one), something is forcing the tensioner to release the chain. That suggests to me that you're catching the chain on something, because there's quite a bit of force required to scrub off the anodising and get back to bare metal on the tensioner. I would look for damaged teeth on the chainring and cog, and think about what you did just before the chain came off. 

Problem is, off road they don't have as much traction as a proper MTB tyre, and on road they're fine until you lean the bike, at which point they lose traction. I've used these for a while when my commute had an off-road option, but I quickly decided I would ride that to work only when it was dry enough to do it on slick tyres. The semi-slicks worked better than slicks on the gravel, not detectably better in mud (but they did throw more mud up onto me and the bike), and on the road the "lose traction on corners" feature was downright dangerous. My solution was to buy a second hand mountain bike and use the wheels off that for offroad riding (the bike itself was in very poor condition, so it wasn't worth fixing, but the wheels were ok).