It's only an hour's worth of work, and it covers a wide variety of parts of the body and types of exercise, so you should be fine. Just listen to your body and take breaks where you need to. 

First off, if you think you may have cracked a tooth, I highly recommend that you see a dentist. If your teeth are that loose, there is likely an underlying cause that you need to deal with comparable to someone with injuries having to be treated before being able to undertake strenuous exercises. However, I think you have a genuine question in there. In general, exercise builds durability by applying mild strain, enough to bend but not break the body, where the body is healthy enough to undergo that strain. If you have been cleared by your dentist (because, as I noted in the comment above, the most likely cause for loose teeth is gum disease), you're going to want to start with someone with a small amount of firmness, but which you can't get your teeth lodged into. Sugarless bubble-gum is probably your best bet (chewing gum tends to be more "sticky" and might cause trauma). If you can get ahold of a dental appliance such as the Y-Chew, that's probably even better. Your goal initially is not to apply a great deal of pressure, but rather to apply a moderate amount over a longer period of time by continuously chewing. If your body is in a decent shape, the mild trauma will cause your body to react by binding the teeth more securely with the useful side effect of also helping to strengthen your jaws. If your teeth are not in good shape (as per if your dentist did not medically clear you), you're likely to injure yourself further. Outside of that, good dental health is really your primary line of defense. Rinse with a mouthwash that has a fluoride rinse at least daily, and brush your teeth 2-3 times a day (contrary to what might seem to be common sense, you're generally better off brushing before eating, as the primary goal is to remove plaque, and some foods can soften your teeth, making it so that your brushing removes enamel). One before heading off to bed and once in the morning isn't too bad of a plan. Also, don't forget to floss to get the food that gets stuck between the teeth, but be gentle, particularly with loose teeth. 

TL;DR: No, this does not mean your muscles are being broken down, and carbohydrates and sufficient hydration are the keys to avoiding the ammonia smell. 

Science Based Medicine did a review of the literature along with another 14 "super-foods" espoused by Dr. Oz. 

In my opinion, the answer here is somewhat subjective in that the bodies of different people handle exercising on a non-empty stomach differently. The general rule I've found is that you don't need to wait after a light snack, you should wait an hour or two after a light meal, and you should wait three to four hours after a heavier one. If you eat a typical lunch, you're probably looking at being able to work out within an hour, enough time to digest a decent amount of the food so as to avoid stomach cramps and nausea. 

As noted by JohnP, there's not a lot of direct side effects at first, the effect being the result of your body routing energy to essential systems at the cost of others, but the effect is much like being drunk in that you lose coordination, reaction speed, and common sense. In much the same way that drinking alcohol sharply increases your risk of trauma, continuing your exercise after "hitting the wall" can result in serious injuries as you're more likely to trip, and less likely to catch yourself in the process. At that, you don't even get the mild improvement in survival of head trauma that moderate alcohol consumption provides. 

The intent is that the incline of a treadmill matches a grade. However, as noted with your comment on 0% incline, there's no air resistance, and some people have noted that inclines aren't always accurate. 

Based on a bit of research, it seems that the reasoning for the practice of icing testicles is to boost testosterone. The evidence is very shaky with most scientific papers actually being about cold water immersion, and the evidence seeming to show that it lowers testosterone production and boosts cortisol, which is counter to gains. 

While I don't think he has any sort of certification, Lucas/pigmie of Only Kinds Fitness suggests doing wrist rotations first with outstretched fingers, then with closed fists because the fist makes the tendons tighter when the wrist is bent forward. He explains it a bit further around the 1:23 mark where he notes that it specifically makes pronation a bit more difficult, but easier bending the opposite way. Under the general heading of exercise generally training you to get better with that specific motion, it makes sense to do both if you think you might encounter both situations (even accidentally). 

Any form of movement that gets your blood moving in the parts of the body that you will be exercising without forcing them to exert themselves "cold" is a valid warm-up. If all you plan to do is a brisk walk, then a more leisurely stroll is a fine warm-up, certainly better than, say, couch-sitting. And many running programs suggest 5-10 minutes of brisk walking before running as a warm-up, so it sounds like you should be good there too. Honestly, though, for someone in decent shape, I'd probably say that you're probably safe starting right with the brisk walk in either case, as that level of exercise is not very stressful, so there may be no need for extra warming up. 

The soreness and stiffness at the back of your legs, and the pain in your traps, likely is DOMS. It happened in about the right timeframe and it's muscles that you'd expect to be using with those exercises. Pain on the inside of the elbow is slightly more likely to be tendonitis, specifically something like Golfer's Elbow (the flipside of Tennis elbow where the pain is on the outside). You can often tell that one because it hurts considerably more when you try to straighten your arm. The DOMS is of minor concern so long as it doesn't prevent you from being able to keep moving the next day. If it is tendonitis, that's slightly more worrying, because it can be a precursor to more permanent damage if you continue overstressing those tendons, but honestly, it's pretty common with dumbbell bicep curls when you're starting out. 

Just to rule out worst-case scenarios, do you have any issues with eye movement as the day goes on? There's a nasty auto-immune disease called Myasthenia Gravis where the primary symptoms are loss of muscular control with use. Almost always, it's characterized by often-used muscles such as the eyes and the jaw, but there are rare cases just involving major muscle groups. The signature field test involves having the person being tested do a squeeze test about 4-5 times in a row with the diagnosis coming if the person's strength consistently falls with each squeeze. This is sounding dangerously similar. I would definitely recommend seeing a doctor. Yes, it is an investment of time and money (when you consider lost wages, even with health insurance, the average medical visit costs a cool $100 for many professions), but the amount you'll save if this is something major is enough to justify the cost. 

In my opinion, the ordering is somewhat a matter of opinion, but here is how I feel you ought to go, and the progression (which I will be doing in stages over the next day or so). Handstand In my opinion, this is the easiest of the lot, requiring little more than a bit of balance and the ability to hold your bodyweight above your head with straight arms. The progression is simple: 

While it may fall under the obvious, sitting cross-legged is a good way to work on sitting cross-legged. From what you state, you can get into the position with, at worst, some difficulty. From there, gently push your knees down until you feel the stretch, but aren't in pain. Hold it there for several seconds. Relax. Repeat. That would be a static stretch for it. Dynamic stretching may not be a bad idea as an addition. Basically, it's the same, except that you only push until you feel a partial stretch, then you activate the muscles that you're stretching for several seconds (either by just contracting the muscles or by pushing back on resistance, such as your hands pushing on your knees. If you're genuinely having trouble just getting into the position at all, consider easing into it from a location where you can hold yourself from going fully down, something like a very low dip where you can support yourself with your arms as you settle into the cross-legged position.