They used lye soap which is made by combining ashes with lard or other oils and fats. This kind of soap was known from ancient Egyptian times. It was customary in Rome to always wash your hair on August 13th in honor of Diana, but they washed it other times as well, obviously. The Romans bathed a lot and they (especially the women) would wear little caps to prevent any unwanted water or oil from getting into their hair. Caesar commented on the barbarians he fought in Gaul that they washed their hair with lime water which made it very coarse. 

What happened was that the University of Wurttemberg admitted some Hebrew scholars. These scholars having attracted some students to them among the gentiles, Luther, being an argumentative person, went to dispute with them regarding the relative merits of Judaism and Christianity. The Hebrews bested Luther in these arguments and had no difficulty making a mockery of Christianity, for example, pointing out that the genealogy of Jesus is different in different gospels and other obvious contradictions. This humiliation infuriated Luther and caused him to later write two different pamphlets criticizing the Jews and their practices. One book discussing these matters, "The History of the Church of Christ Previous to the Reformation" by Joseph Milner: "Several Jews had resorted to Wittemberg, in consequence of the encouragement given to the study of the Hebrew scriptures in that university, and the attention bestowed upon their language.... Three of their rabbins (sic) came to Luther to dispute with him concerning their faith, etc" There are many other books that discuss the same events. 

The three great pyramids of Giza are not in a straight line. The two largest pyramids are arranged Northeast-Southwest of one another. The 225-degree line of bearing through Giza (NE-SW) does not even pass through South America at all, much less through Peru. The yellow line below is this bearing: 

The idea originated with the memorialist Françoise Bertaut de Motteville who only entered the French court after Richelieu had died, so she was reporting rumors she heard from people who knew Richelieu personally. In her memoirs published in 1723, she wrote the following in volume one: 

To invade Ireland, the Romans would first have needed to gain full control of either Wales or the Clyde estuary in Scotland, something they never succeeded in doing. The Romans very much wanted to conquer Ireland, because the Irish were a constant source of weapons and "rebellibus" support to the Scots and Welsh for attacks on Roman communities. During the fifth campaign of Agricola he reached partem Britanniae quae Hiberniam aspicit (the part of Britain that faces Ireland), but he never controlled it sufficiently to attempt a crossing. During his invasion of Scotland, Agricola had to build a large number of forts, which has been great for archaeology, but not so great for the Romans, since it became very expensive to fend off the Gaels. This was the same in Wales, where a string of costly forts had to be maintained to protect against Irish-sponsored attacks. The graphic below, showing Roman and Gaelic forts, illustrates the line of control: 

I might add that the other answers which claim that apple pie is popular here for 20th-century cultural reasons is completely incorrect. Apple pie is traditional here because of the huge number of apple orchards there are which are a remnant of our colonial past and the dealing in cider at that time. 

They are called "anti-reflection devices" (ARDs) and there are several different types. One type has a honeycomb and is only about a 1.5" wide. A shade tube will work as well. 

(Refer to map below) After the Battle of Cannae (2 August 216 BC), Hannibal went immediately to Compsa (1), where he set up a base and took some of forces and sent them on a mission to collect allies in that area. He then gathered his main army and went to Naples (2) where he was hoping to take control of a seaport. When he got to Naples he found it had very strong walls and was determined to resist him, so he passed it by and went to Capua (3), a large city, the third dot on the map. At Capua the city agreed to ally with him and he occupied the city, although there were dissenters. He then turned south to reduce Nola, a smaller city, (4) on the map. Nola submitted to Hannibal. However, the Roman Praetor Marcellus (blue dot) coming from Cassino caused Capua to swing back to Rome, then shadowed Hannibal to Nola. Hannibal then abandoned Nola and went first to the coast to see if he could get access to a port, but forces in Naples had become even stronger, so he went on to Nuceria (5), which he besieged and eventually captured by force, burning the city to the ground (red box). Hannibal then returned to Nola, which Marcellus had occupied, and invested it, but Marcellus surprised him by sallying forth from the walls unexpectedly, killing a large number of Carthaginians (6), then retreating back within the walls of the city. 

They did not appoint him sole consul. They offered him for election to the assembly. They appointed an interrex who then selected Pompey and put him forward as the sole candidate. The assembly therefore had the option of either rejecting him or electing just him. 

When the Americans discovered how well apples grew in America it became the standard practice to plant apple orchards on every plantation due to the marketability of cider, being as good as liquid money. Perry, on the other hand, is not as good tasting here, probably due to dryness and for that reason perry has never been important in America, whereas in England perry and cider were originally equally abundant. In any case, the practice of growing apples for cider was universal throughout colonial America and this led eventually to the large stock of apple trees which our country still has today and are responsible for the widespread presence and love of apple pie. 

Apparently since my previous answer to this same type of question had no upvotes it cannot be used to tag this question as a duplicate. Therefore, I will excerpt the relevant part: The first kings to be more English than French were the Tudors starting with Henry VII. The Tudors married real English women, not French-bred women imported from the continent. They also started passing laws requiring people to speak English. One of the wierd side effects of the court speaking French was that non-English languages like Scottish, Welsh, Irish and Cornish flourished. After all, you can hardly require people to speak English when the whole court is speaking French! The Tudors changed all this. They made English the language of court and they also began requiring everyone in the kingdom to speak English. The law courts and universities also switched to English under the Tudors. There was still a lot of lingering French among the nobles, but the tide had turned and English became the standard. This is what one scholar wrote: 

On August 31, 1918, President Wilson wrote a letter to Rabbi Stephen Samuel Wise which referred to the Balfour Declaration and said in part: 

The Treaty of Berlin (1878-9) allowed for the occupation and administration of Bosnia/HG only to the extent that it did not abrogate the personal rights of the sultan in the territory. The language included the statement (in French) reading: 

Iron is not "mined" in its native form. The ores of iron, such as hematite, are oxides which are plentiful and can even be collected right off the surface of the earth with no mining involved at all. I myself have collected hematite and magnetite from stream beds right near where I live. The difficulty in making iron is that it must be reduced from its oxide. Obtaining copper and silver is much easier because these metals can be recovered from sulfates which only need to be roasted. The American Indians failed to discover and exploit the technology of charcoal reduction of iron oxide. 

Avery documents some of the oldest documents known, however, it should be noted that those examples have conjectural dates because it is hard to date the contexts accurately and the documents themselves are vague. The Pyramid Texts (circa 2400 BC) are in many ways the most notable old written texts, not only because they are in a datable context (the Old Kingdom pyramids themselves), but because the texts are extensive. Unfortunately the Pyramid Texts are of a mystical character, not historical, but nevertheless the use of sophisticated words and terms has given scientists much information about the earliest forms of Egyptian language. There are many ambiguities and question marks in the translation of both the Pyramid Texts and the Elamite/Akkadian texts, but the gist of them is known. There have been attempts to translate neolithic inscriptions (see for example "Ice Age Language: Translations, Grammar, and Vocabulary" by Dr. Robert Duncan Enzmann), but that would probably fall into the category of "unverifiable translations". 

It is kind of a joke that a community college got the definition correct, but if you look at handbooks published by Harvard, Yale and Princeton they make incorrect definitions. Maybe some of their professors should take some courses at Aims and learn something. The underlying problem here is that historians have a very haphazard and unanalytical approach to studying history (compared to intelligence analysts, e.g.) and consequently their own definitions and understanding of information analysis is lacking, something pointed out by von Ranke over 150 years ago, and Gibbon before that. A book needs to be written on information analysis that clearly spells out how to systematically analyze and assimilate information. Unfortunately, that book is not yet written. 

I notice that during the legendary on-the-spot broadcast (and resulting newsreel) of the Hindenburg disaster in 1937 features the exclamation from the broadcaster "Oh, the humanity!". Is this the first notable use of this phrase. Can this instance be considered the origin of the phrase in popular use? 

This subject is treated in detail in the 1959 book History and the Homeric Iliad by Denys Lionel Page (Sather classical lectures, volume 31). This book, among other things, summarizes the extremely detailed information on the "Catalog of Ships" collated by the German classicist, Viktor Burr: Neon katalogos. Untersuchungen zum homerischen Schiffs-Katalog. Dieterich, Leipzig 1944. The ship catalog is the study of the places and kings named in Homer. In general, over half of the named places are authenticated historically. The nature of the catalog is such that it appears impossible that it was fabricated, therefore, Page draws the conclusion that Homer's description must have accurately depicted Mycenaean Greece. Archaeologically speaking, the main find (besides the remains of Troy) is that the Mycenaean megarons described by Homer have been confirmed as an actual architectural type and are well documented.