Consider this: Luke 17:11 or this: Quran 2:4-5, Oxford World's Classics edition, or even this: "rule 5". They are all references to more extended phrases or texts. The limiting factor in this type of encoding is the availability of the reference(s) to both sender and receiver. English is a highly redundant language, far more efficient languages are known. The typical college graduate has a vocabulary of <20,000 words or word families. One byte allows 65k words to be encoded. So, 5 to 10 bytes/second is faster than speaking and would not be limiting in verbal (as contrasted with visual) data transfer. 

You'll have to be far more precise about what you are imagining. Let's take wheat. It is, like corn, a product of selective breeding, as are virtually all of our other food crops. So, no field crops. Take coal mines. The mine is obviously technological. So, what happens to the hole? Magically get filled in? Similarly with other open pit and underground mines. What happens to the materials making up the concrete, steel, copper, etc., etc.? You state the land would magically revert to "as it was say 60,000 years ago." Does that mean the climate will be the same? That mastodons will roam North America? That rivers magically assume their courses, desserts appear (and disappear)? Roads disappear, land (and water and rock) is magically resculpted into the way it "was" 60,000 yrs ago? The ancestors of maize and potato and wheat and rice revert to their native habitats? All this while 7½ billion people are killing one another (and anything else that moves) for food? 

Whatever bad thing is in their nature, they must be closely guarded on that front. The real question is, why in the heck would someone 'upload' a personality with bad traits at all? On the 2nd front, the 'new guy' shouldn't have any of the stuff of the former, unless it has the former's memories, too. This would be so awkward in general as to get the whole thing banned before it could start. 

Totally plausible, there are already multiple projects testing it. Drawbacks... Mostly just thinking something you shouldn't and triggering your gear to make something awful happen. Brain-powered missile launch. Worker asks, "Should we launch it?" Commander says, "no," but thinks about launching it. It launches. 

Goodbye World! A moment's revelation puts God in the picture, and takes him out. Hello, all. I am the spirit in the sky. I have been doing nice things for you for a long time. Well, I'm tired, and unfathomably old, and I'm leaving. Thanks for all the sacrifices, they were tasty. I'm not abandoning you, though. I'm leaving behind a couple of friends to help you out. They'll be taking on my role. Goodbye. -Massive exploding sound accompanied by nice pyrotechnics in the sky.- Granted, with God "dead", there might be a little bit of mass suicide, but hey. 

Keep it in a thermal-insulated container. It would be solid and tough, never quite decaying. If it isn't already cold, keep it in a non-reactive gland by the mouth to spit it. Don't keep in mouth! Keep two chemicals that combine to react in separate containers and breathe together. Contain a chamber that supercools a medium that can withstand the freezing point of the medium. Just have really cold breath that slows and weakens things that get touched, no need to store. 

Two elephants??? Bush Elephant (male) wt. = < 6,000 kg, 5000 is a good average. So, two would be 10,000 kg. This is less than the weight (mass) of a (loaded) truck. And this is going to house and transport people between stars? Riiiiiight. A blue whale's pregnancy lasts 1 year and the calf is 6 m long and weighs over 1000 kg. Here's the key point: a calf can put on 100 kg a day (when nursing). I agree completely with the other comments about the (lack of logic) behind needing increased brain size. Perhaps you should consider "neural nodes" distributed throughout the ship to do the routine stuff (air temperature, open doors, turn on lights, etc.). If the large brain is somehow magically necessary to enable FTL travel, then why not make that part out of silicon, and just connect it to the organic brain? One obvious problem is, if you change the structure of the human brain to accommodate the extra structures, then it won't be human anymore. Now, as to the question of how you'd change such a mind so that it actions would be indistinguishable from a human's, well there'd be an app for that. 

There is an old saying:"You need money to make money." which suggests that making money isn't possible without either having, finding, or stealing it. This is wrong, of course. What is meant that most rich people started with much less, and built their wealth gradually. The old fable about a paperboy, earning money by delivering newspapers, saving most of that and then investing that, and continuing a slow but accelerating process of increasing his net worth is very similar to the way iron could be produced. Initial efforts would be crude and inefficient, subsequent processes would become more and more refined, more and more efficient, and on larger and larger scale. Start with ore and a campfire (bonfire), and go from there. 

We already have them. They are the future, and they are beautiful. Quantum Entangled Particles. One spins one way. The other, another way. Unobstructed they spin, in complete opposition to each other, over infinite distances. Scary. The question What could we use them for, assuming that we could transmit spin changes between them, using them like bits, and that they are expensive? 

Cryogenic chemicals at low temp, e.g. oxygen, krypton, argon, methane. Liquid nitrogen, as it freezes naturally on contact with a solid object. [Ba(OH)2 8H2O] and [(NH4)(NO3)], which combine to freeze, and store seperately. Water stored in a sealed space at below freezing, forming ice on contact with anything. Any number of other chemicals that react to remove all heat from a touched non-air object. 

Mylar! That's what you use for blimps, and this is a blimp of sorts. More or less cheap, darn light, and good at retaining air. 

I do potentially have an answer to how this planet might function, however. If we distance the planet from its sun, and then provide heat not through sunlight but rather through a very thin crust over an extremely hot mantle, we might be able to sustain life with geothermal energy. In the case that there is sufficient heat on both sides, it might be possible for the whole planet to contain life. On the light side, we have photosynthetic flora, light-loving reptiles with cold blood as you described, and other bright and happy things that we archetype as "good guy stuff", like light elves. On the dark side, we find fungi, warm blooded creatures that are hardy enough to survive the potentially still much lower temperatures, and not much color or other enjoyable features to speak of. And this, finally, is where we must decide how these "elves" could exist on both sides. On a planet with any real extremes, it would be quite difficult to explain how a cold-blooded creature would have any reason to exist on the dark side of a planet, or why a warm-blooded one would want to live on the light side. I propose that the elves are one uniform race living on a planet that is life-sustaining as I described equally well on both sides, and that the only reason they split is over moral or religious issues. Any heavy adaptation would occur over the course of innumerable years, especially because to look anything alike, this race must have a common ancestor which was neither light nor dark elf, bur rather some sort of neutral elf. One race's physiology couldn't be wildly different from the other, such as the difference between warm and cold-blooded creatures, because doing so would create two kinds of animal too different to both be called "elves". 

Your "a priori"s are ... dubious. For the no nuclear bombs, I guess you'd need to require that they know more about the effects of radiation and fall-out, and are morally opposed to using them - even though it will cost their own son's lives. Yeah, better we send our sons to die, than risk one of those pesky enemy lives! If they have some "underwater weapons" that prevent ships from getting close, then you have to explain how the supership is going to get close - it would be an even bigger and easier target. You didn't mention air power, but clearly, control of the sea depends on whether airplanes or dirigibles exist. These "underwater weapons" would need to have their ammunition replenished. If via tunnels, then destroy the tunnels; if via submarines, then destroy the subs (using your own "underwater weapons"). Weight is proportional to volume which is the third power of length. Support for the treads is proportional to the second power of length. Meaning as you increase the size of the ship, the tread area scales at the 3/2 power. (meaning it goes exponential). You seem to be assuming your ship will be perfectly rigid. It won't. How you'd actually support the ship over its treads would be enormously difficult (although you're probably aware of how NASA does a similar thing). I find the idea that you're going to get these treads onto a sufficiently hard surface implausible - they'll get stuck in the muck. (As the shore batteries destroy the ship...). A little physics/mechanics: the hull of a ship supports its weight over a massive surface area, you'd have to support that same weight with arms (pylons?) on top of the tread dollies. This would require the entire redesign of a ship. Basically, it's not a ship, its a building. On wheels (treads) I know of no building which would survive bombardment for more than a couple of minutes. Feel free to investigate the weights of your cannons. It's easy to find it. You also need to explain why you'd need different sizes of guns.(I understand the need for protecting against small boarding parties), but not the 6 sizes you mention. They say defense is easier than offense. That is only true for a point location. When you have to defend an entire coastline (or any other type of border), then the advantage is heavily tilted to the offense, which can pick its point(s) to attack (as well as time). 

What about your soul? It's obvious, in many scientifically-provable situations, that you are more than just a bunch of atoms held together by attraction and energy. You have some sort of drive that we can't even fathom. Quantum teleportation wouldn't work because your new copy wouldn't contain your original drive, making it completely brain-dead. But if we temporarily ignore reality to say that the old one is a zombie, instead of the new, we still have a society that has to deal with loads of zombies. But when we can take you apart and put you together atom by atom, instantaneously, there might be a way to make new drives, or souls. 

Advanced civilization wants stuff! 0 gravity is nice No fuel required to float around in orbit. Only to move between bits. Less spread The bits are easy to identify and decide upon, being only meters apart in some places. We need rocks Advanced civilizations need more materials, and presuming they're in the area... Water Guess how much ice there is. Lots. Guess who wants it. People in space. It won't really run out There's a lot of the stuff. Verdict: Do it! 

If you made it a plant, (of sorts,) it could use photosynthesis + minerals, specifically carbon, oxygen, etc. to live on dust. And the photosynthesis would be the source of energy, as you sort of need that. 

So I want to start off by asking how well you considered the idea of underwater creatures using electricity. I don't think that it is actually possible to generate and use electricity underwater unless you previously developed insulation techniques. The extreme conductivity of the water makes any early experimentation almost 100% lethal. But now that I have that off my chest, I will continue by answering as much as I can. The big stumbling block in the development of a civilization is probably the creation of manufactured metal goods. After that, everything is easier. Thing is, octopi don't have bones. And bones are preferable for using human-style tools. So The octopi will probably need to make small tools with multiple purposes. As I said, though, processing metals for tools is very important, so they will need forges. Now, you can't easily build a fire underwater, so I suggest making a forge, which would be a centrepiece for this kind of civilization, on top of a volcanic vent. This kind of thing would certainly be anchored. Another highly important building is a place for octopi to sleep. I imagine that with the harder life the octopi are doomed to have, materials and food are generally shared, so living spaces can be confined to a place to sleep. But since octopi are invertebrates, all you need is a large object with lots of little holes, some bigger to house families or mating couples. I think a basic chunk of coral would do just fine. A reef would also provide food, so we have that problem solved as well. Having very little waste and with pooping in the ocean being no problem, no sanitation department is needed. Neither is transportation for distances of under a few miles, as swimming outdistances most vehicles quite efficiently. Cultivation and farming underwater looks a lot like it does above water. Scared away predators to the farm fish, cage or otherwise enclose said fish, let kelp grow and then harvest it. As for distribution, rotting is slower in saltwater, so a hollowed out boulder or some such should do, plus you can supplement your diet with passerby fishes. Transportation long distance seems somewhat important. Since buoys are moved by both current and wind they could make excellent vehicles when properly piloted. As for building materials, I would say to just use coral and rock. "The elements" are a lot less harsh on your stuff down here, so specifically manufactured building materials or cement are unnecessary. Another thing going for our octopus friends is their squishiness. Doors can be only centimeters across , rooms incredibly small as the octopi don't really need much as they are, and of course safety measures are almost irrelevant, considering how easy it is to rebuild and how hardy octopi happen to be. So while I know this isn't the question, I don't think that without fire, wood, or electricity, octopi could actually reach human levels of technology. But the nice thing is that their infrastructure would be pretty simple, as they are already a wonderful evolutionary model. 

No cool down period? Not even one nanosecond? Sounds like there's a lack of understanding of reality here. Life exists on Earth from high in the atmosphere to deep underground. What you want to do apparently (but you're not clear) is irradiate the entire planet so that there's a zero survival rate even for organisms heavily shielded and isolated. And do it with such intensity that the dose is supplied virtually instantly. We don't know how deep underground microbes exist, we've found evidence for them as deep as 12 miles. The most obvious sterilization methods I can think of which could penetrate 12-15 miles of rock would be X-rays but it would leave radioactives behind. I'm not capable of calculating the extent such energy would transmute atoms, but it's fairly trivial to calculate the intensity of a beam of x-rays (of a given frequency (distribution)) which would effectively sterilize through 15 miles of rock. The issues with waste heat might be addressed by cooling the Earth by passing an opaque (or semi-opaque) cloud between the Earth and the Sun. So, I'd say runaway greenhouse effect is a red-herring. What the surface would be like after such an attack, I've no idea. Perhaps someone else can calculate the effects of an extreme x-ray burst, if you ask that specific question. (heat and radioactivity are the most important effects, there may be secondary effects (such as loss of atmosphere)) 

It already is*, but not for the reasons you mention. Sex feels good. Sex is a basic human drive. (These are of course generalizations, people who avoid sex don't typically leave heirs to continue their avoidance). Modern birth control (the pill), dramatically reduced infant (and child) mortality, and the increasing educational level, and social standing of women are all leading to plummeting birth rates. These are having dramatic impact on our laws and society. For instance, most people in the USA believe it is OK for a woman to be unmarried or simply childless at age 35. Compare this to 100 years ago, when it was expected that women would produce heirs. * "destroy" is hyperbole, any meaningful change in the structure of human society takes generations to have its full impact felt. Let us say that the change in human society to be person-centric rather than family-centric is underway, and has been for some time. 

The question is, as it always is with evolution, and pardon me for having a shorter answer than most people, "Why would they want to?" Of course, the answer that comes to my mind is "to survive." Can this creature do better than other creatures in that they can't harm it and neither does anything else? Can it reproduce as much as it wants? Is there enough food? When all those questions have an answer of "yes," then it stops needing to evolve. Consider Angler fish. Top of the food chain, pretty hardy, don't need to change that much. If they don't need to write to get better, they won't. If they can evolve luminescence of their own, or whatever, and it's necessary, it will get done, but otherwise not. I'd say that it would be pretty darn similar to what we have here: If you're the best in your zone, stay that way. 

The problem with a tidal locking situation may be less about the biology of the race, but rather concerning the astronomical data of the world itself. To create the races you describe, we must first position the world in such a way that it sustains life. This is where we find the issue. If the sun is too close to the planet, one side will constantly be scorched. If the sun is too far, the dark side will be far too cold, (keeping in mind that it would already be incredibly cold as it is.) If we distance the planet from the sun a ways, we may potentially heat up the far side by increasing the atmosphere to implement the greenhouse effect. This solution, however, would again heat the bright side to life-killing heights, and again there is little hope of life. Any life would have to live in the in-between zone, as outlined by the other posts. There could theoretically be two similar species that separated, but it is unlikely that they would live on the extremes of the world, but rather within a few hundred miles of each other, in a narrow band around the edge.