But "reality" here is meant as the kind of reality we can understand - the reality of observables. Physics does postulate that something behind that might be said to "exist" - the wavefunction. But the use of the word "exist" in this context is problematic. I mean, we can kind of conceptualise Schrodinger's cat... but that's not supposed to teach us about cats, but rather get us thinking about the kind of thing the cat is entangled with. What is it? We cant seem to ascribe reality to it. And at that point, I think it's kind of wide open. You could think of it as Kant's noumenon. Might as well say it's calculations in the mind of god. Or you can just leave it as the wavefunction. Could even call it nothing. It's all equally non-sense, in a way. So I think modern physics can be seen to reinforce Berkeley's idealism, not undermine it. Where Newtonian physics seemed to close a lot of doors, quantum physics seems to open them.... and at those extremities, one is so lost.. the choice of how to view existence seems more an aesthetic choice than a scientific one... and maybe an aesthetic choice at the boundaries can be said to be a religious one. 

Quantum mechanics goes a lot further than what is often represented. It implies that there might not be properties at all (no reality, as we know it), independent of a measurement event. The measurement event is not just a physical interaction (that results in just another entangled state). Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) wrote a paper that came to be known as the EPR paradox. It was based on a thought experiment around the entanglement, separation and then measurement of a property of a pair of particles. EPR pointed out that the theory implied that a measurement on one particle had an instantaneous effect on the distant particle. Einstein argued that god does not play dice or use telepathic methods... his argument was that there must be something wrong with quantum theory, as it seemed to imply that one has to give up either or both 1. reality or 2. locality. That can't be right, they argued. So quantum theory, it was suggested, must be incomplete. It mustn't contain all the variables. There must be some hidden variables that explained how there seemed to be instantaneous action at a distance or non reality. These "hidden variable" theories were first tested with John Bell's theorem (Bell inequalities) . Using entangled pairs of spin 1/2 particles, Bell devised an experiment. By measuring the spin on these entangled pairs of particles at varying angles, the hidden variable theories predicted a different statistical outcome than the quantum mechanical theories. Numerous experiments appear to confirm quantum mechanics. Consensus has been to preserve reality, but lean towards entanglement.. that faster than light influence is possible. But something else I read today suggests a more recent theorem and corresponding experiments which implies that the assumption of reality is problematic as well. Physicsworld.com cites the journal Nature as the source for the statement: 

I think you might be torn between two different kinds of arguments. There's the explicit deductive statement: "X, Y is bad. Therefore X is bad." This is plainly a logical fallacy because the consequent simply does not follow from the premise. However, there's also the inductive statement: "X,Y is bad. X brings us closer to X,Y. So X is likely to be bad." The latter kind of statement doesn't directly impose the properties of X,Y on X based on a false association. It also cannot be a logical fallacy because it doesn't presume to make a deductive statement. It's an inductive statement, so that's when we can argue about things like probability, and render our opinions. That kind of statement can still range from reasonable ("it's bad to own a a gun without training because you might misfire") to ridiculous ("if you get a gun without training you might go into an unconscious ballistic trance and commit a mass-murder against your will"), but in neither case is a logical fallacy committed. 

Free will is a good effective theory for describing how humans behave. To summarize, an "effective theory" is a theory we can use to describe a system, that works and is accurate, even if it doesn't work when you probe the system at a more fundamental level. For example, temperature flow, which satisfies the "heat equation", acts like a fluid with partial differential equations describing how a room that's hot at one end and cold at the other, will smoothly flow towards an equilibrium over time. This is a perfectly effective way to describe temperature, yet this is only the statistically most likely thing that will happen. When probing it deeper, you see that this is the result of a bunch of particles that move and collide in certain ways. You would see that there's no fundamental guarantee that the macroscopic properties of a system will evolve in such a way that is compatible with the heat equation, even if you do the experiment 1000 times and find that it's consistent. The heat equation will simply be violated when you probe to a small enough volume at a small enough time scale, and you'll realize that it's only being satisfied at the macroscopic level because that's what tends to happen on average. Other similar examples are classical electrodynamics to describe how charges work in electric and magnetic fields, or Newtonian gravity to describe how to get into a stable orbit around a foreign planet. Any time you probe deeper, you find that these widely accepted theories of physics are violated. So is that a reason to blow the whistle and tell the world that physicists are wrong? Shouldn't we be changing all the physics classes to tell students the "true" theory? Well... we don't actually know the "true" theory (if that can be properly defined philosophically). The most accurate and advanced modern theory of how the world works, the Standard Model, is something that we know is wrong! (Here, by "wrong", I mean insufficient to explain certain things.) But even if the Standard Model was the correct, perfect description of the physical world, it still wouldn't be realistic to use for things like, say, biology, sociology, or even some branches of physics. Yes, technically you can derive all of biology from the standard model of physics, but doing so would be such a grand enterprise that it's just not worth it. Nor is it a worthwhile way of seeing the world and developing your epistemology, from the perspective of a biologist. It is useful to describe biology in terms of cells, protein molecules, DNA and RNA, and the way these things tend to behave in relation with each other. An omniscient being might find the biologists' way of describing things to be far too limiting, and prefer to look at a biological system at a more fundamental level. They might, for example, use the Standard Model to determine what will happen in a biological system by calculating the behavior of all the fundamental particles in that system. But, because of our limitations, we cannot adopt the epistemological style of an omniscient being. If you do want to say that it's all "wrong" (including the Standard Model of particle physics), you have to adopt an unusual epistemological style that we don't usually adopt for most things in our life. If something is only right because it can be perfectly, consistently described by the physical theory that works in all domains of inquiry, then everything we have ever believed or known is wrong. When Isaac Newton discovers the equation for how a satellite orbits a planet, and then uses it to predict how an object in orbit will behave, anyone who says that he is "correct" is bound to a definition of "correct" that allows an effective theory to be correct even if it would turn out to be wrong if probed at a different scale of time or size. I would argue that this is a perfectly good and reasonable way for determining whether something is "right" or "wrong". For any good effective theory of human beings and how they act, it is useful to describe, and think about each other as beings for whom there is a set of possible actions we can take, and treat the specific actions that we do take as a choice. A choice is made by a source that sees a set of possible actions and selects one. In that sense, "freedom" is just a measure of the volume of possible choices that can be made. Again, an omniscient being would see how all our actions are carried out due to the behavior of all quarks, leptons, gluons, photons, W-bosons and Z-bosons in our body and would see this as a far less limiting way of perceiving things than our "free will" macroscopic model. But, based on the standard that I argued from in the previous paragraph, that doesn't make the latter perspective "wrong". If you're not satisfied with this answer, then I argue that you shouldn't be satisfied with most of the descriptions we have about the real world. After all, they are all simply effective theories which would be too limiting a description for an omniscient being. 

I think Cavell's criticism can be readily applied to this question. How much of philosophy is wisdom, and how much of it is an aversion to ordinary categories - a sense that, like physics, human understanding can and must be broken down to atoms and its boundaries and mechanisms worked out for us not to be made fools - fools to religion, fools to superstition, fools to ignorance? We're driven to dissect, and by dissecting we kill it. Ever noticed how whenever you hear "philosophy of", the meaning of the noun that follows tends to disappear into obscurity? Epistemology is a rumination on knowledge by one struggling to, but never genuinely succeeding in, overcoming a denial of knowledge. The quote is from Stanly Cavell's essay "Must we mean what we say?" 

There's an essay in Either/Or that made me think I got the sense of what Kierkegaard was trying to do. Kierkegaard had an extremely well developed sense of aesthetics. But here was this man, arguing that he had found a proof of why Mozart's Don Giovanni was the best work of music that there ever could be. That's a ridiculous claim, and he argues it pretty well. I got the sense that that was the whole gist of the pseudonymous works... that they're about complexity and sophistication and philosophical argumentation that's designed to lead people out to something further... and taking it so far that they're revealed to be preposterous. His signed works (I'm thinking Works of Love and The Point of View) go the other way. They're more religious, but so was The Sickness Unto Death. I thought what was distinctive about them was that their direction was in reverse. They went from sophistication back to simplicity. If the sophisticated arguments in Kierkegaard's pseudonymous works are still impressive, I think perhaps read more of them... 'till they seem ridiculous. I got the sense that the signed works were intended for those who had been broken or made weary by the pseudonymous works. 

I get the sense that the later Wittgenstein and the ordinary language philosophers are of this school. They're not designing litmus tests of dreaming (private language), or "proving" that the fact of language means that we cant be dreaming, but to reveal those questions as absurd, and to bring us back to a position where thoughts of skepticism about other minds etc don't arise. The quotes are taken from a pseudonymous work of his, Concluding Unscientific Postscript, extract from Kierkegaard, Søren. The Essential Kierkegaard. Edited by Howard Vincent Hong and Edna Hatlestad Hong. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2000. pp. 221-222 

I absolutely love Kierkegaard's response to skepticism. To paraphrase, the problem is the abstract notion of certainty which doubt demands all be measured against. There is certainty that I'm not dreaming, but it's not like mathematical certainty or logical necessity... it's far more fleeting than that. The question "Could I be dreaming?" is a question asked in doubt. The answer Kierkegaard gives is that doubt cannot overcome itself: 

There seems to be a confusion in the way you're phrasing the question. It is true for all moral systems that their imperative is imposed (almost) entirely upon humans. However, contrary to what you seem to be asserting, it's not true of all moral systems that the subject of their obligations is entirely humans. (In fact, it's not even true often.) In your hypothetical scenario where you're the only human alive, there are plenty of moral systems that would still apply to you, because the subject of their obligation is not necessarily humans. However, they would only apply to you because humans are still the object of those moral codes. Examples of moral systems that don't always impose obligations towards humans: -Western religions consider actions that are an affront to God to be immoral. This includes cursing in his name, according to the Jews, or desecrating a holy book, according to Muslims. -Utilitarians, such as Peter Singer, according to his book "Practical Ethics", believe that we have moral obligations towards animals that can be considered self aware and aware of their potential future. As do many vegans. So if your question is why are humans the subject of moral obligations for all moral systems, the premise is wrong. You can still ask why humans are the object of (almost) all moral obligations for all moral systems. As it stands, we never had a situation in which we ought to apply moral obligations to non-humans because we cannot practically impose a system of justice towards such. We can pragmatically account for the way non-humans behave, such as wearing protective gear against bears. However it is practically useless to come up with a system of ethical codes for bears to follow, which is based on concepts of deterrence or retribution. I did say "almost" all, because even then it's not true that all moral systems have only humans as the object of their code. You can consider a system in which the behavior of a pet is rewarded or punished with the intent of a Pavlovian response system to be a very rudimentary form of a moral code. As well, a new burgeoning field in philosophy is surfacing called machine ethics, which is primarily concerned about the ethics of AI. If we anticipate a society in which many of the rational actors will be AI, there is obviously a need for an ethical system to be imposed upon them. 

To be clear, I am not asking if laws are moral, or even a good approximation for a moral system. We understand that there can be moral laws and immoral laws. For example, the law prohibiting murder is considered, by almost everyone, to be moral. On the other hand, a law that requires you to stone a woman to death for being suspected of witchcraft is considered, by almost everyone, to not be a moral law. Or there could be laws that aren't explicitly immoral, but that can be immoral in specific circumstances. For example, the law against stealing others' property, while not a bad law on its own, made it illegal for one to free slaves. So when I say something like "immoral law", that's just a shorthand way of saying that, in a specific context, the act that adheres to that law is less moral than the act that breaks that law. What I am asking is: Is there moral value to obeying the law that's independent of the moral value of the law itself? Suppose we took, for example, a law that is completely amoral. Whether it's obeyed or not has no moral value whatsoever, according to whatever moral theory you subscribe. (One example might be driving through a red light in a circumstance where it's perfectly clear that you won't hit or inconvenience anybody.) Could an argument still be made that it's moral to obey that law, or immoral to disobey that law? Furthermore, if there was a law which you determined to have some negative moral value, should you obviously disobey it, or is there still some inherent moral value in "obeying the law" against which you must weigh the negative moral value of the law itself? In the second last chapter of Peter Singer's Practical Ethics he touches upon this briefly. He offers an argument for why there's some moral value in following the law (though, as a utilitarian, he still maintains that you ought to weigh that value against other consequences of following/breaking a law). His argument, as I can best describe it (though I risk misrepresenting his argument with my flawed interpretation), is as follows: A system of laws, where policies are put in place by elected officials and disputes are settled by people with expertise in said policy, while flawed, is better than any alternative method of being systematically moral that we know about. Because we don't know of a better alternative (though they likely exist), if we deviate from this system, we will most likely devolve to a worse system (for example, one in which disputes are settled by force). So, from a purely consequential standpoint, there is moral value in maintaining this system, even if our laws are not ideal. This system is maintained by people obeying the law and maintaining its integrity. If people disobey the law often, it will set a negative example for others and weaken people's conviction in the law itself. So obeying the law is tantamount to maintaining the integrity of this system that's imperfect but "better than the alternatives". This argument makes some sense to me, though it feels a little weak. I'm not sure if it addresses any inherent wrongness of disobeying the law. Singer himself acknowledges that this only means that there's moral value in obeying the law if others are looking. According to this argument, if you can disobey the law without anybody knowing about it, there's no moral wrong in the disobeying of that law. (Again, this is independent of whether or not there's a moral wrong in the actual illegal thing that you did.) I would like to know if there has been other work done on this question in the ethics literature that offers alternative answers that are satisfying.