The problem with most answers to this question is that they render Buddhism worthless to many people. None of us here know exactly what the Fifth Precept means. It is quite possible that what it means is to abstain completely from drug and alcohol usage; but it is equally possible that there is something else behind it. In Christianity, literal interpretations of the Bible have lead to hatred, violence, and stupidity. The examples abound. Imagine someone who is suffering from some sort of chemical dependency - call it psychological. Hypothetically; this person only knows how to feel confident meeting new people when they are drinking. For this person, believing that they can only practice Buddhism by abstaining completely from intoxicants, will be completely dis-empowering. Using the 'realms of existence' metaphor - we could say that this person is in a certain level of 'Hell'. Since one can't attain liberation while in 'Hell', they should do nothing, right? But of course this is not the case. Inaction is mostly less useful than incomplete action. Wittgenstein, a German philosopher once famously said, 

One book I like very much is The Myth Of Freedom by Chogyam Trungpa. Of particular interest is the section where he distinguishes the realms of existence as mental states and ways of being. I've yet to find this discussed elsewhere in any way that resonates. Everything I find merely talks about Buddhism and psychology and speaks about it in terms defined in the latter. Trungpa nourishes the metaphor and generates a rich unanswerable question. Other writings I've found prey on the metaphor and regurgitate a definitive answer. The former offers opening for insight; the latter suppresses thought. Does anyone know of anywhere else this subject is written upon with the type of creativity I've alluded to? 

I found this helpful. Not sure if this is the direction you were seeking or if it's too general. $URL$ 

We are consciousness housed inside a physical form. We started off as the nothingness of the universe ... all potential. Then we were bound to this form just as someone capturing air in a bag. Although we are normally formless and all one big lump of consciousness instead of a bunch of individuals - this circumstance changes that. We are now identified as that bag. That bag, our body, interacts with the universe and sets wheels and gears in motion every which way. Those movements ripple repercussions both onward and back as cause/effect. There is no "time lag" so a consciousness is just immediately changed and as long as that change deviates it from the whole then it is bound to be constantly reborn until it can balance out that equation. It can't just blend back into the whole again until it is neutral. This make sense to me without being bound in mysticism. Where is it incorrect? Or is it? I really think I have something here. 

Namaste means that the good in me recognizes the good in you. It is generally an Indian greeting and I agree with the sentiment. In fact, I agree with many things expressed by various hindu doctrine. Probably because I spend a lot of time with the Upanishads. The fact that some may find the term's use distasteful in some other context merely reiterates its' beauty. The GOOD in me ... the part of me that exists beyond all the political smatterings and social claptrap ... recognizes and appreciates the GOOD in you ... whether I disagree with your opinions or life et al. It is truly a remarkable sentiment and impervious to such trivial attacks. You have found some common ground or commonality between the two of you despite all other things. You have connected. 

This closely ties into listening. You can make anything anyone says gold - just because they said it. They said it - it matters enough to them that they said it - it has value. You don't have to like it. You don't have to agree with it. A priori it has value. Humans have value - language is rich with value - what they say matters. Before you can have the opportunity to get into another's world you must acknowledge to yourself (repeatedly) where you don't give a shit about their point of view. It's okay - people proudly defend nonsense all the time. More to the point - it's their point of view - what do you care? Tell the truth about it though. It's quite liberating. Once you are aware that you don't care at all about what another person is saying - you again have access to listening. This may sound contradictory - it's not. When you can tell the truth about what's in the way of you fully being with another - there is nothing more liberating. We catch ourselves in kind of a trap otherwise. We are thrown to only care about ourselves - it's kind of our default way of being. It doesn't look good to only care about ourselves, so we cover it up by pretending to care about others. While pretending to care about others; we are simply incapable of caring for others (it's like pretending to enjoy running while running). Once we can tell the truth (it's not a once and for all thing - it's ongoing) about where we're pretending (mostly just to ourselves - sometimes to others) - then we don't have to pretend anymore. When we don't have to pretend anymore we are free to truly be with other people. When we are free to truly be with other people; we can't help but love them. We see their nastiness and pettiness and we don't consider ourselves superior. We realize we are looking at ourselves - and what they are experiencing is instantly obvious because it is merely a shade of our own experience. When the barriers obstructing our listening disappear - there is no distance between self and other - no difference between speaker and listener - then you don't have to wonder about how to experience their experience - because it's right there. Note: There may come a point where one is always authentically interested and capable of listening and caring about another's experience. I have never caught a glimmer of a persistent state like that. For now it is enough for me to notice where I'm full of it - acknowledge it - and then allow the space for listening to arise. 

So I have a definite dispute with the Buddha over the feasibility of working towards an end-goal of Nirvana. Has anyone ascended to date? I believe the true definition is nirvana after death and better lives while alive. Why is this not a more feasible end result? What is wrong with my reasoning? 

It's a bodily function. Let's remove the stigma and modernize our thoughts. You lose most of that motivation when you get older anyway. As a young man, or woman, just don't let it control you. When it's necessary then do it. To pay it such heed is to give the desire more power. Don't consider it some moral victory if you dont or some moral dilemma if you do. Not to minimize the impact they intended with their selfless action - but I liken this to the approach taken by the Dalai Lama recently when asked about self-immolation incidents. He wisely acknowledged that any position he took would seem either intolerable or heartless. So he chose silence. Sakyamuni would not turn down meat when offered as alms, but he did not seek animals to be killed for him. Sometimes it's important to know when to say or do nothing. I'd say wu wei. 

My first impulse is to tell you that the meditation prepares you to be open to receive and explore those ideas. A relaxed, objective state wherein the mind is more apt to examine the contours of ideology and teachings learned elsewhere in the dharma. Not that it brings those specific thoughts. But it may. My "canonical" knowledge is rather limited and my views come from the laymen's perspective. I will add that the anapanasati sutta seems to agree with my view here when it mentions being OPEN TO this and OPEN TO that. So, from the laymen's view I'd say yes if someone had mastered the techniques in anapanasati and made use of the other aspects of the dharma then as those concepts are encountered in the mind during meditation I believe you'd be susceptible to insight regarding all 3 marks of existence. In my view those initial concepts are borne from activities other than pure meditation and then fleshed out by the mind during the meditative state. But I dont have 16 factors of this or 9 steps to do that. 

People always tell you everything. They may not say it in a way that you are comfortable or familiar with; and they may not say it such that their words clearly match what they intend to communicate (mostly they don't). But they reveal almost everything in their experience when they communicate. It's there if you listen. Now this is the tricky part. Mostly what we do when we try to improve our listening skills is to try to listen better. Maybe there are some pieces of advice we employ, or some tips on being a better listener we follow (e.g. Ask lots of questions, etc). The vast majority of those tips are absolute garbage. They do nothing but strengthen the ego's ability to appear to be listening while providing nothing in the way of authentic listening. Authentic listening is magic. This quote from Siddhartha by Herman Hesse does a very good job of expressing what is possible with real listening: 

If this is actually a goal, I'd like to suggest that you may have wandered off from your true intention. Mindfulness during daily activity can produce a sense of peace and satisfaction, but if it is so self-contained that it forbids laughter, it becomes restrictive, and won't produce anything lasting. While concentration is important, mindfulness includes the entirety of your environment, not just the task at hand. That means mindfulness includes attentiveness to others; to the dog across the street wagging his tail in such a way that you can't help but laugh; to the non-restrictive space that grants being to all that exists. A couple quotes: 

Value, let's face it, is an idea - not to diminish the question. Value can be attributable to all and everything that occurs, whether once and forgotten, or consistently applied. All that can be found is mindfulness, whether realized or ignored. No moment, or what appears in it, can possibly have a beneficial or detrimental effect on some other moment, though a clean sink is bliss itself. If one's present course of practice is intermittent, it is beautiful. If one's present course of practice is consistent, it is beautiful. If we tie our quality of practice to some preferential outcome, there is binding. If we fail to see or appreciate the fulfillment of things as they are, our very commitment to practice can reinforce the myth that we are somehow less than enlightenment. Presence is awake, this is irrefutable. Warmly, NightSkySanghaGuy 

There is no actual condition that enjoys a moment's stasis. Consciousness comprised of perception and that which appears in and as perception can never fulfill the notion of a present moment and no possible moment has any duration. That impermanence is all that can be found as present experience may suggest "change" is "permanent" and thus it is an insightful curiosity to ask if there is a place, or an observable perception, of "change never occurring" and this same curious demonstration of perception masquerading as experience/existence can also be said to be "change never occurring" with as much verve as you can muster "Change is permanent". All that appears as mind in receipt of a find-able object or subject is the improvisational display of Consciousness, itself not a thing, and having no actual properties or implication. Thus, by the time we have conceived of something being experienced as change or otherwise, it is long gone, and yet does not cease even for a moment though there are none. Warmly, NightSkySanghaGuy 

While on the surface there are more distractions in today's day and age than any other before, there are in fact not any more distractions than there have ever been. While it would appear that what pulls you away from meditation is , these are not what pull you away. What will always pull you away, and what has always pulled any human away is the stream of incessant chatter that you hear when you sit down and close your eyes. There is nothing in the external world that is capable of causing distraction by itself. There are stories of Zen Monks who did not stir from Zazen as an earthquake struck. Distractions happen internally; not externally. I'm going to limit the scope of my answer to a specific kind of meditation - the kind of meditation where you sit and focus - but for the record, meditation is in no way limited to that one definition. Meditation is available always; independent of circumstances. For now, what would be powerful, I think, is if you really tell the truth to yourself about some things. First - I don't know anything about your circumstances; but I'm gonna go out on a limb and suggest that time is not the issue. If you really confront how many hours you have in a day, and what it is that you are doing during each of those hours; I would be shocked if there were not 20 minutes you could claim for uninterrupted meditation time. Most people live their lives in a haze of abstractions and stories about reality. Few people live their lives grounded in reality. In reality, you can only ever do the thing you are doing when you are doing it; and whatever that thing is doesn't take a long time or a short time - it takes some specific relatively predictable amount of time. In our stories, "I have too much to do", "I never have enough time" , etc. In reality, quoting Werner Erhard: 

That first factor requires a little explanation. After such an exhaustive search (50 years) for spiritual guidance I finally figured out that if a set of beliefs excludes any group of people then it is incomplete. Usually incomplete means it suffers from inaccuracies and bias. So any ultimate explanation should encompass everyone. It should be a universal truth to all ... swallowing up all other beliefs. The second factor comes from my practical education and background. We ARE talking about the very nature of the Universe and I dont believe in magic. I do believe in science and physics and quantum mechanics and biology. I will certainly allow for discoveries we have yet to make (black box principle), but my path will be supported by known science and be furthered by it. These are, of course, MY factors. You will have your own. Based on your background. Seek refuge first through learning about the Buddha. After you learn then find the path that suits you and a group of people who help you in it. Be up front about your search and the earnest questions you ask will be greeted with a smile by the right-minded. Not conflict. I hope any single word of this was helpful. I understand this journey and wish you the best of results! Namaste my friend. 

Please let me offer a few suggestions from the lay person's perspective. First, a little theoretical/scientific background. Academic and other institutions in the west have began to utilize meditation for students and professionals alike. They do this because they have found numerous physical and mental advantages that may be achieved by taking advantage of the "still mind effect" of meditation. Our brains are nothing more than sensory interpreters, albeit complex ones. They take sensory input from our frail, limited form and compare it to past sensory inputs to recognize patterns. It's like a computer that is on all the time but it will change modes if the input given to it is slowed down (sleep) or completely comes to a halt (sensory deprivation). In both of those cases the mind will eventually fill the lack of input in with dreams in the case of sleep or random manifestations in the mind in the case of sensory deprivation. But before the mind gets to those extremes it encounters a resting state where it can focus intently if the stimuli is controlled with a secure, familiar, non-threatening or even non-changing input. Something that requires no thought and is no threat. Like a mantra hummed in a constant tone at a medium pitch or a singing bowl even. kind of like background noise helping someone study. Same principle. While the back of the mind is occupied with the low-resource using background "noise" its' other resources are free to wander or focus or be easily guided. A state of high susceptibility and deep reflective thought if so guided. This is what powers meditative practice and it is scientifically and empirically supported. So the first step is reaching that state. It requires relaxation and effort to focus on a simple familiar stimulus. It doesn't require perfect focus. Every little step you take achieves a benefit to your mind. Each step taken opens you a little more. Now you still need prior sensory input for your mind to compare and contrast (as is its' nature) as your mind wanders or is gently guided. This is where your past experiences or the dharma become important. Your mind will be able to explore sides of thoughts that you dont normally get access to. This is where the insights come from. Once the chaff is blown away we receive the benefits. So trust the physical side of it if you think the other is failing you. This certainly helped me get past my hesitations and reservations like you seem to be encountering. I hope this could help. 

Your question stands on the shoulders of giants and still can't get the job done. I don't mean this badly; I mean you are starting from a very high state of being and inquiry (in relationship to most human thought), and asking the question that is kind of at the heart of the matter; and you're asking "the question" as if it was a 'duh' question - ( ), and it's not. What's interesting is that any intellectual knowledge you (not you specifically) have about this subject is fairly useless. The answer to this question as an answer is not helpful, because what matters is the ability to unlock that understanding gradually (or all at once), pulling apart the masses of accumulated attachments that help construct the prison of the (I prefer the word when attempting to distinguish the of attachments). What's important isn't so much - , because this isn't an error that arises in grammar. Grammar makes the trap that much stickier, but the process of relating to one's self as being fixed - of having immutable qualities, etc. - arose not out of the language used to identify us skin sacks - but rather the morass that us stuffed into those skin sacks. Thinking about it in basic terms - the question isn't , but something closer to There is a source to the experience of a permanent, unchanging self, and the access to getting to that source is not attempting to codify your experience in transitional language. That's like putting a bow tie on a bowel movement. The access to is different for all of us - it involves dismantling our own barriers and attachment. It's also a similar enough process that techniques such as those espoused by the Buddha and other great teachers were set up - and could be set up - to give people an access back to themselves.