I've taken the liberty to cut-and-paste your map so we can see what I'm loviningly calling the Great Basin Ocean. The magenta lines are very, very, very rough currents. PLEASE NOT THAT THEY ARE WRONG All ocean currents start at the equator and loop north or south to colder climates. I've ignored the "middle of the loops" at the equator, which would split what I've drawn in half horizontally. I sincerely apologize, but I haven't the time to redraw the image after realizing my mistake — so you'll need to imagine it. Those magenta lines basically represent what on your world would be the equivalent to the North Atlantic Current and the South Pacific Gyer. Check out the detail on Wiki's South Pacific Gyer page... look at how complex those currents are. You should be getting and idea of how massive and complex this problem is. The white line is a possible Jet Stream that moves moisture and air around the globe due to the north polar region, currents, mountains, wind patterns, and a million other variables. IF YOU ASSUME MY GUESSES ARE ANYWHERE NEAR CORRECT Then the peninsula on the left is tropical, the area north of it above the jet stream is temperate trending to cold as you go north. The central mass west of your mountain is temperate, but cooler as ploar air is pulled onto it by the jet stream. I'm thinking the great rocky mountain forests around Banff, Canada or the Alps and Bavarian forests. The area east and south of your mountain I expect to be warm and arid, even desert. Especially the peninsula above the small current loop on the right and the blob of continent to the east of it. That's a WILD AND CRAZY GUESS given that we know abosolutely NOTHING about your world's currents, climates, and disposition. It would be mega cool for some college grad student to create a climate simulator that took a map like this... but the computational power needed to determine the climate makes my head ache Good luck! 

Hydroculture I'm going to assume your apocalypse is far enough in the future that Anchorage could enjoy a booming hydroculture. All you need is appropriate indoor lighting and heat (the benefit of Anchorage having access to geothermal energy) plus abundant fertilizer (aka, fish guts) and boom, self-sufficiency. Combined with a mature aquaculture industry and Anchorage suddenly finds itself in need of walls and armed guards to keep the refugees from overwhelming their resources. Oceanic Agriculture Or, Anchorage could become (before the apocalypse) the pre-eminent science center for oceanic agriculture: the development of ocean-born ships capable of being floating farms. You can float the boats into warmer waters, grow the food, and float them back. (This is a very real idea that's in development today.) Vertical oceanic farming Another solution comes from Ben Smith, the executive director of Greenwave. After economic tragedy struck, he found himself developing vertical under-ocean farming, "growing a mix of seaweeds and shellfish for food, fuel, fertilizer, and feed." His 3D vertical farming concept is gaining substantial popularity, and Anchorage wants in! Underground greenhouses Finally, though the scale of the issue might bring this into question, there's always the possibility of underground greenhouses. 

That's all I have. A second sun really only does two things: add more photons to the mix for, potentially, a longer period of time. More photons for more hours doesn't really change the nature of ocular perception. 

I have moved my entire household including cages with birds between cities. The birds do NOT stay on their perches. The motion of the vehicles is so unnatural and extreme that they hunker down on the bottom of their cages and weather the storm. Granted, intelligence would help considerably. Obviously the wind whips branches around, but have you ever noticed trees moving visibly in the wind tend to be devoid of birds? Their claws really aren't built to handle the upside-down pendulum force of their bodies being whipped around. 

As an aside, it's worth noting that what you're doing is little or no different than what people in Africa have done for thousands of years with Chimpanzees. Those people didn't have the level of control over chimps that you're suggesting your aliens have over humans, but the problems are basically the same. Chimps are intelligent and have the ability to use local materials as basic tools. Humans, like chimps, can do a lot of damage with a stick. 

That trailing edge we talked about earlier can be thought of as a massive storm in the making. All it needs is water and you get all kinds of things, from gentle rain to hurricanes. The leading edge is more complex because the wind it creates is fairly consistent, so it's things getting in the way (like mountains) that tend to cause rain. Please note that I'm not even going to try to talk through the effect of oceanic currents and rivers on climate. Not only is it out of scope for the question, but they add an unbelievable amount of complexity. However, if you're getting my jive about heating/cooling/evaportation, etc., you can see how to create simple rules for how rivers and currents affect weather. Finally, the complex rotation, orbit, and luminosity pulse The chart you refer to represents what an individual would see if they pulled out a barcalounger, some cream soda, and a lot of pizza and simply watched how the light level changes over the 648 hours of the world's "Great Day." The chart's only value in this case is to give us an idea of how the energy piston of the sun is pushing things along. In my previous examples, the "sun" was creating an effect that could be thought of as moving around the planet with the orbiting sun. From the perspective of an individual, high pressure zones, high pressure ridges, and low pressure zones would come and go over time. If you think of such a simple solution in terms of a sine wave, the low pressure zone is when the sun is directly over you, the high pressure zone is when it's behind the planet, and the high pressure ridges are at the inflection points. As you watch this pass by in time you can (hopefully) see what I mean by "energy piston." The critical take-away from this visualization-without-a-graphic is that storms generally happen at the inflection points. Our rogue planet has two sets of inflection points: the major points that occur every 18 hours during the "day" cycle and the minor points that happen once every 324 hours during the "great day" cycle. The confluence of great-day and day inflection points have the highest liklihood of whomping big storms. However, this perspective is only 100% true when we consider the sphere with uniform atmosphere. In the more complex picture, they will add greatly to the weather mess. Conclusion I believe this planet will have very strong "westerlies." Much stronger than we would experience on Earth. I believe its potential for storms is greater, too. However, given the circumstances, there will be no seasons and no seasonal change to the polar caps. Dude, weather is nowhere near that simple As a final remark, my simplification is extreme. Here on Earth, whole days can pass without any wind or significant change in weather (other than at canyon mouths... that's actually pretty predictable). Why didn't I try to explain all this? Well... (a) I don't know a thing about the rogue planet's geography, (b) I don't know a thing about the rogue planet's hydrology, (c) I'm ignoring some whomping big cause-effect sources including but not limited to rivers, ocean currents, volcanoes, and polar caps, and (d) I'm NOT a climatologist, nor an expert in any of the fields listed in the above quote. If you're expecting a thorough answer, you'll need to join the process. Cheers. 

You've asked for an explanation as to how something could really happen without the consequences of it really happening. As you can imagine, that's not possible. I prefer to give positive answers (I've given a few too many negatives lately), but I can't find a way to do that here. Let me help you understand. Premise: I have a goldilocks planet. It's just the right distance from the sun, the right mass, the right orbit, the right rotation, etc., to permit lush complex lifeforms. From this starting point you want to change the goldilocks parameters without losing the lush complex life on the planet. 1) The planet's rotation slows to create a week-long diurnal cycle. Planets warm up the longer they face the sun. As I mentioned in a comment, the outcome would be to burn the life during the day and freeze it at night. The cockroaches might survive the temperatures. But a planet's rotation also affects its magnetosphere, and therefore the Van Allen Radiation Belts. That means even more solar radiation and the possibility of the nastier forms of radiation. 2) Tidal locked to the sun has all the problems of (1) in spades, but doesn't create a diurnal period. It doesn't meet your needs. 3) Massive object enters solar system, captures planet. While this might work for the planet, it doesn't work for the solar system. Remember that we begin in the goldilocks zone. A planet so large that it could capture our habitable sphere* coming that close to the sun would seriously disrupt graivtation in the solar system at best and cause a super-nova at worst. Such a planet would cause gravimetric problems just approaching the solar system, so our habitable sphere would likely be destroyed long before the planet could capture it. *Please note that none of Jupiter's moons are anywhere near the size of Earth. But to meet your premise, the pre-existing world must be more-or-less the size of Earth. The mass ratio needed to orbit a planet is, not surprising, solar in nature. So an object so massive it could orbit a planet would rip apart an existing solar system. 4) Massive object naturally exists in the solar system, goldilocks planet slowly slips from its own orbit around the sun into the massive object's orbit. Ignoring what I just said about mass ratios, tidal locking is irrelevant as the planet would be devestated long before it entered the massive object's orbit ... and it's not realistic, as the goldilocks gravimetric rules (and the astronomical gravimetric rules) don't permit a massive object close enough to the sun to permit life, on a moon or otherwise. The massive object would simply fall into the sun. 5) Assume the planet survived the transit and the massive object is gravitationally far enough away from the sun to permit a stable orbit, what about self-heating in the planet, would that preserve the life? No, it would destroy the life dependent on solar radiation and a stable geology and evolve new life to take its place. Note that the planet would be tidal locked as most moons are due to the mass ratios. I could go on, but there isn't a path to happiness based on reality. Given that your question allows for millions of years to stabilize whatever event occured (during which time significant evolution is occuring and the life forms you're trying to protect won't be what they were in the beginning anyway), I wonder if the need to justify the astronomical conditions of your story is even necessary? If the physics behind the story are more important than the story, then the story must change to meet the demands of physics. If the story is more important than the physics, then ignore the inconvenient physics and tell the story. Let me explain.... Consider the life-bearing moon in Avatar and Star Wars' forest moon of Endor. They're myths. They can't exist. They can't depend on reflected light from the parent planet because there is no orbit that wouldn't bring it into the light of the burning sun. They can't rely on the sun because there is no orbit that doesn't take it out of the sun's path and into freezing darkness behind the planet. No meteorological condition that fixes the problem will work because it's guaranteed to cause problems when the moon orbits to "the other side." (If I'm wrong about this, please correct me! I'd love to know how it could be done, but I don't see it right now.) The fictional moons work in their stories because the stories are so good we, the reader/viewer are willing to suspend our disbelief concerning the story's premise.