The programmers would survive, the carpenters would properly not. Everyone knows that Programmers are geeks, and scouts are geeks. The chances are that some of the geeks are overlapping, so the programmers with scout skills have a basic understanding of survival. Also there is a chance that the programmers have played a lot of games involving planning some kind of resource collection and construction game that gives them an advantage in the planning of the first stages. Even though resource collection would take longer time in the real world than computer games. Along with nature knowledge, the programmers have played Sim Farm or Farmer Simulator 2015. Giving them a good knowledge about plants, planting and harvesting seasons and roughly how much planting area that is needed to feed the population. When the basic setup has been done the programmers who are most likely to have an electronics degree also know how to transform potatoes in to batteries and make primitive windmills, lightbulps and heating from basic materials. They are also able to mathematically grasp the concept of calculating architecture and areas of living space along with strength of the building. All this while the carpenters are trying to figure out where to get screws, screwdrivers, metal beams and plasterboard. This answer is maybe not the most serious one but in all aspects never underestimate a programmer just because he or she most of the time writes code on a computer. 

First you got 3 kinds of horses, Work horses (Coldblooded), Riding horses (Warmblooded) and warhorses, the last can be both, Coldblooded for heavy armored cavalry and warmblooded for light and fast cavalry. The difference is the training, since horses are "fleeing animals?", afraid of blood and reacts to loud noises along with the tendency to run in the same direction as other horses. The most likely scenario that will happen if a farmer rides his horse to war would be that the horse would be scared at the first sound or smell of blood and drag all the other farmhorses away from the battle in fear and panic. Most likely trample some of the farmers. 

I think this will be a requirement on some scale. Since the delivery times for the food and supplies would be so large, people will need to grow food, repair clothes and so on. A lot of stuff will be recycled. Old food will be dirt and fertilizers, clothes will be stitched together and plastic and metal will be grind up and available for 3D printers. It will be a challenge to make it self sustaining, but with a steady income of valuable minerals it should be possible for as long as the minerals is cheaper in the colony or as long as the colony has monopoly. That said, political bribes could be used to keep interest in the product. It is well known to happen. 

The citizens of the USA wants to keep the second amendment, the right to own and bear arms. So to lower the amount of killings going on by rampaging vigilantes the US have put tax on bullets where as every bullet sold have a tax of 1000 usd. How would that effect: 

If things has "spirits" and spirits has willpower, it also has a will. Maybe the will of the spirit of the flames is more arguable with you. Lets go back a step. If someone is hurt, you write the rune of skin and health on the wound, on a person who as more willpower than you, BUT - he will allow you to heal the wound. It will either be the same or more potent. So, if you are writing a rune of fire, binding it to someone and the will of the spirits are with you - the flame is more potent. That is also, if you write a rune on the the mother earth, and the earth spirits are with you in this case. The magic will be more powerful. Now the question was to make it interesting?: Well when you write the runes that is affected by spirits. You really don't know if they think it is a good idea. So the main character will have to make friends with the spirits. Maybe if the spirits don't like each other, and you make friends with the fires spirits the water spirits gets angry. This gives you diplomacy, a lot of chance, the will of an uncontrollable part and the spirits of different stuff. That is interesting. 

Most of those conditions on earth is preventable. Though even on earth buildings are flooded, computers near equator is overheating due to lack of cooling, most people have either tried them selves or know someone who had a computer / tv / modem or switch burn from lightning, and special equipment is used for polar exploration and military use. Now make those conditions even more extreme - and you got an environment where the computer has a hard time to function. If it affects humans ability to live? Well people are surviving on the south-pole, still people living in the rainy parts of India, and dessert people is also a known fact. So it might not be easy to live under those circumstances, but i wouldn't say it was impossible. 

ps. Changing the dwarven physiology to being able to breathe in low oxygen conditions is not a viable solution since later on human dungeon crawlers should have the possibility to investigate the maybe dwarven ruins. 

Lets say we got a space ship, interstellar freighter, MIR 2.0, death-star etc. And for the sake of transport have it in geostationary orbit. (Question:) How large should it be for humans on this earth like planet to see it is there, and to realize it is man made. It is possible to see ISS when it flies by the moon but this should be without doubt visible. 

I have to assume that the ship is of a substantial size if it is to have generations of people, agriculture, animals etc. I also have to assume that you have artificial gravity, for people and animals not to fly around, and crops to grow. We don't know the size of the rock. But if it is large enough to make a dent but not large enough. It could be pulled out of the path downwards towards the gravity drive. And if the acceleration is large enough it will simply be pulled out of the way. I don't know enough about space, or your world to confirm this would work in reality but in space engineers it works and is even weaponized. This is also done by Jupiter, with asteroids going in to our solar system, the asteroids is inside Jupiters gravity well and pulled out of the way and kicked out of the solar system again 

When we look at evolution we often discover that doing something the way we always did have been the key to survival. Because hey it worked so far right? So every time something new is introduced to the reptilian brain, a certain kind of suspicious arise. The same kind of suspicion starts when your boss tells you to work in another way, it is the reptilian mind, it is also the reptilian mind that make you go back to the old routines, even though your intelligent brain tells you it is more efficient the other way. Now when you see something or someone that looks different the reptilian mind is also there, the brain at the first stage register the change. The first iteration it might not even be a someone it registers just that the grass field looks different than before, then second iteration it registers what is the change, and this is just comparison, does it look like me or not. If it does the brain don't put as much work in to it, but if it don't it starts to register, is it a rolling bolder, a charging bear, pouncing tiger or a person that looks different. Now the reptilian brain teaches the brain what to be aware of to survive. To make it to the fittest part. It might not just be racism. A person's skin color. (Outsiders might be marauders coming to burn the village and kill us) It can also be towards persons with baggy jeans and hoodies, in case a person had a previous experience with people with those significant symbols. The brain thinks in symbols, so it is important to remember that one can even experience a cautious nature towards a certain person based on walk, talk, clothes, would it be baggy jeans or a police uniform. This is where racism originates from, a combination of the nature of the reptilian brain and what you teaches it. If you teaches the brain to be warm and welcoming towards everyone, if you talk to people of many cultures, you teach the primitive brain that other people are ok. In-fact you don't even need to wait for an immortal human with cyber brain, you can start today! 

When you grow older you realize that the days and weeks and even years are getting shorter - well it is not really but your brain records exceptions, when you go to work every day you are doing the same stuff, you are getting in to routines and the brain does not save that information. Thus making the days, months and years seems shorter. A man living 43 000 years would experience the same effect. He would remember the first space flight, the first Holographic TV the first organic computer, the first cyborg so on and so forth but not every single day since the brain is working in that fashion. Conclusion: No the brain will not remember everything unless you suffer from Hyperthymesia, because of the way the brain is constructed. 

A siege, the invaders are using the dwarves tactics against them self. First they are zapping their way through the tunnels, to make the dwarves cut them self off from the outer world and collapse important part of their cave structure such as food production, since food in caves are scarse and not much wildlife can live there the dwarves are dependand on artificial food production. When that is done, they simply wait till the dwarves grow so hungry they either attack hungry and starved, giving an advantage to the siege holders, or the dwarves surrender. All this while carefully carving out the cave to make one get in. 

What would be required for a generation space ship to give residents the best possible living situation while still using the least amount of space, given the possibilities to have access to common areas. 

Is the quantum computer, where you before had a 0 or a 1, like the flip-switch in your home, the quantum computer is like a dimmer that contains any floating point number between 0 and 1 (thats a lot of numbers), increasing the calculation power of a small 4 bit cpu by alot. 

According to wikipedia the fastest landmoving motorcycle with no rockets moves at about 605 kmph. So you are not that far from the target. I think the problem here is that when you try to move any faster than this, the motorcycle have problems getting grips of the tires because of lack of downforce, and the weight is too low. To make the motorcycle move faster you would need to improve the motor. Remember that the faster you want to go the force needed is almost exponentially increasing. So you need a lot more (down)force, a lot more power, and then you need more power to compensate for the breaking force the downforce is making. I don't think this is just a question about changing the materials of the motorcycle i think one would need to rethink the motorcycle, more effective motor , more downforce and more traction. 

The best part is the Sherman is decommissioned since eons ago and can be found in surplus stocks around the US, (and a few in EU that the us left behind), restored by passionate people. So it is running as if it was new and not impossible to get your hands on. The reason i picked this compared to @WhatRoughBeast 's suggestion with the bulldozer, was i assume that the zombies are unintelligent and would have a hard time opening the hatches. 

In the dnd adventure world Ptolus, there is a moon, the vallis moon, that provides the magic to the world. 

a third option is hydrofoils (or mercurial foils?), something that lifts the main body and leaves a "wing" under the surface, it requires minimal power to propell because the low resistance, but is dificult to get up to speed. 

Now back to dragons, lets say (just for the fun of it) you got 20 heroic dragons running around in their own power, thinking their way is the best not cooperating. And then there is 20 with human riders, who got human riders guiding them. Making use of flanking, 2vs1 or even 5vs1 attacks. There lies the great advantage. 

You need to check out the Alpheidae, it is underwater but the principles of water is almost the same as air. Sorry about the hunk of quote but it is pretty interesting in your case. Alpheidae - Pistol shrimp 

Biological computer, we are trying to mimic the brain, the brain is rather small and is considered as powerful (some think it is more powerful) than blue gene. Copying the brain/nerves would create a fast reliable computer able to calculate a lot at the same time. Backside is that the brain needs food. 

Most law enforcement in fantasy worlds are city guards that protects the gates of the walls, and a few patrols runs the cities. The laws of the crime is often ruled by the mayor or earl. Guards are often equipped with cheap shield and spears because of the ease of production and low cost. Sometimes even equipped with leather or chain armor. 

A creature the size of a bacteria has awakened and starts eating, it eats it's own bodyweight everyday, and it never gets smaller (Unless it mates). The creature is hermaphrodite but it needs a companion. It only eats organic materials, it eats it by slowly consume it with it's surface. It can slide over most surfaces, moves fast in the water. (Speed is relative to it's size) The companion is another place in space. The being is fairly dumb, it just keeps eating untill it finds a partner, when it does it merges together and splits 4 way. The being is aware of it's own existence, and it's species. It will not try and mate with it self after it has splittet. The being is origined in water on earth. 

Dragons are big and powerfully, though their disadvantage is their arrogance, and inability to cooperate. 

Looking at the wikipedia timeline of human evolution humans evolved 2.5 million years ago and it took them roughly 2.3 million years to become homo sapien. Lets rewind 220 million years and lets implement humans at that stage as the alpha mammal. How far would humans be in technology, today, at our current veolcity? Estimated 200.000 years from signs of advanced intelligence to spacefaring.