Take it back to first principles. Particularly the first precept: not to cause harm. If I engage in sexual activity with someone who is at the time too young to fully consent, I set in place conditions for future suffering. If I engage in sexual activity with someone who has committed to sexual fidelity with another, I set in place conditions for future suffering for their partner. If I engage in sexual activity with someone over whom I have excessive power (e.g. as a school teacher, meditation teacher, etc) I set in place conditions for their future suffering when they realise I am not perfect. In relation to the quotes you mention. Engaging in sexual activity with someone who's parents deem themselves to be protecting. This is difficult. I could deem myself to be protecting my (fictional) 45 year old daughter. But do I have the right to do so? When is that protection actually in the best interest of the child? In modern societies we usually accept that once someone is an adult (over 18) they have the right to decide who they have sexual relations with, and given no other mechanisms for deciding, that would seem a reasonable approach to follow. Although, if I were to engage in sexual activity with someone whose parents would seriously disagree yet was over the age of consent, I would be sure to discuss with them the potential consequences for themselves (e.g damaged parental relationship) before doing so. Thus, what matters is the first precept: not doing harm. 

I've also heard it said that the term Hinayana was mostly referring to traditions that are long since dead. To identify the term "Hinayana" with the Theravadin tradition would be mixing up history. Sorry that I can't provide references other than an ages old recollection :-( 

You need to also recognize that what is impermanent is stressful and what is stressful and impermanent is not self. 

I experienced what I would call stream entry without knowing anything about Buddhism other than a typical, ignorant, western perspective. I was meditating and in my minds eye I saw a radiant white pearl with smaller discolored pearls floating around it (in many ways like a solar system). As I began to investigate the discolored pearls, I realized they were my wants and desires. I realized, "these are not me"; they began to fall away until all that was left was the white pearl. In that moment I realized that the "white pearl" is within us all. Next I experienced a feeling of death overwhelming me. I knew I was dying; it was the most fear filled experience I have ever had. Then I felt reborn. In that moment I was only a body and a stream of consciousness. After that, all that was left was a feeling of love. I can not say from experience but I believe that the same insight could come from persistent determination to remove the three fetters. To clarify, this can be seen as reverting the 12 link chain, experiencing cessation and then being reborn 

Worrying about whether something is polite or not is a hindrance. I am sure some practitioners would find it offensive but if they are offended that probably tells you all you need to know. If you have yet to obtain the Jhanas then there are probably others who are still more advanced than you who have not yet obtained them either. The way I see it, anyone who is beyond you can be a good teacher and anyone who you are beyond can be a good student. According to the Thana Sutta: 

Anything, even something terrible as the holocaust, can be seen as having "positive benefits" by someone with imagination. However, benefits interpreted a posteriori are not the point. The point is that the characteristic of anger is that of disturbing, obstructing and weakening the very faculty of discernment. One may argue that that is not always the case. In analogy, a frequent unhealthy diet may also not be an obstruction to someone who needs to lift some boxes every other day. But it will be a severe obstruction if one is a weight lifting athlete. 

In other vein, one function of sati is observed both in the Buddha dhamma and in Langer's writings: the recognition of change. However, where Langer advocate the local usefulness of such recognition (e.g. that a depressing state is not permanent) and stops there, in the Buddha dhamma such recognition encompasses these benefits and goes way beyond, aiming to establish by direct experience the impermanence (anicca) of all phenomena we come to contact. Moreover, Langer's elaboration of categories and perspectives does not have a direct correspondence in the dhamma. It's purpose seem to be, generally, on improving critical thinking -- and there's evidence for that, which is good. In Langer's mindfulness, the play on categories seems useful to take one out of an illusory context. However, a Buddhist would continue that sentence saying: "...by putting one in another illusory context/category". That is, buddhists are taught to have "direct experience", insight -- without intermediary categories interfering -- by learning to observe the entire mind process, from bare experience to understanding how mental formations come into play -- assisted by buddhist psychology (five aggregates, six senses) and buddhist soteriological context (eg. three marks of existence: unsatisfactoriness, impermanence, not-self). This emphasis on detailed observation of the mind and the minutia of mind processes fully encompasses Langer's notion by going much deeper in the problem of illusory concepts -- making Langer's mindfulness seem gross in comparison to my eyes. Finally, for an in depth treatment of minfulness in early buddhism, I suggest the book Mindfulness in Early Buddhism by Tse-Fu Kuan. 

Working from "bottom to top", Working from the "middle to the top", Working from "top to bottom", Working from the "middle to the source". 

That type of koan is called a breakthrough koan. It is meant to lead to a sudden, initial insight that is direct awareness. I have heard practice of breakthrough koans described as, "becoming one with the koan", which implies concentrating on it like a mantra. The insight it leads to is beyond concepts. So by becoming one with the koan, in a flash, you will actually experience "Mu"/tao/the way. As opposed to just conceptualizing it. Wuzu Fayan said, “It is like an Ox that passes through a latticed window. Its head, horns, and four legs all pass through. So, why can’t its tail also pass through?” The ox, being conceptual thought, has been transcended; "Mu" 

Individuals may experience nirvāna as an object of mental consciousness. Certain contemplations with nibbana as an object of samādhi lead to the level of non-returning. At that point of contemplation if the individual realizes that even that state is constructed and therefore impermanent, the fetters are destroyed, arahantship is attained, and nibbāna is realized. With regard to nirvana, a distinction is made between a person's experience of nirvana during their life and after their death. These two aspects of nirvana are described as: 

If a practitioner of mindfulness has experienced cessation/fruition should they use the memory of that as their anchor or should they continue to use the perception of the arising and passing away of kalapas? Or does focusing on either one of these cause the practitioner to develop different skills? 

Yes, people are known to reach enlightenment and even full liberation without any knowledge of Buddhism or use of teachers and guides. In my opinion, thinking, "What I practice is the only way," is a form of pride and a way for people to hold themselves above others. 

Finally, body pain (vedana in general) does not cease permanently with nibbana, if a body still has vitality. 

I see two things here. First, doing or teaching compassion meditation does not make one flawlessly compassionate onwards. Second, that meditation can have a short term goal (as a path to samatha) and long term goal (as a means of transforming one's mind and strengthening the habits of compassion). Out of the cushion is hard to be always compassionate (or always benevolent, or always mindful, or always equanimous, etc), hence the practice. Having said that, yes, students are included in "all" -- stuff like that happens. 

Many accounts of the Buddha's life describe Śuddhodana preventing his son from leaving the palace to avoid a prophecy said by Asita. For example, this site says: 

There are several instructions from the Buddha that might help here, from specific approaches (e.g. "changing focus of attention", recollections, etc) to broad practices (like meditation and loving-kindness). There's this pdf from Bhikkhu Bodhi which summarizes a large portion of practices from the suttas for dealing with unwholesome states in general. One of these suttas is the Vitakkasaṇṭhāna (The Removal of Distracting Thoughts, MN 20) which might come in hand. A few extracts from it below: 

it's a poison in the sense that a deluded act (that is, an act that is ignorant of how suffering and happiness works and come to be) is prone to create suffering and misery for us, just like randomly typing keys in the keyboard, ignorant of how words and grammar works, is prone to not create a meaningful message. 

Tolerance ≠ absence of rules or guidelines. The buddhist doctrine instructs to be tolerant against other people's transgressions. The meaning of tolerance does not extend to do whatever one pleases. Furthermore, the rules the monastics undertake are a choice. Also, the role of such rules is of enabling the buddhist practice and make progress easier. Just like athletes choose to undertake a strict diet, to enable their practice and make their progress easier -- that does not make them intolerant people. I'm not super familiar with the distinctions of vinaya for male and female monastics, but still, the rules are not mechanisms of oppressing people. Part is to enable people subject to mistakes who have a shared goal in mind to live together for a long time without killing each other, and part is to make their practice easier. 

Alcohol is banned in Olympic shooting events as a performance enhancing drug. Alcohol in small doses helps the shooter remain calm under pressure, focused and even slows their heart rate. Obviously, if competitors consume too much alcohol their balance, steadiness, reaction time and motor skills become impaired. It all comes down to dosage. Being sober or drunk is not a binary relationship. There are degrees and a continuum to everything. 

According to the Maha-Assapura Sutta a practitioner abandons the hindrances before working on insight. Practice samatha meditation until the five hindrances dissipate. 

Together they refer to one's mental processes as a whole. Separately, what are they and how are they different? 

"The mind inside" consists of the mental states of desire, aversion and ignorance. "The mind outside" consists of these same mental states but now they have attached to something outside of ourselves. For example, being angry would be an internal mind state. Being angry at something would be an external mind state. 

If it is accompanied by tingling limbs, tingling lips or minor headache it can be a sign of hyperventilation. It can also be a feeling associated with detachment and depersonalization. Here is a scientific study, albeit with only 6 participants, that confirms meditation can induce depersonalization. It talks about treatment for depersonalization but personally I do not consider it a bad thing and instead part of the meditation experience. Here is a .pdf that is more in depth: The Circumplex Structure of Depersonalization/Derealization 

If an individual is suffering because they are overcoming the five hindrances than probably. If a person is suffering because they are indulging in the five hindrances than probably not. If I eat a big plate of my favorite food every night I will suffer from it because there will be times when I am not eating it, there are times I will feel sick from too much of it and many other ills associated with the indulgence. This suffering (unless it leads to the eventual cessation of desire in regards to this food) will not help my future births. If I am addicted to eating my favorite food every night and I realize how foolish it is to indulge in it, and I decided to stop, I will suffer during the process of overcoming this attachment. This suffering will help my future births. In regards to OP's comment: A person who recently got a disease would not have any more inherent suffering in their life than someone who did not have a disease given that they are clear of the hindrances. The suffering is compounded when the individual desires feeling good and healthy (sensory desire), or is worried about death or further illness (worry), or is angry that they are sick when someone else they know deserves it more (ill-will), etc, etc.... That type of suffering, the same as in the example regarding food, will not help; overcoming attachments to these hindrances can incur a lot of suffering (I am not my good health, I am not worried about "death", no one deserves anything, etc, etc...; respectively) and that suffering can help future rebirths.