What is the basis for believing that there is such a thing as human rights? I am all for human rights but it could be argued that the notion of human rights is imaginary and reducable to absurdity (that humans by virtue of being born are magically entitled to certain things) when trying to prove it scientificaly or logically. It also seems incompatible with evolution, where survival of the fittest would dictate, that you either have what it takes to secure the resources necessary to survive, or you perish if unable to secure said resources, evolution doesnt state anywhere that everyone is born with a right to a specific alotment of resources. Is it possible to reconcile these contradicting positions or is it more logical to conclude that human rights are a human invention? 

Argument from Silence decribes making conclusions from the absence of evidence and the Association Fallacy may be the closest thing to describing why people write off science in general when they hear a reversal of consensus. More generally, it sounds like your frustration is primarily causes by people's ignorance which is not something you will find easy to fix or describe to them. In flipping through Wikipedia's list of informal fallacies, I have found the following helpful in describing the plethora of ways people misunderstand, misinterpret, and miscommunicate scientific ideas: 

Science, generally is analyzing information gathered from observing phenomena, and coming up with theories to try and explain the phenomena. Then, attempting to predict a new phenomenon before it happens (when we can do that we usually say that we have discovered "a fundamental law of nature"),and when we can consistently produce the same result, this is regarded as proof of the theory. Mathematics is different. it does not rely on these experiments in order to claim the discovery of a new truth. Theres a distinction between what Mathematics claims as proof in contrast to science. For a scientist, ten experiments with consistent results might constitute proof, For a mathematician, a million successful experiments is not enough proof. Instead, mathematicians rely on logic. Mathematics is very often inspired by nature, but it is a purely intellectual pursuit. It is just a bunch of ideas in our heads, like philosophy. Pure abstract reasoning. Mathematics is so intricately related with science, Mathematics being the language used to describe scientific theories, but the difference between methods for arriving at proof appear to make the notion of mathematics as a science inconsistent. Is Mathematics considered a science? 

The goal of gathering information is to gain knowledge. The aim of statistics is to measure the level of certainty in the knowledge we gain from information. That level of certainty is proportional to the number of observed events. Fewer events, less certainty. One event, very little certainty. You also have to consider how closely each anecdote agrees with the others. In general, the variation in anecdotes is large due to the differences in the setup and also in the results. One of the biggest problems with anecdotes is that they are uncontrolled and you really don't know all the inputs and the number of inputs that could affect the result is often huge. Without more information it is usually difficult to turn this information into useful knowledge. Take for example that someone eats a certain plant and is cured of a certain disease. Then another person also eats that plant and gets cured of that same disease. If that is all you know then that is close to useless because those people also ate many other things and did may other things which could all cause an effect, individually or in concert. I'll also reiterate the point about Bayesian statistics. It is essential that you consider prior knowledge in any statistics. If something is thought to be likely you need less proof to "prove" it. Likewise, "extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence". The failure to do this well is endemic in the social and medical sciences largely because there are so many input factors and it is so hard to control studies (think about controlling a study about murder - you can't ethically create this study, so you have to observe the uncontrolled world). But this applies to all anecdotal evidence as well. 

In the Republic Plato claimed that the idea of marriage was a "natural enemy" of the "commonwealth," aiming for its own higher unity. He thinks that a king should not marry nor should he engage in sexual conduct while he is king, as it is a distraction from the 24/7 job of ruling, and to lack the wisdom and self-control necessary to avoid sexual temptation is unbecoming of a man who holds the highest of stations. I dont believe he mentions queens and in his view they would be unnecessary, yet he doesnt explicitly discount the possibility of the rule of a sole unmarried philosopher queen. He does speak of a kind of eugenics where temporary marriages are arranged by the rulers, and an allowance of promiscuity at retirement as a reward for a lifetime of service to the republic. 

I will make a brief argument against pirating as a form of demo. Business owners make business plans based on the expectation that certain rules will be followed. Prices reflect the amount that consummers are willing to pay for the item, but they also cover things like low manufacturing yields, high risk experimental products, and losses from shoplifters and pirates. In order for a business to be sucessful they must get this balance right. The only reason they offer a product or service is because they are expecting a certain return on their investment. If they thought they could not get enough return they would repurpose that capital into something else. A person could argue that the return on investment is unreasonable and greedy and therefore not unethical to dip a tiny bit out of it, but what is reasonable is relative to the provider. Some are non-profit, some make small margins, and some make hefty margins, but they all are going into it expecting what they are planning to get. When that balance falls away from the expectation they may increase prices or stop offering the product. Demos are available because the business has made a decision that providing the opportunity to test a product will ultimately bring the expected returns. Products that do not offer a demo are restricting that testing because they feel it will not bring the expected returns. That is why one-time-use products do not offer demos (at least not full demos) and products with a long life are more likely to offer demos. Some people will say that they are bringing value to the company if they pirate once and then become a long-time customer (and thus are doing it ethically). That may be true for the individual in some cases, but in other cases they will try and never buy. All of these points have been general enough to be independent of legal issues. If the law were suddenly changed to allow for pirating then companies would adjust their business model based on the expected relationship between company and consumer, and they would continue under the new model. There is an implied understanding between companies and potential consumers (consumers as a group) that both sides only have a relationship because of the expected norms of the environment. Pirating is unethical because it violates that understanding. If that doesn't sway you, you can also consider that as pirating becomes more commonplace companies will compensate by increasing the cost of their products. This is fine for the pirates but unethically harms a large group of other people. 

The question of "Could a machine/AI ever feel genuine human-like emotions"? arises in movies such as Bladerunner, IRobot, Star Trek and A.I among others. What is the philosophical arguement behind why the humans generally assume that a machine/AI cant feel genuine human-like emotions and act like it's a big deal when they learn that the machine/AI do feel genuine human-like emotions? Also, why do humans assume that Machines/AI are untrustworthy because of their percieved lack of emotions? Doesnt Ethical philosophy generally teach that ethical decisions come from reason and principles, not passions? It just seems as though a machine/AI that follows the golden rule could possibly be more ethical than some humans. 

The CPT Symmetry theory in quantum mechanics might answer your question. It states that if you flip the charge of every particle (C), invert the parity (P) of the universe (reflect the physical coordinates of space (x,y,z) becomes (-x,-y,-z)), and reverse time (T), then the new universe would be indistinguishable from the current universe. 

I'll take an out-of-the-box view of this question to hopefully provide an interesting perspective to the question. There is actually a great example of this in modern life here on Earth in the theory of a multiverse (as opposed to a single universe). The question, "How did the universe begin?" has been one justification of a divine being for all of recorded history. It didn't start itself, and everything has a beginning, so there must be someone outside of the universe (God) who started it in motion. Modern physics cannot disprove this theory. Even the Big Bang has the question "what caused it?" "God did it" is an untestable explanation that is enough to confirm belief for many people. However, this is a problem for people who do not believe in a divine being. People have thought up a wide range of ideas to this solution, but few hold up under investigation. Enter the multiverse. The multiverse is a relatively recent astrophysics theory that states that there are an infinite number of universes in every possible state (only some are capable of sustaining life and each can have different laws of physics). Each spontaneously pops into existence by creating equal amounts of matter and anti-matter and energy and anti-energy. Each universe is totally separate from the others, so no one in one can observe the others. The multiverse theory (and the existence of universes that cannot support life and are not observed - only believed in) allows some people to see meaning in existence by providing an alternate hypothesis to the existence of a divine being. So in this case, a universe as described above does have "meaning." 

The advantages of describing something as physical is in falsifiability pertaining to the scientific method. that means in describing something as physical implies that it is testable through observation and experiment, and if the tool for describing it is correct you can observe results of experiments which conform to a descriptive theory which can predict the outcome of an experiment to a certainty every time it is performed. consciousness understood as non-physical is unfalsifiable, that is it can not be observed and experimented on as there is nothing physical to observe and experiment on. What it means to deny consciousness is physical is to say that, when looking for a cause of consciousness, that an answer will not be found by trying to reduce the causal steps back to a material cause, which is what materialism and science has tried to do by claiming that consciousness has its origins in a material brain, which is considered by some to be a flaw in the scientific method, that the scientific method assumes without proof that everything in reality has its origin in matter. 

This is called a "Straw Man Fallacy" which is a variation of ignoratio elenchi (irrelevant conclusion). The general form of a straw man argument is to misrepresent an argument to make it easier to defeat. Your scenario would be a specific case of this. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Fallacies 1.8 

You have several questions in here, but I'll address only the title question about the relationship between freedom and democracy. The definition of "democracy" is "rule of majority". This means, that in an isolated democracy, there is absolute freedom of majority opinion (outside influences such as other countries with military power would change the totality of this statement). This structure is not tied to any moral standard (although the majority opinion may be guided by moral standards). If the majority decided that speeding should be punished by immediate death without a trial, then that's what would happen. Democracy is not freedom of any one person (anarchy), democracy is freedom of the majority of a group of people. It should be noted that no democracy can exist in a strictly defined form for long - no current governments are strictly democracies. John Adams said, "Democracy... while it lasts is more bloody than either aristocracy or monarchy. Remember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself. There is never a democracy that did not commit suicide." REF