This is not true. Paticcasamuppada only describes when volition is tainted by ignorance. It does not describe when volition is guided by wisdom. 

While the only term in the suttas that comes near to 'sabhava' is 'sadhatu', the meaning of 'sabhava' is 'inherent nature' rather than 'inherent self-existence'. The following sutta is about the inherent nature or 'sabhava' or 'sadhatu' of the Dhamma Dhatu (Element). 

It took lots of worldly self-tribe-preoccupied people with high IQ, such as Albert Einstein (who initially but later regrettably lobbied the US govt), to build the atomic bomb. Robert Oppenheimer proclaimed, from the Bhagavad-Gita: 

There is no grain of truth to this mental proliferation (papanca). The Middle-Way revealed by the Supreme Buddha culminates in the bliss & liberation of jhana & Nibbana (which is much more 'fun' than wearing make-up). Buddhism teaches a path to the best kind of 'fun' (pleasure). But the mind won't reach this 'fun' if it thinks about it too much. 

But it also acquires a moral sense because it is also applied in moral contexts. The next excerpt is an apt example of this: 

I'm not too familiar with Zen literature so I do not know if the term has any additional nuances (Hence the Wikipedia answer. Maybe someone else can jump-in if the term has further subtleties). Thank you for the question though. I didn't know this. 

1. How is abstention different from suppression? It is not. Suppression means "preventing the development, action, or expression of (a feeling, impulse, idea, etc.); restrain" 1, so they are actually synonyms. (In case you are referring to the psycho-analytical concept of repression, instead of suppression, then abstinence is indeed different from it since repression is applied in a different context and from a different point of view.) 

So it appears these two meanings can be derived from the word. I think some light can be shed by seeing the word used in another context in which there can only be one meaning due to the nature of it's context (simile): 

So to add to what Cameron to saying just so others might be cautious too, we'll in buddha dharma view is of utmost importance. The goal is to get beyond any view but it is very essential. What Cameron is echoing is in my view a fairly common modern misconception based on want to be politically correct and many other reasons perhaps. Say one believes killing animals in the name of God is fine which is true in many religions. From a buddha dharma perspective that will take you away from enlightenment. So clearly all beliefs, all opinions, all religions are not the same. To give nor example say in a religion people believe that killing 100 men in one life will lead to liberation. Now would you Cameron say that that is also a Buddhist view and that both will lead to the same goal? I hope not. If that is true then you are immediately accepting all beliefs views are not the same and have different consequences. The question then is what views lead to what more importantly what view leads to Buddhist enlightenment. The word enlightenment is not important, what matters is if different views and practices lead to the same age that buddha talked about. And to be clear buddha himself again and again mentioned how his reaching is different from any other. For example he differentiated his teaching even from one of the practices which focused on jhanas merely. Coming back to zen Methexis had an amazing anwer there. Wow. Thanks. Yes there are many non Buddhists who keep saying it's the same thing because they are ignorant of Buddha's teachings and they are I guess insecured about their own. If it was the same thing there would be some authentic Buddhist master say who recited Bhagavat Gita or Quran but nope. Only self declared unverified Buddhist teachers do that. And even they have not been many as once you start reading the idea of no Self it is different than any other spiritual system and against the most basic belief that we have. That is why it is called spontaneous grasping of self. 

How can you use Q&A to gain good Karma and also aid to realize liberation? By reflecting on a few principles when asking & answering: Asking & Answering Notice in what category does the question lie in: 

Where can I read original Jātaka tales online? At Sacred Texts there are 6 translated volumes that contain all of them. 

1. What are the ten courses of action & their significance? They are unwholesome and wholesome behaviors that lead people to live unhappily or happily now & in the future. Unwholesome Course Bodily Conduct 1. Killing & harming living beings. 2. Taking what is not given. 3. Sexual misconduct. Verbal Conduct 4. Lying. 5. Slandering. 6. Harsh talk. 7. Useless Idle chattering. Mental Conduct 8. Covetous thinking. 9. Hateful thinking. 10. Seeing distortedly with wrong view. Wholesome Course Bodily Conduct 1. Abandoning killing & harming living beings. 2. Abandoning taking what is not given. 3. Abandoning sexual misconduct. Verbal Conduct 4. Abandoning lying. 5. Abandoning slandering. 6. Abandoning harsh talk. 7. Abandoning useless idle chattering. Mental Conduct 8. Abandoning covetous thinking. 9. Abandoning hateful thinking. 10. Seeing undistortedly with right view. (You can find details about them in the references provided below.) 2. What are their references? You can find them in many discourses throughout the Pāḷi Canon, specially in the 10th book of the Numerical Discourses (Aṅguttara Nikāya). Two examples are: AN 10.176, Cunda (Cunda-suttaṃ) & MN 41, Brahmans of Sala (Sāleyyaka-suttaṃ). 

This has some correctness. There is no inherent self but self is something that evolves. This shows self is not anything permanent or real but something that evolves & changes. Being such, self can also devolve & disappear, such as in very old people who have dementia or in enlightened minds. 

In conclusion, Buddhism states it is "impossible" for a person of right view to take refuge in another teacher, thus it is not possible to be both a Buddhist and a Christian. Since Buddhism states: "‘It is impossible, it cannot happen that two Accomplished Ones, Fully Enlightened Ones, could arise contemporaneously in one world-system", the view of Buddhism is those teachings of Jesus that are similar to Buddhism have their source in Buddhism. Therefore, the Buddha is the teacher & Jesus is the student. 

'Birth' ('jati') is the production of ideas or views of 'self' or 'beings' ('satta'), as explained in SN 12.2, SN 23.2 and SN 5.10. Therefore, the Buddha certainly taught literal 'rebirth' but this literal rebirth is the literal re-production of ideas & views of 'self' or 'beings' or 'persons'. 

The excerpt given below provides some references but in the pages following this one, the meditation subjects are explained and many more references are given. With this in mind, I suggest going to the link provided at the end of the excerpt and read these pages to extract the additional references. 

1. Is the Pali Canon the only canon in modern Buddhism? No. Additionally, as far as I know, there are also many versions of the Chinese Canon which contain the Āgamas (parallels of the Nikāyas from the Suttapiṭaka of the Pāli Canon), Mahāyāna sūtras & Vajrayāna sūtras. There is also the Tibetan Canon which contains the Kangyur (material which is similar to the Chinese Canon) and the Tengyur (Commentarial works, Abhidharma and additional treatises). 2. So would the term canon be completely synonymous with Pali Canon in the context of Buddhism? Bearing in mind what was said above, no. 3. What is the status of texts such as Bodhicaryāvatāra which aren't in the Pali canon? That text is present in the Chinese Canon1 & Tibetan Canon2. 

Killing insects is not a offence for monks that leads to expulsion from the monastic community therefore the kamma of killing insects is not something serious. It is kammically "trifling". For example, insects can spread deadly disease & destroy crops, which shows they are lifeforms that do not have a moral conscience. For this same reason of not having a moral conscience, insects do not suffer when they are killed because their minds cannot generate egoistic attachment. If an insect, such as a mosquito or gadfly, was a rational creature with a mind capable of suffering, a mosquito would not continually return to bite & even kill a human after many loving & gentle attempts of a human to scare the insect away. The reason a Buddhist, such as monk, refrains from killing insects is to develop a higher than ordinary level of non-violence, gentleness, safety towards all beings, fearlessness, loving-kindness & non-attachment. In other words, there is no serious bad karma for killing an insect, such as killing a mosquito that might bite a small baby. Often, it is a duty rather than bad karma to clean away insects that are threatening to health, life & property. There is far more serious bad kamma than killing insects, such as watching pornography or having uncommitted sex. You should be aware many internet Buddhists over-esteem non-killing as a "virtue-signalling" to ameliorate themselves from their unwholesome & enslaving sexual deeds. In respect to your question, the Buddha taught "kamma is intention". If your study is for a wholesome intention then that is enough to ameliorate the trifling bad kamma of killing some insects. The results of kamma is something we known within our hearts & minds. I recommend to read the Lonaphala Sutta for guidance. 

Isnt the desire for giving up the desires, a desire? Yes, it is. A wholesome one that ends when you reach the 'park': 

(Disclaimer: Bear in mind this is just a way of seeing things, I have no interest in discussion since it belongs in the chat & this question is very much opinion based. Anyone can argue in which ever way they want and still be supported by references and\or experience.) Does it have to be one or another? Can't it be both? To me it seems a bit of both and I would also add psychology. 

(Bear in mind that I have no knowledge of Dzogchen, this is only what I found through search engines.) What is Thögal? 

Technically, it will depend on how one translates it. Either as killing\destroying or injuring\attacking. However, if one takes into account the entire Buddha's teaching it is evident, at least for me, that it means injuring\attacking, not only killing\destroying. So I would say, yes, assault is against the first precept. However, one should always keep in mind that intention is key. One can injure a baby, for example, by extracting from his throat a swallowed toy. In such cases, I wouldn't consider it as against the first precept. 

Hello here Ahmed seems to be saying that the Taoist goal and Buddhist goal are the same or at least the practice of either leads to the same goal which here Ahmed says in reference to the Taoist map as Tao. I am a little confused here. It would depend obviously on how to is defined and what practices are done but buddha clearly stated that vipassana is the only way. There are many variations of vjapshyana but do the Daoists have this practice at all? Their Tao is more like that of an eternalism view whereas when I was told by my teacher that when Buddhists talk about Tao that is free from these two extremes. Their lack of right view is also characterized by incorrect views in rebirth, realms, role of deities and so on which obviously would not be the case if they were enlightened as per Buddhist way. 

In my opinion, catharsis is a hindrance (non-meditaion) therefore not really related to Buddhism. Catharsis is a product of a deficiency in morality & self-control (as explained in AN 10.61). In other words, catharsis is a secular matter rather than a Buddhist matter. 

As SN 56.47 states, the 'animal realm' is where: "there is no conduct guided by the Dhamma, no righteous conduct, no wholesome activity, no meritorious activity; there prevails mutual devouring, the devouring of the weak". 

SN 22.59 and SN 35.28, which, together with SN 56.11, make up the first three sermons. And also SN 45.8, which explains the details of the 4th noble truth. 

These kinds of teachings always mean to abandon craving & attachment towards the five aggregates & sense spheres, such as SN 22.53, which states: 

Note: 'Satta' is a synonym for 'atta', in 'satta' is also a view about 'self'. Refer to SN 5.10 & SN 23.2.