RAINN takes these two together and reports it in their infographic simply as "rape." This seems seriously misleading; Rape includes things far more heinous than grabbing or fondling. I find it baffling that the NCVS does not report these separately. 

BJP Data related to claims 4 and 5 These statistics describe only residents of the biggest cities, 37% of the total population. Big cities and tiny towns have different culture, different police forces, and different patterns of crime. Although extrapolating data from big cities to the whole country is terrible analysis, I can't be sure that RAINN actually did this. The source is called out in RAINN's sources, and the numbers approximately match, but that is not conclusive. 

It is possible that the 2% of people who listed dehydration as a trigger, had misidentified their trigger. The same study listed "physical effort (e.g. running)" as a trigger. Running can cause dehydration. The claim stated that drinking Gatorade before a migraine is established can halt its development. This article discusses how IV hydration with electrolytes should be a primary emergency room treatment for migraines. "Always give fluids first...you want to flood the patients system with 1 to 2 liters of fluid." By the time a patient is in the ER, it is too late to prevent a migraine the way the claim stated, but it may be possible to reverse the migraine with fluids. This article reviews evidence for a number of ER migraine treatments. In the section titled "Potential Treatments for Acute Migraine in the Emergency Room Setting" 

We know of three eruptions 2.1 million years ago (mya), 1.2 mya, and 0.64 mya. This is an interval of 900,000 years and 600,000 years. The eruption 2.1 mya was violent enough to erase all evidence of previous eruptions, along with destroying half a continent. As summarized in the comments, two intervals cannot be used to describe a statistical distribution with any kind of confidence. 

The general consensus from this appears to be that muscular men are more attractive. There is a competing hypotheses described here; extremely muscular men are not extremely attractive. This paper did not really examine that hypothesis. I did not personally go looking for articles that explicitly contradict these findings. I relied on the paper's literature review. 

Speculation: Despite the lack of specific evidence, the claim seems plausible. In adults seat belt injuries are fairly common even when seat belts are worn properly. All of the force of the crash is concentrated in the area of the seat belt. (Seat belt injuries are far less severe than injuries from being thrown around a car unrestrained. Wear your seat belt.) Many of the properly restrained children in the NTSB report were still hurt. All seat belts, for adults and children, are designed to be used untwisted. My hypothesis is that twisting the seat belt can concentrate the same amount of force over a smaller area, and presumably result in more severe seat belt injuries. If my hypothesis is correct a twisted restraint belt ought to be somewhat worse than a untwisted one, but still way better than no restraint at all. The effect of untwisting a restraint is small compared to the effect of wearing one. In any scientific study large effect sizes are easier to measure and prove. The studies reviewed are able to find an effect despite their issues with confounding factors, imprecise measures of severity, and problematic reporting methods. The size of their effect is presumably bigger than the noise. For a small effect such as a twisted seat belt, the study might have to be huge. However, many these limitations on studies don't apply to laboratory tests or simulations. It is possible that someone experimented with twisting the seat belt on a crash dummy. These people could have, but didn't. It is also possible that someone used a virtual crash dummy to examine the same question. I am out of time to research this question, but if another SE user has time, I suggest starting your search there. 

Summary: I don't think the data to statistically describe how long it takes for an individual volcano to re-erupt exists. Distinguishing what type of distribution is used and properly statistically describing that takes a fair amount of data. 

Future science In the future, other economists will rexamine these results and find their own findings. Many of them will cite this paper, and you will be able to find those articles through this google scholar link. Maybe they will have a more clear and consistent take on the evidence. 

I find no evidence of this being real, but I cannot prove a negative. Tineye's first record of this image appeared on May 9, 2017. When I go to The Flat Earth Society's Facebook page, this post does not appear in the first half of 2017. Neither of these things is conclusive. Tineye is a reverse image search engine. Their image recognition algorithms allow you to reverse search an image and find out when it first appeared in Tineye's records. Unfortunately I do not know how thorough their records are. It is very possible that Tineye's first record of it is actually a reposting of an earlier unrecorded image. It is possible that the post was real and the Facebook post was deleted after it became a widely ridiculed meme. The original post was not an image, and therefore would not be found by tineye. This same joke was made prior to May 2017 without attribution to an actual Flat Earth source. This shirt was originally sold in February 2017. This guy tweeted out the joke in May 2016. I sent a message to The Flat Earth facebook page asking if it was real, on 12/30/17. That was 6 days ago and they have not responded. If they do, I will edit this answer. This is a decent collection of circumstantial evidence. It all supports the idea that this image was created to be a funny meme. 

The scientific literature has almost entirely ignored this theory The episode (9:54) doesn't present the battery theory as conclusive fact. 

Real answer may be more complicated Corporations and their lobbying efforts are complex and diverse. This paper concludes that the details of these companies make a difference in whether or not the lobbying is profitable, and the prior research seems to support this view. For example the results of this paper show that larger, more diverse companies tend to have a worse correlation with lobbying. Conversely high growth companies have a less bad (but still negative) correlation. Somehow this complexity didn't make it into the Bloomberg article. When the real answer is complicated, and scientists don't know which variables are most important, the most important variables may be left out of the analyses. This can lead to conflicting results from different scientists. The paper spent a lot of time and energy controlling for these endogenous variables, but it is hard to tell if they did a good job.