In Tibetan Buddhism there is a sect of monks who specialize in "Telepathy". Their job essentially is to protect the Tibetan people from natural disasters. Does anyone know the process on how these Tibetan monks are chosen? And why are not all worthy Tibetan monks allowed in this position? 

they make up the four elements, also known as the "Four Greats", spoken from the Surangama Sutra explains how we are able to see the world today. There are also two additional elements (Emptiness and consciousness) which lets the illusory forms take shape. In the Mahayana Tradition there is a Sutra known as the Lalitavistara Sutra. It's to complicated for me to read, but I guess it does go into depth on buddhas explanation of matter. < $URL$ 

Is there a version of Satipatthana Sutta in English AUDIO . I have got the pali version but I do not understand the full meaning when I listen to it.The idea is to listen every day when I go to work and come home after work. 

How to overcome feeling bored while doing anapanasati meditation ? I get this feeling after setting sati at the end of the nose and body is calmed . 

I'm trying to anchor my awareness while sitting at the desk. When bringing awareness to the body , I'm getting a tickling/tingling in the body . So to make it bearable I'm trying to move attention to different body parts and it keeps following too. So unable to hold awareness in the body for a long time. Is there any advice/guide on this ? 

(Both papers are collected in the book: The Importance of Vedana and Sampajanna published by the Vipassana Research Institute) So, the Buddha didn't teach Vipassana to arupa worlds's inhabitants because they cannot feel sensations: is this claim generally accepted in the Buddhist world, at least among the Theravada? By the way, living in an arupa world would imply in my understanding that it is possible the arising of a mind consciousness (manovinnana) without a physical sense base (such as our heart base or hadaya-vatthu): is this assumption correct? 

Practice - Mindfulness of body When I move attention part by part in the body I don't feel sensations in every part . Is this right ? Or should I feel sensations in all body parts ? Sometimes I do quick sweep of attention from head to feet . I do this at any moment during the day when I remember to be aware of my body . Would this be helpful for practicing mindfulness of body ? Or is there any better way of doing this ? 

Sensitivity could just mean your senses are being noticed. Something that you once ignored is now being noticed because your living in the present moment. You're aware of things which you didn't notice before. It may seem louder than usual because your mind is no longer being occupied by something else. Another explanation could be sensory adaptation to a new environment. It's not uncommon for practitioners who return from retreats to be more sensitive to their environment. Their ears have adapted to the silent lifestyle but eventually adapt to usual city noise over time. 

Practice : Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw Is there any "Gatha" (Verse) can be used to contemplate on "Death"? The purpose is to use as an aid to generate necessary energy to continue practice [mostly as the first thing in the morning] 

Now I want to be aware about myself while being absorbed in reading or be aware about the reader while reading Could anyone provide me a guide to proceed to that ? 

I'm looking for an accurate translation of "Satipatthana Sutta". Could someone let me know what is the best available accurate translation? I don't want to be confused by just reading all available versions. Thank you 

There really isn't much similarities between the two atoms because one can be divided and the other cannot. So what are the Buddhist atoms? They are earth, water, fire, air, color, smell, taste and nutritive essence (food). 

This sentence is explaining the pains of a finite existing body that is imperfect. This can be categorized as "form". Form also referring to the basic building blocks meaning the "four elements" or Mahābhūta. In order for a form to exist it requires consciousness, the second Skandha. Once form and consciousness makes contact (phassa), it is translated into sensation (vedana), the third Skandha. This is where the two skandhas arise known as perception (samjna) and mental formation (samskara) which reacts to the form. Without the five skandhas you would never know how birth, aging and death is dukkha. 

And according the book A Brief Biography of Anagam Sayagyi U Thet And His Teaching (pag. 124), U Thet found inside that book (as well as in Bhāvanādīpanī) a confirmation of his experience and "technique" which he later would pass to U Ba Khin and finally would arrive to Goenka: 

You should not have gaps in noting, but observe all the movements from the start to the end, without missing any step. So you should note "raising raising raising", "falling falling falling" etc and in the same time noting the movements and the sensations. You should not feel accomplished for mere noting the raising just one time, otherwise all would become at best a concentration practice and at worst a boring homework with a mind asking "now what?" after each note. 

I mostly practice "daily life" meditation and I found this specific question very important ( I have got some illnesses due to this too) I get intention to eat when I see "sweets" even I'm not hungry . Also eat more if it is a food I really "like" . So I use mental notes "Craving , Craving " and "liking , liking " respectively . Sometimes it passes away . But mostly it moves to " intending , intending " and then "eating" steps. "Suppressing" works temporally but I know this is not the purpose of meditation. I always try my best to follow below instructions, 

So it seems that in general it would be possible to practice vipassana in an arupa world, but only if one already practiced it presumably with a physical body. 

How a being (be it a Buddha) can remember its past lives, if there is no "quid"/soul/self enduring for more time? 

The free flow is when the whole body dissolves into subtle vibrations, and you reach the stage of bhanga, total dissolution. It causes pīti (pleasant sensation, rapture, bliss) and if not careful you can develop attachment to it.