Are there any suggestions on what footwear to wear in a wet climate (specific: Vietnam in September)? The use case would be mostly walking on streets, with occasional hikes in easy but slippery terrain. For short term undertakings I would simply go for hiking boots. But in that case the shoes won't have a real chance to dry as I infer from other reports. Typical suggestions include: - FlipFlops (plastic) - Birkenstocks (the plastic ones) - Crocs (plastic) - Basically everything that is made of plastic und soaks up no water All these solutions seem highly unreasonable for longer periods of walking, let alone off the streets, let alone with a backpack of approx 10-15kg. I am looking for suggestions that are backed up by experience and minimize the amount of shoes that need to be used to achieve a comfortable and healthy trip. I am also looking for suggestions on how to dry shoes in a wet climate. 

It's interesting but just banging amazon with "linen shirt upf" didn't do anything good. But it turned up another subpage of your referenced page. It has a nice graphic with a distribution of UPF Rating per material, which should give you a rough direction of how big the differences per material are actually. 

If you remain in the desert flats with no expectation of rescue, you will almost certainly die unless you happen to be close to a safe spring. You can't cut open a cactus and drink. In the Mojave, if you see dense greenery, it means there's water nearby, but it may be underground or poisonous. If you know your plants, you can recognize the ones that can't tolerate high mineral contents. Easier would be to watch for wildlife. Insects and other animals using the water is a good sign, as is green algae. 

One summer job, I needed shoes to walk on a rocky beach, sometimes in the water, for 5 to 10 miles per day all summer. Stretchy neoprene shoes were terrible for this- no traction and no support. So I used regular sneakers. I chose a pair of cross country racing flats. The model I used are no longer made, but were made by New Balance. The uppers were extremely well ventilated polyester, so they drained very quickly, and the thin material dried much faster than a padded sandal, and certainly much faster than a regular sneaker of leather or cotton would. There are probably other minimalist sneakers that would be equally good. The thing to look for is thin fabric that attaches directly to the sole, with no rubber rim that would keep the water from draining. Running shoes in general will be good because those tend to be very well ventilated, and minimalist shoes will be best because there will be very little padding to hold extra water. 

Since you asked for actual studies, I think a study on general ankle support in sports will be helpful (It focuses on basketball and volleyball, but has also some generic information that might be useful): Here is a study on ankle support in general. One should note that hiking does not seem to be affected by that much ankle injuries in general, as mentioned after the abstract: 

EDIT: * Disclamer: This patent does not link to any research that confirms the following statements, take them with a grain of salt.* In further research I stumbled upon the following patent. 

which is obviously a factor if you want to compare high top vs low top boots. It has a slight impact on ankle injuries that could be prevented by higher boots, so you might want to factor that in for further research. 

Where we get to the "the force needs to move somewhere else topic (knee)" which is not evaluated, as so often. 

Which gives a general direction. From what I read linen performs in the regions of cotton regarding UPF. 

The text above basically states that with this sole less ankle movement is required, therefore reducing the risk of fatigue and therefore injury: 

The biggest difference between ravens and crows is that ravens average 2 feet long with a 4 ft wingspan, while crows are about 1.5 ft long with a wingspan of 3 feet. These numbers can vary a bit regionally and by individual, but for a casual birder, the size difference along is enough to differentiate them. The ravens also have a distinctly deeper call, more like a croak. They are rarely seen in large flocks. I've personally only seen them in more than ones and twos around carrion, where they all want to eat. 

Waterproofing is one of the most important things to the average camper, so an reasonable quality, inexpensive tent will stay dry through mild rains and occasional thunderstorms, and if the tent is stored properly and only used a few days a year, that waterproofing should last at least several years. Just make sure you know how to set it up properly, and don't let your body or your gear come in contact with the wet tent walls because either of those mistakes will cause a waterproof tent to leak (explained at Does touching the tent outer wall from the inside make it leak?). What is nearly always sacrificed in inexpensive tents is weight. They will use fiberglass or thick metal poles where expensive tents will use flexible, lightweight aluminum. The fabric will be a durable nylon or polyester, not the latest, lightest silnylon. A smaller tent is the easiest way to cut weight while saving money. An inexpensive tent is not necessarily less durable than an expensive one. As I said above, weight is nearly always sacrificed to keep a tent's cost down. But there are plenty of inexpensive durable materials. Dedicated backpacking tents are made with keeping weight down as a priority, often at the expense of durability. So a modestly priced tent can last for years of moderate use. Inexpensive vs Dirt Cheap. The cheapest tents will wear out fast and may leak when you buy them. Within a few trips, you risk broken zippers, ripped material, and torn seams. Stay away inexpensive brands with no reviews or recommendations. So the trick is to figure out which inexpensive brands still have good quality. I'd suggest asking anyone you know who camps what brand they use. Ask at stores dedicated to hiking and camping. And read reviews of a variety of tents and brands, not just what you think you want. Your priorities should be a tent small and light enough to easily carry and a tent with good waterproofing. Other features are nice to have, but not essential. 

This picture emerged for me: The material itself is not as important for the UPF rating as the used thickness, dye, weaving technique and color. But we can clearly see from the table that Indigo has a way higher UPF than Madder and Cochineal. If we extrapolate this (not very scientific) we can assume that with lighter tones there will be worse UPF. 

The US army performed a test on hiking boots in 1999 - quite an interesting read, but with no real value besides that high top boots have different effects on ankles too. 

Now for the real interesting part: I found this Google Books link which gives quite some comprehensive tables. 

Summa sumarum, what I gained from reading this paper: Ankle support does indeed help - so I guess high boots will indeed help too. But: If you have healthy ankles the differences might not be significant. When the ankles are already instable support seems to be desirable. I recommend reading over the paper on your own to gain a better picture. 

I think raw wool / raw fleeces are already your best bet on researching this. At least e-Bay turns up some results that may be what you are looking for (based on where you live). 

The absolute best way to figure out when to drink is by paying attention to your thirst. If you drink a cup of water when you aren't really thirsty, your body will start getting rid of excess fluid within a few minutes. But if you drink that same cup when you are seriously dehydrated, you won't pee it out because your body won't have excessive moisture. This is all related to how much fluid is in your body, not the time since your last urination. If you want to avoid peeing any more than you have to, get very, very familiar with how you feel when you are just slightly dehydrated (a tiny bit thirsty, but not excessively so, and certainly not unpleasantly so). Then drink small amounts frequently when you start feeling that way. Have a couple of swallows: that will momentarily slake your thirst. Then if you are thirsty again in 5 minutes, repeat this. If you drink large amounts, you are more likely to drink enough to completely rehydrate completely, and need to pee again. It will take experimentation to figure out exactly how much you need to drink, and what you should feel like, but once you do, it's quite reliable. If you are trying this, and don't drink enough, you can get seriously dehydrated, especially if you are sweating a lot. So be cautious when you are starting out, and err on the side of drinking more. Also, at the end of the day, it's a good idea to rehydrate completely, both for your own comfort, and because urination is very important for the body to rid itself of toxins.