I am by no means an expert on this, but maybe this helps. Here is a simple example for a bellman equation $V(y) = \max_x u(x,y) + \beta V(y')$ $s.t. \, y' = f(x,y)$ This is a functional equation in an unknown function V. A solution to this problem is a function V that satisfies the equation above. If you look at the equation, it's pretty clear that the solution has to be a fixed point of the operator on the RHS of the bellman equation: if you take the correct V and an arbitrary y and calculate $\max_x u(x,y) + \beta V(y')$ $s.t. \, y' = f(x,y)$ you will get $V(y)$. The operator that is the RHS of the Bellman equation operates on functions, and the solution is a fixed point in some space of functions. It's a different question whether this fixed point exists and how to find it. Here, you appeal to the contraction mapping theorem: under typical assumptions on u and provided $\beta<1$, the maximization step above is a contraction mapping for any guess of V. This means that there exists a unique fixed point V, and you can find it by successive iteration. 

Within the WTO framework, this would fall under the government procurement agreement, as it is a restriction on who the government can buy from that limits opportunities for foreign firms. 

The Caribbean is included in Latin America for good measure (and because that's the way the World Bank cut up the data). The US is 3.5 times the size, the EU 3.1 times, and China 2.1 times. The economic area would be almost 3 times the size of the Brazilian economy. In terms of pros and cons, there are probably larger political than economic issues involved. Source 

Yes, there are lots of examples of countries piloting new economic measures before they are rolled out nationwide. A couple of recent examples are of Finland piloting universal basic income and the UK piloting universal credit in 12 local authorities, which was then extended nationwide in a number of stages. 

Your reasoning for the 1st part is correct. The 2nd part is a 2-period game. You should try to solve it by backward induction. First you go through all the 2nd period subgames. Then you can use the payoffs of the subgames and write up the investment decision subgame as a bimatrix game. However, the question is poorly written and as stated this game has no Nash equilibria in pure continous strategies. Let's go through the reasoning as to why. First, let's find the NE for all possible cases in the 2nd period. 

There is a lot of newish research on the adverse consequences of Globalisation and more generally De-industrialization on low skilled workers in developed economies. A good place to start is Autor, Dorn, Hanson in the AER 2013. David Autor has other interesting work on this topic as well as on automation. Your questions have quite a normative ring to themselves, and it seems to me you already know what kind of answers you want. It is true that discussing the adverse effects of Globalisation or technological progress on some people in rich countries has become a more active research topic. But I think most people are very still far from questioning free trade or technological progress as Pareto efficient. And I think the overwhelming majority of economists still thinks that industrial policy in a developed country is a silly idea. So I don't think you are going to find this big trend you are looking for. Also, as a sidenote, even development economics has moved quite far from the kind of research that debated the industrial policy you have in mind. It's mostly about RCTs and institutions now. 

The most generic answer is that governments can basically tax whatever they want, according to whatever rules they choose to invent. I have seen situations in which goods or services have been taxed by both the importing and exporting governments. Having said that, there is a clear international norm that taxes such as VAT (the equivalent of sales tax in the vast majority of countries) apply in the importing country, after import duties (so you pay tax on the import duty and transport costs). I don't know about the specifics of the US and Canada; I believe in particular US state sales taxes don't follow international norms. NAFTA may also specify. 

I believe that the UN Comtrade database is the main data source for this kind of query with substantial country coverage. It's broken down by HS code. It has its issues. Reporting is based on national authorities, so you should usually expect data on imports to be more accurate than exports because of the tax implications (so Uganda's imports from Kenya are likely to be more accurate than Kenya's exports to Uganda). 

For years I've seen non-stop commercials of countries in the continent of Africa showing kids who live in sewage huts, parents are dead, war gangs and criminals rule their lives. Like in Captain Philips how those Somalia pirates were forced to do what they did because of where they lived. They were forced by criminals threatening their lives. Didn't the USA make their countries dry out and collapsed like many Middle Eastern ones? My professor showed a video made in Africa showing how 1 in 3 Africans are actually middle class. They have cells, cities, even women Presidents at times. So are things than better than in the past and if so why? 

I wanted to know facts, thoughts and such since this article (which was big news that trended this week) popped up: $URL$ I know "History always made NEW jobs when technology advanced...I feel like it's getting so advanced the new jobs, even repairing robots, will be done by robots and that is what is different this time. When the tractor came along there were no robots just humans to fix it.. I am a writer/journalist. However, these days a pencil and paper aren't enough. To survive we must adapt so I am learning online video and podcasts as well. No need for humans to work=no jobs for humans=no way for most humans to earn money= no way for the humans to feed themselves or their families or even provide warmth. Essentials for just living and not dying in poverty. I have started learning programming again through Codeacademy and research on Google, plus old books I had from a few years ago. Working on HTML, CSS, JavaScript (taught together) and some Java too. I know having a good understanding and practice of these languages will help me and others adapting to the future, but needless to say some people have it harder than others because of health issues or where they were born into. Been reading Investopedia.com as well to learn more. The job at a factory assembling or even as a truck driver is all some people have and use to make very good livings from it. With technology advancing in things like robots, computer software and even 3D printers, how exactly will the economy NOT collapse if we keep losing jobs...while still growing in population? Will it be likely we see increases of starvation, homelessness or communism? 

You need to remember two properties of derivatives and expectations. Everything else stays the same. 

The money goes to banks/brokers. In fact most of the revenue in the financial sector comes from fees like that. This is to compensate the bank/broker from taking the risk of carrying the opposite position on their books for a while, and the labor put into actually trading for you. A part of it is probably also profit. Since there are large entry costs, one would expect the financial sector to earn profits. 

What you want to compare is M1 and the currency component of M1: $URL$ Trading Economics is a bad source. 

You have to understand how international debt works. These are not loans, but bonds. China buys a US bond for e.g. 98 USD. This bond is a promise by the US treasury to pay 100 USD one year from now. China owns a lot of this type of bonds. Once the bond hits maturity, China is paid 100 USD and the thing it typically does with these 100 USD is it buys the same type of bond again. If it decides it no longer wants to hold US debt, it can do one of two things: First, it could decide to sell all it's bonds at market prices to someone who's willing to buy them. This would be a terrible idea for the Chinese, since they'll lose a lot of money in this kind of fire sale. Second, it could just stop rolling over the debt and invest its foreign reserves in other kinds of bonds. In any case what will not happen is that the US suddenly has to pay back all it's debt at once. It will become more expensive for the US to refinance it's debt, since the demand for treasuries will go down, but this is more of a long run problem. Also, it is not trivial to find an alternative asset market that can absorb an investment of 1200 billion dollars without prices going through the roof. 

Please answer all three if you can. I live in Connecticut, America, and of course global trade and economies matter as we are becoming more global from technology. December 2007 the markets crashed hard and 2008-09 was the actual defined recession. Worst we ever had (not depression, recession). By GDP growth definition we did recover. BUT living in Connecticut I've seen things differently so sorry if it sounds opinionated but I'm trying to put facts together from research and forum answers. GE Headquarters is leaving CT and moving to Boston, meaning hundreds of high paid jobs leaving and the taxes are switched to everyone else yes? Our governor has been called the worst, and we only have 3 million people which is down a lot in past years. That means less business and money which is not good. Taxes are already higher than almost every other state...BUT my question is are we recovering because form what I've read the answer is yes. But if a huge job supplier is leaving and tax burdens increase, how can CT ever recover? The same for America. Unemployment is like 5% but most of these jobs at least where I am on the East Coast are part time fast food/retail jobs. Good for kids maybe, but full time employment and good pay even start at $11 or $12 an hour is better than a father supporting his family on a 20 hour a week mcdonalds fry cook. So is this really a recovery (maybe definition) but has it really gotten better? Not just here...but the rest of the world as well? All I hear is bad stuff about Europe, debt crisis, Greece. What's going on? No blame game what is going on for sure that we know? 

The underlying reason are probably differences in labor productivity. Assuming decreasing marginal productivity of labor, the real question is why migration flows do not equate labor productivity and wages as would be predicted by simple GE models. I can think of several factors: 

If this is your definition of "post-scarcity economics" then you need not look very far though. Over the last 150 years, technology has greatly reduced the need for human labor required for production of an 1850s consumption basket. Indeed people had that same debate in the 19th century (see Luddites), then again in the 1930s (see Keynes' famous essay on Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren) and again today. Of course stuff is still as scarce as ever, and society is qualitatively organized much as it was 100 years ago, except that of course everybody is much better off. 

This is/was a huge topic in macro and labor. Traditionally, macroeconomists calibrate models that require huge labor supply elasticities to match the data. Then labor economists estimate labor supply elasticities from micro data and find very very low elasticities. Imo the labor estimates are more trustworthy than the macro calibrations. Check out $URL$ for a summary of the issue and citations to the further literature. 

This is quite a common response to an exchange rate crisis (which normally also suggests broader economic problems). The consequences depend on how diligently the government applies the ban, the relationship between government and businesses that trade internationally and how far the official rate strays from the true (black market) rate. First, it is almost always possible to buy and sell currency on the black market, and perhaps legally in neighbouring countries. The black market rate is likely to follow the downward trajectory of the currency prior to the ban. Exchange controls create risk for currency traders, so buying and selling on the black market tends to be expensive (i.e. the rates for buying and selling move further apart). Second, lots of businesses urgently need foreign currency to import inputs and goods for retail sale. They will try and find a strategy for obtaining that currency. They may be able to buy it on the black market. If the government is able to sell some local currency at the official (overvalued) rate, it may also sell foreign currency at the official rate to firms it sees as a priority (e.g. oil importers or friends of the regime). For instance, tourists entering East Germany were forced to buy a certain quantity of local currency per day of their visit at the official rate, giving the government a source of forex. If these strategies are not possible, companies may try to create symmetry in their import/export businesses, so that they can use the foreign exchange they earn themselves to cover their imports. Government may or may not intervene to prevent this. Importing firms without a viable strategy are likely to fail. All in all it makes international trade more difficult and expensive, so prices of imported goods are likely to rise even more quickly than they were under the sliding exchange rate. The most reasonable motivation for this type of exchange control is to prevent people and companies from shifting their savings into another currency, which could cause a general banking collapse. If you see the exchange rate falling continuously, you would be tempted to convert your savings from local currency to dollars, which hold their value. If everyone does this, the exchange rate slide accelerates, banks can't cover their liabilities, loans are called in, and banks and businesses may fold. The Soviet bloc is a common example of the use of official exchange rates but they've been used by governments in trouble all over the world, recently in various African countries, a few in South America and less recently in Asia. 

By entertainment I mean book publishing, music uploads like on iTunes or even movies whether DVD, Blue Ray, Netflix, Hulu whatever. So much is moving online, that's the future. Piracy cannot be stopped, Sean Parker of Napster a site that was hit hard and sued for piracy lawsuits of releasing music for free, he even said, "The war on piracy is a failure." If a war is something to be won, piracy will win, but how much is what I and others are worried about. Along with the big suits and artists/writer/actors/singers whatever, there are movie theater employees, Apple store employees, programmers for online entertainment companies, etc...the economy for this industry is huge and can be hurt a lot since as online media is growing so is online theft, hacking, and piracy. While it is good to go into a field of medicine, engineering, business (which this is), entertainment is a cultural classic and the people in it mostly work hard and moved up to get where they were in turn making jobs for everyone. Star Wars made like a billion last month, but that's now and that a big movie. Kick@ss 2 stars said another sequel can't be made because the last two were pirated too much. Scary. Is the industry's outlook more collapse than still being profitable in the future? 

Yes, you are describing the (British) East India Company. A royal charter granted it a 15 year monopoly on English trade with "all countries east of the Cape of Good Hope and west of the Straits of Magellan". Also noteworthy, "at the height of its rule in India, the British East India company had a private army of about 260,000 — twice the size of the British Army". 

That is how an analyst is likely to approach it; in reality, if the private sector and/or unions have a strong voice in government, the process might resemble more of a negotiation between two sides. 

I think the flaw in your reasoning is expecting that foreign capital inflow would lead to more ₹ in circulation. When investors bring in capital, they are buying ₹ that were previously in circulation. This additional demand without additional supply is exactly what drives the price of the ₹ up. There is no increase in the quantity of ₹ circulating unless the government/central bank responds in some way.