I've found I have two different foot usages when I walk, stride or lightly jog/run. Sometimes I touch down with the heel first. I either roll or more usually, tread/lift. Other times I extend the ball of my foot as the foot approaches the ground, and it acts as shock absorption (the heel doesn't touch or barely touches throughout). This feels like it puts less strain on the foot and heel area and is comfortable. I'm equally comfortable with all of them. What are their differences in terms of health, efficiency, impact effect, and either improved tone or adverse effect on the muscles and joints? Should I prefer any of them over another? Note on context - I'm not a runner nor a jogger; I walk a lot and stride heavily (long and fast distance-consuming stride), and sometimes lightly run/jog. Sometimes I'm carrying extra weight such as a heavy backpack or shoulder bag at the same time. So I'm not really looking at serious running or jogging fitness, more for general but ongoing all-the-time daily practices. Answers covering running are welcomed but if they are more geared to my use it would be better. 

Because spinal pain can be nerve related or mislocated, there's a chance the issue was elsewhere, but I don't think it was. It didn't feel like it was related to muscles of the spine as my back itself didn't hurt. The sensation was stabbing and eye-watering. It was quite similar to how a sharp cramp in the calf feels. It stayed local in the pelvic area, so I didn't feel pain in my spine or close to my spine, or in other places on my back or hips or leg. It seemed to be very closely related to core supporting muscles, because when I was sitting on a chair, and my body automatically used the front and back torso muscles to maintain an upright sitting position, the act of that muscle group automatically tensioning to pull my body a bit more backwards was when it really hurt most. Over about 48 hours, more than a few times, it took time and effort to get up from lying in/on the bed, to try and find a way to get vertical that wouldn't cause that pain. But if I walked slowly and tried to keep my torso vertical (and avoid that automatic self-correcting movement), it mostly wasn't a problem walking around or working. I found myself holding my back slightly tilted forward at the pelvis in a way that made me think of the lumbar posture associated with spondylosis, but I knew that was just accommodating the pain and wouldn't last more than a few days. To get out of bed, I moved my legs across and off the bed, to help me tilt and raise my body from a prone position, which made it easier. There was also a slight pain from the matching place at the front of my pelvis, but that felt more like a "reflection" of some kind of the original pain, if that makes sense - not an actual or second injury site. If I had to guess, I suspect that the opposing muscle group may have been under unusual load or strain as a result, and suffered somewhat? I only very rarely use painkillers but this one was severe enough that I dug up some old co-dydramol and an ibuprofen for any inflammation, to handle it, without hesitation, which helped. I did the same the second day as well. After 2 nights (about 48/72 hours after the pain started) (Friday) it began to diminish to feel more like a bad battering or bruise, so it's pretty much ignorable now. What injury did I actually do to myself? 

So I'm about 6 feet tall (183 cm) and weigh about 180lbs (75kgs). I'm looking to get a more toned stomach and gain more strength in my arms. I don't want huge muscles, I just want to get to a more basic level of strength as I realized I am a lot weaker than my peers. After asking other questions about how best to gain strength without gaining a lot of mass, I have started doing a workout each day. In the morning I do 10 situps. This is just to try and get my stomach/abdomen in a better shape and remove the ever so slight flab I have developed. Later on I do 3 sets of lifting a dumbbell 10 times, weighing 15lbs for each arm. I have about a 20 minute break between each set of lifting 10 times(is each set a rep?). Is this a good starting point towards my goals? Should I be incorporating further exercises? Should I do more or less reps? Or is it OK for the moment while I am starting out? 

I am aware of the other question on feeling the burn, but that question seems to be about feeling the burn after a workout. My question is, should I feel the burn during the workout. At the moment when I do my reps, I feel..almost nothing. I'm lifting a 15 pound dumbbell and it's heavy, but I don't feel any sort of burn. Is this an indication I should try a heavier weight? 

I would advise to not use your child for weight resistance training. Who will spot you? How about just play with your kid. 

Added 2/27/14 I just wanted to point to the Moov - COMPANY LINK HERE, Amigo, move over! :) The Moov is awesome. 

Are you going to increase your caloric intake to make up for the calories that you'd burn by working out? If you have the same level of physical activity but eat the exact amount of calories as required, nothing would happen. If you increase physical activity and increase the calories to the exact amount, you would gain muscle. If you increase physical activity and maintain the calories that you average now, you would lose fat. The problem is, nobody can predict exactly what is required. So then, that's why bodybuilders consume too many calories and gain fat during "bulking". It's better to eat too much than to not eat enough and end up burning muscle as energy. The human body wants to store fat reserves for the winter and times w/o food. It will burn muscle that it decides are not necessary when in times of depleted caloric intake. 

As mentioned in my comment, I'm extremely excited and waiting for Amigo - probably to the point that I won't buy one until this comes out or one comes out with these features. 

Specifically when I am doing dumbbell deadlifts and dumbbell squats, I have a feeling that I may not be doing the exercises correctly or may even be doing them in a harmful manner. I've watched youtube videos to get instruction, but am still somewhat unsure. For example when doing my dumbbell deadlifts, I keep my legs straight but feel that perhaps my back and/or legs bend more than they should, when I should probably be keeping my back straight. Likewise when trying to do dumbbell squats I think my arms flex more than they perhaps should. How can I make sure I am doing the exercises in a way that I am getting a benefit and not harming myself? 

I'm mainly concerned about my diet as it relates to strength building. I'm not concerned about other factors because I have a fast metabolism and don't seem to gain weight and am active enough that I feel that other concerns do not apply to me. Something I have been eating a lot of recently is chicekn strips from the supermarket. They are a good price and I like them. Each strip has 3g of protein, 5g of fat and 6 g of carbs. If I eat say 15, that is 45g of protein which can be used towards my strength building. Will the 75g of fat negate that? Especially since I don't seem to gain weight at all? 

If you want to make gains like a 20 year old, you'll have to have the testosterone and estrogen levels of a 20 year old. On the surface, this doesn't answer your question... but it does, please follow: Your first question is, "How much muscle/strength could I really expect to gain over age 50?" I am not sure that this is answerable. In what way would you like to measure it? The second question is, "can I make great gains?" This is also an opinion question, I believe you'll make great gains but will you believe that they're great gains? The third question is, "no gains?" This one I can answer, YOU WILL MAKE GAINS. As @rrirower pointed out, gains will be slower than you remembered but they will happen. I know bodybuilders who NEVER competed or took the sport seriously until they were eligible for the masters class - and they did well. The fourth question is, "expect to lose as I age?" If you maintain an active lifestyle, your body will be forced to maintain as well. You'll only "lose" when your body doesn't feel that it needs the muscle anymore (because you're not lifting) which it will then burn for energy, just as we burn fat and muscle for energy in a caloric deficit (diet). Therefore, you will make gains. I hope you will be patient enough to accept them as great gains. 

I've just had a really nasty pain in my side, on the pelvis/pelvic girdle. It feels like it was related to some core supportive muscle. While it's mostly resolved within 72 hours, I'm curious what I probably did to myself. Background At the start of this week (Monday), I went back to finish some heavy physical (manual) work I hadn't done for many weeks. Over a 2 day period, it included a considerable amount of reaching into an awkward (hard to access) location, and digging out clay soil/gravel and pushing in replacement clay, at a very awkward angle. The ground is covered by beams about 18 inches apart, and I needed to get about 2 feet below them and dig there. For part of it, I could get down between the beams, but for other parts I needed to reach from above or from awkward angles from adjacent spaces. The shovel was a small handheld one, so it wasn't that heavy, but the force to push it into the ground, or hammer soil into place, and lift it out at awkward angles, was quite a strain. By that I mean that for part of it I was having to hold the (quite small!) shovel backwards in my hand and dig backwards, for other parts I was resting over a beam on my stomach/pelvis tilted head close to vertical to reach down to where I needed to get. I was also quite considerably twisted mid torso while doing this, both to reach where I could work, and when moving, or lifting, or dumping the soil out of the hole, and this meant I was twisted while either exerting force or trying to move - so the poor positioning and twisting and reaching were dynamic while moving loads and exerting force, not just static in between them. I also had a small amount of heavy lifting, which I did properly (ie not putting spine and back at risk). There wasn't much like of this, but it required muscles working in difficult/unusual directions and I knew it would leave me aching for a day afterwards. Pain The day after finishing (Wednesday?), I got a pain I've never had before, in a location I've never had it before either. It felt like it originated at the top of my pelvic girdle, about halfway between my left side and spine in my back. (I'm right handed if it matters) 

There really isn't a way to loose fat in a specific area - despite what commercials want to sell you. Unlike making muscles larger, where you can focus on specific areas, fat is determined by genetics. The only way to remove fat from the area mentioned would be liposuction. That is, you can decrease the fat percentage in your body until this goes away. If you want it gone first and right now, surgery is the only way. 

You grow when you sleep. When I was competing I would take simplysleep to make sure that I got 9 - 10 hours of sleep a day. IMHO, sleep is only second to eating in terms of growing muscle. Ironically lifting weights is a distant 3rd, especially in terms of willpower. Anyone can lift weights. Few can get enough sleep. Fewer can stick to a diet. As much as our minds won't allow it, our bodies love a consistent routine. Eat every 2 hours, work out in a routine as scheduled (same time), and go to bed at the same time and wake at the same time - and preferably not by an alarm clock. Your body doesn't really care that it's the weekend, your mind does. 

I am on a low calorie diet while doing strength building exercises every 2 days. I have been doing this for a few weeks, and in about 2 weeks will go on a vacation for a week. While on vacation I won't have access to weights, and will be traveling around backpacker style so won't have access to a gym. Diet will also be a problem just because healthy foods will not be widely available and I won't necessarily have time/facilities to prepare such foods myself. Will abandoning my diet and workout regime for a week undo a lot of my progress? How bad will the damage be? 

As I start towards exercising to gain strength, I want to avoid gaining a lot of muscle. I don't know how accurate it is, but I have heard that muscle size is not related to strength, i.e. the more muscles you have does not mean relate to the stronger you are. I have a slim build that I would like to maintain. How can I avoid getting physically bigger yet gain strength? 

I can't tell if there are advantages or disadvantages to each type outside of the price. Could someone give a summary? 

For your specific task (calculating burned cals), no matter what fitness band you choose, it's still a calculation to figure out how many calories you've burnt. With any calculation, there's a level of tolerance and you need to be able to accept the tolerance. If you're just worried about the number of calories burned, you could calculate it yourself and be pretty close. With that said, a fitness band is an awesome accessory to help you reach your goals. But what are your expectations? Your question is regarding weight lifting, but your inner question is about calculating calories burned. For weight lifting, you'll find almost no benefit from the FitBit Flex or Force - but they may be helpful for overall fitness. Some of the most important metrics (IMHO) are missing in a lot of them - such as temperature and heart rate. Buying a band now instead of later may mean that you're just going to buy one later as well as you'll want the features of the newer models. I won't try to regurgitate the information in some REALLY good blog posts about the subject, so I'll link them here: 

Edit: Also, if you have recently lost a lot of weight, you may have extra skin. This will eventually tighten over time. However this is another reason people get plastic surgery - because they're impatient.