That's all I have for now. Joseph Priestley was a fascinating man, and for any philosopher that believes reason still holds an important place in philosophy, I highly recommend his work. 

I can think of a few examples, but I'm hoping to learn more about various philosophers and how cannabis has influenced their philosophy. Carl Sagan, or "Mr. X" in Dr. Lester Grinspoon book Marijuana Reconsidered wrote: 

Prior to Priestley moving to Birmingham, he was already greatly involved with the activities of the Lunar Society, meeting weekly with many great minds, including Erasmus Darwin (the grandfather of Charles Darwin). Wikipedia says: 

I’ve been trying to understand how an anarchic society would be initiated, but the two main ideas- anarcho-communism and anarcho-capitalism- not only contradict each other, but seem to be riddled with contradictions themselves. According to anarcho-communism, land and natural resources cannot become anyone’s “private property” because in order to claim a chunk of land, that land must be stolen from others. For example, suppose I come across some land, cut down some trees, and build a house. Communism says that neither the land my house sits on, nor the trees I cut, nor the home I built can be considered my private property because I have stolen the plot of land and trees from the community. According to anarcho-capitalism the land and natural resources can become my property through “homesteading”. So if I come across land, cut some trees and build a house, I have mixed my labor with the land. Therefore the house, the trees I cut, and (somehow) all the trees/grass/dirt occupying the land that I mix my labor with becomes my private property to either trade, sell, or deny to others. The problem I have with anarcho-communism is I don’t have the right to do with my labor whatever I wish. If I build a picture frame out of trees that belong to everyone, including me, and someone wishes to trade their labor for mine, neither of us have the right to do so. The problem I have with anarcho-capitalism is the fact that all currently owned land is indeed stolen and protected by government force, so nobody rightfully deserves what they currently have. This means we would need to abolish all current land ownership and start over. However, once we begin seeking our own land, there is no way to set real parameters of how far my “private property” extends. The proposals I’ve heard are not very convincing to me. Some have suggested a fence around the parameter is enough, while others say I can only own as far as my labor extends. However, if I find a forest and plan to cut down all the trees for my log company, then how much of the forest can I deny to others so that they do not cut down “my” trees? Usually the answer (for almost everything in anarcho-capitalism) is a private insurance company who seems to act exactly like a government. In an anarcho-capitalist society, how can land and natural resources become “private property” without forcibly denying these commodities from others? 

Mill quoted Priestley frequently, and in a reply to William James Ward in Essays on the Philosophy of Theism, Ward quotes Mill as saying: 

Going back further in history, Yoseph Needelman says in an interview about his book Cannabis Chassidis: 

When explaining to someone why I don't believe in freewill, it is almost certain that they will flap their arms around or do some sort of strange dance with their arms. I know the reason why they do this is because of our conversation, but what is it about arm flapping that makes this such a prevalent mechanism when discussing freewill? Have any philosophers mentioned this, either to disprove it's validity or to prove that arm flapping (or any seemingly random body movements) while having a conversation about freewill, is a true act of freewill? 

Although Beccaria did say something similar, Bentham gives the credit to Priestley for his entire philosophy of utilitarianism! In Priestley's The First Principles of Government and the Nature of Political, Civil and Religious Liberty, he says: 

The difference mostly has to do with rewards and punishments and how we define freewill. With hard determinism, a person who is guilty of a particular law ought to be disiplined. It is the hope that this chastisement (Greek: kolasis, in case you're interested) will cause their underlying behavior to be corrected. If a person does good, they ought to be rewarded in hopes that the reward will cause them to continue acting with good behavior. With Compatibilism, a person who is guilty of a particular crime deserves to be punished. What they did was wrong, they knew it was wrong, they knew there was another way, but they still chose to commit the crime. Despite the fact that both their will and actions were determined, they were wrong for having that will. If they do good, they deserve to be rewarded because what they did was right, they knew it was right, they knew there was a wrong way, and they still chose what's right. Despite the fact that their will and actions are determined, they were right for having that will. As Arthur Schopenhauer said, "Man can do what he wills but he cannot will what he wills." A majority of Compatibilism comes from the Reformed sects of Christianity. To them, God has determined all things so that man cannot do otherwise. However, because they have something labeled freewill they deserve to have their flesh burned forever in agonizing pain. How determinism and freewill can be reconciled is usually described as a great mystery. Other than that, there really is no difference. Both believe that the universe works the exact same way. 

Private property may be the most difficult subject concerning anarchy. I would like to propose what I believe to be a new idea about how an anarchic society might function. It’s true that without the threat of force, land and natural resources cannot possibly become private property. Neither anarcho-communist nor anarcho-capitalist deny this. So it is also true that the moment government is abolished, it is up to every person to decide what is rightfully theirs, as there will be no system to govern property lines. According to anarcho-capitalist Murray Rothbard: 

It seems like most people who consume cannabis get an uncontrollable urge to "talk philosophically". What sort of influence has cannabis had on philosophy? 

I'd like to provide an answer to my question based on the material that's been provided, as well as my own investigation into this matter. Thank you Mauro ALLEGRANZA and virmaior for the very helpful resources. Joseph Priestley has had a very significant influence on modern philosophy. Most of his philosophical influence comes from his redaction of David Hartley's Observations of Man, and from two essays; Disquisitions relating to Matter and Spirit and The Doctrine of Philosophical Necessity Illustrated. Priestley's philosophy was a mixture of determinism, materialism, and theism into what he called "philosophical necessity". He denied mind-body duality (believing it to be a Platonic corruption of Christianity), freewill, the trinity, and eternal hell. Jeremy Bentham, who is considered the founder of Utilitarianism, wrote in Commonplace Work in Books: