There are other ways to lose atmosphere. For example Jean's Escape. If average velocity of a gas molecule exceeds escape velocity, the planet will lose atmosphere. Venus' atmopshere is mostly $CO_2$ which has a higher molecular weight than the $0_2$ and $N_2$ of our atmosphere. So, for a given temperature and pressure, the carbon dioxide molecules have a slower speed. Venus' gravity is about the same as earth's and about twice Mars' gravity. In summary, Venus' steep gravity well and massive gas molecules might be helpful in letting Venus hold on to an atmosphere. 

No, the sun and all other stars do not have the same composition and density within them. The composition varies with depth. Most stars overall composition reflects the interstellar medium from which they form. Convection, settling and nuclear processes then lead to layers of different elements at differing depths. Fusion occurs at the core of our sun (where pressure and temperature are greatest) therefore there is a greater abundance of Helium at this depth (through conversion of hydrogen). Other stars that have entered the red giant phase will also have many more heavier elements. Very late stage stars are thought to fuse these elements progressively, leading to layers of decreasing atomic number elements stacked on top of each other. Convection can also lead to mixing of elements between layers. The diagram below shows theoretically how these convective layers differ over a range of stellar masses 

You can get moon centered position and velocity vectors at the Horizons Ephemeris Generator. Here's a screen capture: 

I was curious about the same things. I believe it was in the astronomy stack exchange I was referred to an online data base that gives position and velocity vectors for neighboring stars. From those I put together a spreadsheet. Here's a screen capture: 

I don't think it's doable to pulverize a dino-killer on such short notice. But years of movie and TV sci fi have stretched my WSOD bubble enough that I can consider this. For an 3 km diameter asteroid moving 13 km/s and having a density of 3 tonnes per cubic meter, I get kinetic energy of about 3.6e21 joules. If my arithmetic's right, earth receives about 1.75e17 joules of sunlight each second. So my BOTE seems to indicate about the same energy as 6 hours of sunlight. A hemisphere receiving the energy equivalent of 6 hours of sunlight over a brief time -- it wouldn't be pleasant. I believe we'd be screwed whether the impactor was one chunk or a cloud of gravel. 

Further details here on astronomical causes of average daytime variation, and here on Insolation, the solar radiation received at the top of the atmosphere and its effects on the energy received at ground level. 

There are a finite number of currently observable galaxies due to the finite age of the universe and the speed of light. What fraction of these galaxies have we actually observed (by eye, telescope, etc.)? 

It depends on whether the black hole is rotating or not. If it is, The ergosphere and singularity are oblate spheroids. If not, both would be spherical. The event horizon is always spherical. Accreting matter around a black hole would form an accretion disk, however this should not be mistaken for the black hole itself. 

For years I've been fascinated with the mutually tide-locked bodies Pluto and Charon. In July 2012, The Astronomical Journal published an article The Orbit of Charon Is Circular by Buie, Tholen and Grundy. The authors thought that the eccentricity of Charon's orbit is very close to zero. It seems to me their opinion is somewhat speculative given the low quality of images from Hubble. Has New Horizons data verified Charon's circular orbit? Is there an online source giving more precise orbital elements from New Horizons data? I'm also interested in the obliquity of Pluto and Charon. 

The density increases as you move closer to the center of the star. Note how the density is less than that of water for up to half the sun's radius! 

There are around 2 trillion galaxies in the currently observable universe according to the latest estimates, obtained by integrating theoretical galaxy stellar mass functions above $10^{6} M_{\odot}$ between $0 \leqslant z \leqslant 8$. It's difficult to get a precise number for the total observed galaxies as the results from new surveys are being released all the time, and updated analysis of legacy data is revealing more galaxies. For example, the latest SDSS data release identified close to 200 million galaxies, whilst the ongoing Dark Energy Survey seeks to identify around 300 million galaxies. LSST, in Chile, will observe close to 20 billion galaxies, an order of magnitude greater than anything before it. However, all of these surveys operate up to relatively low redshifts. Probing to higher redshifts requires bigger, preferably space based telescopes, and much longer exposure times. As such, the high redshift universe has been poorly documented. Our understanding of galaxy formation at high redshift is not as complete as at low redshift, and so we may be under- or over-estimating the number of galaxies at this epoch. A vague upper limit: we've observed less than 0.01% of all currently observable galaxies. 

A circle is an ellipse with eccentricity zero. And in fact tidal evolution can drive orbital eccentricity to values negligibly close to zero. See Regarding the Putative Eccentricity of Charon's Orbit. From observations we already know Pluto and Charon move about each other in very nearly circular orbits. I expect when New Horizons flies by the system in July, 2015, we will know their orbits more precisely. 

This illustration (page 36 of my coloring book) is a hyperbola about the earth, but it could also be a hyperbola about a larger mass. Escape velocity climbs as you get closer to the mass. The hyperbola's speed is sqrt(Vescape^2 + Vinf^2). I use this right triangle and the Pythagorean theorem as a memory device: 

What physical mechanisms, in the progenitor stellar system or from interstellar transit, could lead to the formation of an asteroid with such a shape? 

The mass of a black hole is dependent on the formation mechanism, which as far as we are aware is predominantly as a supernovae remnant. The Tolman–Oppenheimer–Volkoff limit provides the theoretical lower mass bound of a black hole formed from a collapsing star; this is between 1.5-3.0 solar masses depending on the interpretation. You must also remember that the mass of a Black Hole is not static; due to Hawking radiation and absorbtion from the Cosmic Microwave Background it can grow or shrink depending on its size. The following wiki quote sums it up well 

Assuming circular, coplanar orbits, Trans Venus Insertion (TVI) is 8 km/s from Mercury's surface. That's with horizontal take off and no gravity loss. That's for the minimum energy Hohmann transfer. Exiting the Hohmann transfer and soft landing on Venus would take 11.9 km/s if Venus had no atmosphere. But much, maybe all of that 11.9 km/s could be done by aerobraking. I used my Hohmann spreadsheet to get these numbers. 

Density waves cause the build up of galactic material in to spiral arms. An object does not have to stay in a spiral arm; it can join or leave it as the density wave passes through the galaxy. However, the likelihood of an object being in a spiral arm is greater. The shape of the arms does not relate to matter falling in; this is an illusion. Objects perform elliptical or near-circular orbits around the center of the galaxy. The origin of these density waves is not known conclusively, though there are many simulations that re-create the effect through satellite galaxy perturbations.