You must remember that you will always be you. You can try to change your views, but to drastically and you may end up just hurting yourself. Unless you are designated to be in control of a department, it's not your job to keep it "clean". Just avoid trouble and you usually end up fine. Sacrifices meant to better your career is a double edged sword. You need to make sacrifices to succeed, the question is what you want to sacrifice, and if you do the right ones. 

Textbook answers are common, but everyone knows them, and thus it can lead to sneaky questions trying to peel the exact reason why you left to begin with. The cards you can play here heavily depend on what you carry to begin with. If you need to move house, and the new job is closer\more available, that's a start. Got kids? Maybe the area has better schools. See where I am going here? Just don't lie. 

If you wish for the top, either be the pioneer or be the last guy on this tech - both give excellent money and stability (to an extent). Competition is somewhat strong. Still, you can easily measure company quality by the fact how often skills trample politics and vice versa. We are all human, so relying on "how pleasant other human seems to be" to judge them is wired in our nature, but it's getting work done that's worthwhile in many IT companies. An expert like you'll thrive in those that value skills - that's where you want to be. Of course... YOUR skills. So, consider your main area of expertise. Is it aligned with what is needed for your boss? Cause he will promote what he needs usually. Doesn't matter (usually!) how terrific you are with C# if you guys are in dire need of Java folks for new Most Important Project Of Them All. Feeling of being outside of your comfort zone gets to everybody, I think, you are not alone. Think positively, technologies are similar and getting more gets easier with time. This will never end, that's the job specifics, as I'm sure you know. Trust in yourself. 

In short, any reference is (usually) a good reference. I've never really heard about a company writing a negative reference, instead of writing none at all. The only exception, as mentioned, is any reference where family (or friends) is involved in a significant way, such as working at your fathers workshop, or in your mothers flower shop. A reference is more to show who you are, so if you've been on time, tidy, kind to customers, respecting coworkers and been actively taking part in various tasks, you're already in a good position. General knowledge about what you work with will usually be expected, but it's rare to just enter a work space and instantly mastering its rules. Something that is perfectly accepted one place, might be frowned upon somewhere else. So yes, use your references, it's better than going blank. In the end, the worst thing that can happen is to get a 'no', and it's not uncommon knowledge that one will have to work for that one 'yes'. 

You could do your "hobby" programming under a pseudonym, by which it is unlikely anyone would ever know or care. If you had some sort of commercial aspirations this probably wouldn't work out. This is horrible legal advice, and you shouldn't take it as advice. Ultimately it's your employer that has a contract that oversteps what I would consider to be reasonable. 

You would be much better served using colleagues as references, rather than bosses. This might not work in your situation. In that case, you might be better off using references from a previous job where the skills aren't relevant but the reference could speak to your professional attitude and your skills in THAT position. On the resume, there is no need to list individual references with work experience. I would suggest breaking these sections apart, or using a line such as "References available on request" in the footer. This answer applies to situations where your bosses might not like you for any reason. Neck tattoos, whatever. A prospective employer will understand that you aren't particularly willing to use an existing employer as a reference. 

Yes, that's the idea. It's in fact not that uncommon. How much they can change will depend a bit on what else the contract states. Most likely this is to open up for changes that are required in the future. It's not like you'll sign a new contract if you're promoted, thus also given more\different tasks. This requires changes that would possibly go against points in contract, thus requiring new or changed contract. 

Yes, if that is your wish, then your boss should respect that. Your boss might be the one who pay you and give you orders, but they are not really obliged to simply burst in to anyone's office just like that. Even if he\she can see you trough the window, and it might seem you are available, that might still not be the case. You could be writing an important mail, a mail where the content needs to be accurate. You can argue that a knock on the door will disturb the "flow" of mind at that point, and while this would be up to each individual, at least having the chance of finishing that one detail before letting people start a conversation, might help keep the peace of mind. I know for a fact, working in closed office too, that the difference between one who knocks, and one who just burst in, is quite different. Those who knock are polite and quite when allowed to enter, and those who burst in usually don't give a damn if you are busy. Even if I am obviously in the phone! You have the right of peace and quiet when working in an office like you do, your boss should know that. While privacy is generally not something you need or can expect at work, peace when working and general respect from your coworkers is. This is, in the end, more a matter of respect. 

Verification on the surface may actually suffice - that is, you may have your answer after round of brief conversations in the kitchen or during company after-party. Informal setting, simple question, done. "do you think folks like X or Y would admit they have a problem or they don't know the answer? I was wondering lately how we as a team stand on ." "I think X dislikes admitting to not knowing for he believes that makes him look weak. Would you agree?" Later just distinguish if he agreed with "he has this problem" or "it makes one look weak". Changing their perception needs to start from putting "asking for help" and "getting their input" on same level. First has ramification of you being weaker (to some!), second (usually!) implies THEM BEING GOOD ENOUGH to be asked. I usually use both, so the message is clear for everybody around me, that I consider them same. After a while, if I ask somebody for help in X, everybody knows the guy is good with X. Feel free to also employ pre-reviews, especially if you guys do code reviews. Get one technically sound person to pre-review your code and ask what can be done better. Follow on his advice. Then get him to review that code. Guaranteed approve, most of the time. Changing their perception is about showing them the power coming from being liberated and not having to pretend to know it all. Focusing on real job, getting shit done, using THEIR knowledge for it without care if this makes you look weak. Freely admit that team makes you stronger. Thank for good idea here or (jokingly) for "being of use there with this nifty test trick". Is this about reputation? How often you ask? How often you are asked? How much time you spent on "your due" before asking? How much they do? If you ask series of questions without doing basic research, your reputation may take a hit among your peers (not to mention folks lower in hierarchy). If I'm unsure how difficult problem I'm facing, I sometimes do a round and ask (in passing, marking I'm after quick-and-incomplete-on-the-fly-answers). If most of my peers seem to have no inkling about the issue or all are pointing to local expert, I know it's not just me. If some had, I can see if I need to improve here. Which leads to... Have you ruled out rusted (while basic) skills? Perhaps it was an easy question? Recently a very mature junior (older guy, changed careers, very deep learner) told me about seniors in his new workplace. Despite Java 9 coming out and Java 8 being out there for years, they never bothered looking at it and they keep saying how difficult it is. When he coded few things with Java 8, three of them rushed to his screen to look. He slowed down, coded this again so they would see how he did this, proposed he could show something about it if they wanted and generally never made a fuss, but he told me that it was a somewhat bitter-sweet feeling. So, while from your story it doesn't seem to be the case... double-check it. Perhaps your question is generally perceived as easy material? I had a few times asked for things that were easy to find and few moments with Google would've answered me equally well as my unfortunate co-worker who had to spent several minutes with me. I was quite embarrassed later when I found how easy was to find this in Google. Happens to the best among us, I think. Don't get me wrong here. Nobody knows everything. Having rusted skills is a natural thing. But so is being perceived weak - especially by those, who see those skills as a must-have. If in your job, coding is perceived as primary skill, and your coding has rusted (cause you are an architect for instance and are rushed from meeting to meeting), this will change how you are perceived. Deservedly so - strictly on coding-meter you are weaker than you were. Now couple this with bussiness-as-usual and you're too busy to spot this and too busy to fix this. So you ask for help more, because you know others may help much faster than it will take you to re-discover how this or that worked... Similar loss of credibility follows if you deemed an out-of-comfort-zone question too time-consuming while it wasn't (not doing your due before asking). Summary 

Start the dialog with the new boss, and let them come to you. If you can identify their management style, you can somewhat anticipate the best approach. If a boss is not as technical as their subordinates, it will make more sense to acknowledge this and let them ask questions to see how deep they want to go. My advice boils down to: be outgoing and helpful. Let them know you can help them with whatever questions they need. A good manager should be able to figure out what questions they need to ask to manage a team. As other have said, let them settle in. If you never get asked questions regarding processes, etc. then it may make sense to be more forthright with your opinions and suggestions. I would say a lack of questions is a red flag for a new manager. 

I recommend you document your knowledge for your own purposes. You can later determine whether you share the info with the business and your colleagues. In the near term, you reap the benefits of having a reference from a time when information was fresh in your mind. If your employer is about to go through some turmoil, you might find your documentation invaluable, either to them or to you. At some level, you can pass the message that you're just keeping personal notes, and not developing formal documentation for release. Having your own set of notes/documentation can come in handy when creating "official" documentation, as you may have learned skills or tips/tricks that don't apply to the "official" practice but are very useful to you. 

Let's start with a simple question: Is this about promotion? You mentioned cut-throat promotions right after this passage: 

Steps to help him stay From all my experiences, as an employee and as an employer, a decision for firing is made well before the "termination warning is given". However since other answers focus on "can't help him", let me offer you precisely the steps to help him. Let me say also this: I tried them, and they didn't succeed, my colleague was still fired. He was given an extension though and his firing proceeded in a way that made the team know more about it. Some of us chose to look for other jobs. Good luck to you. 

Don't worry. Trust in your skills. If your company values politics and self-selling more than skills, consider moving. Unless there are people you like working with, that's usually a good reason to hang around for a bit longer. Enrich them if that's what you want or need (perhaps a new language or framework to get that promotion or move to that other promising company?) Evaluate your boss on whom he promoted in the past. Self-sellers? Smooth-talkers? Boot-lickers? Hard-workers? Tech wizards? X technology gurus? Then re-evaluate your chances. 

Not illegal, but not really a nice thing to do either. You'd want to avoid that as much as possible. Usually the contract won't take effect before you start, if ever, just a day or so before set start date. In your situation, maybe you'd be best to consult another lawyer while yours is out? 

Depending on where you are located, you can, by law, deny any picture that includes you be kept away or taken down from the net. Exception is images that are pure crowd (think football stadium) where you happen to be visible + some others, but generally public crowd scenarios. Now, pointing at the law will likely make you look like a "tinfoil hat" person, and at the same time dent your group relationship. A simple way is to decline from being part of the picture, but offer yourself to be the one taking the picture. You can further add that they can add your name to the people present at the event (a name is quite meaningless without a face in therms of photos). I see your reasoning, not wishing to have your information spread across the galaxy, but I can assure you, if you are already not using sites like facebook and google+, or any other site where you "need" to add personal information, it's highly unlikely that your information will even be usable for any big company. A simple name connected to a job without any details beyond that, is useless, it tells nothing about who and\or what you are. Companies are usually more interested in your information for add revenue anyway. If they have no idea about your interests, location nor personal detail, you are useless to them. So if no such information is out there, you should be quite safe. 

Let's verify if they do then If they do NOT, do you want to change that or do you want to move? If you want to change that, I'd recommend changing their perception (thanks @BrianD for idea). 

Monitor yourself. Set simple rules when you would ask, when you won't. Keep priorities of the job in mind when asking or asked for help. Weigh in how often you ask / are asked, how much time you / others spend on helping. Compare it to your rivals if you're worried about them overtaking you. Do your due for problems before you ask for solutions / help. Phrase your questions so other know it. Double-check that it's not an easy question, perhaps test how much your peers would take to solve it. Don't mind the junior, his comment may come from simple excitement, that this mighty senior, whom he has enshrined, has things he doesn't know and perhaps can be reached in time.