In summary, compared with the power required (195W) for her to maintain 40km/h (lap average speed) on the velodrome: 

It is often helpful to be able to distinguish which elements of your performance were a result of an improvement in your physiological capability (i.e. your fitness as measured by your power output), your tactical abilities (e.g. pacing) versus other factors (e.g. weather, bike set up etc). There are two main differences in the utility of speed and power as a means to measure these changes in your abilities: 

As a rough rule of thumb, those ratios are approximately right but there is quite a bit of individual variation and there will be more individual variation in the mean maximal power to FTP ratio at shorter durations than at longer ones. If we consider a mean maximal power curve, a plot of the maximal power one is capable of sustaining plotted against duration, it is generally pretty flat from 8 minutes out to many hours. It's not of course totally flat and there are various individual factors that influence the shape of the curve. The slope is greater at the shorter duration, and it has more individual variability there. This example curve taken from Jack Mott's website shows (note time is on a log axis): 

I think Candy 1 SE is a special edition where colors are changed from standard Candy 1 as you can see in the links provided. Candy 1 SE is not even listed at Crank Brothers website. So if you fancy a more exclusive color set and it's cheaper go for the SE! 

Most likely not, you'll notice most flats when you replace your tire because it's worn out. You'll just see your tire loosing pressure from ride to ride, this will indicate you need to add some more sealant. In some occasions you may hear air and see sealant leaking giving you the option to remove the cause of the flat, if visible. Seriously, you'll just forget about flat tires. If what puncture your tire can damage it, probably sealant will just fail but, in my experience, that happens very little. 

Just an observation: With spider based power meters, such as SRM or Quarq, you can test the torque applied to the spider when a weight is hung from the pedal spindle of either crank arm. Torque can be measured down to small fractions of a Nm (which at typical cadences is equivalent to about 1/3rd of a watt). There's not been any systematic asymmetry in the torque measured at the spider for the many dozens of meters I have validated calibration for. 

Workout quality is determined by the power output you can sustain through the course of your effort(s), and if the power is lower than it might be because of a lack of crank inertial load, then the training stimulus will be less. Keep in mind that the most important adaptations are metabolic, not neural. Changes to pedalling action has not been shown to convert to improved power output, except for the specific situation being trained. It's common for people to find riding on low inertia trainers (e.g. cheap magnetic resistance units) unable to generate the same power as when riding a high(er) inertia trainer. The crank inertial load doesn't need to be as high as that experienced in typical outdoor riding, just sufficient to avoid that awful draggy sensation. There are quite a number of published studies about varying crank length and chainring shape. The balance of evidence on these is that on average, such interventions neither harm nor enhance your sustainable or maximal power output. As a general rule of thumb, if you find using a trainer results in a power output 10+% less than you would ordinarily be capable of, then I'd suggest looking at making changes to your trainer set up. That may or may not include increasing the crank inertial load but often means paying attention to other factors such as having adequate cooling (very important) and use of motivational aids. 

I would start loosening pedals so that you can unclip them much easily than you do now but that they don't unclip suddenly when you don't want them to do so. 

Besides what is discussed here it could also be that the back derailleur dropout or the derailleur itself has been bent. If that's the case you won't be able to set up gears properly until it has been aligned. Even it's a new bike it only takes once hitting the wrong place to bend it :(. You can find a number of videos on the net on how to align the derailleur hanger aka dropout. 

It could be some spokes or the rim got damaged. You should try touching them to see if any is broken. If they are loose you should tighten them to align the rim. If you can't do it yourself a bike shop will do it for you easily. Broken spokes can be changed. 

We have regular debates in Australia regarding our mandatory helmet laws. Pretty much all such laws did was to divert attention away from strategies that actually make cycling safer, significantly reduce the cycling participation rates (they more than halved after the laws were introduced) and further marginalised cycling and cyclists in the eyes of general Joe Public road user. As part of those debates I did some research and read various papers on the topic. Interestingly there was a correlation between fatality rates and helmet usage in developed nations - see the chart below. That's not to suggest a causative relationship though. 

Physiologically, there are the neuromuscular demands and the metabolic demands. The neuromuscular demands of motor paced riding are significantly different to solo riding but the metabolic demands, provided the effort level is similar, are pretty much the same. A glance at a Quadrant Analysis of the pedal forces and pedal speeds from motor pace efforts will demonstrate this quite quickly and also show the neuromuscular demands have little physiological specificity with respect to time trial and non-draft triathlon events, but rather simulate more closely the neuromuscular demands of mass start road, crit and track racing. Metabolically, as long as it's ridden at the desired overall intensity, or has sections with desired intensity levels, it will be no more/less beneficial than solo riding at same effort level(s). However even for the TT rider or triathlete it can be a motivational tool to ensure an athlete gets hard training done. i.e. the metabolic impact is similar even if the specificity is reduced. Many sensible purposes for motor pace are: 

I read on José Antonio Hermida's twitter account that the olympic course is clearly for a 29er. He posted some pictures preparing his Merida Big.Nine Carbon Team. This is a 29er hardtail. He was also mounting Sram's new XX1 gears which comprises a single chainring with a 11 gear cassette. This or 2x10 will be most used gears. Also, most riders will use their team's brand 29er, 26er or Scott's 650b (27.5 aprox.) mostly carbon hardtails with a few full suspension. This would include: Merida Big.Nine, Orbea Alma, Specialized Stumjumper, Specialized Epic, Cannondale Flash, etc. 

Motorists (I'm both a cyclist and motorist) use to salute with each other making a "V" sign with the index and middle fingers of the hand with the palm forward. At least it's that way in southern Europe, don't know in other parts of the world. They would understand that with as a symbol of empathy to them. 

Yes, typically you will obtain an improvement in speed by adding clip-on aero bars to your bike. How much extra speed is dependent on many variables though (mostly how it changes your aerodynamics) but a couple of km/h faster is certainly possible. One of the several compromises of adding aero bars to a road bike versus having a dedicated time trial bike is that the clip-on bars are set up fairly high when clamped onto the tops of the road bike bars. They also take up space where you might wish to rest your hands at times and of course unlike a TT bike you need to move hand position to access gear shifters. It's not a big deal if the road is of a very consistent gradient, but will become a bit of a pain if the road is a little more variable. Another factor to consider with such bars is how they affect your saddle position as sometimes it helps to bring the saddle forward a little when stretched out more on bar extensions. Be careful with the clamps and be sure not to over tighten and damage the handlebars, but also don't have them too loose so that they slip when you are riding / go over bumps! If you do try them then take some time to practice riding with them and stay safe! Edit: Since the OP wants some specifics, I'll provide an example. I did some analysis of my own TT performance over a course I raced twice in 2009. It turns out the wind and air density were very similar on both days which meant a direct comparison was reasonably possible. I use various analysis methods to account for variations in environmental conditions, power output and pacing (some of which are derivatives of original work of R. Chung). The first race I rode on my standard road race bike, the second on a borrowed TT bike and using the same clothing and helmet for each ride. I accounted for differences in pacing and power (only 1W difference) and calculated the difference in coefficient of drag area (CdA) which is the primary measure of an object's "aeroness". My CdA reduced from 0.334m^2 on the road bike to 0.286m^2 on the borrowed TT bike, a 14% reduction. Now a 14% reduction in CdA does not mean a 14% improvement in speed. In this case it meant an improvement of 3% in speed or a little over 1km/h. Keep in mind that this wasn't a totally flat course, so on flat ground that would equate to a speed gain of ~1.9km/h. Had I simply added TT bars to my road bike, the speed gains on flat road would have been less. Here is the link detailing the impromptu assessment and data: $URL$ Now these things are individual, so YMMV, and what sort of speed gain is possible for anyone depends a lot on the aero characteristics of the starting position, the ending position and what if any power change is experienced when riding with the TT bars (often riders experience a loss of power when riding in a more aggressively tucked or stretched out position). Further edit: Here's some more sample data, this time showing the difference in CdA for four continental professional riders between their road bike (hands in the drops) and their TT bike. Again it's not clip on aero bars, however it's a good example of the variance in aero improvement between riders when position changes from road position to TT position: 

Next weekend I'll participate in a relay triathlon (1100 mts. swim, 7 kms. run and 13 kms. MTB). I'll be doing the bike section, which is the last. Bike needs to be at the boxes area an hour before the start of the race. I guess I'll start riding about 40 minutes from the start of the race. That's around 100+ minutes since I leave the bike at the box. What can I do to warm up during this time or to start at full power without needing to warm up? I thought about riding a few kms. before parking the bike at the boxes, would it be effective after such a long break? Thanks in advance! 

Some of course use a direct drive rather than a roller pressed against the tyre. Any of these things can and do affect the relationship between wheel speed and power demand. Some changes occur over minutes, and some occur over weeks, months and years. What's more important than the shape of the resistance curve is having a trainer which provides: 

I use sophisticated technology to assess rider aerodynamics in real time and had the chance to perform this experiment at an indoor velodrome (Dunc Gray Velodrome, Sydney), so that we could at least conduct such an experiment in well controlled, no wind, low yaw angle conditions. Test runs were repeated for validation and confirmation of results. The testing protocols and analysis of data provide values for the apparent CdA (coefficient of drag x frontal area, units: m^2) value for each of the test conditions. I then use the apparent CdA data to show the power demand for the test rider to maintain a 40km/h average speed. This is the link to my write up, which includes links to other experiments and published science on the topic. Here are the summary of the data in chart and table form, which show the power required for the test rider to maintain 40km/h while riding solo, and with the other rider in various relative positions: 

Tired of patching/replacing tubes I finally decided to convert my wheels to tubeless using this kit: $URL$ I know there are several other on the market (e.g.: DT-Swiss has a tubeless kit as well) but my local bike shop recommended me this one. I decided to install it because in my area, this winter, a lot of vegetation has been cut around the trails and everyone is having lots of flats due to the spikes on the ground. I haven't had a flat since I installed the tubeless kit. I had almost one (sometimes 2) per ride before! Another advantage of removing the tubes is making the wheels lighter. 

Absolutely! I've been using tubeless with sealant for years on my mountain bikes and can count the flats I had since with one single hand.