I was reading An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding by David Hume, specifically the section titled On Liberty and Necessity (both parts). Hume reconciles liberty with metaphysical necessity by an ingenious argument, which I think is called the compatibilist position in the debate between determinism and free will. Essentially, Hume declares that the conflict between liberty and necessity is a verbal argument, and argues that everyone actually agrees with both the doctrine of necessity and of liberty when both are properly defined. While I usually greatly enjoy and generally agree upon Hume's philosophical expositions, I felt in this section that Hume was engaging in a kind of word jugglery, evading the actual metaphysical question. I was wondering whether any other philosophers hold this sentiment and went further to formulate serious objections towards the compatibilist doctrine. 

He states that Avicenna and his followers have erred in seventeen points (each one of which he addresses in detail in a chapter, for a total of 17 chapters) by committing heresy. But in three other chapters, he accuses them of being utterly irreligious. Among the charges that he leveled against the philosophers is their inability to prove the existence of God and inability to prove the impossibility of the existence of two gods. The twenty points are as follows: Refuting the doctrine of the world's pre-eternity. Refuting the doctrine of the world's post-eternity. Showing their equivocation of the following two statements: God is the creator of the world vs. the world is God's creation. The inability of philosophers to prove the existence of the Creator. The inability of philosophers to prove the impossibility of the existence of two gods. The philosopher's doctrine of denying the existence of God's attributes. Refutation of their statement: "the essence of the First is not divisible into genus and species". Refutation of their statement: "the First is simple existent without quiddity". Their inability to demonstrate that the First is not a body. Discussing their materialist doctrine necessitates a denial of the maker. Their inability to show that the First knows others. Their inability to show that the First knows Himself. Refuting that the First does not know the Particulars. Refuting their doctrine that states: "the heavens are an animal that moves on its own volition". Refuting what they say regarding the reason that the heavens move. Refuting their doctrine that the heavens are souls that know the particulars. Refuting their doctrine that disruption of causality is impossible. Refuting their statement that the human soul is a self-sustaining substance that is neither a body nor an accident. Refuting their assertion of the impossibility of the annihilation of the human soul. Refuting their denial of bodily resurrection and the accompanying pleasures of Paradise or the pains of Hellfire. Beyond heresy The three irreligious ideas are as follows: The theory of a pre-eternal world. Ghazali wrote that God created the world in time and just like everything in this world time will cease to exist as well but God will continue on existing. God only knows the universal characteristics of particulars - namely Platonic forms. Bodily resurrection will not take place in the hereafter only human souls are resurrected. Ocassionalism The Incoherence of the Philosophers is famous for proposing and defending the Asharite theory of occasionalism. Al-Ghazali wrote that when fire and cotton are placed in contact, the cotton is burned directly by God rather than by the fire, a claim which he defended using logic. 

What we can reasonably safely say though, is that any regular action that a god takes in our bit of spacetime e.g. answering prayers, either doesn't violate the laws of physics or the gods are being super sneaky about the violations. Edit. As Arthur has correctly pointed out in the comments, this answer assumes the existence of a god or gods. This assumption was present in the question so I felt it reasonable to answer with that assumption intact. For the record, I do not rule out the possibility that there are no god or gods. Though any clear determination in that regard would render Philosophy.SE much less fun. 

It's largely historic. If you look at the equivalent in the ex-Warsaw pact countries you see that (what you call) cultural right tends to align with economic left and vice versa. What you're mostly seeing is a split between a traditional/conservative grouping and a liberal/modernising grouping. There are some logical connections though. For example, it follows that someone wanting to use laws to affect social change e.g. with LGBT rights, also is comfortable with the state being significantly involved in people's private lives. It is harder to reconcile a small government philosophy with significant anti-discrimination legislation though not impossible (I tend to that view for example). Similarly, it is reasonable to assume that someone who wants to affect social inequality needs to be willing to use the state, and particularly the state's finances, to effect that change. Again, a small goverment/laissez-faire approach is hard to reconcile with, say, a significant welfare state. 

Poetry is a form of expression of ideas or emotions. Usually with some kind of rhythmical meter or structure to the language (otherwise it's prose). But the definition is vague; sometimes the only distinguishing feature is that a poet wrote it (and yes, this is circular). The idea that is being expressed in the poetry can be philosophical. But usually it isn't nor is poetry the usual expression of philosophical ideas. So any claims to identity between poetry and philosophy are pretty tenuous. As to your two quotes. The Einstein quote is definitely expressing a philosophical idea. Whether you consider it poetry or not is debatable. He's used repetition as a rhetorical device to elicit a response similar to rhythm in poetry. But it's probably a stretch to call it poetry. I'm going to be ungenerous to the Schmitz quote and classify it as trite, meaningless doggerel. Now, in the sense that doggerel is poetry and philosophy can sometimes be trite and meaningless, one could argue that this is both. But I won't be doing that. 

Here, no proof is given (most of Spinoza's propositions are proven, but for simple ones at the beginning Spinoza merely cites the appropriate definitions and axioms). Hence, it appears that this proposition should follow from definition iv. Now, definition iv states 

Averroes attempted to refute this work with his The Incoherence of the Incoherence, which defends Aristotlean thought. However, this work was poorly received compared to Al Ghazali's critique. The main thing was that Al Ghazali had written a fairly well reasoned attack on the philosopher's account of metaphysics, which conflicted with orthodox islamic thought, and instead presented the case for the supremacy of god and orthodox islamic consensus while showing the Aristotleans to be heretical, thus garnering the title "Proof of Islam". So deeply entrenched then was his philosophical account that Averroes account, which went against the tide of Islamic account and to the eyes of his contemporaries, against islam itself, was bound to fail. Indeed, many of Al Ghazali's ideas can be found in the works of later philosophers (Descarte presents the idea that every moment is willed from god in the meditations, for example, and Kant raised some critiques of metaphysics that are similar to Al Ghazali's). In Christian thought however, despite the critiques of Averroes which echo Al Ghazali, the explicit philosophical movement of ocassionalism never took hold. Hence, Aristotle's ideas were still considered useful to an extent. St. Thomas Aquinas, despite disagreeing with and attacking Averroes's metaphysical positions, still incorporates Aristotlean thought in his works such as the Summa Theologica, finding several Aristotlean concepts useful. In Judaism, a similar dynamic occurs, wherein the philosophy of ocassionalism never took hold. In short, Averroes's metaphysics is rejected by all three Abrahamic faiths. However, the critiques of Al Ghazali against the entire Greek tradition, and the establishment of the doctrine of ocassionalism in Islamic thought, was unique to Islamic philosophy, and made it less receptive to Averroes's commentaries on Aristotle. The philosophical tides were more receptive however in Christian and Jewish philosophy, explaining why Averroes had a more profound impact on these two philosophical traditions. 

Indeed not. Nor do the constellations revolve around the Earth. Once you know these two things, then the only appropriate response to astrology is "Oops, silly me". 

The answer for a large number of fields, including philosophy, is no. There is a lot of academic work published that has no touching points to anything remotely scientific. There is also a fair amount of research that probably should be more scientific than it is but that's a separate matter. Next I'll answer the question, again paraphrased 

is a perfectly reasonable logical statement. What you are doing is asserting a truth for the purposes of making logical deductions. For example, you could take this statement, add some others then apply logical rules to deduce further statements. Now, whether the logical system you have produced is of any practical use or interest is a separate matter. Even if it's completely meaningless it can be, nonetheless, a perfectly valid logical system. is a perfectly valid, perfectly useless logical scheme. That's not to say making logical statements that are controversial is inherently pointless. For example, say you incorporated this statement with others. Now, you apply logical operators and ended up with the statement . You now have a logical inconsistency which would imply, in your logical scheme, that God's existence is a logical contradiction. Whether this ends up as being know as Hamid's Paradox or whatever will, of course, depend on exactly how uncontroversial the other statements turned out to be. It's also probably worth pointing out that, as God's existence is an input to your logical scheme, the only valuable thing regarding God's existence that you could reasonably deduce would be the contradiction above. 

I don't see why you'd need to be a working scientist to agree with this statement. Nor, in fact, do you need to believe in the truth of all scientific theories. What you would need to do is disbelieve theories that contradict all the empirical evidence available to us. That's a somewhat lower bar in my opinion.