I've read once there is a text about the Sun, which is created to use words and concepts which shall be present in any human language, and which is translated nearly to all human languages for using by linguists to show basic grammar, morphology and syntax. It contains phrases like "we like it very much", "we appreciate its coming each morning", "We all say 'Hello, Sun!'" Regrettably there were no links to the text. Could anybody please point me to this text and its canonical translations? Is it used in common tradition, as this lost source states, or it's specific to a single scholar school? 

Russian is an example of language which uses borrowing of foreign words actively for a few reasons: I. Loanword expresses something that have not a representation yet (obvious case, and isn't a case in question). II. Loanword is shorter and/or more convenient. For example, the complex clause "электронно-вычислительная машина" or its indeclinable abbreviation "ЭВМ" is replaced with "компьютер" ('computer'), and this replacement had finished just immediately after USSR collapse, when old moral rules had got down. III. Loanword is used due to fashion, or speaker lasiness to find an existing word for the same. This is typical for wide crowd of business related people (mainly "office plankton"), for IT people and some other branches which are led mainly by English literature, which borrow words with the described phenomena, even if the native language has words for the same sense. Such borrowings aren't stable and are actively criticised even by speakers' colleagues. IV. Loanword is used to express some specific flavor of word sense, which isn't distinguished from a main sense in own word. For example, "тенденция" ('tendency') was neutral for centuries, but, in the current business slang, it is definitely negative; instead, "тренд" ('trend') is used for positive meaning. This difference isn't reflected yet in printed dictionaries but it is marked by (IIRC) most of audience; it has appeared due to reasons described in (III) but, unlike most of those words, has been surviving for years. Also, IT is full of such borrowings. 

Your question isn't exact because you didn't describe whether the word should have exact equivalent or it's enough to have a rather synonym in another language but with essential semantic difference. My favorite example is couple of English words "issue" and "problem" and their translation to Russian. The technical support team at my work is especially trained to use "issue" for any thing which is treated by customer as something which needs explanation or fixing; but it's very hard to translate "issue" to Russian because all translations have a main sense more closer to some another English word; e.g. "вопрос" is "question", "тема" is "topic", "предмет" is "subject" or "thing" or even "agenda", and so on. Similar discussions in Russian tends to use "проблема", but it's much softer than English "problem"; the latter generally means a kind of principal discrepancy, which solving needs even some sacrifice, while Russian "проблема" is closer to "issue" in its level but not in kind ("issue" can be a feature request or even a polite suggestion). So, it's impossible to give a one-to-one translation for English "issue" or "problem" to Russian; each translation variant needs detection of importance level and selecting a proper equivalent among more than ten similar words. Whether is it similar to colors for you, I don't know, but anyway this isn't for colors. 

Both words come from the root זכר, but are in different conjugations (binyanim). לִזְכּוֹר or זָכַר is in the kal (pa'al) conjugation, and לְהִזָּכֵר or נִזְכָּר is in the nif'al conjugation. Etymologically, זָכַר is a transitive verb meaning "to remember," and this meaning goes as far back as Biblical Hebrew. נִזְכָּר, on the other hand, means "to be remembered" in Biblical Hebrew and is intransitive. In Mishnaic Hebrew, נִזְכָּר is first used with the meaning "to remember" and usually appears as נִזְכָּר שֶׁ- meaning "to remember that...". In modern Hebrew, נִזְכָּר is usually followed by בְּ- "to remember about..." (since the word is still intransitive). Semantically, נִזְכָּר differs from זָכַר in that it carries a connotation of realizing, i.e. remembering something that had previously been forgotten, whereas זָכַר can refer to uninterrupted remembering. For example, one dictionary defines זָכַר as 

According to the Tok Pisin Wikibook, Tok Pisin does have compound prepositions beyond the two "basic" prepositions. 

Latin æ represented /ai̯~ae̯/ and monophthongized later to /e:/. The digraph simply ea represented the sequence /ea/. Old English æ represented the vowel /æ/ or /æ:/, and ea represented the diphthong /æɑ̯/ or /æːɑ̯/. In Middle English, /æ/ merged with /ɑ/ as /a/, and /æ:/ heightened to /ɛ:/ and was written ea. You can read about vowels in Latin or Old English on Wikipedia. Your observation that e is short and adding a makes it long isn't exactly correct. The long version of e /e/ in Middle English orthography was ee /e:/, and ea was a separate long /ɛ:/ (historically from Old English /æ:/). The fact that some English words spelled with ea (such as great) are pronounced with the vowel /eɪ/ has nothing to do with the pronunciation of æ as /e:/ in later Latin. 

So Tok Pisin does have more than two prepositions when there is a need to make a distinction between different ones. However, a lack of prepositions doesn't necessarily mean that it's impossible to express complex philosophical ideas — it just means that the ideas are different than what we're used to. For instance, Ugaritic doesn't distinguish between motion towards ("to") and motion away ("from"), both being l /li/. But many cases in which it would be natural for an English speaker to say "to" use the preposition "with" (‘m /ʕimma/). I don't speak Tok Pisin, but the case could be similar here. 

I want to know whether there is a technical term, preferably an accepted one, for the following type of parenthesis (bold): (1) You are, I believe, not healthy. The (bold) parenthesis always consists of a subject (often a pronoun) and an illocative verb: think, believe, etc. See for Russian: Iordanskaya & Mel'čuk (2011). Personally, I'm not convinced that Iordanskaya & Mel'čuk have it right, though. The English data are less compelling than the German data. This type of construction looks as if it could be recovered in derivational syntax theories. However, data from German throw doubt on this assumption: (2) Sie würde dem, (so) glaube ich, niemals zustimmen. 'She would, I believe, never agree with that.' The parenthesis in (2) shows VS-order, with the optional adverb so. Note that the parenthesis cannot be the main clause because the propositional object (the clause without the parenthesis) cannot be preceded by a subordinator, such as dass. If you know what this construction is called, or if you should know of an analysis of this kind of structure, please post an answer. Please avoid lengthy discussions in the comment section. 

(a) is more appropriate because at the beginning of the story no context is available. Everything is new information, hence unspecified. (b), on the other hand, creates the impression that a context already exists, even though you may not have been aware of it. But this distinction is not expressed by words like the English determiners, but rather by the (non-)appearance of -wa. The use of kono et.al. in (a-b) would be totally meaningless. Since specification in Japan uses an entirely different mechanism than determiners, one may ask why Japanese should have two mechanisms of specification. A partial conclusion is the words kono et.al. lack the expression of specification usually ascribed to determiners. 2. Genus A second observation concerns an additional function of determiners in, e.g. Germanic and Romance languages, namely the expression of grammatical genus. English, which has expression of genus on in its pronouns, is a stand-alone; its other Germanic family members clearly distinguish genus, and their determiners are their forms of expressions. Determiners, as we know them, have two tasks: they mark a degree of specification, and they mark genus. (They also mark number, but this function does not apply to Japanese at all, so I dispense with it.) Our (eurocentric) perspective on genus may be biased if we tend to associate “genus” with natural sexes. That is not how many other languages express their genera. “Genus” is simply a way of carving up a world full of objects, and assigning these objects a meaningful place in a system of subclasses. Grammatical genus is such a cognitively transparent matter that we can immediately understand the Kiswahili genus system of persons, natural objects, groups, artifacts, etc. In Japanese, genus is expressed by classifiers, such as -nin/mei [person] -hon [elongated object] -mai [flat object] -hiki [small animal] -too [big animal] to name but a few. These suffixes express genus, which in Germanic and Romance languages is the task of determiners. Again one may ask why Japanese should have a class of determiners, if they neither contribute in specification, nor in the expression of genus. A partial conclusion is the words kono et.al. lack the expression of genus usually ascribed to determiners. 3. Occurrence The final observation has partially been made in previous answers: a. kono et.al. appear in word-order positions within the NP that are not associated with determiners. 

The Oxford English Dictionary quotes early attestations for most of the words in the dictionary. The latest edition is available online, but most of the entries require a payed subscription to access them. The first edition is out of copyright and available for free at archive.org (links to each volume are given here). 

The syllabic l (IPA /l̩/) is no different than the ordinary consonant /l/ in place of articulation, but takes the place of a vowel in a syllable. The dark l (IPA /ɫ/) is a velarized (or pharyngealized) form of the consonant /l/, meaning that back of the tongue simultaneously articulates an /l/ and is raised at the velum (or pharynx). Each can exist independently of each other. Neither has to do with whether the tip of the tongue touches the roof of the mouth (which is the distinction between apical/laminal consonants). In English, every syllabic l is also a dark l (and could therefore be written [ɫ̩] in IPA), e.g. "apple" [æpɫ̩]. However, a dark non-syllabic l exists at the coda (end) of a syllable, as in "pool" [pu:ɫ]. 

Greek had the /h/ phoneme only at the beginning of a word, and it was marked with a diacritic (rough breathing sign) rather than with a letter. Koine Greek lost the /h/ phoneme and early manuscripts (such as Codex Sinaiticus and Codex Vaticanus) didn't mark rough breathing, or had it added by a later scribe (according to their respective Wikipedia pages), and so they don't offer evidence on how it was pronounced. Latin, which did have represent /h/ with a letter, would translate the rough breathing as "h". Since readers unschooled in Hebrew had to guess for themselves whether the Greek word began with a rough breathing mark, both Ierousalem and Hierousalem, Ieremias and Hieremias existed in Greek. Alexander Sperber wrote an article with a list of Greek transliterations (Septuagint and Origen) and Latin transliterations (Jerome) of Hebrew words. Since the Greek words don't mark breathing, only the Latin is helpful here. Jerome uses i/j for this letter; he never uses "hi" to translate words beginning with Hebrew yod (his full list is on p. 124). Jerome, who learned Hebrew, certainly would have had no doubt as to the correct pronunciation. Apparently, the rough breathing interpretation won out, because that was what was borrowed into Latin. It certainly helped that hieros meant "sacred" in Greek (that point made here), which would have been meaningful to Christians who considered Jerusalem a holy city, but also could have been a simple hypercorrection. Notably, names such as Iesous are never (to my knowledge, at least) spelled Hiesous, which might support the theory of a hieros misunderstanding, but if names such as Hiakobus are indeed attested, I can only explain this as having been made by analogy to words such as Hierousalem. So the "hi" spelling in Latin Hierusalem, Hieremias, etc. would have necessarily come through Greek, and not directly from Hebrew. 

tl;ndr No, Japanese doesn’t have determiners. Since it is requested that “credible and/or official” sources be named in the answer, I would recommend taking a look at Bernard Bloch: 1970. Bernard Bloch on Japanese. 1970. R.A. Miller (ed.). New Haven/London: Yale University Press. Bloch had many lucid things to say about Japanese, and I doubt he assumed determiners in Japanese. Unfortunately, I cannot verify that with page numbers because I’m on a sabbatical with no access to his work. For those who read German, I suggest taking a look at Jens Rickmeyer: 1995. Japanische Morphosyntax. Heidelberg: Julius Groos Verlag. Rickmeyer bases his account of Japanese morphosyntax in large part on Bloch. Rickmeyer rejects determiners, and calls the words in question adnominals. Finally, I don’t believe that a discussion of functional categories in GB/MP can meaningfully contribute to an answer - even though I share their conclusion, but for other reasons. In this answer I want to base my answer on common ground, on assumptions that most of us can share without compromising any personal or professional tenets. I think there is enough common ground enabling a conclusion if we ponder the next three observations. I will also work from the premise that demonstratives are not by default determiners. Else, Japanese would have determiners because it has demonstratives. The first and second observations are concerned with the tasks we usually attribute to determiners, namely specification and the expression of genus. The third observation concerns the syntactic behavior of kono et.al., some of which have already been mentioned in other posts. 1. Specification The first observation concerns one function of determiners, namely specification. Specification is gradient, ranging from unspecified (Engl. a) to specified (Engl. _the). But kono et.al. only specify objects with respect to proximity and distance referring to speaker and/or addressee. This is clearly different from the kind of specification that accompany determiners in Germanic and Romance languages. In fact the latter kind of specification is expressed in Japanese by the absence or presence of the topic marker -wa. Image you are about to read a short-story. The first sentence may be either (a) or (b): 

(10) now has an article, namely the one that must appear in the plural of indefinite nouns and of uncountable nouns. To construe Tim Osborne's (3b) as something I would be forced to uphold is a strawman-argument. Tim Osborne's examples (4) are irrelevant because they show VP-ellipsis in English. These data do not contribute to an understanding of the German data. There are two counter-arguments against the pronoun hypothesis: 1.If einer is a pronoun, rather than an inflected article, then two scenarios are possible. A. The pronoun is morphologically exocentric. That means that the word/part of speech class of einer cannot be derived from the combination of ein, an article, and -er, or other inflectional affixes. Since -er is an inflectional suffix, it cannot cause derivation. We would have to assume