In general, the rocks deep inside a mountain (or simply super old rocks) have also undergone a lot of compression, so sedimentary rocks will be unlikely as you would have converted them into metamorphic rocks, e.g. limestones would be marble, sandstones would be quartzites (like the Tepuis), shales would be slates (or schists, etc.), etc. Similarly, metamorphic rocks that have undergone a higher degree of compressional and thermal stress (i.e. deeper in the mountain) will grow larger crystals. 

As Gary mentioned, it really depends on particular context for your mountain. How did it form? Is it volcanic in nature? Or maybe just old rocks being uplifted by some episode of compression. On average, Earth's crust is pretty much granite. So chances are that you will find that inside your mountain. That wouldn't be a bad assumption. Granites form by cooling magma slowly, so most volcanic-type mountains are made of granite or something similar. For example, the Andes (below) are made of fine-grained Andesite near the surface and Diorite (Andesite's coarse-grained version, which is similar to Granite, but not quite) at depth. 

The impedance inversion problem asks: "Recover acoustic impedance from seismic reflection waveforms". The forward modeling procedure from acoustic impedance to seismic reflection waveforms involves calculating reflection coefficients and then convolving these with a wavelet. Let's assume, for now, that you have perfect seismic resolution and therefore your wavelet is of infinite bandwidth. This means that the inversion problem becomes: "Recover the acoustic impedance from a given set of reflection coefficients". As shown by Peterson et al. (1955), for small contrasts in acoustic impedance, the reflection coefficient equation can be linearized as shown below. Linear problems are much much easier to solve computationally than non-linear. This makes the forward model calculation a simple difference, the discrete analog to a derivative. Note: this is for normal incidence but a similar analysis can be done for non-normal incidence. 

Finally, transverse isotropy is just an approximation to the much more complex nature of real rocks. If you were to add multiple sets of fractures to a rock on top of its layered nature, you will need to use a "less symmetric" model to describe it: orthorhombic, monoclinic, or triclinic. But for most practical purposes, transverse isotropy does a pretty good job. Hope this helps! 

The image above shows the process by which we get new (left) oceanic crust, (right) continental crust, and (middle) a special type of crust like that in Hawaii. Note that when two tectonic plates collide, the more dense one will tend to subduct under the other. 

Of course, like anything in geology, other complex scenarios do exist where these rules of thumb don't work. But in general, this should get you started. Anyway, hope that helps. 

You are correct. Isotropy means that the property at some specified point (X,Y,Z) is the same, whether the measurement is made along any direction. If the property varies depending on which direction you make the measurement in, then that property is said to be "anisotropic". For example, the permeability of a material (i.e. its ability to conduct fluids) may be anisotropic if fluid can move preferentially in one direction and it would be difficult for it to move in a different direction (like the tubes below). This means, the permeability of this material at a given point (X,Y,Z) depends on which direction you make the measurement, i.e. high permeability parallel to the tubes, low permeability otherwise. 

The paper you linked lists as its first reference Volokin and ReLlez, 2014; a paper that addresses the magnitude of the Earth's greenhouse effect. The validity of the paper you found largely hinges on the reputation of the Volokin and ReLlez, so we will investigate that one first. The science of Volokin and ReLlez The traditional way to determine the 'greenhouse effect' of a planet is to compare actual planetary temperatures with Stefan-Boltzmann blackbody temperature based on the luminosity of the star, distance from star, and the albedo and emissivity of the planet. This calculation is done in Volokin and ReLlez and can also be found on Wikipedia. Volokin and ReLlez are arguing that the actual greenhouse effect should be measured using the albedo of a bare planet stripped of its clouds. The Earth's albedo is 0.294, but they propose a bare albedo of the Earth of between 0.122 and 0.13. They then make an argument that simple albedo calculations are not very accurate, and that a use of Holder's Inequality should be used to integrate the effects of albedo and radiation incidence angle over the exposed surface of the bare planet. Redoing the Stefan-Boltzmann expected temperature calculations with this new method, they then calculate that actual 'greenhouse effect' of the Earth is more like 90 K, instead of the 33 K normally cited. This is significant because temperature magnitude of the Earth's greenhouse effect affects the climate sensitivity factor of global warming models. I actually think this paper is pretty interesting. The core of its mathematical arguments seems valid (though I didn't try to work any of it out myself) However, the conclusions are not very good, and not very related to much of the mathematical arguments in the body. While there is an argument to be made that calculating expected surface temperature should assume a bare planet, the authors are basically concluding that all temperature differences between the bare planet and the observed Earth should be assigned to the greenhouse effect. That just isn't supported by the information they present. The Earth's actual atmosphere and biosphere are much more dynamic than the bare model they are presenting; the formation of high-albedo clouds by equatorial rainforests,and the presence of high-albedo sand in the sunniest places on Earth are just two non-greenhouse related effects that account for temperature differences between the author's ideal bare Earth and the real Earth. While they consider a lot of interesting factors, I think Volokin and ReLlez are guilty of making too much of a spherical cow estimate. The author's make an argument for one thing, then make some huge leaps to an unsupported conclusion. All in all, I don't think that the author's conclusion of a 90 K greenhouse effect is valid. The publication of the reference Whatever its scientific merits, the paper doesn't look very good upon meta review. First off, the authors used fake names to publish the paper in an open access site. In fact, it is the same two authors of the paper you linked, except that they spelled their names backwards (Nikolov -> Volokin; Zeller -> ReLlez). Ummm...what? Also, they later retracted the paper. Also also, the journal they published in is now defunct. All in all, this is not a sign that the paper is good science. Back to the original paper So the paper that you are asking about (Nikolov and Zeller, 2017) is based on a paper by the same authors which has not-very-good conclusions, and was generally published in a shady manner. That's a big black mark at the very outset. This paper is pretty long and detailed, and I admit I did not read all of it. But the kill shot for me was on the very first page: 

No, because fresh rainfall has no salt in it, so as long as the river keeps moving the salt has no time to accumulate. Only stagnant sources of water on land, like lakes with no outlet, can become saline. 

I am trying to identify the rock below. It was found in Red Rock Canyon, Colorado Springs, CO. Since amazonite is common in that area, I assume the blue green crystal is amazonite, but cannot figure out what the orangish matrix is. It may be some kind of feldspar, but there are a lot possibilities, orthoclase, sandinite, etc. Need geological expertise: 

Is there a way to make Google Earth (or other similar resource) show just the elevation so I can easily see where hills and valleys are in my area? 

In "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea" by Jules Verne there is a reference to a "tempest" that destroyed Yeddo (Tokyo) in Japan: 

In many cases when I find interesting rocks they are worn and rounded off so the crystalline structure is not clear. How can I determine what kind of crystal it is in those cases? Is there a simple instrument that can be used to determine the angle of a crystal, even if it is worn and rounded? 

Is there any way to get barometric time series for regions of the United States? I know that barometric maps are widely available, but in my case I want to see a time series for one region. However, I have not found any comprehensive source for weather time series data including pressure readings. Does that exist? 

The ancient fortress of Masada is currently so dry and forbidding that is hard to imagine anyone living there. Was the climate in the surrounding area more wet 2000 years ago, or was it as much a desert as it is now? 

I understand the process of volcanism and the reason for magma deposition on the surface of the earth. What is not clear to me, or what seems to be less well explained is why eruptions occur and then stop. What is the operative cause or causes of a flow to start or stop? As far as my understanding goes there would seem to be two possible obvious explanations: (1) The magma rises in bubbles, like a lava lamp, through the earth, so the flow begins when the bubble reaches the surface and stops when the bubble is exhausted. (2) The magma rises as a constant stream, but causes earth to build up around the stream, eventually snuffing it out by mass accumulation. In this explanation, the lava constantly searches for thin spots where it erupts until it blocks itself off, then the pressure forces its way through some new location. Are either or both of these explanations correct or incorrect? Is there a mechanism I have not considered? 

I used to live in San Diego and I remember the occasional wild fire; My dad standing on the roof, watering it with a garden hose. I have lived in New England, however, for the last 40 years and have not seen a wild fire yet. Why not? Just too wet here?