Already some great answers here: Along with the purpose of tieing them to a sling, and mainly for pulling the shoes while putting on or taking them off, I use them as an additional loop to pass the excess shoelace. This only makes sense with a shoe with high anklets. 

I had never been a gifted kind of a climber being more fascinated by Backpacking than Rock Climbing. Its been almost 2 years that I did some genuine climbing. And, I am planning to resume it very soon. But, Instead of gambling with any actual climbing place I intend to get in touch with it, and do some basic sets of exercise so that I can get back to where I was. Over this long break, I have had a major lower back injury around 8 months back and a Toe injury(which made me limp for about 2 weeks) couple of months ago during trekking. So I want to ask for any sort of drills with which I can determine what I need to practice more so that I can get into climbing. Due to work place issue, I am going to be away from the Wall and the equipment for about a month from now. But if I can work out on something during this span in order to get into the position where I can resume, would be glad to know! 

I have heard and hence used the term 'Mittens' for those that I use while rappelling. But, the ones that I use for bike-riding are referred as 'Gloves'. Is there a difference between Gloves and Mittens? Is the difference depending upon the following? If it makes easy, we can limit out scope to: 

They are all members of the Viperidae family, the pit vipers. There is reason why they are called pit vipers, all these snakes have a pair of pits that help them get the heat signatures and even the fractions of temperature changes within a few feet distance. There is also a Jacobson's Organ, which perceives the chemical data received by flipping of their tongue every now and then. (Not exactly the smell, but chemical data is perceived as smell, that said, Snakes can't sniff, literally!). The data from these two Vomeronasal Organs together is what the snake use to estimate the distance between it and the prey. Additional minute details of how it happens, which you can afford to skip reading as its not necessarily important in here with this answer: When the tongue is flicked out into the air, receptors on the tongue pick up minuscule chemical particles, which are perceived as scent. When the tongue is retracted into its sheath, the tips of the tongue fit neatly into the Jacobson's organ, sending the chemical information that has been gathered through the organ and to the brain, where the information is quickly processed and analyzed so that the snake can act promptly on it. The point is: 

Some Technical Data One of the factors that makes K2 so challenging is the sustained technical difficulty. Period! It is like a cone of ice and limestone, and has slopes of 45 degree angles or more. Climbers typically fix up to 2,500 meters of rope on the south side routes, and up to 5,000 meters of rope on the north ridge route. It is a consistently steep pyramid, dropping quickly in almost all directions. Speaking of the weather, the sudden storms are caused in part because the peak is so much higher than the mountains around it, it juts up into the upper layers of the atmosphere and like a rock in a river can create eddies in the jet stream, with good weather on one side of the mountain, and life-threatening conditions on the other. That is not exactly the case for Mt. Everest, it being surrounded by another 2 Eight-Thousanders. Speaking of technical difficulties: That said, its a fact that Mt. Everest is not a walk-in-a-park and Any-Rich-Tom-Dick-Harry-can-summit thing either, but apart from void weather and a moderately difficult ice wall before "Hillary's Step", Mt. Everest unarguably put much less challenges to a summit-optimist at higher shoulders of the mountain where rescue is difficult and unlikely, as compared to that of K2, Eiger, etc. K2 has its own agenda to deny a summit by means of Serac and Bottleneck above Camp IV. There is no need to even comment about how tough it is. Once Chris Bonigton was asked, "What makes K2 such tough mountain to climb, even than Mt. Everest". He had replied, "It's enormous, very high, incredibly steep and much further north than Everest which means it attracts notoriously bad weather," On the North face Eiger there is are 2 technical challenges much talked about. One of them is called "Hinterstoisser traverse" named after Andreas Hinterstoisser and the other one is called as "The Traverse of the Gods". Personally, I had my jaw-dropped when I first watched a documentary on Eiger North Face route. All the North Faces in the Swiss Alps were already climbed, but Eiger had parried away all attempts till it was first climbed on July 24, 1938 by Anderl Heckmair, Ludwig Vörg, Heinrich Harrer and Fritz Kasparek in a German–Austrian party. I have not read and studied much about Nanga parbat, so it will be inappropriate to comment about the technical difficulties it offer. For Annapurna the technical difficulty is considered to be graded over Hard Severe for the climbing parts of it. The fact that it is considered as the one of the most sensitive Avalanche-Prone areas, adds more woes to climber's expedition. Overall, the technical difficulty level, Weather, Local Support altogether make world's few mountains tough ones to scale. The same goes without saying for many other mountains in the world which have considerably lower number of successful summits and a relatively dangerous Death to Summit ratio. 

Does the height gain and the distance matter? Yes it does! Because these are all tall mountains and located at a higher altitude, the small change in weather is a major concern and the night sinks in so bad. The actual time for the Summit from the Pre-Summit Camp is a very short time-window. The Expeditions always have (if not, then should have) agreed upon a TAT (Turn Around Time). Turn Around Time is what ethical mountaineers refer as the time, clocking which every expedition member should turn back to the lower camp, no matter how close the summit is. This window between Start of the Summit attempt and TAT is substantially favorable for an expedition team in case of Everest as compared to the other mountains. 

The Garlic and Onion are most common members of Allium family. The Allium family members are known for by far the most common domestic methods to reduce (Does not mean control / Balance) Cholesterol, High blood pressure (hypertension) and the incidence of flu. Garlic is a good Blood thinner. When chopped, most of the Allium family produce Allicin, which is strong in oudor (is that a reason they also repel flees). Basically its a compound that has antibacterial and antifungal properties as well. Garlic in addition to that also contains Garlic Sulphides (chemically speaking, Diallyl Disulphide) which is a substance (under controlled manner) that works in relaxing blood vessels while also reducing any pressure, ultimately reducing the Cholesterol and reducing the Blood Pressure. Along with that, Garlic also has the ability to stimulate Hydrogen Sulphide and Nitric Oxide synthase production, these work in relaxing blood vessels. But I am not entirely sure about this when I discussed this with a friend of mine who is a doctor. According to him, its still a globally debated topic if the Hydrogen Sulphide and Nitric Oxide work together and do the magic or they are mutually exclusive. But yes as long as you and I are not Doctors to debate about it, Garlic helps with Hypertension in numerous ways. I have always been told that Sherpas always eat more Garlic-rich food. I wouldn't say it balances the Blood Pressure. But yes, should you be considering Garlic in All time best Mountaineering Diet? Hell Yeah! 

Its rather a 'Do-whatever-you-want-and-get-away' kind of a safety aid. Its suitable for Swimmers as well Non-swimmers in troubled water. Absolute safety, rather as @nivag said, its more of a inflatable Life-Jacket and indeed gives reasonable assurance of safety from drowning. 

What are alternate options that one can use as a sleeping pad if he/she doesn't have one along? P.S.: Lets assume that he/she has a tent. And we are not talking about any sorts of extreme weather and altitude. 

Do we have an answer? Some might say, Yes. I'd strongly say No. It can be a Western Yellow-bellied Racer, but I can't be sure unless we discuss about size of the snake. The main beauty and science of identifying a snake or a bird is the detailing. The more you read, the more interesting it gets. References: Majorly taken from $URL$ 

To answer the real question: Is the skin on a snake's underside tougher than on its topside? I think the whole answer above makes it pretty clear its less about the scales and its toughness, but more about how the snake moves. Yet to literally answer the questions, I am really bumped up, can't really tell if there is one theory that can be applied to all the snakes. The underside scales (Subcaudal, Ventral and less significantly the paraventral scales) are more flexible, agile than the upperside scales, thats for sure. Good reads: 

Some background: I live in the western part of state of Maharashtra, India. The city of Pune is located on the Deccan Plateau. Deccan plateau itself is huge. The western section of the plateau has a vertical drops of ranging from about 900 to 1800 ft. for about 1600 km. This section is what known to world as The Western Ghats So, there are trails from villages located on Deccan plateau to the lower places, popularly called Kokan. In Maharashtra there are 250+ such routes that are documented, and about 100+ which aren't documented. Before the development age, some of these were used for trade and commute. My observation: What I have observed is due to lack of development in economy almost 75% of villagers still frequent these routes down the mountain, be it for trade, or be it for travelling. The road transport is there, but these foot-trails are still the shorter (and free, of course) way of commute. The point is, these routes are not limited to trekking/hiking only! Question: Are there such routes in the part of the world where you live? I agree that those route may not be used for trade these days, but do people use these routes for commuting? 

Clean the sole. Remove/Scrub off anything from it. Including the (broken) hard rubber that came with shoe when you bought it. Make it plain. After this the sole should like what you have on a shoe that you use for playing tennis, a flat sole. Use the best shoe goo you can find, seal any leaks if there are. Apply shoe goo allover the sole and attach a thin rubber insole over it. Let it dry.