David Benatar proposes antinatalism, and the 'benevolent world-exploder' view. While Buddhism proposes an end to suffering only for those who attain enlightenment, Benatar's view could potentially end suffering for all humans in our lifetime. Stoic philosophy aims to end avoidable suffering, by focusing on what you can change, and resigning yourself to what you cannot. 

The short answer is no, we can only guess. But we can attempt to make informed guesses, by studying history, psychology such as cognitive bias, and orderly systematic observations such as through scientific methods. You might equally ask, can we live without principles? Would that simply cause other threats? One response goes "If we don’t stand for something, we’ll fall for anything." Your "informal personal philosophy", everyone must have. Principles generally mean something like core tenets, or conclusions drawn about the world thought or experience, especially of a moral character and concise. I am a bit dubious about your knowledge of history, leaders from Idi Amin to Caligula have managed to be perfectly brutal with almost no principles. Stalin & Hitler were egotistical opportunists with full faith in propaganda, so no real belief in their own principles except as tools for wielding power. Fanaticism, an unjustified sense of certainty, rather than principles, seem to be the real problem. It can be identified as a pathology, and addressed culturally and educationally. 

This way, zero is , one is , two is , three is , etc. This doesn't explicitly have zero as a base case, but it is the only set that is not required to contain other sets, so it prevents expressions from being infinite. This representation has the advantage that m < n is represented as m ∈ n (since n contains all the naturals less than it). We can define the successor of n to be n ∪ {n}, which defines a new set with the elements of n, plus n itself. 

If an opinion isn't intended as an argument, it is noise Frankly, nobody wants to hear your opinion unless you have some point to make about it. You can have the opinion that a person is an idiot, but if you're putting in the effort to type it in then you obviously have some point to it. I don't state every opinion I have on every post I make on the internet. If I state one of my opinions, it's because I believe it is relevant. And if you are trying to claim that this insult is relevant to the argument (which you implicitly do by sharing it), you commit ad hominem. In addition, if you are led to the conclusion that somebody is an idiot, I presume you have a good reason—in particular, the invalidity of their argument. It is far more effective to explain what led you to this conclusion rather than to simply state the conclusion. Stating a conclusion without explaining how you arrived at it makes it difficult to argue with, and any argument that attempts to purport itself as indisputably true seems to suggest fallacy to me. 

Parasites in two senses. In terms of the world as a whole, considered as an organism, that is Lovelock & Margulis' Gaia theory. While it is contentious as a paradigm, we have to acknowledge that the oxygen we breathe came from cyanobacteria, and regenerated by plants. Every breath we should give thanks, but we don't. In particular, the Earth has various buffering mechanisms that have stabilised the climate, and human activity is causing the most rapid heating and biggest drop in biodiversity, in the planet's history. Rebirth at least in the cosmic sense it's understood in Buddhism & Jainism, can be understood to set us in a far bigger psychological context. Second sense, parasites on each other. Marx certainly saw the owners of capital as increasing their wealth parasitically. Criticism of that looks at capital risk and innovation. But cartel capitalism and the overwhelming tendency for the rich to get richer especially by lobbying or corruption, are parasitic, and arguably dominant over the 'good' kinds of capitalism. Eusociality is a useful for understanding the emergence of altruism. We have something in common with hive organisms like bees, and other animals that sacrifice individual benefits for the collective like meerkats. You dismiss altruism for it's own sake, but we have conscious choices. We can choose to generalise eusociality into a wider sense of service and sharing, like $URL$ Beware of a simplistic interpretation of 'egoism'. It tends to be used in a way that misunderstands the word on several levels, and ignores the capacity for self-concern and self-awareness to be able to work positively in a persons wider psychological being. I recommend finding a different way to say the same thing, and actually make a case don't assume it's how everyone sees our behaviour. Edit to add: It's worth understanding something about parasitism before throwing the word around. There are six broad strategies of parasitism. It can have positive ecological effects, controlling numbers of species that over-dominate, balancing out long term into mutual benefit, or even forming new hybrid modes of living with cell organelles and all kinds of mutualism such as corals and plant-mycelium partnerships probably starting out as parasitism. Maybe we shouldn't be scared to be parasites, but understand we need to give back to our host, and stabilise rather than destabilise and destroy. 

The Peano axioms define zero as a base case, because it is the only natural number that is not of the form S(n), so it prevents expressions from being infinite. 

Isn't the existence of God a bit far-fetched? Applying Occam's Razor to the former, we see that it requires that we believe that there was nothing before the Big Bang, and that the Big Bang somehow created time and space as we know it. This conclusion is strongly suggested by the fact that it keeps the known laws of physics consistent and fits all the data we have collected so far about the universe. Applying it to the latter, it requires that we believe that there is some external intelligent all-powerful entity which created the universe. This conclusion is suggested by no scientific data, and in fact this belief has been around long before sufficient data was collected or laws known to make a strong statement about the origins of the universe. Also, what might seem "far-fetched" to our intuitions can often be completely natural once the laws surrounding it are more known. The current formulation of the Big Bang theory wasn't just arbitrarily chosen—it was done after considering many theories, most of which seemed too scientifically far-fetched to be justifiable, so they were thrown out. That's how science works. And if some day evidence is found that contradicts the modern Big Bang theory, then it will be adapted or thrown out too. 

Imagine if you could only measure the heat produced in an a.c. circuit, and had no way to know the current. P=I^2R You would only be able to get a positive quantity from an unobservable current that seemed to be able to 'unphysically' be positive & negative. In this analogy power is just like any quantum observable, like position. And the 'unphysical' bit gives an underlying variable, but in this case one which cannot be observed, e.g. a spacial distribution of probabilities. In an atom the observables are coupled together into an equation of state, the phase records angular momentum or spin. Spin can be up or down, in quantised amounts, but the spacial probability doesn't care which way it is facing, only the magnitude. The other example of complex numbers to describe space is the $URL$ Here the 'unphysical' part indicates instability 

'Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind', Yuval Noah Harari. You can catch Harari talking about this on the Sam Harris podcast $URL$ Things like how these mental structures like nation and religion allow ideas like dying for something an individual will never see, which you could never convince a chimpanzee to do. 

What do the behaviours and symbols suggest, if you don't jump to conventional interpretations, reinforced by emotional responses? Who is even really awake in the scene outside, aware of their surroundings in the moment, instead of being absorbed in yesterday or tomorrow? What happens if we stop being automata, driven by the replication of our genes towards expressing post hoc rationalisation of ideas really just designed to express group allegiance, and instead react to this very moment completely engaged in it like we are creating a piece of modern art, or answering a koan? "But at my back in a cold blast I hear The rattle of the bones, and chuckle spread from ear to ear." 

It is certainly possible to overcomplicate a complex system to the point where it is detrimental. This is often the case with rule systems (where a set of rules needs to be simple enough to be learnable by the players and prevent misunderstandings). Complexity per se is not good nor bad. However, it is often necessary when the problem being solved is complex. In Google's case, the complex problem is "How do I return a list of results for this query that the user is likely to regard as useful to them?" Sites that attempt to game the system by exploiting Google's rating algorithm are a loophole in the system that must be dealt with, because such sites are not what the user will regard as useful. Google solves this problem by adding complexity, in the hope that their algorithm will then achieve their goal better by delivering more useful results. Google's changes to its algorithm would always be to block illegitimate sites by making the system harder to game. Legitimate sites shouldn't be affected because they are not attempting to game the system. If Google did end up accidentally lowering the score of legitimate sites because of that, that would constitute a bug in their algorithm, but not a bug inherent in too much complexity. 

I am not questioning whether the simulation topic is outside science. I am asking what evidence there is or could be to resolve whether we are or not. Living in a simulation has been a topic for philosophy since at least Descartes, with his 'evil demon not less powerful than deceitful'. Zuangzhi's 'Now I do not know whether I was then a man dreaming I was a butterfly, or whether I am now a butterfly, dreaming I am a man' could be argued to be a statement of the same idea. What I am interested in is, is can we get beyond speculation and make headway on this? How does the evidence stand, what tools do we have, and what implications might the different answers have? I have quickly summarised some of the main positions below. Nick Bostrom's paper makes the case we are in a simulation, on the balance of probabilities $URL$ Ringel & Kovrizhin made the case such a simulation is impossible using classical computers $URL$ But that leaves quantum computers. This article gives a more detailed idea of what being in a simulation might mean, as a kind of peer-to-peer reality $URL$ It has also been seriously argued that the simulation hypothesis is the best answer to the Fermi Paradox $URL$ Although as recently discussed on here, the existence of these s paradox is open to dispute, and relies on a range of assumptions. Anyone got anything else evidence based? Any models, or discussions of implications?