The Pearl Izumis are my current favorites. They're far from perfect, but they suck less than other gloves I've tried. BTW -- it sounds like you may have a fit problem with the bike, not the gloves. No glove will compensate for a poorly fitting bike. Get a professional fit from a local bike shop. 

Poland-based company "efneo" is developing a three speed crankshaft gearbox: $URL$ This product will allegedly ship next year. 

Ensure the axle is properly placed in the dropout and the quick release is firmly closed. If it's even a little loose, the axle can shift a bit and cause the rotor to be misaligned with the caliper. 

Crank compatibility is largely determined by the bottom bracket interface. As was mentioned, you have a square-taper style bottom bracket, which is not used on higher end cranks these days. You can always replace that bottom bracket with a new outboard-bearing design to fit a modern crank. So, essentially, you can make just about any crank work with your bike provided you're willing to replace the BB. The more important consideration is what to get and why. Think hard about what it is you most want to improve about the bike. The cranks, in my opinion, make little difference compared to, say, new wheels, or new shifters. 

I've done it a few times on Shimano nine speed chains (for road bikes and mountain bikes) with no problems. Are you sure it's the correct pin? Are you sure it's inserted fully? If it's correct and fully inserted, then the gap cut into the pin should be fully visible outside the link. Here's how I do it: 

If all goes well, the pin will break so that the remaining portion is flush with the outer edge of the chain. 

Can you tell if the pain is from pressure or abrasion? If it's pressure, then the it's probably because it was your first long ride. It takes a while to get your butt "battle hardened" for longer rides. Sadly, one quickly loses this after a week or two off the bike. If it's abrasion, then check the saddle to see if anything is rubbing during your pedal stroke. Also check your shorts/pants for fabric seams that could cause issues. Finally, check your saddle height. If it's a bit too high then your hips will rock as you pedal, causing abrasion and leading to unhappiness. +1 to @batman's suggestion of padded bike shorts. You can also get a bike-specific padded liner and wear it in lieu of underwear under normal shorts/pants. 

If you can find a 700c Salsa Delgado Cross rim, these will work fantastic for this application. Designed as a burly cross rim but was one of the early 29er rims, works great. 

I've never cracked a crown race after assembling many different bikes with different fork/headset configurations. Split crown race makes things far easier and it means one less specialty tool that you need to own or access to get the job done. I've never had an issue with split races either. As for splitting your own, lots of people do it without issues, if you go this route, I would make sure you gently file the edges to make sure it is deburred with no sharp edges. For how infrequently you need to install/fiddle with a crown race, splitting would however be a last resort for me since you can usually set them with a piece of appropriately sized PVC pipe and a mallet. 

This is a very old military bike, estimates say circa 1898, credited to a French officer and cycling advocate Captain Gerrard (although actually probably designed by someone else). It is indeed a folding bike, one of the first of its kind. Soldiers on bicycle were a relatively common thing prior to the first world war. Lots more information here, The BSA & Military Bicycle Museum ; and here Captain Gerard history 

At my shop a typical "heavy" tuneup will cost about $130. We have considerably cheaper labor costs than other shops, where that might be more like $200+. That includes replacement of all the wear-and-tear items on a bike: brake pads, chain, freewheel/cassette, cables & housing. Those are things that wear out ON EVERY BIKE regardless of what the bike costs initially. This is also the general annual upkeep cost of owning a bike. There is no ratio that will be helpful - there are too many variables - but what you can do is go to your local bike shop and ask what it usually costs for a tuneup with all the wear-and tear parts replaced. That'll be your maximum cost. You'll get a more precise answer if you know what kind of bike you intend on getting. 

+1 on the recommendations to bring tools and at least two tubes. Also +1 on the recommendation to bring a second set of cycling shorts. At a minimum, bring a second set of padded liners (assuming your shorts have detachable liners). Mounting the saddle on day 2 with a cold, wet, soggy liner is unpleasant at best. Consider bringing fizzy water tablets (such as Nuun). In addition to providing much-needed electrolytes, they help mask the taste of any hose water you get along the way. You'll probably need a pair of padded gloves. You'll be spending a lot of time holding the handlebars, and your hands will definitely get tired (and possibly raw) if unprotected. Ibuprofen is your friend after a long day in the saddle. 

I think you need to find a balance between pad clearance and also the lever configuration. You haven't mentioned what brakes that you have or what levers. For example, Avid BB5's only have one adjustment knob, whereas BB7's allow pad adjustment on both sides of the disc. This can make a huge difference in the flexibility of your setup (BB7's being much better in this regard). The other variable is levers. Standard brake levers might have little control, but an Avid SpeedDial7 (SD7) lever, for example, gives you control over reach and leverage with adjusters right on the brake lever. This could allow you to maintain pad clearance but also give you the stopping power that you want while keeping pads further out. Last variable in all this are your cables. Have you lubed the cables to keep them moving freely? Are you running full length housing to keep dirt and gunk out? Some cable have the option of having little rubber sheaths at the ends to keep grime from getting pulled into the housing. Compressionless housing (like Jagwire ripcord) will also improve disc brake performance on mechanical systems. Hope this helps. 

Simply put and ignoring a lot of variables, the answer to the question is that it doesn't matter which bike you ride. First of all, remember the law of conservation of energy: that matter and energy can neither be created nor destroyed. As applied to bikes, that means that you cannot put in "less" or "more" effort to do something like climb a hill. All you can do is adjust the leverage on the gears. Remember Archimede's hypothesis that with a long enough lever you could lift the Earth? By shifting into a lower gear, you are effectively extending out a lever arm that makes lifting the weight (i.e. climbing a hill) easier. But, it also means you have to push that lever much further to lift the weight (i.e. turn the pedals many more times to go the same distance). With a higher gear, you expend more energy upfront, but you get a faster return. Now, in terms of raw physical forces, the amount of energy it takes to move a given mass (you + the bike) a given distance doesn't change. When human bodies are taken into account, the picture is significantly complicated. That is the subject of research on athletic performance, about which there is plenty of literature. For cycling, usually it boils down to minimizing lactic acid buildup, which occurs during anaerobic (sprinting) exercise. That's grossly oversimplified, but the point is that it really depends on your body's fitness which mode of travel will be more efficient for you. However, as far as physics is concerned, it doesn't matter one bit. Some other notes: 

Jan Heine & crew at Bicycle Quarterly recently reported the results of their wind tunnel research. A summary is available online, but the full results are only available in the printed journal. 

Allegedly, shaved legs make it much easier to apply and remove embrocation, increases it effectiveness, and eliminates the "bugs crawling on skin" feeling when hairs pop back into position. FYI: embrocation is an ointment used to heat muscles & joints on chilly days. 

Hold the chain in one hand so that a few links are exposed as a small loop. One of these links should hold the newly-inserted pin. The portion of the pin to be removed should be facing towards you. Grab the pin with the pliers so that the pin & pliers are perpendicular. A quick, sharp, opposite direction twist of both wrists should snap the pin. There will be resistance, but it will snap. 

Reading that it forms a "flexible waterproof skin" I would have concerns over how thick this stuff is. The stem/steerer tube interface is pretty tight fitting and unless it is completely cured like a paint, I could see it having durability issues when you try to slide the stem on. I think I would just install the stem dry and get it all tightened down and then apply a thin film of waterproof grease with your finger to any areas that might be in contact with the elements or let water in. I am not a fan of grease on this area as it requires additional torque to stop the stem from slipping, but if you do, make sure it is very thin, your pinch bolts have enough torque you should be ok—given the fact that we are talking about a steel steer tube. Alternatively, when I had one of my frames painted, the entire steerer got a very thin coat of primer, and the rest of the fork was painted with multiple coats of paint. The primer is thin enough that it doesn't affect the OD of the steerer and keeps it completely protected from moisture (this is especially handy since I am using a Thomson stem which has windows that expose the steer tube on each side).