In Plato's 'Apology' Socrates tells the court : ... If you say to me, 'Socrates, this time we will not follow Anytus but will let you go on condition that you no longer spend your time on this inquiry and stop philosophizing; if you are caught doing this again, you shall die'- if you were to acquit me on this condition, I would reply: 'Men of Athens, I honour and love you, but I shall obey the god rather than you and as long as I breathe and have the capacity I shall never cease philosophizing.. (29 c 6-d ). The background is that Socrates is not that Socrates upholds a general right of freedom of conscience (as we might express it). He cites two instances in which he has disobeyed the state but not exactly its laws : (1) when he spoke out the wholesale trial of the generals of Arhinousai (32b) and (2) when he would not arrest Leon of Salamis (32c-d). These cases deserve mention but they are not the heart of the matter. For that we need to track our way to the Delphic Oracle. Socrates takes the answer given by the oracle of Delphi to Chairephon's question as knowledge that the god has chosen him to educate the citizens of Athens out of their ignorance (23 b). He could not give up the practice of philosophy - his method of education - without defying the god (30a 6-7). There is nothing like a modern appeal to conscience here. No adherence to personal moral judgement is involved, as in the case of Conscientious Objectors in the two World Wars. Socrates believes that his mission to educate and chase out ignorance is the choice of the god. But what is Socrates' famous 'divine and mysterious something' (31 c 8), sometimes called his 'inner voice' ? Is this not conscience ? Not at all. It is 'the sign of the god' (40 b i)). It is a unique 'voice' communicated to Socrates by the god. It has no internal source or origin. 'Unique' matters vitally. Nobody else has Socrates' divine mission. He is on his own, the one and only gadfly appointed by the god (30e). Under the sacredness of his mission he will annoy, criticise, resist and refuse the state if it crosses the path of his divine mission. It is only in pursuit of his divine mission, and any ban of his practising philosophy, that Socrates will defy the state and perform his gadfly role. Beyond that role he shows considerable - indeed, self-sacrificing - respect for the state and the law. In the 'Crito' Socrates argues that it would be wrong for his to try to escape from prison and evade the penalty of the law. He gives three reasons. (1) The organised life of the state or polis would be undermined if citizens decided at will to defy the laws and the courts (50b); (2) the laws have protected Socrates and here is pay-back time. He rpresents himself as like a child under the discipline of adults (50c - 51c); and (3) Socrates accepts the penalty if he has not been able to persuade the state and its courts of their errors (51e - 52a). There is no inconsisency between the 'Apology' (the trial) and the 'Crito' (Socrates' time in prison prior to execution). Even in prison Socrates continues with his educational mission, engaging in philosophical argument. The state has not blocked this sacred duty. 

Indeed, 'This is an argument' will be true whenever it features as the conclusion of two premises. But it will be true whether the premises, both or either, are true or false. The truth of the premises does nothing to guarantee the truth of the conclusion. The conclusion follows only because there are premises - any premises. Their truth-value does no work. Nice intellectual testing of the author, though. 

▻ FINESSING THE PIETISTIC INFLUENCE To descend a level of detail, you might find the following article of use : Dennis Vanden Auweele, 'The Lutheran influence on Kant's depraved will', International Journal for Philosophy of Religion, Vol. 73, No. 2 (April 2013), 117-135. Here is an extract from the article, which makes relevant discriminations within pietism. 

He argues that there is an equivocation on the modal strengths of 'might not' and must' (Wilson, p.656). ▻ The argument from sustaining counterfactuals 

Neither 'knowledge' nor 'information' has a fixed, distinct, single meaning. But I think the most fruitful approach is to regard them, not as mutually exclusive, nor as identical but as points or stages on a continuum. ▻ IDENTITY Someone might say, 'I want to know what's happening, just give me the information'. Here the terms appear to be used synonymously. There's nothing wrong with this but I think it fails to bring out some latent distinctions. ▻ MUTUAL EXCLUSIVITY On this view, information is just data, discrete and disconnected. Merely having information doesn't help you understand anything. For instance, if someone gives me the information, 'A circle's radius, circumference and area are closely linked to the definition of the constant π', I accept this as information but it does not explain what this close linkage is or even tell me what e.g. 'radius' and 'circumference' mean, let alone 'the constant π'. It would be in order to refer politely to my ignorance but even to a professional mathematician it is not knowledge, only (unnecessary) information. He or she receives information but does not gain knowledge. What is received does not add to their knowledge or enable them to understand anything not understood before. It is just (useless) information. ▻ CONTINUITY If information is data, discrete and disconnected, it is most usefully seen, I think, as a point on a continuum on which knowledge is located too. Informational data is the growth-point of knowledge. As data is collated, connected, one item related to another, so it is systematised and synthesised into a body of knowledge where knowledge is an integrated model of some area of inquiry or activity, a model that enables and supports description, explanation and prediction. 

A lie is, to a first approximation, a statement believed to be false and intended to cause a false belief in another. In this sense you did lie even if you had already lost the cigarette when you denied having one on you. You believed you did have a cigarette and intended your friend to believe falsely that you did not. If we tightened the conditions and defined a lie as a statement known to be false and intended to cause a false belief in another, then you did not lie if you made the statement when you had already lost the cigarette, because you did not in fact have one and therefore cannot have known that you did. We enter a maze of possibilities but perhaps the distinction between these two analyses will throw some light. 

If philosophy is a rational inquiry, why do philosophers disagree ? That seems to be what you are asking. A proper first step is to decide what we mean by disagreement in this context. ▻ Nature of disagreement Philosophers can disagree about many things but to give focus to the question let's assume that they disagree over propositions. Such disagreement can take at least three forms : (1) I believe that p, and you believe that not-p; (2) I believe that p and you do not believe that p; (3) I believe that p and you believe that p but we attach different probabilities (I am certain that p but you regard p as merely highly probable). How can such disagreements rationally arise ? I think they have two bases, one cognitive and the other evidential. ▻ Cognitive differences As rational equals philosophers can still disagree if they are cognitively differentiated. I can be as rational as you but less intelligent. You can have a stronger and more accurate memory than I have. You may be able to express your meaning more clearly than I can, and I may be slower at recognising that meaning. We may also fail to realise that we are using the terms but with different meanings. Such factors are seedbeds for disagreement. ▻ Evidential differences What is it rational to believe depends (not only but to some extent) on the evidence available. It was rational for the ancients to believe the geocentric theory that the sun rotated around the earth because that's what the incomplete and defective evidence available at least to most of them indicated. We have different evidence and a different belief about the geocentric theory. But our rational belief is equally indexed to evidence. It is perfectly possible for equally rational philosophers to have access to different levels of information. With differences of information, what it is rational for one philosopher to believe may not be what it is rational for another to believe. ▻ In light of these considerations, disagreements between equally rational philosophers are perfectly possible, unsurprising, and even to be expected. 

▻ VOLTAIRE AND THE NEED FOR A SOCIAL RELIGION Peter Gay in 'The Enlightenment' describes Voltaire's attitude like this : 

There are no free markets. Any society will impose moral limits on the market : on what can go into the market for purchase or exchange, on who can enter the market, and on what consequences market transactions produce (from externalities to income inequalities). In the UK we do not allow babies to be purchased for the purpose of being tortured; we do not let 5-year-olds work in the mines; and we regulate the externalities (from smoke to sewage) that market transactions produce. These moral limits will be politically imposed unless they are (increasingly unlikely these days) built into the customs and norms of the society. Having economic life in the hands of the market has no implications for the republican notion of citizenship that Sandel espouses. If we have a market economy (of which incidentally I am no friend) this does not mean that we reduce our politics to one of individual choice. Citizens are free to decide collectively as a community that inequalities of wealth created by the market are to be diluted or removed by redistributive taxation. They are also free, and well-advised, to insulate areas of social life from the market and from market-thinking (competition leagues between schools, for instance, or the NHS's internal market). When the market produces gender paygaps and the like, there is nothing to stop Sandel's republican citizens from blocking this market malpractice. Whatever the actual relations between a market economy and a community of republican freedom the two concepts are not antithetical. Sandel treats them as if they were and as if a political system that accommodates the market has sold its soul to the devil of individualism. Sandel cares deeply about justice and communitarianism as his republican freedom used to be called but he runs together concepts that need to be separated. He is also wrong to think that 'liberalism' is indelibly associated with a politics of mere personal choice. T.H. Green and LT Hobhouse, more than a century back, knew better than that.