To be blunt, your soldiers aren't bringing anything new to the table. Answers up above have pointed out that many of the things considered "novel", and "modern", aren't, except the ones explicitly reliant on new technology that wasn't available at the time, which as stated these guys are not bringing back with them. The military tactics and strategies used today would be quite, generally speaking, familiar to an experienced soldier or officer in World War 2. 

So it's not difficult whatsoever to image a medieval level of technology co-existing on the same world with a stone age culture...because that really happened. 

A lot depends on who will performing a given function at a given station. The more people who would be expected to operate at a given station, and how critical that station is, the less permission for customization there could be. Example: NASCAR race cars now have a digital dashboard display. While (for competition reasons) the rules limit what can be displayed, how that information is displayed can be customized a bit. Some drivers prefer a display that looks like the old style dials. Others prefer a tachometer that looks like a bar graph in addition to numbers. Some have the lap time displayed in large numbers, some have it in smaller numbers, some don't show it at all, and so on. Because there's only one driver per car (one operator per station), the fact that each might want info displayed in a different way is fine. Now compare that to the glass cockpit of a modern airliner. Pilots do not have customization options for the vast majority of the displays for very good reasons, primarily because you want all pilots on a given aircraft to know by reflex where they need to look to get information they need. This simplifies training, it means you can drop any pilot in the same model of plane without any issues, and on long hauls where you might have relief pilots you don't have to worry about displays being reconfigured midflight and failing to be changed back. Without standardized controls and displays, emergency checklists become much more difficult because humans will naturally tend to shuffle into the background rarely-used information, but in an emergency it's often those rarely-used displays that you need. ("Check the pressure level from the air intake...where the hell is that?! Where did I put that menu?!"). If seconds count, you can't be futzing around because you shuffled off some rarely-used status display on to some secondary menu that you have to root around and find. So, using the Enterprise 1701-D as an example, Helm, Tactical, and Engineering will always have standard layouts and displays because you want someone to be able to walk to a console coming on duty and instantly be able to see what's happening and control what's necessary. If the ship is under attack and Worf gets knocked out (again), you want someone to be able to step up to the station and know where the shield strength indicator is, the firing button for the torpedoes and phasers, and whatever else is needed without trying to figure out where the hell Worf re-arranged everything. If the warp core is about to blow (again) you want to know exactly where the eject control is without having to root through various menus for it. Stations like science and ops, where what they're doing may vary, would likely be more customizable; if you have to reconfigure the science station to display a scan of a nearby black hole, and in ten minutes do a search on ancient Earth cultures for information on alien abductions involving anal probing (it's that kind of episode), then it's really no big deal if Data prefers it looking one way and Random Science Officer another. The thing is going to be always changing anyway, so someone personalizing it isn't a big deal. Meanwhile, Picard and Crusher get to set up the displays in their respective offices however the hell they want. No one else is going to be using them very often, and they're not critical to operations. 

Fragmentation Grenades Since Bullets are small, and their kinetic energy obviously absorbed by the material of the Aliens Armour, an approach might be conducted into testing the viability of explosive distribution of shrapnel in order to open up vulnerabilities in their armouring, which might then become attackable by small arms fire. Since Fragmentation Grenades are, in some Units like the Marines as a Standard Operating Procedure, used first upon approaching targets, their ready availability would be assured. $URL$ Grenade Launchers Alternatively, one might try to detonate a grenade shot from a M79 at the Invaders. The idea is again that explosively released shrapnel, with the millionfold expansion from the original volume of its explosive material, would have a better piercing effect than the kinetic drive produced by the gases released upon firing a firearm. Since every regular infantry squad is to be equipped with a grenade launcher to aid the breakup of enemy positions in hiding, or where the machine gun cant fire, its ready availability would be assumed. Grenade Launchers Chem Weapons As Aliens are not humans, the Conventions against using Nuclear, Biologic or Chemical Weapons would not apply to them. However, the after effects of Nuclear Weaponry (devastating to the planet, but surely for them as well), and biologic warfare (devastating to our lifeform, but perhaps not to theirs) would rule out such measures. However, Chlorine for example is readily available and if brought out in sufficient concentration might be able to corrode or cauterize their armour, making it more vulnerable to attack with the explosive methods mentioned before. If artillery can bring out barrages of Chlorine gas over the portals it could hinder the Alien Troop Movement by mentioned corrosion or at least by reducing visibility of the terrain. For this purpose any corrosive chemical compound, widely used in Industrial applications, could be weaponized by filling it in artillery shells, or by even simply having soldiers equipped with spraying equipment unload the chemical on the Alien occupied by (effectless) firearm teams with a simple hose. Flamethrowers While not widely used since WWII, flaming agents might be considered as the thermal stability of the Alien Armour is not yet known, but can be safely assumed to not be arbitrarily high. Even highly efficient nano-carbon structures that might produce before mentioned protection against fireweapons would probably crumble to dust when exposed to high enough temperatures due to burning flaming agent stuck to it. As Napalm can be relatively easy manufactured from Gasoline and Acid, it would be an option that can be considered together with the Chemical Components when selecting a mobile delivery system, as it would at best have to handle most of those agents in one set of equipment. The detriment is that flamethrowers are not featured anymore in the current arsenals. However, a delivery system that would be able to deliver the (non) burning agent onto the Antagonist Alien could be as simple as a firehose pumping the agent onto the target. Further suggestions The list could be continued with fuel-air bombs or even tactical nuclear artillery shells, but since the nature of the scenario appears to be pitched infantry battles, the options end here. 

Given names are not quite random; they reflect in some way the cultural heritage of a society. Many names reflect things we hold dear or that evoke characteristics that we want to convey to our children. Many are inherited from the names of famous or historically important people. Many Germanic names hold meanings related with war, power, wealth, fame and nobility. Traditional Christian names come from the names of saints, apostles, prophets and other Judaeo-Christian religious figures. Chinese names vary greatly in theme, but most convey auspicious concepts, positive personal qualities and wonders of nature. There are also some naming systems that are more systematic in nature. For example, some of the most common names for Japanese boys merely mean "nth son". There are also the often cyclic generation names of some traditional Chinese and Korean families. You may either take inspiration from real world naming systems or even design your own. Whatever system you devise, consider how it makes sense in that new world you're building. Some names may be very popular locally for a short while, while others may have a more universal appeal, other names may be considered old-fashioned, stigmatized or even ridiculous. 

Removing Traits From this base onwards, all characteristics of modern humans, such as the ability to speak, learn, remember or conduct creative thinking processes might be removed. His motoric skills might be reduced to the level that he is unable to even produce pottery. As for the higher planes of existence and intelligence, Mathematics provides the ultimate Lingua Franca between the different species, as the Laws of Nature in the Universe can be notated (and one would assume all intelligent species start notating them sooner or later) in it. Here Homo Sapiens will have his own unique approach, which distinguishes him from other species. His approach to Physics might also take a completely different route. Modern Humans for example have developed Nuclear Technology and experiment with Nanoparticles and Solar panels. But another species is perfectly conceivable that diverges from this trunk and after the basic technologies like lighting fires switches to produce engines powered by phase impedance instead of rotating magnetic fields, and employs micro-miniaturized semi-intelligent swarms of particles which combine to produce gigantic magnetic fields to neutralize enemies, instead of going the conventional weaponry way of Homo Sapiens with all his guns, explosives and armour. Branching the tree of technology might be the key calling feature in distinguishing the species as you intended. If that is not the way, the acts of taking in nutrients to keep life processes functioning and the removal of waste products from the body, its physical movement around in space and its interaction with the same of its kin are universal to intelligent beings similar enough to humans to be recognized as such. They might have advantages in performing those tasks in certain worlds under certain conditions (like Homo Sapiens in the Grasslands of Africa had in his) but would also experience and encounter tradeoffs due to their specifications (as Homo Sapiens encounters with his brain size impeding his ability to give birth fast to a large number of offspring). 

Based on where fossils have been found so far, you'd need geological alteration of the following locations: 

In the present day, it's probably going to be a lot harder to convince people than you might think. After all you, a person in the present day, are considering time travel and highly advanced science as a way of faking being a deity. So what's stopping someone else from doing the exact same thing as an explanation? It isn't just our understanding of science, but our fiction that makes people less inclined to immediately jump to the deity explanation. 

Assuming 21st century health care so that women can survive birth and their children survive to adulthood and there's a social system to support the children, then look at modern countries, you could reasonably foresee a Total Fertility Rate of 6 or more (on average a woman gives birth to 6 children during her reproductive period). Combine that with an Infant Mortality Rate equal to the best around now, which is less than 1%. Assume no dicking around with sex selection, so you get the rough 50/50 split in births you'd expect, with equal expectations of growing up. Assume you have only 3 generations alive at any one time. Each generation, we'll take of 1% or so of newborns to represent infant mortality. Each generation represents all the children born to women of the generation before. So, Generation 0 has 50 men and 50 women, total population 100. Generation 1 has 149 men, 149 women (average 6 children from each Gen 0 couple, with a 1% or less infant mortality rate), total population 398 (Gen 0 + Gen 1). Generation 2 has 443 men and 443 women, total population 1,284 (Gen 0 + 1 + 2). Generation 3 has 1,316 men, 1,316 women, total population 3,816 (Gen 1 + 2 + 3). Generation 4 has 3,909 men, 3,909 women, total population 11,236 (Gen 2 + 3 + 4). And so on: here's the summary of total population: 

Insects several meters in Size Dragonflies were able to have a much bigger wingspan 300 million years ago (thanks to a much higher oxygen content in the atmosphere, plus warm as today in the equator), animals can actually be scaled quite a bit up. In this case the limiting factors were feeding the organism enough oxygen to sustain itself, and provide it with enough heat to keep up its functions. But the scaling up reached its limits here in the oxygenation of the tissue (though the free oxygen was multiple times higher than now), just as the growth of mobile organisms is limited by gravity and the ability of a pump (heart) to distribute enough oxygen in the biomatter for it to stay alive. If a giant was to exist, it would die from the fact that its heart, rushing to pump blood to its head, would burst trying to stem against the pull of the planet. Only on a planet with weaker gravity could such gigantisms be observed. $URL$ 

Being able to lift his arm over his shoulder, enabling to hurl things wider and with more smack, thus outperforming those apes who could only hold stones or antilope leg bones to smash craniums in. Being able to eat anything Homo Sapiens ate and does eat anything that isnt poisonous or runs away fast enough from him. Early forms of Homo Sapiens also practised Cannibalism, although that fact is hardly popular when encountered in a story. Nevertheless, that unlocked sources of protein for him that might otherwise have been untapped, allowing for his immense growth of brain matter, which requires lots of energy to run immense parallel computing processes, a growth that was only hemmed in by the size of the birth canal in the females, as bigger head circumference due to bigger brains increased the difficulty and mortality when giving birth exponentially. Being able to walk long distances this enabled Homo Sapiens to not having to rely on his motoric skills to get protein, he would simply walk to the next carcass that another predator had slain and eaten from, leaving a lot for the all-eating Homo Sapiens to feast on. Due to his other skill he was fairly able to hold off other scavengers until he had eaten his fill. Ability to withstand hunger Homo Sapiens is incredibly adapted to withstand long periods of hunger without detrimental effects. There is even a backup system built into Homo Sapiens, which switches from sugars when not available to burn as fuel for the brain to ketones from fat. As a last resort when those are used up the body of Homo Sapiens will start using up the protein of the muscle tissue to maintain brain function. During all that time he might be getting progressively weaker, but the whole process several weeks to be coming to its terminal end, during which time finding even minute amounts of food can switch the body back onto a more normal functioning. 

Before, say, the mid 20th century they could just put satellites in orbit. They'd want them to be unobservable, so small, as non-reflective as possible. On-board power supplies or beamed power from someplace else, say relayed from the far side of the Moon. For ground observation, drones. Big ones flying high, small micro-drones that could hang around in building, the whole shebang. Once Earth high-tech gets going and astronomy gets more detailed, you have to start being more careful, but, then you can use human tech itself by intercepting our own obervational tech. Stick microsats with the more sensitive alien sensors on our own satellites: unless humans have reason to visit the satellite, they'd never know the Landsat bird has a passenger of non-human origin hitchhiking on it. 

The differences may not be as much as you think. First, the gravitational time dilation can be discarded as irrelevant except perhaps for things like scientific experiments requiring extreme precision (and GPS satellites would have to be programmed for what planet they're for). You're talking a difference of something like minuscule fractions of a second per year, if that. The odd leap-second would officially handle that. For longer periods like years, it depends if seasonal effects are an issue. Obviously, if you're near the poles, the growth and retreat of the Mars polar caps is important, but elsewhere on the planet, I'm not so sure it's that big of a deal. The main issue will be height of the sun in the sky and day length, which solar power generation will have to take into account, but that's minimized if most settlements are closer to the Martian equator. Assuming you haven't terraformed the planet, crops will be grown indoors so conditions outside have only minor significance. All this means is that the Martian year and season aren't nearly as important, so you can operate use the Earth year as a base for dating. Also to bear in mind that because of the axial tilt and orbital eccentricity, Mars's seasons aren't even the same length between the two hemispheres on the same planet, so it makes more sense to just ignore them in terms of official time-keeping. It's the issue of individual days where most of the problems are going to come up, and that's primarily because the Martian sol is almost, but not quite, the same as the Earth day. From a practical standpoint, the easiest method is to use what the Earth-based ground crews on Martian rovers do: extend the "official" Mars second by 2.7%, so a Martian 24 hour days is identical to a Martian day/night cycle. Maybe colonists call it as "marsec" or something. If you do that, but keep the Earth year as a basis for longer timekeeping, then the official Martian year, instead of being 668 sols (ignoring fractions, which leap-years would take into account), would be 356 sols (equal to 365 days). This, if you wanted Martian months, conveniently divides into 12 months consisting of four quarters each with a 30 sol month, a 30 sol month, and a 29 sol month. On the other hand, whatever system is chosen, the whole thing becomes trivial with computerized time-keeping. It's simple to program an app that converts between Earth date and time (taking into account time zones) and Martian date and time (again with time zones). All that needs to be done is for everyone to agree when the zero time for the Martian clock/calendar is. 

IMHO, both concepts of "religion" and "god" in such a world would be very different to what we imagine/know as such. To worship, for example, would be less about faith and belief (on an unseen/indirectly experienced higher being) and more about allegiance (towards a very visible individual). The legal system of societies developing in such a world would also be very different, with some societies being tied to the worship of/allegiance towards one or several gods, other societies giving their citizen complete freedom and responsibility over their choice of gods, and others simply not taking any stance. It would depend a lot on how strong the relationship can become between an individual and a god, and the nature of the gods themselves. For example, in a "Gods Need Prayer Badly" scenario, the gods would be as interested in maintaining a strong following as the people would be in keeping this god's favor. Other scenarios would put the people more or less at the mercy of the gods' whim, although god-challenging heroes may be a possibility. Of course, some people may take a third option, and flat out refuse to worship any visible, moody, aspect-limited, one-among-many, flawed "god", only willing to offer their souls to a believed One Supreme Being that would be above all gods and all creation. Maybe. 

It's hard to understand how your tech-deprived situation would work. Firearms, even the most modern ones, work on basic mechanical and chemical principles, so it's difficult to understand how something would not allow them to work that wasn't explicitly some kind of magic, and the same goes for many vehicles. Cars worked perfectly fine for quite a long time without any electronics in them, and if you go with a diesel engine you don't even need the electricity for spark plugs. If whatever affected this group made it impossible to use things like levers and springs and basic chemical reactions like combustion because they didn't happen in their presence, odds are the genes that caused the blood disorder would have been driven extinct long before the culture reached the stage of combat exoskeletons, or at least made it so rare that they don't make a significant presence. 

Clearly, Kodiak had not died from mortal injuries as ICBM had taken Kodiak's spirit within its great Reentry Shell. What had really happened was that the great enemy of ICBM, the evil Nonproliferation, had sent one of its minions in the guise of a human so as to make it appear that Kodiak had been killed. ICBM, with great wisdom, had allowed this to be done so as to test the faith of the, err, faithful. It was now the duty of the faithful to defend themselves from the forces of Nonproliferation and when they had proven themselves worthy, Kodiak would return to them.