So atheistic dualism (if we don't incorporate more extreme ideas from Eastern religions) is, at least in my view, a very unsatisfying, weird and lopsided world view. That doesn't mean it is incorrect, of course. As a final note, the truth of materialism is unsurprisingly part of the secular elite's orthodoxy. Probably most of them want to live in a climate in which religion/theism is regarded as intellectually not respectable. If dualism (or some other non-materialism) would become plausible again, their whole narrative would begin to unravel. This is also a result of not being content enough to just use the classical argumentation against theism, but to present a complete alternative world view, in which there is not even a foothold for religion, and to use the prestige of science to advance it by framing the dispute as a fight between scientific rationality and archaic superstition. If someone felt so much to be on the right side of history and arrogantly presented himself as the voice of reason, to turn out being wrong is a death blow. In light of this, the strong hostility of the secular elite to criticism of materialism is not surprising at all. 

For Aristotle, the so-called sublunary sphere consists of the classical four elements, fire-water-earth-air. It is the realm of ever-changing things in contrast to the part of the universe which begins with the moon and stretches to the fixed stars and in which everything is made from the fifth element, the quintessence or aether, and so is incorruptible and eternal, never deviating from its regular and periodic motion. But there is some counter-evidence to this theory that can be gained by unaided observations of the night sky. 

The Lagrangian formulation of mechanics seems to be an interesting example for 'pseudo-teleology': a particle at starting position (a, b) with final position (x, y) will take the path of smallest action (the path integral of T - V, with T kinetic and V potential energy) between these positions. At first, it seems there is foresight of the particle involved, teleology. But on a closer look this is wrong, it is an illusion to think that the particle calculates paths ahead of time. The Lagrangian formulation can be mathematically derived from Newton's laws, in which normal, instantaneous causation determines everything. But I'm not so happy with this example. It's mathematically relatively complicated (in the context of philosophy), i.e. it cannot be understood with high-school math. Also, contrary to what I said before, I actually believe that there is some "cheating" involved, because it is not so clear that the Lagrangian formulation can really be deduced from Newton's laws without some extra assumptions. Do you know a similar but mathematically simpler example? It doesn't have to come from a physical theory, the model can be completely fictional. 

yeah … only that it is not uncommon that the producer also stars (= has sex) in the pornographic movie! This itself is not illegal. The “third party pays” criterion is a figment of the non-lawyer's imagination! Also, even if it were true, does it matter? If well-meaning uncle Bob pays a prostitute for his nephew Dave because he is a virgin at 20, it would still be illegal. So the only way out of this really is to claim that filming and publishing an act, which is criminal otherwise, magically makes it legal. And this is patently absurd. Courts will “see through it” … yeah, but not on any remotely objective standard. It's just the very vague gut feeling of the prosecutor (and later the judge or jury) that a certain pornographic movie production seems just a bit too phony. Okay, maybe we can look at the harm their work does to real pornographic actresses and prostitutes? But here it doesn't seem much better… The study “Sexually Transmitted Infection Testing of Adult Film Performers: Is Disease Being Missed?” by Rodriguez-Hart et al. in Sexually Transmitted Diseases: December 2012 - Volume 39 - Issue 12 comes to the conclusion: 

Since he doesn't want to condemn chewing gum as immoral, he grants that using a faculty F for an end “other than” E is morally neutral. 

E-democracy: It's one of the pledges of the Italian party “MoVimento 5 Stelle” (“Five Star Movement”) and would be considered pretty fringe; but in the end, it's still just a special variant of democracy. One could imagine a future in which decentralized, self-organizing, non-state systems have progressively siphoned away all sovereign rights from the state (e.g. a cryptocurrency could eliminate monetary sovereignty) – yet it's difficult to extrapolate this beyond the few examples we already know today. On the face of it, this sounds like anarchism, but the difference would be that people could really trust the “system”: the system would provide stability and also be able to defend itself against power grabs from centralized actors. automatic governance; artificial intelligence makes government decisions. A subject of (usually dystopian) Sci-Fi novels. The fringest one of the three examples. Yet today, if a problem can't be fully formalized, AIs tend to behave strangely. They can be tricked and sometimes make extremely bizarre errors. It's a matter of faith to believe, that what AI does remotely resembles the operations of the human mind, or, that AI (on the basis of a digital computer) will ever be able to cope with general concepts. 

we must remember that there are much simpler "toy" subsets of the usual axioms. They basically just define counting and calculating but can’t express general facts about numbers at all. So how would we get to an idea like mathematical induction? Do we really grasp the infinite structure of the natural numbers itself from the concepts of 1 and 2? No, it obviously doesn't work that way. 1 and 2 do not beget infinity. So intuitively and as this simple example shows, there really is more to math, something we fundamentally cannot get from the concepts of 1 and 2. 

Prejudice is difficult to define. In the Cambridge dictionary it has lack of rationality built into the definition: 

In the original quote it wasn't "catness" but "aboutness/intentionality". Yet, I am much more open to such mental phenomena being fundamental features of reality than the species felis catus! And the problem doesn't stop with this prima facie implausibility: It is an empirical fact that species evolved, species are not fixed and eternal, as Aristotle believed. We simply know that cat doesn't need to beget cat. So how can species be natural kinds? How can they be so fundamental? And if we cannot answer this, can Aristotle's metaphysics still be salvaged? How can we disentangle it from its flawed assumptions about biology? 

Feynman also said: “Physics is to mathematics what sex is to masturbation.”, “Physics isn’t the most important thing. Love is.” why not approach his comedy like regular comedy? ;-) And what you've quoted from Feynman comes from a time when a lot of the paradoxes of quantum mechanics seemed far more perplexing. Quite some progress has been made to resolve them. But if everybody would have taken his quote seriously, nobody would have found the motivation to tackle the paradoxes. Your mathematical example is not a proof by reductio ad absurdum, because it seriously lacks mathematical rigor. It's a caricature of mathematical practice. Just the feeling of absurdity is not enough, the absurdity must be on the level of an untenable conclusion. But if such rigor has been achieved, doubting a reductio ad absurdum is something only mathematical cranks do. For example, it has been proven that squaring the circle with ruler and compass is impossible. After tons of pages of preliminaries, the reductio ad absurdum arrives at some point with a result: 

In Aristotelian physics there is the concept of natural motion (when there are no forces, just gravity), differing from so-called violent (enforced) motion. From my cursory knowledge of general relativity there seems to be an obvious similarity to how motion under gravity is conceptualized there, i.e. not as a result of a gravitational force acting but as a body moving along the spacetime curvature – "naturally". But how should we interpret this? Aristotle wrote a lot, and so it seems not surprising that he may have gotten lucky, saying something modern science would finally support. Do we have evidence that he had certain correct insights to believe that gravity is different from the other "forces"? Or was it just luck? 

In recent times it has become more and more commonplace for journalists to present the results from studies which have not been published or peer-reviewed – without any reservations or warnings. 

Copyright of fictional characters, which is what your example is about, is probably the most ill-justified aspect of copyright law. We're not talking about publishing verbatim copies of others' works (or using verbatim fragments of those) without permission, but about a partial prohibition of publishing your own creative works just because they were inspired by others. Not all laws are just. The applicability of copyright to fictional characters or fictional universes (Tolkien’s Middle Earth, the Star Wars universe, ...) is one of the best candidates for an inconsistent and unjust legislation which is enacted in most modern democracies. It is an arbitrary restriction of free expression. I guess there just isn't any opposition because we've gotten so used to it and aside from fan-fiction writers we see it as an industry regulation irrelevant to ordinary citizens. 

After all that criticism, I've decided to completely rewrite my answer. The first point to note is that Dawkins goes from 

Though not an issue in the debates surrounding rigorous, theoretical epistemology, in practice culture and trust in authorities plays an enormous role for most of our beliefs outside of our expertise. In areas of the utmost importance, for example in politics, some (descriptive) claims are regarded as so outrageous, far-fetched or thoroughly discredited, people are not willing to listen to you – you'll get reflexively shut down. Still, a huge percentage of the population might not be able to present a convincing case against it. Further it is the case that in the real world, normative claims and descriptive claims are considerably entangled. At least in that way that if the truth of a descriptive claim would be socially undesirable or disruptive to basic cultural norms, it is held to a higher standard of evidence. What would be a good starting point to read about the social aspects of societies? How societies as a whole achieve consensus and how they come to “know” something? And if some of those rules can be regarded as “justified” and some legitimately as “flawed” (e.g. without at least some acceptance of claims by authorities without checking the evidence, nothing would work – yet there still seems to be a significant difference between the U.S. and North Korea)? 

is similar to what gets posted on Reddit's “Change My View” – but guess what, some views are just flat out flawed, wrong, absurd, fatally inconsistent. It has no value to concoct a pseudo-reasonable case for such views. If we look at the current US (excluding Nevada) legislation: 

It is true that human reason reaches vastly beyond what is needed for hunting a mammoth, or even for handling more complex situations arising from social behavior and language. Sure, a lot in nature feels counter-intuitive, but this doesn't preclude us to tread on such ground. The grasp of the structure of space by Euclid, for example, was so firm that he even singled out the axiom, which is problematic (the parallel postulate), as problematic (obviously, he still used it, but avoided it when possible). And this is only the beginning, if we think about the upper reaches of theoretical physics and mathematics. But I don't see how all of this gets us to a theistic God, who is conceived as an all-powerful and omnibenevolent Creator of the Universe. It would “only” be an argument against the modern worldview of the contemporary secular elite which is based on physicalism and Darwinism. By this, I don't mean the crazy idea that Darwinian evolution would turn out to be totally flawed (= has no explanatory power or gets the facts seriously wrong) – it suffices to be incomplete (similar to classical physics). Rationality might in part have immaterial features (so physicalism would be false) and teleological processes might exist in nature (very broadly speaking), which aim at the development of rationality. Such kind of atheistic worldview might feel odd and unsatisfactory, but that seems to be rather a result of our cultural biases, which we should strive to overcome. In India, they never had those big troubles about such proposals: 

Formal proofs can be checked carefully many times, by many different experts — because we all agree on the rules. We can try to give another very different proof for a proposition. Sometimes formal proofs in logic and mathematics can even be checked by a computer. Results in logic and mathematics can in many cases be applied to the real world. If an application fails, it should make us suspicious of our reasoning. In some cases we can make trillions of sample checks of a proposition with brute force. A computer can check a theorem in number theory for a huge range of numbers. Sometimes it is possible to grasp the truth of mathematical theorem in a more direct way, for example visually. 

It is difficult to understand how we can still speak about Biblical revelation if we assume that atheism is true. ;-) If you believe that Erich von Däniken is right and all the gods were just aliens which made contact with humanity... sure, in that case, a wise extraterrestrial could have revealed itself to the ancient Israelites (and they got a little bit confused). That could be a justification to take the biblical commandments seriously even if atheism is true. But such "revelation" would still be just an appeal to authority. If we don't make such fringe assumptions and atheism is true, then much of the Bible would be a very, very questionable authority. To follow the Ten Commandments "just because" would be far less justifiable than arguing "Aristotle said that this is morally wrong, so it is morally wrong." – at least Aristotle didn't fraudulently claim / suffered from the illusion that his moral judgements came directly from God himself. On the other hand, I don't know any meta-philosophical view that a fictional context would be a decisive refutation of any philosophical argument. No argument for Externism is disproved just by the fact that Externism is a fictional philosophical theory nobody took ever seriously. But is there moral-philosophical argumentation in the Bible? Ecclesiastes is a "self contained" very philosophical book of the Bible, which still makes sense if atheism is true. But it doesn't contain much moral philosophy. One could also say that sometimes Jesus tried to sketch a philosophical justification for his moral guidelines, though most of it just doesn't make sense in a non-theistic context.