First of all I am not sure if I got the question right. Correct me if not. This kind of working can be ok at home, if you are the person who really can do that and wants to do that. You really don't know how office working looks like? If I calculate that, 6 times 1.5 hours of coding and 5 times 1.5 hours break in between, this is 16.5 hours a day. How could a person be this time at the office each day? What recreation effect is in leisure time that you spend at the office, if it's only small portions and you absolutely don't know what to do there and always have the rest of your work in mind? This is pure stress, not recreation. So the answer is 

People should not compete? Then (wow I really have to say that?) don't force them to compete! Rishi Goel says it, hire the right at the top. Someone who doesn't 

See the first comment to your question, the answer may depend on the region you are. Apart from that, what should be not acceptable? The situation you describe is underpaid and overworked. If it really is, can you state a reason why you would like to stay there? Except your attitide towards work which is laudable! But there is not only the company, you are there too! If the question is only about how to quit, then quit in a way that noone can tell you had left a mess behind you. Don't quit right now, leave a little time so you can clean up your stuff. You can mention that at your next employer. 

introduce indicators that give employees no other chance but to survive on their own, regardless of the rest whine when they do exactly this. 

My first thought was what's wrong in a company that needs to promote itself among people who work there. For the next project you might want to see if this is just a gift or there is something burried inside that could be solved better. Your CEO's argument could be wasn't it predictable that if everyone brings this lunchbox then all the same lunchboxes are all over? Don't tell them you had no idea this happens. They will doubt if you were the right one for this job. Say yes you had a clue that more than one identical lunchbox could be found in the fridge. But (shape this phrase to make it fit) in case your company is not the local kindergarten I assume you have to deal with adult people. Shouldn't the 2nd or 3rd person who puts a lunchbox in the fridge see there already are others looking the same and put her/his name on his/her box without getting this advice from the management? Let's think further, shouldn't people put their name on by default, even if they all look different? Shouldn't someone who finds multiple boxes or unknown food in his box try to examine which is his and which is not instead of just eat the first thing they grabbed? Don't let them make you responsible for their lack of social skills. You tried to do good and it's not your fault if (again, rephrase this) they are too stupid. For the next project try to ask around who might see any problems like that. Involve CEO, at least send them your suggestion and ask about their opinion. 

I have been hired by a phone company to implement Google Analytics for their Android device. With my skills in Google Infrastructure, I can help them create apps using Google products. My goal is to send all voice commands and actions in a Siri-like voice application in the company to Google Analytics. Within 1 week, I made it work and know the next steps. However, when I ask management about what they want me to track, the priorities were not set. I also somewhat detected through their intentions of using Google Analytics that the application has huge limitations not intended for their goal of counting all phones around the world with certain complicated reasons why it will not work. However, I did not know how to tell them why because I had a 10 month project in my hands, and I wanted to discover the general scope of the project so I could implement it correctly. I technically finished the project within 3 weeks of both learning Android, and learning to save through their unified project repository. Then my primary boss's mother died and applied for a 2 week leave. Without my boss's help in leading me to which priorities or path should the project lead, I needed to identify the project on my own by asking questions to whoever could give me answers. However, there was also tension between another lady programmer who created an Analytics program for the company (not connected to Google Analytics). She limits me in touching her code, and made me perform less by means of diverting me to some other unnecessary tasks like measuring packets (which I already told them that it was more or less 2KB to 3KB). It did not lead anywhere but oblivion for 2 weeks of measuring unnecessary data. I just proved that Google Analytics packet size was sending 1KB each action sent. My secondary boss seems to feel like I was asking too much questions, and thought that I did not know what I was doing. I could already sense that letting me measure packets was a trap. If I fight against them, my next actions would not lead anywhere, they would tell me that I'm not doing the priorities they assigned. So I decided to stick to whatever they told me to do (despite the contradiction within me that tells me to fight for the project I believe in), instead of fighting for what I think could have been right. My boss came back after a 2 week leave from her mother's burial, and my senses did not fail me. I got fired and told that I am not doing the priorities I meant to do. During the exit interview, I asked them if they could point out the priorities that I should have done for Google Analytics. Because they can not identify the priorities, I explained to them that I was trying to help them identify the priorities by means of explaining how Google Analytics work. Basically, I was in bad luck. Question: If it were you on my shoes, wherein you believe in the project, would you fight for it? How would you use influence in manipulating the situation to solve the issue? 

It depends on the contract between the client and the contracting firm. Some clients insist on a veto over new additions to the team because they've been burned by the "B-Team Shuffle" in the past (that's when an outsourcing contract is won with a good people who are then systematically removed over the first few months of the deal and replaced with cheaper folks, usually less experienced and therefore less able). I've seen this syndrome a lot. It's a significant and often overlooked risk of big outsourcing contracts and a great way for the less ethical operators to maximize profit. So, I'd guess your client is being wary which bodes well for them being decent to work for. It may or may not be a warning sign about your potential employer because they might not be guilty of trying the shuffle but are being penalized for the bad actions of previous vendors. 

I'm afraid you're too late to really do much about the impending issue. You can't blame your predecessor now as (s)he's long gone - you could have (with an e-mail trail) during the first month or so but not now. If this happens in the future what you do is:- 

Your third option is probably ideal at this stage before you know the company dynamic around bugs. Some (badly run) IT departments can be quite dysfunctional and a helpdesk ticket is a permanent record of "incompetence" that can be brought up during salary reviews. So, wander over, introduce yourself and have a quiet chat, giving them the option on how to proceed. You don't want to start your relationship with a key stakeholder group as "the guy who cost Joe his bonus" 

Depends on where you are, a recruiter told me that a lot of companies have a system whereby the first recruiter to put in the CV for you gets the commission. So it could turn into a fight between the recruiters. Anyway, how do you proceed? Telling recruiter 1 about recruiter 2's job would be unethical. I'd call the person who interviewed you and ask if the two roles ARE the same and express a strong preference for permanency. That way you might be able to negotiate getting job 2 without upsetting recruiter 2 too much and getting recruiter 1 paid because they did the introduction. If the jobs are different you have to treat them separately. Possible permanent vs definite contract? I'd aim to prove myself on the contract and get moved over to permanent. Good luck 

One other consideration before you provide feedback. If you are the ONLY former colleague from "Company A" at "Company B", this can be readily discovered (LinkedIn?) and the manager has a good first interview followed by a bad second interview with a lot of pointed questions about staff turnover and non-delivery at Company A there is every chance that your old manager will guess that you are behind it and blame you for his failure to get the job. He may therefore retaliate in the future if the opportunity presents itself. If he's quick witted enough to figure this out during the second interview and is as good at stakeholder management as you say he is then there's a chance that he could divert blame onto you and make it harder for you to progress in the company. That might sound paranoid but I have seen this sort of thing done.