When a person has not yet attained Nirvana, actions of such a person come from a completely utilitarian point of view. When a person strives on the path towards Nirvana, actions of such a person come from a less and less utilitarian point of view. When a person attains Nirvana, actions of such a person come from an even less utilitarian point of view. When a person attains Nirvana, that person acquires immense compassion for other beings. Thus, actions of such a person come from his will to help other beings ease their suffering and attain Nirvana. Do actions of such a person arise because he gets something in return from these actions? Yes. In order to help others attain Nirvana, he must survive. Thus, he must get food, water and shelter. In order to help others attain Nirvana, he must develop the wisdom for teaching. Thus, he must learn how to teach and gain experience. There are many things such a person must do to help others. Thus, on this level, in this "reality", there is utilitarianism in Buddhism, but this utilitarianism is only visible to a mind which has not yet attained Nirvana. To a liberated mind which has attained Nirvana, there is no utilitarianism in his actions, nor in the actions of other minds which attained Nirvana. Why there is no utilitarianism in his actions? To answer this question, we must answer this question: Why does the will to help other beings in attainment of Nirvana arise in a person who attains Nirvana? To answer the previous question, we must answer this question: Why does the will arise? To answer the previous question, we must answer this question: What is the cause of that will arising? To give an understandable answer to the last question (and to others in the chain of questions) is impossible. The answer must be experienced: "will comes from ignorance". Does this mean that a person who attains Nirvana and helps other beings in attaining Nirvana is ignorant because there is "will" present in his mind? No, he is not ignorant. Such a person clearly sees what he is doing. He sees his ignorance. He understands it. He knows it fully. By seeing, understanding and knowing, he sees, understands and knows his "will". He sees, understands and knows, that there is no utilitarianism in his "will". To see this and understand it fully, it must be experienced. There is no other way. 

1a. Is strong acceptance of rebirth in the above scenario, a result of craving? Why? Yes. A strong acceptance of rebirth is a result of craving, which was also confirmed by the Buddha in this sutta: 

He is saying that the ups and downs produced by kamma actually help you in removing your ignorance and entering Nibanna. Without these ups and downs produced by kamma, you would never need to enter Nibanna because it would be as if you are already in Nibanna (no ups and downs, thus no suffering, thus everything is fine). This "attentive state of non-intention" is knowledge of the truth. Knowledge of what the truth is, is knowledge about kamma: is knowing kamma, its workings, its cause and its cessation. 

Thus, while on the outside it seemed like Velama is very generous and selfless, in reality, on the inside he was very selfish. That's why the sutta is saying that there was really no one giving gifts and that there were no gifts given, because of negative tendencies as if "throwing trash" as I explained. That's why it is said near the end of the sutta: 

If I were my body, then I wouldn't age. If I were my body, I would be my body, thus I would have complete control of my body. If I would have complete control of my body, I wouldn't let it age. If the body were truly mine, I wouldn't age. How could I age, if I'm the essence of "aging"? If I'm the essence of "aging", I can't age, because I'm the definition of "aging". Just like a line drawn on a piece of paper is a line and nothing more, in the same way I would be the definition of "aging" and nothing more, thus I wouldn't age. How could I age if I'm "aging" itself? That would be impossible. I could only age if there would be some other "aging" acting upon me, but since I'm the definition of "aging", no other "aging" could act upon me, thus I would not age. If the body were truly mine, nobody could take it away from me or cast me away from it. Because if somebody took it, he would not took the body and leave me behind, but he would take me with it. Or, if somebody took it, he would not be able to take it and cast me away from it, but I would stay with it. Thus, when I would die, the body would go with me or I would stay with the body. But it doesn't go with me, nor I stay with the body ... it stays on the spot where I died and rots until it turns into dust. If I truly were my body, nobody could touch it. Because even if somebody touched it, for me it would be like nothing touched me. How could I feel touch, if I am the essence of "touch"? It would be like being "touch" and feeling touch. How could you feel touch, if you're the essence of "touch"? It would be impossible. It would be like being the color red and changing into the color red. That would be impossible because you're already red. In the same way, it would be like being "touch" and changing into "touch". That would be impossible because you're already "touch". If I truly were my body, I wouldn't feel hot and cold. Because even if I were in a hot or cold place, for me it would be like temperature is non existent. How could I feel hot or cold, if I am the essence of hot and cold? It would be like being "hot and cold" and feeling hot or cold. How could you feel hot or cold, if you're the essence of "hot and cold"? It would be impossible. It would be like being the color red and changing into the color red. That would be impossible because you're already red, thus I wouldn't detect any change in color, which means that I wouldn't detect any change in me. In the same way, it would be like being "hot and cold" and changing into "hot and cold". That would be impossible because you're already "hot and cold", thus if I were "hot and cold" I wouldn't detect any change in me, thus I would feel no differences in temperature. If I truly were my thoughts, feelings, sensations and all other "things" that I feel in my mind and/or body, I would have complete control over them. How could I not have complete control over them, if I'm the essence of them? If I'm the essence of something, I have complete control over that thing. I am that thing! Thus, I would have complete control over that thing as I AM that thing. If I'm truly something, nobody could touch me. How could I be touched, if I AM that thing? If I AM that thing, I have complete control over that thing. Thus, I have complete control over the arising of sensation of touch in that thing. Thus, if I AM that thing, I could just erase the sensation of touch, and no touch would be felt. If I'm truly something, nobody could take it away from me. Taking it away from me would be impossible. How could that thing be taken away from me, if I'm that thing? That would be impossible. Whoever takes it away, cannot take it away from me, but is taking me with it. If I'm truly something, nobody could change it into something else, but me. Somebody else or something else changing me into something else, without my approval, would be impossible. How could somebody or something change me, if I AM that thing? Nothing could change me without my approval for change to happen, because If I AM that thing I have total control over that thing that I AM. If I truly were my thoughts, feelings, sensations and all other "things" that I feel in my mind and/or body, I wouldn't experience any of them. How could I experience something if I'm the essence of that thing? It would be like experiencing something that you're already being. It would be like being the color red and changing into the color red. That would be impossible because you're already red, thus I would detect no change in color, thus no change in me, thus no feeling in me could arise because nothing changed in me to make me react to that change. No feeling of that thing that I'm being could arise. If I were sadness, I wouldn't feel sad. If I were fear, I wouldn't feel afraid. If I were a thought, I wouldn't detect the thought. In the same way, it would be like being "thoughts, feelings, sensations" and changing into these same things. That would be impossible because you're already "thoughts, feelings, sensations", thus no change would be detected in ME ("thoughts, feelings, sensations"), thus I would feel no differences in these thoughts that I AM, feelings that I AM, sensations that I AM ... if I truly were these things. If I truly were some object that I see, hear, touch, smell or taste, I would have complete control over that object. How could I not have complete control over it, if I'm the essence of that object? If I'm the essence of that object, I have complete control over that object. I am that object! Thus, I would have complete control over that object as I AM that object. Nonetheless, when I observe my body as it really is, I see aging, death, differences in hot and cold. I see thoughts, feelings, sensations and all other "things" that I feel in my mind and/or body. I see, hear, touch, smell and taste objects that I have no control over them ... All of this is constantly changing and I can't do anything to change that. All of this is impermanent. Thus, I'm not my body. If I were my body, I would not age, I would not die, nor would I feel hot nor cold. Thus, I'm not my thoughts, feelings, sensations and all other "things" that I feel in my mind and/or body. If I were them, I would not experience them and I would have complete control over them. Nor I'm some object that I see, hear, touch, smell or taste. If I were, I would have complete control over that object. If I were truly these things, I would stop changing, I would erase suffering from me and I would become permanent. Whatever I would be, I would be permanent. Deathless. Immortal. 

You can, but not in a conventional sense. Truth is no merit can just be given away. You are the owner of your merit. The maker of your merit. The acquirer of your merit. Merit can only be acquired by actions. 

It is a type of "becoming" and a "thought formation". In the same way, a belief in "non existence of rebirth-reincarnation", is a type of "becoming" and a "thought formation". When a thought or belief arises in a being due to ignorance, that being clings and craves on that thought or belief. This clinging and craving will not result in Nibanna. When a thought arises in a being due to wisdom, that being does not cling nor crave on that thought. This absence of clinging and craving will result in Nibanna. A belief is something that is accepted as the only truth. Thus, no belief can ever arise in a being who truly destroyed ignorance. That would be impossible. The one who destroyed ignorance, dwells in wisdom. He is the knower of the truth. How could the knower of the truth say "this is the only truth", when he knows "all truths are non truths"? That would be impossible. That's why the knower of the truth stays in the middle.