I agree mostly with Carson63000's answer, though in my experience, it's more role-based than size-based. When your main role is to make maintenance of systems used during the day, you've got to be there when people begin to work, and are no more useful once they're back home. In the same firm(a big bank), I've been assigned(at different times of my career) project development & software maintenance tasks. For Project development, noone cared my schedule, as long as I was doing the job. For software maintenance, the requirements were extremely strict : "arrive at 0800, have finished the checkup at 0900 to be sure users can work, stay up to 1700 when the users stop working with the system". Strict schedule was perfectly justified. Though those situations are not that common amongst developpers. But it happens. Happened to me a few times. For freedom, well, if the only thing that matters is that the job is finished, and up to the standards of quality, who cares if you work 0700-1600 or 1100-2000 (or 0700-2000 if you are badly organized)? But it's not freedom to finish when you want. The deliverable is due for the 24th of June, you'd better deliver something that works well the 24th of June. 

Apologize (sincerely) "I'm sorry you're having trouble today." It's that simple. In one episode, the US version of The Office actually had a whole joke about a character not being able to apologize to a customer. Let them tell their whole story - no matter how boring and useless 

Edit: Response to comments First, an overall clarification of the focus of my answer. I'll quote here part of the question with emphasis that I have added: 

Some customers don't want help, they want to yell If you're listening patiently and validating quietly and they are escalating, either you're amazingly bad at listening and validating, or the problem isn't you - it's them. When a customer doesn't de-escalate at all, I completely shut up. I say nothing. If they don't start running out of steam and they continue to escalate or the instant they start to attack me when I know I've said nothing that could be perceived as negative in any way, I'm looking for a supervisor and expecting that we will be ending the phone call. This should be very rare. Some people have amazingly bad days before they call you and you can't help them with many things that could be stressing them out that are not computer related. You just have to ask them to call back when they are calm. I think in my 20 years in IT I've had this happen maybe once or twice. 

Dwoz is right, "the circumstances in which I've been hired are no more" is an excellent argument. Though I'd like to add, you are living interesting times. In your place I'd stay a few more month to learn how it happens. Maybe there will be opportunities for you. Though the most likely is no, there will be no place for you. But stay alert. At worst, you'll learn a lot of things on the human side. Of course, making your resume & looking for an exit door is mandatory, but don't be closed to your current firm. When everything moves, there may be opportunities. 

What is the local norm for the job you are taking What are the specific points taht you could lever on to get your own value over the norm(or under, if you've got weaknesses) Is the prospective employee in a hurry? Does he have other candidates ready? How good did you seduce? 

Listen for when they are ready to troubleshoot They will either run out of steam or escalate to explosion depending on how well you manage them up to this point. Letting them talk and vent is actually the fastest way to get them to the right place, even though it may seem like it takes forever. Interrupting them to shortcut to the troubleshooting step is not a shortcut, they still have a strong emotional need to share their story, and they will try to come back to it, and they won't be ready to listen until they've had their say. Get them on your "team" Once they are done, ask them to join your "team" by saying something like, "Ok, I think we can fix this if you don't mind checking on some things and going through a few steps. Do you have time to work on this now?" That last question might seem crazy since they have called the help desk, but maybe as much as 10% of the time the answer I get is, "No I have to run to a meeting, I just wanted to let you know." That means you can get off the call, and they will be a satisfied customer! If they say yes, they have the time, then they have heard that you're not taking them for granted and you need their help to solve their problem. Assume they know nothing People who know a lot about computers tend to understand that most people don't. Start off with really basic stuff like, "Let's go to the Control Panel. To get there click on Start, which is in the lower left side of the screen." If they come back with "Ok I've got the control panel open" then you know you can work a little faster with this person and they probably won't be too annoyed. If you expect them to know how to open the Control Panel and they have no idea what you're talking about, then they are likely to back into a death spiral of emotional turmoil and frustration with how unhelpful you seem to be. After each instruction and response, continue to assess where they are on the spectrum of computer understanding. You may find yourself saying, "Look at the bottom right side of the keyboard and you should see four keys that have arrows on them. Look at the up arrow and look at the key it is pointing to. It should say "END". Just to the left of the key that says "END" should be a key that says "DELETE" or "DEL". Do you see that?" Be patient. Really, be patient. Don't try to fix the problem, try to help the customer Obviously the best way to help the customer is to fix the problem! But sometimes fixing the problem proves to be very difficult or impossible. If things don't progress from one to the next in a fairly orderly fashion, you're going to have to figure out how to "punt" in some way. Common punts sound like this: 

Nothing comes automatically, usually. If it is important for you, make it know to the decider. He might think that as you're asking nothing, you're not expecting anything. Either your manager thinks awards are awkwards, like Joel Spolsky, or he didn't think about it. Either way, as long as you don't ask, you won't know. If he thinks it's a bad thing, and then sees his best performer complain about it, he might change his mind, and if he just didn't think about it, a simple reminder could do a lot. And be sure to meditate DA's advice : is there any underlying value to this awards, besides prestige? Money, or career advance, or something valuable like that? 

The coffe machine is your friend. Everyone goes there, so try to be there too. I'm an introvert either, and it requires some work to get used to contacts, but a successful career is often at this price. That, and each time you've got an opportunity to professionally speak to someone, force yourself to ask one personal question. Like "how are your children growing", or "For when is your wedding?", things like that. Remember that people love to speak about themselves. Launch them, listen to what they say(be it interesting or not), and sooner or later, some of them will give you informations more relevant to your career. The advantage of being an introvert is that you're less likely to speak only about you. Which is often seen as selfish. If you make just the effort of asking one question & wait to see where it leads, you'll get more rewards for less effort. And don't overdo it : you're at work for, errrrm, working, first. You never know what this or this relation will bring us. And all of a sudden, because you've been polite & interested in people, you're offered a job improvement by a manager you barely knew, but who heard you're a good boy. It's a game of patience. Every day, make a little effort towards a few people. Slowly, surely listen to them. Some of them will ask questions, which means you begin to have some kind of link with them. And then, later, it will pay off. Usually a way you cannot forecast. 

You'll find that other people either already know this person argues all the time or they will quickly figure out that he does, and they will give you the benefit of the doubt. Often with someone like this, they will just argue no matter what, even if you ask them not to argue. They will simply argue with you about how much they argue. Note that if he ever says something insulting when he disagrees with you, it's appropriate to tell him you feel insulted and you would like him to not speak like that in the future. If that happens, try to say nothing about the actual disagreement and focus on the insult. He will probably argue about whether it was actually insulting but if you mention the actual point of disagreement he is likely to focus on that and not on your feelings. 

Most of the results will depend on who you are hiring. Joel Spolsky tells it better than I could : The importance of Quality recruits 

There is no 3rd way to my knowledge. Note that most people prefer getting paid for the remaining days, and taking unpaid vacation days the first year of their new job(when they have no holidays yet, but still want some). And, of course, RTT does not work like that(for non-french, it's additional days you get when you work more than the standard 35 hours). RTT must be used before the end of the contract, or simply are lost. They do not push back the end of the contract, unlike real holidays. 

Loyalty is supposed to go both sides. After what you've written, do you think your employer is loyal to its employees? If you work for an employer you have good reasons to believe is always loyal, and won't give you up, then be loyal. If you work for an employer that has a recent history of letting people go and not paying them, then you are not supposed to be loyal anymore. Of course, the usual advice applies as well : don't leave before having a firm offer elsewhere. 

My reading of the question is that the "primary focus" is on de-escalating the situation, preventing "furious" customers, and eliminating the need for security to be called on people. That may or may not be what my answer should focus on or it might not be what the asker is actually looking for, but I have decided to focus on that. As such, the content of my answer is mainly about de-escalation, helping users calm down and feel like they are being given good customer service so they are comfortable becoming part of the solution. My answer is not about how to troubleshoot IT problems directly, since that doesn't seem to be the biggest issue the asker has. I strongly believe, based on my experience on both sides of support calls, that establishing a positive (albeit temporary) relationship on the call is not just beneficial to solving the underlying IT problem, it's critical. If this is starting to sound like I'm suggesting that IT people need a lot of people skills to do their jobs well, then you're understanding me completely. I myself got into IT because I understand computers better than I understand people, so I sympathize with anyone feeling like it's a big ask to see a "computer job" as a "people job". The bad news is that all jobs are people jobs. So you can't escape it, and you might as well accept it and think about people skills. On apologizing Some comments (see the chat link) were about apologies, specifically that they are actually detrimental, patronizing, accepting of blame, or merely a waste of time. First, (and I've added this above), apologies must be sincere. It is true that an insincere apology will come across patronizing, at best. I agree, if anyone is trying to de-escalate a situation and is considering an insincere apology, they should not do it. An insincere apology is patronizing. A sincere apology is a very powerful statement of sympathy, at least in American culture. In the US, an apology is not an admission of guilt or fault. There have actually been US Supreme Court cases regarding this. Apologizing for something that is your fault merely opens a door to possible forgiveness. It's sincerely apologizing for something that isn't your fault that is a powerful show of sympathy - for the exact reason that it isn't your fault! On validating illogical or untrue statements My answer is not about making the world a better place or making the caller or the asker better people. It's about talking callers "off the ledge" and helping them arrive at an emotional place where troubleshooting can begin. If I may quote Obi-Wan Kenobi: "You'll find that many of the truths we cling to depend greatly on our own point of view." By validating another person's "untrue" or "illogical" statements, you are accepting that they have a different point of view and that's ok. I've spent a lot of my life telling people how they are wrong, and I can assure you it's not a way to win friends, influence people, or de-escalate tense support calls. The tin foil hat crowd who think Bill Gates hates them personally and wants them to lose all of their Word documents might have, maybe, a unique point of view, but they are customers, and if when they aren't, no IT support person is going to ever convince them that they are wrong. The best you can do is get on board their little mental roller coaster for a few minutes and help them out and then get off and be glad most users aren't like them. On educating callers My other career is education. I teach guitar and other musical instruments and I tutor in mathematics. You'll never teach a single fact to an angry caller. Heightened emotions do increase the effectiveness of our memory, but they also filter our perceptions. That means what an angry caller is going to remember very well is how mean you were to them (in their perception). So you have de-escalate if you're going to teach anything. Effective teaching also requires a connection - a sometimes brief but honest relationship. All of my tips and techniques above are in service of the goal of creating a sincere and effective connection and relationship with the caller. If you think making a connection with an irate caller who needs IT help is hard, try tutoring 13 year olds in Geometry. In both cases, you have to do whatever it takes if you want to actually help. Finally, the asker has mentioned they are generally short on time and that the callers are frustrated and/or angry. These are not factors conducive to teaching. If the queue is mostly empty and a call comes in from someone who is calm and able to communicate effectively from the first sentence, that's when you can give them a few tips or inside information that will help them in the future. I highly recommend two books that basically gave me people skills, along with a lot of practice and learning the hard way: How To Win Friends And Influence People by Dale Carnegie - I know what you're thinking. It sounds like a bunch of cynical manipulation techniques to make you rich. It's not that. This is a great book about dealing with people and I was extremely surprised at how wise it is and how much insight I gained reading it. The 7 Habits Of Highly Effective People by Stephen Covey - Again, it might sound like a cynical book for salespeople that is trying to capitalize on a trend in self-help. It's not that. This book basically gives you tools and process to become a better person. Neither book will solve everything, and for some people neither book will solve anything. But they are both worth checking out if you are a computer person trapped in a people person world. Also if you're just a person they might really help. 

That's the bread and butter of "hot" maintenance programming. I did it for several years, and actually did like it. It's not for everyone, though. You have to like gunpowder smell. The question is, what is the business drive behind your activity? reducing your productivity for gaining in delay is a trade-off. If the business behind is actually to develop quick evolutions in emergency, and this kind of interruption is actually what gives value to your work, then get used to it. Or look for a bigger project. OTOH, if the business added value of delivering your work a few hours earlier is limited, then you have a management problem. As it seems to be the boss assistant, and not the boss itself, the person asking you this kind of things might be not aware of the interruption costs in programmimng.Here is a link you can use to explain. You will have also to negotiate small waiting times(i.e. you need 45 minutes to finish your current task, and then you'll do the next urgent things). It can be awkward to ask, but worthwhile(if the emergency is not a business driver, of course, in which case you've got nothing to negotiate).