I disagree with the notion that all decisions are made at the subconscious level and justified at the conscious level in all cases - certainly it will be true for some, but if that was true for all situations the conscious level would have no reason to exist. I would posit that the conscious level is what separates us from the other animals - we do not only act subconsciously, but do indeed act consciously - allowing us to perform such acts as writing out "I am a conscious being with a true first person perspective". That doesn't mean, however, that we have true free will. I don't subscribe to the bottom up causational rationale, but rather would say that the conscious mind is as deterministic as the subconscious mind, but observes itself in the process. Like a machine that is designed to look for ways to improve itself - it is still a machine. My answer therefore is that this is a potential rebuttal of bottom up, but not of determinism in general, and is more of a question regarding consciousness than free will. 

Those who claim we should not do these things are placing their own values above our own, which is philosophically reprehensible. We are each free to make our own decisions, and judge whether or not they will be productive or counter-productive to our lives. We may be judged by others based on these decisions, but that is just another variable to add into our equation when deciding whether or not something is worth doing or not. If you were to truly believe the positives would outweigh the negatives, I would say there is no reason for you not to do drugs. I smoked pot for 10 years whilst outperforming everyone in my office, and making steady progress in life, and so for me there was no reason to stop. Eventually I did make the decision to end it, but not for any negative reason other than I was getting bored of it. What you are referring to is peer pressure, and that can be safely ignored if you are confident in your own assertions about the effects of what you are doing. 

Paragraph 1: I think Nagel believes in an objective reality, which he believes can be measured and used to refine your internal perceptions over time. He seems to believe that this is necessary, as otherwise it is meaningless to question your internal perceptions at all. Paragraph 2: I think Nagel is saying that the physical world must exist, as we are able to question whether it exists. He then extrapolates from this, to state that if the physical world did not exist, then reality would simply be the sum of impressions within your mind, and thus they are no longer impressions, they are reality. I think he is doing the solipsist argument a disservice here, by jumping to extremes, instead of treating them in a more reasonable manner, as I shall try to explain below: Paragraph 1: I would argue there may be an objective reality, but that it is impossible for a human to perceive it objectively. This is not necessary, as our survival is due to us making predictions of the outcomes of our actions, and those are based on the history of our perceptions - which are at least consistent enough to enable us to survive until now. We should question what we think we know, because as we don't objectively know anything, we only have incredibly likely guesses, to live by: I will wake up again if I go to sleep; Eating this food will stop me feeling hungry; Drinking this water will stop me feeling thirsty. It's in our best interests to gain as many alternative perspectives as possible, to ensure we are as close to objective truth as we can get (whilst still accepting there is always a chance we are wrong). Paragraph 2: I would argue that the physical world does not have to exist for us to question whether it exists, as we may be illusions ourselves, with our thoughts being automated processes that we have no control over. I believe this perspective of his is based on the concept that humans can perceive objective truth, and that our perceptions of our thoughts are objectively certain: ie. we think, therefore we are. Finally, regarding points [1] [2] and [3], I think in attempting to disprove solipsism, he actually strengthens their argument, as he is basically stating that if you remove the external world from consideration, and base your reality entirely on your impressions of the world (ie. your perspectives), then they stop being impressions and instead become reality itself. If reality is purely inside your head, this is a valid scenario, and he is correct, that your impressions are your reality. I think because that reality is constantly in flux, he discredits it as a definition of reality - however considering that a human can only ever guess about the outside world, using that which they perceive, his final statement is only bolstering that perception, not discrediting it. As I write this, I'm realizing that the general definition of solipsism is that the self is all that can be truly known, and sadly I go further than that, into believing that nothing can be truly known, especially not the self, so perhaps my answer only argues from that perspective... I believe Solipsism is as close to my ethos as anything else, however, and that this answer covers it fairly in any case (with this disclaimer at the end). 

This is not the case. Telling someone they aught to do something is just one more factor that will be taken into account when the choice is made by the person's mind. Whether or not you tell them they aught to do it is deterministic, and part of the chain reaction which results in their decision being made, but it plays a part in that decision making process. The person may have no true choice over which outcome they pick, but they believe they do, and act like they do, so it is worth treating the situation as if they do. You're just introducing a new element into the calculation. Simply telling them they aught to do something is unlikely to be enough, however, unless they hold you in high regard. You're best offering more variables for their calculation - explaining why you believe they aught to do it - that will increase the likelihood that their eventual conclusion will fall in line with yours. Unless they distrust everything you say, but again, that's another variable that needs to be taken into account. 

Objective truth is unknowable from a human perspective, all we can do is classify almost certain probabilities as objective, which is the pragmatic manner of dealing with these things in order to avoid constant doubt. From our perspective many things appear absolute, yet are ultimately subjective, and that is the best definition we can come up with for anything, really. All human thought is subjective in that it all stems from the human bias of existence, meaning our definitions of objective/absolute are ultimately irrelevant when discussing empiricism. I would say that most things we take for granted are treated as absolutes, whilst ultimately being subjective, such as 'the sun will rise tomorrow', 'I will wake up after I go to sleep', 'If I eat when I'm hungry, I won't be hungry anymore'. Realistically these are just subjective opinions, yet they're often considered absolute. Really everything has a bias, even if it's just confirmation bias, and so I think the whole question is dependent upon humans being able to identify or quantify objectivity in a meaningful manner - which cannot be, as we are not omniscient. 

A more fitting example for the question of existence would be a rainbow, I think. Do rainbows exist? I believe they don't, as their characteristics only occur if an observer is in the right position, and looking at the right spot (pedantically this is also true for the moon, but as the tides also occur in daylight, it could be argued that it exists 'more' than a rainbow). Anyway, when we ask about existence, it tends to be tied to a given combination of concepts (whether they themselves exist or not), and I believe that is all existence ultimately is - a series of concepts, nested within and linked to one another like a spider web. Is there a tangible link between two concepts, or not? Can something exist in one scenario, but not another? Can something stop existing for some people, but not for others? A rainbow can do these things, and I think it's a solid example of the fluidity of existence. If most of space is nothingness, does nothingness exist? Within the concept of 'space', sure it does, but by definition it cannot. Seems like a paradox, unless we are saying that the concept of nothingness exists, when tied to space, but that it defines something that represents the antithesis of colloquial existence, when tied to most other things: If I have no apples, those apples do not exist. If I have nothingness through the majority of space, that nothingness does exist. A strange set of rules, for sure, but I believe it comes down to what makes sense to our minds, and fits within the scope of our collections of concepts. The moon exists as it fits nicely into our concept of reality, and until it fails to do so any longer, it will continue to exist for us in reality. The same applies to stories, I think. As long as they are internally consistent, we're happy to assume their aspects exist 'within the story', but if something is too distant from the concepts being told, our immersion will be broken as we won't believe such a thing 'could exist' in the story being told. This is a bit of a ramble, but I guess I'm saying that I think existence is whether or not there are links between concepts in our mind, and that as long as there are, whatever those concepts are, they exist at least for us, until we don't believe in them anymore. As to existence in the physical realm, I think that's a bit more concrete, but as always, we have no way of really knowing. As long as our worldviews still operate successfully, with any assumptions we make about existence, our mind is doing its job correctly. Assuming anything further than that leads into unquantifiable speculation, and no real payoff. 

A duty is a requirement that someone does something. A right is a requirement that someone receives something. The difference in application is that a duty specifies the donor but not the recipient, whereas a right specifies the recipient but not the donor. 

If each frame of consciousness has the prior frame for reference - which is reasonable - then I would posit that it behaves in a similar manner to a movie reel. Each frame is independent, but together they form a sum greater than their parts - a seemingly flowing product of independent states. 

Ethics are subjective, so the answer is either yes or no based on your personal preference. You compare it to the trolley problem, which notoriously has no right answer, and so there is no question here that can be answered. I'd also point out that those involved were paid for their time, so it was not a waste of their lives from their perspective. 

Objectivism deserves denying, due to the apparent limits of the human senses. I wouldn't say this directly leads to nihilism, although I can see why a lot of people take it that way, which is unfortunate. The lack of an objective reality should only serve to open minds, making them more fluid and less steadfast in their beliefs, however it seems people take it as 'if nothing is true, why bother with anything?'. That's jumping to an extreme to discredit a position, and is unreasonable. Pragmatism should always win out in the human experience, and pragmatism would state that it's ok to rely on things that are a 'safe bet' such as the sun rising in the morning. It doesn't mean it's objectively true that the sun will rise in the morning, but it's close enough that pragmatically it doesn't make a difference. I would argue that Objectivism is what is splintering society - those who believe they have the objective truth on a matter are unwavering, and will decry those who disagree with them as crazy, or trolling, and that is becoming more and more common, with the extreme objectivists becoming more cemented in their views as time goes on. I would say, instead of taking nihilism from subjectivism, it'd be better to ask questions and try to empathize with others positions. Id also say that empathizing is not the same as sympathizing, which is another common misconception used to deny the need to do so. 'Why should I empathize with terrorists, I don't care how they feel!'. Empathy is the key to subjectivism, and in my opinion objectivism is closer to nihilism than otherwise, as if you already know the answers what is the point in questioning? Look at all zealots, oppressors, and psychopaths, and notice a trend - they all believe their viewpoint is the truth. A sad state of affairs, for sure, and I doubt it'll change anytime soon.