A hangover develops when blood alcohol concentration (BAC) returns to zero after a bout of heavy alcohol drinking and is characterized by a mixture of unpleasant physical (lightheadedness, nausea, increased cardiac work with normal peripheral resistance, diffuse slowing on electroencephalography, and increased levels of antidiuretic hormone), nervous system activity by impaired memory/visual-spatial skills and mental symptoms-impaired memory retrieval processes. There is empirical evidence for showing that impaired performance is a result of the alcohol hangover. Symptoms of hangover seem to be caused by hormonal alterations Antonino Bianco 2014, dysregulated cytokine pathways Dai-Jin Kim, 2003, and toxic side effects such as dehydration Eriksson CJ, 2001. Hangover symptoms are worst at a time when almost all ethanol and its metabolite acetaldehyde have been cleared from the blood, and peak blood ethanol or acetaldehyde levels are not related to the severity of hangover Ylikahri RH 1976. Congeners–complex organic molecules such as polyphenols, higher alcohols including methanol, and histamine, which occur in varying amounts in ethanolic drinks are probably more to blame than ethanol. The severity of hangover symptoms declined in the order of brandy, red wine, rum, whisky, white wine, gin, vodka, and pure ethanol G. L. S. Pawan, 1973. 

"In general, the plain backgrounds led to faster search times than did the medium-textured backgrounds, and blue backgrounds led to slower and more variable search times than the grey or yellow backgrounds" per Alyson L. Hill et.al. in 1999 

Drawing on yourself with a normal ball-point pen does not lead to harm since writing ink is considered non-poisonous per Medline. Xylene based writing ink is a concern, though toxicity for the xylene based ink is normally linked to inhalation. Pen Ink Ingestion: Per Medline, "writing ink poisoning occurs when someone swallows ink found in writing instruments (pens). Writing ink is a blend of dyes, pigments, solvents, water and it is generally considered nonpoisonous. Large amounts of writing ink must be consumed (more than an ounce) before treatment is needed for symptoms such as eye irritation and staining of skin and mucus membranes". Tattoo ink: Regarding tattoo inks, "FDA has not approved any tattoo pigments for injection into the skin. This applies to all tattoo pigments, including those used for ultraviolet (UV) and glow-in-the-dark tattoos. Many pigments used in tattoo inks are industrial-grade colors suitable for printers' ink or automobile paint." 

Many ordinary fruits/vegetables such as lettuce, orange juice, black pepper, mushroom, carrot, potato and apple contain chemicals that are noted to be carcinogenic hazards when ingested at higher amounts and these in the real world would not pass the regulatory criteria for carcinogenicity used for synthetic chemicals. Also not surprisingly, adequate fruit and vegetable consumption is known to be associated with a lowered risk of diseases such as cancers, cardiovascular diseases, cataracts, and brain/immune dysfunction. 

Lauren Axelrod, an anthropology student studying for her PhD in archaeology states in her blog Ancient digger that one expedition dated the city of Jericho to 15th century and other to 13th century. 

In a study published in October 2009 issue of Appetite, the influence of gender, group size and gender composition of groups of eaters on food selected for lunch and dinner (converted to total calories per meal) of 469 individuals (198 groups) in three large university cafeterias was investigated. 

However we are unsure to what degree the effect actually is since it is difficult to measure teachers’ contributions to student learning with a high degree of certainty (high confidence levels). We also are not sure whether such gains related to the teacher or his/her methods, to other sources such as school factors, nonschool factors mentioned here, or merely to chance. 

Drinking alcohol may decrease one's core body temperature regardless of the outside temperature and might increase hypothermia risk. 

Due to the elusive nature of wolves, there have been only few observational studies on leadership in wolf packs. Rarely an unrelated wolf is also observed to be adopted into a wolf pack. 

2. Drinking hot beverages triggers sweat response which may help in production of very small changes in body temperature. A study by Bain R et. al. in 2012 found that drinking hot water triggered a sweat response that compensated for the heat of the drink. The opposite response was produced by drinking cold drinks, with a reduction in sweat cancelling out the cooling power of the drink. 

Researchers had also claimed to have identified signs of a 70,000-year-old African ritual practice linked to snake mythology of modern Botswanans which may be the earliest evidence for ritual behavior here. However, this finding has been challenged by the original researchers of the Rhino caves here. 

Preharvesting and refrigeration also is found to play a role in the determination of superior taste of locally produced vegetables and fruits. 

Per a systematic review and meta-analysis of trials in women by Ekaterina Mishanina et.al. in 2014 to investigate whether the risk of cesarean delivery is higher or lower following labour induction compared with expectant management, the interpretations were 

Former opponents such as Carl Braun, Virchow, Professor E. Martin and people such as Chiari who ignored his theory also became future supporters. 

Eight percent of 946 new products in the review period 2002 to 2011 were clinically superior, down from 11 to 15 percent in previous decades referring to Donald W. Light in 2014. 

Rotational accelerations appeared to be the dominate response and were consistent with levels found in concussion of professional football players in the study 'Biomechanics of the head for Olympic boxer punches to the face' about head injury risks which combines data on the head impact response of a biofidelic dummy and the measured punch force of Olympic class boxers throwing straight punches. 

Yes, expired unsealed contacts may be unsafe to use beyond their recommended time limits due to contamination causing eye infection. The conclusion of Dart et al's 2008 study was that daily disposable lenses are associated with less severe disease. 

Medical advise to counter this knee locking mechanism is to move about or contract the leg muscles which might help in stimulating the blood flow to the heart and improve circulation to the brain. 

The U.S. also exports beef, pork and poultry apart from its own consumption at a higher rate when compared to other countries in the world. 

2. Some studies suggest that objectification can lead to dehumanization, which increases risk of violence. Dehumanized social perception may have detrimental consequences on attitudes and behaviors toward women, including sexual coercion, assault, and violence as well as victim-blaming. 

The effect of white optics for instant brightening and natural glow is inconclusive since it is not yet researched. 

Per Cooper and Jenkins in 2012, good reasons to consider using honey produced from the Leptospermum scoparium (manuka) plant from New Zealand clinically as an alternative to conventional antimicrobials are lack of selection of honey-resistant mutants and lack of cytotoxicity. However per the authors, comparison of manuka honey with antimicrobials mupirocin in randomized clinical trials is needed in the future to investigate the efficacy of decolonization. 

Normal defecation is initiated by three components (1) spontaneous phasic contractions of rectum starting during filling. (2) smooth muscle relaxation of the anal canal with an increased recto-anal angle. (3) application of voluntary expulsive force as straining. Process of Defecation: Research shows that the defecation is a complex, learned process which requires both an intact nervous system and normal muscle function. 

Research shows that the true prevalence of food allergy is between 2% and 5% of the population of US and researchers feel that it is unnecessary advise to avoid certain immunizations in patients with true or assumed food allergies since risk of not vaccinating is a greater risk than that of vaccinating. 

Markusovszky a close friend of Semmelweis also wrote a powerful article as a reply to the opponent of Semmelweis doctrine called Breisky in the Hungarian language. 

Replacing saturated fats with high quality carbs such as whole grains along with the intake of unsaturated fats was found to be most effective at lowering risk of heart disease. 

Pesticide residues in urine of adults living in the United States: reference range concentrations Robert H. Hill, 1995 

Nonmuslim sources for the historical Mohammed: "Seeing Islam as Others Saw It: A Survey and Evaluation of Christian, Jewish and Zoroastrian Writings on Early Islam" by Robert G. Hoyland contains a collection of Greek, Syrian, Coptic, Armenian, Latin, Jewish, Persian, and Chinese primary sources for eyewitness accounts of Islam. Some of the following evidence is also mentioned in that book. 1. A Record Of The Arab Conquest Of Syria, 637 CE 

Age-related cognitive decline begins early in adulthood and before age 60 in healthy educated adults. However these changes vary from individual from individual and is also dependent on various other factors such as childhood IQ, disease, genes, inflammation and diet/lifestyle. 

It is also true that egg and gelatin which are used as components of vaccines are potential allergens. However life threatening reactions are rare events. 

Installing mirrors did not reduce or increase the actual waiting time for elevators but the complaints of the customers were reduced since they were using that idle time to check their personal appearance. 

A study researching dietary patterns, food groups, and telomere length in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) in 2008 found no connection between sugar-sweetened soda and telomere length (i.e. shorter telomeres). This can mean that decrease of telomere length which is a useful biomarker of lifetime exposure to environmental and biological stressors and a major factor of study in the claim is not related to soda consumption. 

TL;DR: Modern glass suppliers are able to apply clear, UV protected coating to glass that stores fresh beer no matter what kind of colored bottle it is in. 

The probability of Fukushima radiation causing the mutation of fish in the area where Hiroshi Hirasaka caught the giant wolf-fish can be denied on the following factors listed below. 

It is also noted that since these reactions occur only in few patients or with lots of medications, and hence the medications or vaccines should not be withheld from those who have food allergies because they will be able to tolerate it. Decisions about revaccinations should also also made only by the physicians on the basis of a case-by-case risk/benefit analysis on the patient. 

B. Incompletely understood combustion process in the air involving clouds of dust from the valley floor containing scandium. However, this source has reference to only one peer reviewed article and scandium found in higher densities elsewhere is not known to cause the same observable phenomenon. C. Cluster of macroscopic Coulomb crystals in a plasma produced by the ionization of air and dust by alpha particles during radon decay in the dusty atmosphere. Source is peer reviewed. D. Product of piezoelectricity generated under specific rock strains. Source is peer reviewed. 5. Chir Batti: Unexplained light phenomena viewed in the Banni grasslands, a seasonal marshy wetland and adjoining desert of the marshy salt flats of the Rann of Kutch near the India–Pakistan border in Kutch district, Gujarat State, India. There is no scientific peer reviewed exploration yet for this phenomenon and igneous gas mechanism is thought to be the process behind this without any other solid evidence. 

Flynn effect does not discredit the notion of IQ tests since the effect has several drawbacks if studied on the basis of IQ test validation studies such as "sample sizes tend to be small; the earlier and later versions of the same test may differ significantly in format or content (e.g., Kaufman, 2010); there may be significant order effects; many tests are never re-normed and therefore lie beyond the reach of this method; and direct within-examinee comparisons have not been made for many tests even if the tests have been re-normed. In addition, validation studies rely on group-level data and presuppose a representative normative basis for the derivation of a standardized IQ score." per a meta-analytic study 'The Flynn Effect: A Meta-analysis' by Lisa Trahan et.al. in 2014. 

Research shows electronic devices such as tablets, smartphones, and other devices with self-luminous electronic displays emit light at short wavelengths such as blue to produce white light, close to the peak sensitivity of melatonin suppression and this leads to reduction of sleep duration and disruption of sleep. Light applied at specific times of day can be used to shift the timing of the biological circadian clock and reduce misalignment. 

Research involving surviving/deceased victims, models of animals, mechanical dummies, and finite element analysis have demonstrated a pattern of vitreoretinal traction in the retinal hemorrhages suffered in SBS. A systematic meta-analytic review on the clinical and radiographic characteristics associated with abusive and nonabusive head trauma in 2012 found that retinal hemorrhages were significantly associated with abusive head trauma in children. 

Special Virus Cancer Program evolved from the original Solid Tumor-Virus Program in 1968 under the direction of National Cancer Institute. 

There is no evidence to suggest a causal link between parabens and breast cancer per Health Canada. As of 2007, a statement by Federal Drug Agency assures that there is no reason for concern about the use of cosmetics containing parabens. 

Per Michael Corballis, professor of cognitive neuroscience and psychology at the University of Auckland in a Scientific American 2013 article, "teaching people to become ambidextrous does not appear to improve brain function. It is possible to train your nondominant hand to become more proficient. A cooperative brain seems to work better than one in which the two sides compete". Disadvantage due to natural ambidexterity in children Evidence per studies listed below suggests that being ambidextrous from birth may associate with developmental problems. 

Seismic signals produced by the air guns consist of bubbles of compressed air and these are not still researched or noted to induce earthquakes through artificial stress. An example of the bubble pulse produced by air guns can be viewed here. 

Seismic surveys are also blamed to cause adverse impacts on marine life. However, the actual research evidence does not agree with that conclusion. 

They're round, so maybe the wind will "roll" them on the water, thus exposing thousandths of an inch of water to evaporation over the ball's surface area? The shade balls are projected to contribute to saving 90 percent of water in the LA reservoir from evaporation . The rolling effects on the partially water filled shade balls are minimized by the weighing down which helps to counteract the wind force that tends to push the shade balls and expose the surface to sunlight. 

Per IAEA in August 2015, "The screening has detected asymptomatic thyroid abnormalities — nodules, cysts and cancers — that would have gone undetected if asymptomatic children had been screened using standard equipment. Similar results were obtained when the same screening was carried out on children living far away from the areas affected by the accident." 

Was it by Marilyn Manson?-No, referring to Dallas TX publication The Met. Marilyn Manson did not kill the chicken onstage. 

Urinary retention is the inability to voluntarily urinate and complications include infection and renal failure per Brian A Selius in 2008. Claim #1: One of the recommended ways to start strengthening your pelvic floor is to halt your urination for a few seconds and then continue. This claim is false since UK NHS cautions