Anyone that says you shouldn't carry a handgun in bear country is misinformed about a lot of things. Better would be a .12 gauge shotgun with slugs, but let's deal with the handgun issue. Sure, bear spray is good to have, and we all like to have recourse to non-lethal measures, but if it comes to playing dead or shooting a bear in self-defense, I'll shoot every time. I've camped, backpacked, and provided services as a guide in grizzly country...and I grew up in the Ouachita Mountains of Southeast Oklahoma where black bears are common and you run into them all the time. I like bears, and I'm not scared of them, but I respect them. Still, let's not let Disney or Nat Geo inspired sympathies and fantasies cloud good judgement--a firearm is a tool, and a useful one when used properly. It's nonsense that a handgun can't kill a bear. There are plenty of handgun hunters that do just that. And let's dispel the nonsense about you not being able to hit a bear because you're nervous--as if you'll be any less nervous and better able to direct bear spray, which is both less ergonomic, harder to hold onto, harder to aim, and harder to deploy. It's much easier to bring a handgun to bear than bear spray when waking from sleep, whether in a tent or out on open ground. As a former Infantryman, and having worked in the firearms industry and trained others in the use of firearms, emergency preparedness, survival, and being the sort of guy who likes to camp under the stars on the ground or in a hammock rather than in a tent, I've had not only the experience but situations arise to convince me the 'bear spray-only' crowd are essentially bait-in-training. Are you sure you aren't going to have that bear spray splashing back in your face inside your tent when a bear is coming through that thin netting that was previously your entrance? I wonder how many people have actually discharged their bear spray, or any bear spray, and know the best way to bring it into action or what to expect from the spray pattern and range? Additionally, a handgun discharged will generally frighten away a bear that is outside your bear spray range, but is displaying an unwelcome interest or appears like it might be weighing the prospect of further aggression, when a shout or stick or rock tossed its way did not have the intended effect. A handgun is handy not just for bears, but for providing you with food, and for defense against other critters that your bear spray was not designed for, including but not limited to the two legged variety that conduct criminal activity in every park, forest, or range frequented by outdoors enthusiasts, hunters, campers, backpackers, and so forth. It also is handy for signalling, and three shots fired has long been one recognized signal for help. Faced with a moose or bison intent on doing you harm, you may regret having only bear spray at hand. That said, let's look at the appropriate round(s) you're looking for. Given your specific requirements for small framed shooters. Look at the .45 Long Colt. It has a larger diameter than the .44 Magnum, can take heavy loads that will penetrate deeply, has been long proven for hunting large game, and most importantly for your considerations--will have a lower recoil impulse than a .44 Magnum. You can fire similar loads of similar bullet weights and muzzle energy, but the smaller case diameter of the .44 Magnum means a higher impulse than the .45 LC, which means a sharper recoil. The .45 LC will feel like a heavy push, where the .44 Magnum will feel snappy, jerky. The .41 Magnum is a good round, but it too has a high recoil impulse. A .357 Magnum loaded with heavy 180 grain hard cast, flat nose rounds will give deep penetration and make it through thick gristle and help smash bone better than the common 158 grain hollow points. Check out Buffalo Bore ammunition for appropriate, heavy loads. For higher capacity, if you must go with a .357, check out Coonan Arms' semi-auto pistol, which will also lessen felt recoil. There are other suitable handgun rounds, but the recoil makes them unpleasant to practice with, especially for smaller shooters. That said, a handgun like a Freedom Arms revolver in .454 Casull will kill bears, moose or just about anything else you care to shoot. A revolver that takes .45 LC/.410 shotgun shells is a good utility handgun as well, and makes your handgun even more versatile should you want to add small game to your pot or need something quick and easy in rattlesnake country or paddling low overhang areas where cottonmouths can drop from branches. Bear spray isn't so handy for snakes, criminals, crazies, dope growers, meth labs, cowboys looking for someone who just stole tack or cattle, jihadist or Aryan Brotherhood compounds you stumble across from time to time. It happens, folks. I'm not alone in having those kinds of encounters. Don't be a victim, not even for bears. We're creative animals--it's what makes us human. Without tools like blades and firearms, whose creation and use are part of what it means to be human, you go from apex predator to weak link in the chain. 

An Aussie rappel is useful for when you need to see and work going forward. It's particularly useful on steep slopes, not just down vertical or extreme slopes you are going to run down. You may need to clear brush down a steep slope, working in front of you as you go, something you obviously can't do if you aren't forward facing and able to stand safely. You may have to rescue someone who has fallen down a steep slope, and the situation dictates you either cannot or do not want to go past them or get behind them. Imagine someone has slid down a steep incline to a cliff. It may be easier to work in front of/above them than off to one side or below them. Keep in mind, when training to Aussie, you may have someone on belay, but in practice, it's typically used in situations where you aren't going to have anyone on belay. It requires practice and technical proficiency. There's nothing that says you have to do it with one hand free, either. In fact, you normally have your non-braking hand on the line behind you--unless the situation specifically requires you to have one hand free. That usually means it should have something in it, or you are engaged in an open air rappel and need it for balance. As they instructed us at the Army's Air Assault School, if it comes free behind you, you leave it free because there's always a chance that re-stressing the line while grabbing it, you could cause an accidental disconnect. It's non-military applications are special instances where you might need to peer over edges or overhangs, do inspections on steep grades/inclines and such. An example of an application that shares across military, law enforcement, and civilian use is the overhang/edge scenario. You can go to an edge, lean forward and out over it, lock yourself in with a forward incline, allowing you to see down a vertical face like a building, cliff, or extreme slope...and from that vantage point provide direction to others below who are engaged in a traditional descent. Or communicating with someone awaiting rescue below, providing direction and encouragement. Yes, it is mainly used in military and law enforcement applications where you must enter the immediate vicinity of non-friendlies or are at risk of immediate engagement. Nobody wants to get shot, and you want to get shot in the back even less. And you want to be able to shoot back. It's a warrior thing. 

A .357 Magnum can safely and readily shoot the following rounds: .38 Short Colt, .38 Long Colt, .38 Special, .357 Magnum. Your big problem in the short-near term is that shooting shorter cases will foul cylinders further back in the chamber and if not cleaned thoroughly after shooting, you may not be able to seat longer rounds from baked on carbon build up. Clean soon as possible and do a good job to prevent it. Additionally, in the long term, over years of shooting shorter cartridges in your .357, you will tend to get erosion further back in the cylinder, much like what happens to muzzle breaks/flash hiders on an AR platform, for example. Some folks even stuff .38 S&W and .38 S&W Short in older models that will take them, but don't do this--they are a different case diameter and should only be shot in pistols designed for them. If you do, in any case, they usually expand and become a pain to reload. Just don't do this. If for no other reason than if you keep/shoot them in a pistol you're using for self defense, and need to reload, one or more stuck casings means that if you're using a speed loader, you just hit a stoppage point that if you haven't trained to deal with may cost you your life. And even if you have, it may still, because it will take additional time to deal with. Again, stay away from .38 S&W/S&W Short in a .38 SPL or .357 Magnum. Additionally, if you decide to buy a companion lever action rifle, keep in mind that if you wanted to shoot .38 Special out of them, you should buy one designed to shoot .38 SPL and .357 Mag--some that will chamber and shoot .357 Mag will also chamber and fire a .38 SPL, but will not extract or eject it, and/or they will be problematic cycling .38 SPL rounds. I've dealt with both the shooting of the smaller rounds (very popular in SA/Cowboy shooting) in .357 Mag pistols, and the .38 SPL chambering, extracting, and ejecting issues in rifles while working in the firearms industry. One additional and nice reason to actually shoot .38 SPL loads in a .357 Mag is the lower recoil and pressures. In fact, it's a popular setup among those who like to carry a snub-nosed revolver, to buy a .357 Mag with the intention of shooting .38 SPL because the .357 Mag is typically made with thicker cylinder walls (and usually frames and barrels) to withstand higher pressures. This means there's more metal/weight to most .357 Mag snubs than a .38 SPL of a similar barrel length and frame size--which helps offset muzzle rise due to recoil. Thus, time back on target for follow-up shots is quicker. Most recoil sensitive shooters are better off with a semi-auto than a revolver, but if a recoil sensitive shooter wants a snub nosed revolver which is much harder to shoot accurately than just about anything but a derringer, the smart move is to get a Magnum and shoot shorter rounds. You'll find people buy .44 Mag snubs and shoot .44 Special or .44 Russian in them, or they'll buy a .327 Federal Magnum and shoot .32 H&R Magnum or .32 Long Colt. More weight + less powder = lower felt recoil and faster follow up shots. As an aside, most often, the above scenario is due to a husband or boyfriend thinking the best handgun for a wife, girlfriend, mother, sister, daughter was a revolver, when it's usually the hardest for them to learn with, shoot accurately, and become comfortable and proficient with simply because the recoil is so unpleasant. Always did everything to steer them away from it when I could, and a great many snub nosed revolvers purchased usually came back within days to be traded on something else, even with reduced recoil loads. Occasionally, it is a guy or gal who knows how to shoot revolvers, and they're looking specifically for the added weight and controllability in a snub nosed pistol. A final note, you can also shoot .38 SPL+P in your .357 Mag...but you might as well just shoot .357 Mag rounds if you're going to do that. You can even get low recoil/low flash .357 Mag rounds and avoid the chamber fouling/erosion issues that come from prolonged use of .38 SPL or .38 Long Colts. If you reload, just reload them light. The .357 Magnum is incredibly versatile. There are even high pressure .357 Magnum loads using heavier than normal bullets (180 grains as opposed to the more common 158 and 125 grain bullets) which make fantastic hunting rounds. Check out buffalobore.com for a great example of a variety of high performance and specialty .38 SPL/.357 Mag rounds. Check out buffaloarms.com for a variety of.38 LC, as well as .38 SPL/.357 Mag ammo, including blackpowder rounds. 

Care for your neoprene water shoes as you would for any neoprene wetsuit. $URL$ You can use any search engine and search for 'wetsuit soap' or 'wetsuit wash' and will find suitable products. Stop by any dive shop where you are travelling and they will likely have some. If you are using them every day, you probably should not be storing them in a plastic bag. You should be washing them in fresh water (warm or cold, not hot) with cleaners/soaps designed for use with neoprene wetsuits. In a pinch, a mild tearless baby shampoo can be used. Washing them thoroughly, rinsing them well, and hanging them to dry in a well ventilated place is appropriate. You do not want to dry them in direct sunlight as it will over time break down neoprene. Ventilation and circulating air are the key factors. Storing wet neoprene that has not been effectively cleaned, especially in a plastic bag, will only encourage bacterial growth which contributes to bad odors. Additionally, I would say do not use newspaper or paper towels stuffed inside them, as this impedes air flow and the damp paper will only serve to confine moisture inside the shoes. You're better off washing, rinsing, hanging, and letting air circulate through/around them. If you can turn them inside out, this will also help them dry more thoroughly. In a hotel, a few minutes with a hair dryer on a low setting and held about two feet away will help--but be careful, you do not want to heat the neoprene, just simulate the equivalent of a warm breeze flowing. If you are wearing them every day, and even after taking them off considerable time passes before you can wash and rinse them, you should be checking to see if they are in fact drying 100% overnight or if they are still slightly damp when you use them the next time. If this is the case, you have insufficient airflow and too little time. A fan helps. A better solution might be to buy a second pair, and wear one, while allowing the other a full day or two to dry before their next use. If it will be any length of time between wearing the shoes and being able to wash/rinse them, clip them to a pack or your waist/belt (using a snaplink, D-ring or spare bootlace/shoestring) and let them air dry as you walk. If you finish crossing the last fresh water river or stream near for the day, rinse them in that water, before clipping them to your pack/waist and moving on. Keep in mind that even freshwater streams/rivers will have bacteria. If you're unable carry them outside your pack/person then a good wash/rinse at the end of any day's use and ensuring they have plenty of airflow/ventilation is all you can really do. Just make sure you have them out drying whenever possible. Another possible solution/option is to get non-neoprene water shoes that have mesh uppers, or some sport/water sandals so that the neoprene is not an issue. I make use of sport sandals with a closed toe for uses where there will be frequent immersion in water and wear my neoprene shoes or boots usually for short term activities, like diving or a cold weather kayak trip. It's just easier for bacteria to hide in neoprene and it will be an ongoing struggle against odors with daily/prolonged use.