Iron ore is called hematite. It's pretty simple to identify, just look for red rocks that appear to be rusting. Iron is the 4th most abundant element on earth, so it's pretty common in most areas. The most primitive way to smelt ore is to construct a furnace out of mud, create a fiery inferno inside of it and then pour in all of your ore. You can accomplish a similar feat by digging a hole, building a hot fire, tossing your ore in the middle and covering it so the heat doesn't excape. Heat is essential, you have to be able to get your fire hot enough to melt iron, so use hardwood at the very least, (coal if you can find it) and you have to create a bellows to fan the coals or it won't get hot enough, at the very least you need to sit there and blow on your coals (use a reed as a blow pipe then you don't need to get too close). Do this until the fire burns out or you feel you may have sufficiently smelted the ore. You should be able to dig a clump of dirty iron out of the bottom of your pit. How big it is will depend on the quality of your ore, and whether or not you got your fire hot enough. After you have your chunk of iron, you're ready yo get your 'blacksmith' on. 

Hi-Tec has a whole line of water repellent shoes, including walking shoes: ALTO WATERPROOF MEN'S WALKING 

I do a little bit of everything, I have multiple pairs of snowshoes, Nordic skis, Alpine touring skis, and just plain crampons for when I'm hiking on hard pack. They're all fun, but show shoeing in mountain snowshoes is undeniably the easiest and cheapest. 

The answer depends a lot on the style of bladder, there are a couple different styles. I have a classic camelbak, which has a nalgene sized opening on it and a handle to hang onto for filling one handed, so it's real quick and easy to stick in the water and fill up: 

If you got a ~45mm rubber washer, you could tie your string to the washer, then put it into the hole one of two ways: either shove the washer in as deep as you can just to hold the string in place, or you could put your cache in first, then "plug" the hole with the washer. You could recess it completely in the hole so nothing is hanging out, it's black, so it won't draw a lot of attention from passers-by who may glance up into the dark hole in the pole, and the hole in the middle will make it easy for some one to stick their finger in it and pull it out. 

Porcupines are den animals, and rarely venture far from their dens. Trees are where they find food, but they seek shelter in little hidey-holes wherever they can find them. Most of the time, their dens are on or near the ground. They'll den in hollowed out logs, stumps, gaps in rocks, etc. Sleeping in trees makes them easy targets for feliform predators. 

At least 60m away, and 5m high. I doubt that there is such a thing a bag that bears absolutely can't smell through. Bears and other animals with rhinariums (wet nose) not only smell better than humans, they smell in a different way, they can literally taste odours. A bears sense of smell is roughly 2100 times more sensitive than a humans. Even if you got a fancy odour-proof bag to stick your food in, the bear would still be able to smell the bag, which could be enough for it to want to come take a closer sniff. Up close, I doubt there's anything a bears nose couldn't penetrate. Your greasy hands that handled your food also handled the bag, a bear will be able to smell that, and will probably assume there will be more of that tasty smell inside the bag. There's not much you can do to prevent a bear from smelling your food, so you have to take measures to ensure that the bear isn't attracted towards your sleeping area. I live in bear country, and personally, I don't use any kind of fancy bag to hang my food (a plastic bag is good enough), I just make sure it's a good distance away from my tent, and hung at least 15' off the ground between two trees where there's no way a bear could reach it. In my opinion, it'd be better not to use a smell proof bag, I'd rather the bear was following his nose away from my tent site and kept distracted all night far away from where I was sleeping rather than not notice the cache and come sniffing around our tents in hopes there might be scraps. It's important to keep your cooking area, and toileting area a good 60m away from your tent as well. Small spills, boil overs, even just touching the log you're sitting on with the same hand you barely wiped your mouth with will leave a scent. A dry bag will work fine as a food cache, these's no need to go buy one of those gimicky expensive bear bags. As long as you build a good cache a couple minutes walk away from your tent, and put absolutely everything you have that carries a scent with it (including lip chap, tooth paste, deodorant and chewing gum) you'll be just fine. 

Gravity Filters Cone Filter Much like Charlie's gravity filter in a bottle, this filter is essentially the same, only using a cone of tree bark in place of the bottle, and using extra filtration layers instead of a coffee filter or bit of cloth: 

Forcing moves is one of the hardest things to accomplish in route setting. In general, setting easy routes is easy, setting hard routes is even easier, but setting beta specific intermediate routes can be next to impossible. One of the most effective methods I've found for establishing interesting problems that force specific beta is to play take-away. To play, designate your starting hold and your end hold, then get bunch of guys to climb with. At the beginning everyone is climbing open holds, but each time someone climbs, they get to choose one hold to take away from the problem, and no one is allowed to use that hold anymore. Every time the problem is climbed it gets more and more challenging, and the beta gets more and more specific. This method of problem setting helps eliminate those alternate solutions to a problem, because if you notice a bunch of people all using the same hold to get through a part, you can take it away and force them to do something different. Something I'd do to force moves, was to place holds so they could only be held in one very specific position. Such as using slopers on an overhang, people can't hang from slopers from specific angles, so they're forced to think more about body position and footwork. Avoid using too many jugs when setting problems, because stronger climbers can just campus through them, swing their bodies around, or dyno to the next jug, etc. One of my favorite things to do was put jugs on the wall in a way that made them anything but juggy to hang onto, like putting them on upside down or backwards. This forces people to think about the hold differently, and use it as a sloper, undercling, gaston or crimp. People tend to get too familiar with climbing holds, for example, if I see a teknik fatty-fat pinch in a route, I know exactly what I'm in for. But from the right angle, that fatty fat can transform from a fat pinch to a dirty sloper. Use a hold differently than it's normally used and you can change the dynamic of the problem. One dirty trick you can play on people is stick a really juicy jug in the problem that distracts them from the proper solution the to the problem. There's nothing really systematic about route setting. It's more of an art than an exact science. You need imagination, or you need inspiration. Watch some bouldering competions online, or better yet, go participate in a competition. Climbing a variety of problems helps you bring a greater variety of potential problems back to your gym. Climbing outdoors gives you a lot of inspiration too. It's common for people to duplicate the crux of their latest project so the can practice it in the gym, then go flash it on the boulder. 

Masons Line Paracord's biggest selling point is that it's strong enough to hold your body weight. That's great and all, but honestly, it's very rare to get caught in a situation where you're forced to use a rappel. The most common situation is when parachuters get caught in trees, but in those situations, you already have a bunch of lengths of paracord attached to you (your parachute). For every other situation you're probably already going to be carrying a rope. For all of the more common practical applications, I use nylon string. I have had the same roll of braided nylon string (masons line) in my backpack for over ten years now, and I use it for everything. A roll of 500ft fits in your hand, it's light, and it's surprisingly strong–I've never had it break on me–but I've also never used it to hold body weight, though with 500ft, you could string a few strands together which would certainly hold body weight, and seriously, a roll of 500ft last forever. I've used this stuff for: 

Ultimately, your snowshoes will still work for you regardless of which foot you put them on, but they will work better, and you'll have an easier time putting them on and walking if you put them on the feet they're setup to be on. 

Canadian glacier lake swimmer here - You can train your body to overcome the cold shock response. It's a matter of mind over body, yes your body responds to the sudden shock of diving into cold water, but the trick to overcoming it is to relax, slow your brain down, and focus on controlling your breathing. The best way to do this minimize your movements, moving around in cold water makes the water feel colder, if you can hold still, take slow controlled breaths and just relax your shoulders and arms, then you can overcome the cold shock response. As soon as you gain control over your body, the cold water doesn't feel so bad and you start to feel like you could hang out in it for a while (just don't hang out too long). 

When I was a boy I learned about a tribe of natives (Lipan Apache) that had an initiation into manhood which involved plucking a hair from the tail of a live deer. These people had developed a mode of stealth that allowed them to walk right up to deer–head on–without the deer sensing their presence or noticing their advance. I adopted the technique for moving through the woods silently, but never to the point where I could stealthily touch a deer. I'll skip the masking your scent and disguising your appearance parts and just give you the silent walking part. First of all, you must have good balance, so take a semi-squat stance to lower you body weight. With each step, you will balance on one foot, while you test the ground ahead of you with the smallest toe of your other foot. You want to plant your foot where it isn't going to make any noise, first touch the ground with your small toe, using it to part the grass or move leaves, then gently rock onto your lateral arch down to your heel as you shift your weight onto your forward foot and flatten it out onto the ground, the last part of your foot to touch the ground is your big toe. Complete the step by transferring all your weight to your forward foot, then feel ahead with the other. The deer touchers did this very slow, averaging about 80 seconds per step, in a breeze they could rock with the grass and branches and go about 60 seconds a step. The super slow speeds were so the deer wouldn't register them moving, even if they were staring straight in their direction. When nothing's watching you you can move quickly through the woods stepping this way, just touch with your small toe first and ease into each step, when you get good you tend to glide more than you stride. The part to practice is making contact with the ground without making a crunch, it's easy to do on a path, but harder to do when moving through the bush. As far as what clothes and shoes to wear: the deer touchers went barefoot and wore nothing but a loincloth and ash from a fire, but any soft soled shoe will work for foot wear, toeshoes would be the best. For clothing you don't want to wear anything synthetic, nylon and polyester make that whishing sound when you walk. Soft cotton or wool is best for moving silently, think ninja knickers, light and breathable.