This seems to me to just be the Goenka method of Vipassana restricted down even further in terms of where you direct your awareness. So in essence, a partial Satipatthana practice? He states you can do this with any physical or mental aspects, although I'm not sure how you would manage juggling mental objects like this. Perhaps this is just beyond my capacity. 

In this way, one can see that the Buddha was purposeful in the manner in which he spoke, and as such would not be doing so simply as a cultural norm. 

No need to search pain out. Do sitting meditation, develop a practice, and pain and frustration will find you :) There's no need to go out of your way to fabricate any state. Pain and pleasure have the same intrinsic qualities. When you sit, you will see this. There is no need to condition oneself specifically for any state, since all states are impermanent, suffering, and nonself. 

Ultimate reality exists only as momentary experiences of the six senses, experienced one after another. In this way, there is no "interval", either for Buddhists or non-Buddhists. Conventionally speaking, Buddhists could employ the concept of intervals to explain phenomenon, I suppose. For instance: Experience A arises, experience A ceases, knowledge of impermanence arises, knowledge of impermanence ceases. Within this interval of time, the conditions for the knowledge of impermanence to arise arose and ceased, moment by moment, and the knowledge of impermanence arose and ceased. As you alluded to, these are all individual momentary phenomenon. 

Mindfulness of mind is one of the four Satipathanna, that is, foundations of mindfulness. This is the basis of meditation that the Buddha taught. Generally speaking, as far as I know, meditation based on the four Satipathanna is referred to as Vipassana. How to meditate - Ven. Yuttadhammo 

If a monk is given the opportunity to speak in favor of doing a good deed that a supporter of his wants to do, even if that good deed directly benefits him, is it proper to do so? Is there any concern to be had how others may perceive doing so? i.e. others may see this motive as being self-serving; and therefore how to address this properly? Thank you 

This is probably too long to post as a comment, but isn't totally an answer either, in any case it's something of a reference to this. This summary is in reference to the commentary of the Dhammapada verses 21-23: There was some king in the Buddha's time ( I don't remember which), whom had two Queen consorts. One of them was virtuous, the other evil and scheming. The virtuous one had a hand maiden who would buy flowers for her Queen every day, but stole from her in doing so. The hand maiden would take the money the queen gave her for flowers, keep half the money, and return to the Queen only half as many flowers and she had ought to, the Queen not knowing any better. Until one day, this hand maiden heard the Buddha teach, attained stream entry, and then returned to the Queen, confessing her transgression. The Queen was not mad, but impressed that the Buddha's teaching was this profound. Fast forwarding, Ananda ends up coming to the palace to teach the Queen and her attendants, the evil Queen wanting to get rid of the good queen, as the evil queen had qualms with the Buddha due to a past misgiving, but was unable to get at him, plots against the good queen. The evil queen ends up burning the good queen and her attendants alive in a bed chamber, although while they are burning to death they are able to be mindful and attain the path. It is explained in the sutta that the queen and her attendants suffered this kamma because of a misdeed they all committed in a past life. They had started a fire in a field where a Pacceka Buddha was in a deep state of meditation. Because of this deep state of meditation, he was unharmed. But they not being aware of this, thinking he was burnt and dead, built another fire around his body to fully dispose of the evidence, and left him. The Pacceka Buddha was fine, but the weight of this action followed them all into this life, all of them suffering the same fate. 

I think this is quite complex area and we cannot have correct or incorrect answers. anyway I am trying to give my opinion here. If you refer the Maha-mangala Sutta, the first advice is related to this topic. It goes 

According my understanding Anapana Sati meditation is consists of several steps depending on your level. Found this page written by Most Ven. Nauyane Ariyadhamma Mahathera (who is one of the best meditation teacher according to me) could be helpful to you. It is quite lengthy one, but please read through for better understanding. In the article Ven Ariyadhamma address your question. In brief: Experiencing the whole body 

You could find the full story from here and here Apart from that, king Ashoka built Pillars at Buddhist monasteries, many important sites from the life of the Buddha and places of pilgrimage. This was done around 200 -300 years after the Buddha parinirvana. During that time those important sites and monasteries should have left some sort of evidence to support Buddhas existence that convince King to build the pillers. So it also can be considered as good indication. Further: 

So It is quite possible that a normal person can attend the Sotapatti state with the normal life style. In fact there were lot of lay people who attended these stages. Found this wiki page with lot of information about enlightened lay people according to various Suttas. 

There are lot of archaeological evidence align with Buddha's life story. I think those can be considered as the most trusted third party evidence. Here I am listing some of the web search findings. 

Here in this answer I am going to give some resources I found in the web and not going to copy and past anything here as the process is quite lengthy and detailed. You could learn about Kasina meditation from "Visuddhimagga (Path of purificaiton)". If your refer page 117 and onwards describe the details about "Earth kasióa". If you need a shorter version please refer here. Further you could refer this page which describe how the create "Earth Kasina"(object) and describe how to do the meditation in details. Hope this helps. 

Firstly to my understanding Sila is very important part of a meditation practice. It purify the morality and ready your for the meditation. If you have troubles with the meditation, I think the fist step is to start with Sila. Try to keep five precepts or the ten precepts. Without Sila, you cannot success with your meditation practice as it is the first step of the threefold training. Secondly I think it is not a good idea to force yourself to keep the mind from wandering, if you try this you will find that over and over again the mind will wander. Be kind to the mind and let it to settle down. When you found it is wondered, just notice it accept it and bring it back to the meditation object. Hope this helps. 

As far as I understand, noting only ceases upon cessation(nibbana) itself. That is to say, the meditator does not stop noting. I'd also invite you to meditation.sirimangalo.org Ven. Yuttadhammo gives Dhammapada talks there on Tuesday nights, 9pm eastern time, Dhamma talks on Thursday, and does Q & A Saturday nights. He also offers 1 on 1 meetings in an online meditation course format for more serious meditators, so this may be of interest to you. 

Yes there is! Being mindful of whatever arises, i.e. mental images, clearly noting their arising and ceasing, will strengthen your mindfulness and concentration. The point of vipassana is to come to see the impermanent, unsatisfying, and uncontrollable nature of all phenomenon, and here, my friend, you have it! The goal is not to maintain concentration on one object of your choosing. edit: I'm assuming you're practicing vipassana? If this is the case, please edit and add the vipassana tag, as that would change the appropriate answer to the question 

You should attempt to return your focus to the rising and falling of the stomach, however, it's more important to develop a clear comprehension of where the mind is and what state it is in at any particular moment. You don't HAVE to be with or stay with the breath. You will be better off letting go of the desire to have awareness of the breath, as this will only create suffering. Have no expectation of the breath being there for you. Instead, with compassion, just observe where the mind is and in what state it is in. What you are experiencing here is the uncontrollable nature of all phenomenon :) As you can see, because you have an expectation that your meditation should be like X, and instead it is like Y, you suffer. You must let go of this, and instead, just know, "this is how it is for now". I would also advise you read Ven. Yuttadhammos booklet : How to meditate He also teaches in the Mahasi Sayadaw tradition, so this booklet will give you good instruction into your own practice, and should help clear up any confusion for you. I hope this helps - best of luck 

have you tried counting your in and out breaths? this may be a good middle ground for you, as it will give your mind something to do. Here is instruction for anapana meditation 

There is nothing wrong with enjoying sex, so long as you don't mind suffering. Let me turn the question around on you: If you were never able to have sex again, even though your desire and drive to do so remained, how would that make you feel? Judging by your question and the comments you have made, I would assume this would cause you suffering. This is all that the Buddha is saying. Such a mind-state of clinging and craving will plant the seed for potential future suffering. You cannot suffer because you can't have sex, if you don't want to have sex to begin with. Likewise, a mind free from craving, free from anger, and free from delusion, seeing clearly the transient, unsatisfying nature of all impermanent phenomena, is a mind with no potential to suffer. This is the Buddha's teaching: This leads to this, that leads to that. That is all. It really is true, I can tell you from my own experience. If you give the Buddhas teaching a fair chance and put it into practice, you will likely see very quickly in meditation how perturbed the mind becomes by the constant craving for sensuality. I am very much like you, in fact. Before my first meditation course last year, I loved having sex, and indulging in sensuality. I thought it was great, and the more I got, the happier I was. When I attended the course, at first it was very nice, sitting in silence. It was very peaceful. For the first day, at least. After this, for the next few following days, my mind was bombarded with lust. All day, for several days, my mind cried out for the object of its desire, and every time it did, I brought it back to the present moment. This was true suffering. My mind was inflamed. Not because I needed to have sex; clearly not having sex will not kill you, but instead, because in this meditative state, I could clearly see how this craving was inflaming my mind. I can tell you this, this lust is like a thirst that is never quenched. The object of your desire can never quench your thirst; as soon as you have it, it is gone, like sand falling through your fingers. As soon as you get it, it's gone, and before long you need more. This is why we are always in search for more, never knowing peace, always wanting. We're chasing a mirage of water that will never quench our thirst. A simile by Ajahn Chah illustrates this well: 

I found several interesting Wiki pages: This one gives a basic idea about the growth as a comparison between 1910 and 2010. 

here "fools" refers to those lacking in wisdom and live unskillfully. This is essentially those who lead ignoble lives that contradict basic moral values and decency and/or takes one away from the correct Path. In the other hand Upaddha Sutta states 

However in addition, when the Dhamma teaching is no longer available in the human world, some of the upper realms may still abundant with being knows Dhamma and still possibly attend nirvana. Ref: $URL$ 

By keeping the above teaching in mind I am trying to address your points. Point one: If the "bad friends" is a person like someone, describe as fools in the "mangala Sutta", I think first step is keep our ground and not allow him/her to drag us down. We can have compassion and kindness to the "bad fried" and let him/her know about your position. If he/her is a really friend, he/she will understand it treat you with respect. Further, it also help them to think about themselves. However if they still trying to drag us down, my personal feeling is to avoid them. Otherwise it will do a great harm for us. Second Point: Although it is quite easy to have friends in these days, I do not think that we have enough real fried (As mentioned in the "Upaddha Sutta"). We can keep contact with any person through social media very easily. Keeping the contacts and having a real fired is totally different thing. Anyway to conclude this I would like to give two Dhammapada verses: 

$URL$ This one gives the population groth rates $URL$ By briefly analysing all of the above, I feel like Buddhism is decline according to the statistics. Further found this article which gives a projections for the Next 200 Years : $URL$ According to it from 1900 to 2025 Buddhist world wide % changed ( and will be change) from 7.8% to 5.7%. Although it sound like depressing, please think as a Buddhists this is quite expected and all align with Buddhist teaching. Going forward, It is quite clear that world is not going be a better place than today. As people moving more towards to materialism, consumerism they tends to distract from the reality. So be mindful and practice the Dhamma. 

The Origin: As I know the origin goes, before the Buddha's enlightenment. According to the legend, Siddhartha Gautama in seeking Enlightenment sat under the spreading bowers of a giant Nuga Tree lying close to the bank of river Neranjana. Then the daughter to the village chief name "Sujatha" offered a bowl filled with rice, thinking he was the divinity of the tree (You could read the full story here. Purpose: