The threaded designs tend to be limited to older bikes or really cheap new bikes. What bike (make/model/year) do you have, it should be easy enough to work out from that what standard it is fitted with. However if you are unsure any good shop should be able to advise. 

If the two shocks have the same eye to eye length and the same stroke then the Monarch will physically fit into the frame and allow full travel without fouling the frame (See note below). The other thing to consider is the damping tune of the shock. Shock manufactures produce a variety of shock tunes to suit different suspension designs (and a large company like Trek might even commission custom tunes). While this will not stop a shock from working in a frame it may result in undesirable handling. Typically the damping tune of a shock can be altered during a service (full service not air can service). In your case I would expect that the Monarch will be just fine. Be careful to check the clearances before riding. Note: some shocks are wider or have a piggy back reservoirs. Care should be taken to make sure the new shock does not foul the frame at any point during its travel. Typically you would do this by removing all air from the shock and cycling the suspension by hand and checking the clearances. 

I'm not a 100% sure however I think the 'spring' in those forks was actually elastomers. The linked Suntour fork appears to have the correct steerer type (threaded) and the steerer is long enough. A big problem though is the axle to crown length of the fork as it is 100m travel. It is likely that the Suntour fork that you linked to will be significantly longer than the originals. This can lead to undesirable handling and more importantly could cause the head tube to snap off the frame due to the increased loads. The Amazon listing shows the axle to crown length of the Suntour fork. Measure yours and compare the values. To measure extend the fork to its full length and measure from the centre of the axle to the underside of the crown race. The crown race sits on top of the fork's crown and runs against the bearings. In the top down picture is is the stepped silver circle between the steerer and the dirt on the crown. You do not need to measure this as it is part of the headset. In the linked fork the crown race measurement of 30mm is the same as 1" 1/8. You can reuse the current bearings. To do this you will need to (carefully) remove the crown race from the current forks and fit it to your new forks. In my opinion it will probably be easier to find a suitable rigid fork than a replacement suspension fork. If you do replace the forks I suspect that the original Marzocchi item might be worth attempting to sell on. In my country (UK) there is a strong market for retro parts, even broken. 

My trusty old CF racer was stolen the other day, and I'm looking for a replacement. I saw this bike at PlanetX and was intrigued. It's a full carbon bike with (last years) Ultegra components for a very reasonable price ( < $2k). It comes with a compact crankset and a short-cage dérailleur. The largest cassette it can accommodate is 11-28, which would give me a lowest gear of 34-28. Not bad, and the same as I had before. But I live in the Alps and I frequently find myself in the lowest gear well before I hit the steepest parts of the hills, so I would like to have a lower gear, if at all possible. I spoke to the vendor, and they said that it would (at least in theory) be possible to put on a medium-cage dérailleur and an 11-30 cassette. But I was wondering if it would be possible to have a smaller chainring in front instead. Can you get smaller than 34? Or would that not fit? At some level I'm contemplating putting on a triple instead, but that seems like going back to the 20th century... 

Rims last a lot longer than brake pads. It's difficult to put a number, as it depends on so many parameters, but personally I change brake pads roughly once a year (2-3'000km), and I haven't ever changed a rim due to it wearing out. (There has always been other reasons to change them.) On many rims there's a tiny groove in the middle of the braking surface. You're supposed to change the rim when the bulk of the rim has worn down to that level. (But as I said, it hasn't happened to me yet.) Regarding your other advice, 'replacing cassette, chain ring and chain together', it's not the most common of advice, to put it bluntly. The advice you're likely to get is to change the chain when it's starting to wear (you have to measure the length of it, either with a special chain-tool, or with a tape measure. If it's increased by 1% it's time to change.) If you don't change the chain it will start to wear down the cassette, and eventually the chain ring - but that takes a lot longer.) 

The shock you are referring to was marketed as a 'brain' shock I think. The worked by varying the damping based on detected rear wheel movement. As far as I remember only specialized sold them, first produced for them by Fox and then an in house model. They typically appeared on more XC orientated designs and I've never seen one available as a separate retail product. Fox have been working on a very similar concept using electronics instead of a remote 'brain' to vary the damping. See $URL$ for more info. 

If it works as it is then leave it alone and use the 5wt. Your unlikely to harm the fork but might end up in a situation where the damping no longer performs at the level you are used to. Using a heavier or lighter weight is normally only done to alter the damping performance where the fork either does not offer adjustment, or the rider wishes to tune the fork beyond the adjustments offered. 

The eye to eye length (sometimes listed as i2i, this is the distance between the 2 mounting points) The shock stroke, i.e. how far the the shock shaft will move 

The most important measurement is the bolt circle diameter or BCD. This is the spacing that the mounting bolts use. On a 3x crank there should be 2 BCDs, one for the inner 'granny' ring mounts and one for outer mount used by the middle and outer ring. There are a variety of BCDs is use (see $URL$ The standard is 104 for the middle/outer rings and 64 for the inner ring. You should also make sure that the number of bolts matches, older cranks used 5 bolts were most modern cranks use 4 bolt. You don't say how old your crankset is so I'm going to base recommendations on the current product listed on SRAM's site ($URL$ The use the 104mm / 64mm BCD measurements. If you are happy with your current ratios then I would suggest sticking to those chainring sizes. The SRAM site lists this cranks as having 44t/33t/22t, however I'd not be surprised to find a 32t in the middle as this is a more common size. You don't mention which rings are worn. Most of the wear tends to occur in the middle ring as this is what you spend most time using. If only one ring is worn then just replace the worn one. Material wise you have the choice of steel or aluminium. Steel is heavier but will last longer, while alloy is lighter. Match the new ring to what you have now ideally (use a magnet to identify steel if you are unsure from appearance). You should be able to get exact replacement parts from your local SRAM dealer, the sram site above links to a spares catalogue which gives a part number. However if you are looking for upgrades or to pimp your bike a little then Raceface, Middleburn, Hope and Blackspire make nice products (at a price though compared to a direct replacement). If you are keeping the triple set-up then you can ignore narrow-wide rings as these are target at single ring set-ups. As you have a front derailleur there is no benefit to you in choosing a narrow-wide ring. The same can be said for elliptical rings, they won't play nice with your inner and outer ring. 

Its a standard headset (if such a thing exists) I believe its an IS42/28.6 upper and IS47/33? lower. These are easy to replace even at home. Don't require a bearing press, or any other specialist tools (with the possible exception of a torque wrench). They drop into the cups in the frame and then use the tension from the top cap as pre-load to stop movement. 

Personally I wouldn't accept a Deore mech as a replacement. ask for a 2300 or 2400 (Claris) mech. Not only are they cheaper, but also the correct item. If the chain is stretched replace it ASAP, as this will soon start to wear both the cassette and then the chainrings, which will end up costing a significant amount to replace. 

To answer your second question, yes the chainrings will fit. Answering the first question is where things get murky. The issue arises when you look at the distance between the two chainrings, otherwise known as tab thickness. Are those the same? From what I can find out they do appear to be. The 10S chain rings and 11S chainrings are definitely different. The chainring plate profiles are all different (including within different combinations of chainrings i.e. 52/36, 53/39, etc) 

To specifically answer your question, you will have to change the rear mech (derailleur). If for nothing other than 11sp chain will not fit onto the jockey wheels correctly. You could change the jockey wheels, but they are thinner on 11sp vs 9sp. To take this a step further, you will need to replace all of the groupset components, including the brakes as 5800 has a slightly different action/cable pull. Having tried this before with customers bikes, it causes major issues and very poor brake performance (not somewhere you want poor performance). On a positive note, 5800 brakes are leaps and bounds better than their predecessors! 

A crack developing there, is most likely too much seat post out of the frame, or in actual fact, not enough seat post being in the frame. The biggest problem with a crack in this location, is that it then causes most force to be placed on the join between the top tube and seat tube. You also have to think about what would happen if the frame were to suffer a critical failure in this position - it will most likely be landing from a drop or, more likely, while sitting and hitting a hole/bump; neither great options and the more likely of the two being much more painful! Drilling a crack is to minimise crack propagation. And there are few repair options with this style of frame (for sensible money). This can be welded, but you would risk this just getting worse. If I remember correctly 7005 using artificial ageing rather than a traditional heat treatment - a filler material could be used between the post and frame to bond them and strengthen the seat post. The sensible money "option" if you really want to keep the frame is to get a very long seat post (ensure that there is a lot in the frame, around 20cm+) and keep checking for further crack propagation. The best thing to do here would be to contact a specialist aluminium frame builder and ask their opinion. To answer the question in the title - aluminium work hardens quicker than other materials, and tends to crack due to fatigue much quicker than say carbon, steel or titanium. Unfortunately I think it could be time to consider a new frame.