SportsTrackLive is another app listed as supporting the Zephyr heart rate monitor. I haven't tried it; anyone who has, feel free to comment or edit this answer with more information. 

Continue to travel in the lane that will run out until it actually does, then stop and wait for a gap in the traffic before merging in. That can sometimes require stopping and waiting for quite a while, due to busy traffic. Signal to the left in advance of running out of the lane, check for a reasonable gap in the cars while still moving, and merge into that gap once I've determined it's safe, or fall back to the first option if that doesn't work. The problem is, this requires a good deal of judgement to tell when there's a good enough gap in traffic to merge back in, I can only glance back quickly and not make good eye contact with drivers in the lane I'm merging into since I need to be paying attention to what's ahead of me as well, and I'm not sure if I'm cutting people off too closely. Pass the cars on the right, then pull up in front of them at a stop light so I can take the lane when it turns green. This makes me feel like a jerk, like I'm cutting in line. Simply stay in, and take, the lane that doesn't keep disappearing. This is what I would do if I were driving a car. The problems are that I get stuck in stop-and-go traffic which slows me down, I have to breathe in the smog of trucks and busses in front of me as I wait, and I hold up somewhat more traffic as I don't take several of the block-long opportunities to make it easy for cars to pass me. Run red lights. This way, I can actually get into the lane I need to before I have to contend with cars. The disadvantage is, of course, that I'm running red lights. 

Upgrade from say a 7-speed to a 10-speed (because you have 3 discs in front) without changing anything is a double question : 1. Does your rear derailleur is compatible ? Meaning : is the cage length long enough and does it have sufficient amplitude. 2. 10-speed chainings are thiner than 7-speed in order to avoid friction on the front discs. You have an example with the Shimano 640x group (great stuff btw), the rear derailleur is the quasi exact same design but when the 6400 one is a 6-speed, the 6401 can handle 7 to 8 speeds just as easily provided you mount a thiner chain. This is a technical spec problem from the time, if the 10-speed chaining was very rare (or inexistent) at the time, you would have to calculate derailleur amplitude from a 6-speed point of vue. So now that 10-speed chainings are available, if your discs are thin enough (usually they are) you can pass the 8 speeds on the bike just by changing the chain. It's theoretical from a MTB point of vue but it's a Roadbike reality. The morale is here that it's not because it's old that it's obsolete, sometimes au contraire. I upgraded a 70's roadbike with a 90's group, my main problem was that some setting screws were not designed for ulterior frame modifications which impose a workaround (basically a longer screw and adaptation of the stop). The thing is, what is your desired upgrade ? 1. If it's "the same thing but younger" it should be fairly easy because things have not changed dramatically between the 90's and today (less than between the 70's and the 90's) 2. If it's "more performance at all costs" it could be tricky because it means changing at least the chain, cassette and shifters but also eventually the rear-derailleur and front discs (if they are too thick you will have some nasty friction). Concerning the shifters, unless you have good old fashioned friction ones (this kind : $URL$ it could be tricky too because if it's an indexed system, provided that you stay in the brand and that you keep the same number of speeds you can certainly be lucky (because it's more of a cassette issue in reason of the system, indexed shifters provide differential tension which is calculated from the inter-speed space which is proprietary). You don't have this problem with friction shifters because it's an analogic device that does not care at all how many speeds you have (because if you tend the cable all the way you will span all your cassette anyway). Same thing for the front. This is why (I'm sort of lazy this way) I systematically use friction shifters, it's bit tricky to use at first when not accustomed but you get the coup de main pretty fast. But if you have now a 7-speed indexed shimano transmission, upgrading the shifters with newer 7-speed ones should not pose problems. 

Run.GPS is mentioned in the list of apps supporting the Zephyr heart rate monitor. I haven't tried it; anyone who has, feel free to comment or edit this answer with more information. 

VeloComputer appears to be an attempt at turning a phone into a complete cycling computer. Version 7, which is available for Android, uses GPS for measuring position and speed, and the accelerometer to measure cadence. They also sell Bluetooth enabled wheel and pedal sensors, for more accurate speed and cadence, though those seem to only be supported on Blackberry at the moment. I have not tried this; it looks interesting, though some of the reviews indicate that it's a bit flaky. Does anyone else have experience with it? 

It's really easy to do but it's not very reliable either. Since you got some good old 550 chrome wheels and it's french maybe they come from Rigida. Thing is, Rigida wheels where, at the time, stamped with their fabrication year which you will find inside a little losange. Other way is to go for the hub. Some manufacturers like Normandy also dated their production by engraving the year (you got two numbers and have to look at the second one which is the two last digits of the year). So assuming that the wheels are the original ones, that's your best bet to date your bike. From instinct I would say that it's a late 70's bike and from the tubing it could be italian more than french but here I can be wrong. 

As well as references to entire books on rubber and the process of vulcanization: 'Rubber Technology, edited by Maurice Morton, Chapter 2, "The Compounding and Vulcanization of Rubber," 3rd edition, 1987' None of these appears to have any kind of description of a single readily available material or combination of a few that could be mixed together to work; they all appear to be fairly intricate, specialized compounds consisting of a variety of ingredients. So I think that the 8oz can on Amazon is probably your best bet. I've heard some people claim you can just use regular rubber cement, but given that there are big cans of the "vulcanizing solution" readily available, my instinct would be to go for that. 

Your freewheel seems busted from what you say, it happens when the cogs are worn, nothing much to do there. Everything is reparable but it sometimes takes a lot of time for not a lot of gain. Question is what is the value of your wheelcircle and from picture i'd say that's and old aluminium one. I don't know how that is where you live but in my neighborhood you can get a "brand new" used one for under 5 bucks. If the freewheel is busted you have to replace the entire bearing, meaning you have to take the entire wheel apart and then do the spoking from scratch. If you have a bit of experience and tools that is a good 1-2 hours of work, if it's your fist time count merely your sunday afternoon on it. So my conclusion is : get a new wheel and recycle this one into an artistic project of some sort :) 

I have an Android smartphone, with GPS, accelerometer, 3G internet connection, and other features that seem useful for bicycling. Are there any good bicycling apps on Android? One app per answer please; feel free to answer multiple times. 

I haven't tried it myself, but according to the quite informative ICEBIKE website, sandals with layers of socks, including breathable waterproof ones, works quite well. 

My commute takes me along a fairly busy road, with 4 lanes of traffic and parked cars along most of it. There are no bike lanes, but in some places, it's wide enough that I can easily pass traffic on the right (which is legal in my state, as far as I can tell), and in some places, there's actually a whole extra lane on the right for a block or two. However, the conditions change from block to block. On some of the blocks, there is not enough room to pass safely on the right of cars, and there are some places where the extra lane on the right no longer exists across the intersection or is filled with parked cars. There are several times when I've passed cars on the right, either in a full lane or in the room between a lane of stopped cars and parked cars, and then realized after crossing through the next intersection that I need to merge back into the next lane. What is the etiquette of merging back into the next lane in such circumstances? There are a few possibilities that I've tried, and all of them seem unsatisfying in certain ways. 

I depends on quite a lot of little things. First there is the weight repartition of your bike, think of it as a hammer : if the hammerhead is up high it will be difficult for you to vertically put it on a table in terme of stability but if the hammer upside is down it's not a problem. This is due to some lever phenomenon occuring and there is the same thing when you're on your bike. It's mainly because even if you're light you're still the heavier part of it. Now the thing with weight repartition is that's it's linked to efficiency because of the fact that it's your speed that makes the balance, the harder the balance to find the more energy you need. This applies to every bike but the lighter you are the easier it is to have good weight repartition. (because 10kg+50kg is very not the same as 10kg + 80kg since you can't transfer your own weight) So then again it's marginal but if your bike has good vertical weight repartition this should work for you and not against you and it's more easy to find. Secondly there is the momentum issue, the higher you weight the less equilibrium you have but you get more momentum, that means that to a attain a good regime in some circumstances you will have to burn more energy under a certain weight. There also is an equilibrium to find because if you are too heavy it's the same thing, the momentum is harder to find. So i'd say the lighter is not necessarily the absolute best, it depends on your general condition and gaining or losing weight depends on that. For the rest there still is some technical aerodynamics to do on you machine but I dout this alone would make you gain 10mph. 

Some people ride a fixed-gear bike to play Cycleball, the most awesome of all competitive cycling sports. 

Personally, I just wear boots, and use toe clips or bare platforms depending on the size of the boots. 

I know I should lubricate my chain regularly. I got some lube at my LBS; how should I apply it? Do I just drip some on one spot, and turn the pedals around a few times to spread it out? Drip it all over the chain? Do I clean the chain first? How can I tell if it needs lube, or if I've put enough on? 

It's clearly a workshop bike from the 70's, numbers are not SN but references for the tubing. It's merely impossible to go further in part because there has been obvious part replacement (front rear) and common old parts (brakes). Sorry 

The ideal for everyday washing is jetwash, it's relatively cheap (in France there are spots where you can do that for 50cts), it's ecological, it's quick and there is no problem for the machine. For more drastic washing what I do is I go straight for acetone. You don't need much of it but it's great for the grease/brake dust deposits, even for wheels (you maybe want to remove the tires before doing the wheels but except for that no problem). It's less costly than wipes, less complicated (because wipes tend to shred on some parts which is tricky) and you don't need much of it so it's not that bad for the planet (since it's for yearly/bi-yearly cleaning) 

Not the most convenient way of measuring your heart rate while cycling, but Instant Heart Rate is a neat program which might be useful when you to take a break. You use your phone's camera and LED flash (if it has one, otherwise any bright light source) to measure your heart rate by pressing the camera and flash against your finger, and it detects fluctuations in the oxygen content of your blood by detecting changes in color. 

The manufacturer sells said "vulcanizing solution" in quantities of 25g tubes through 1 gallon cans, so you should be able to buy it in larger quantities. Indeed, a quick search of Amazon yield 8 oz cans (or slightly cheaper), and while I couldn't find it on something well known like Amazon there are other places that sell the 1 gallon quantity. However, as many of the reviewers on Amazon point out, an 8 oz can should be a lifetime supply, and won't dry up nearly as quickly as those little tubes. As far as what it is, that's a little harder to figure out. Checking the MSDS, we find only that it consists of 40-70% trichloroethelyne, an organic solvent. That doesn't really solve the problem, as that's just the solvent used. To address the question of rubber cement, if we follow your link to Wikipedia, we find that it's generally a non-vulcanizing cement, while the tire patch stuff definitely claims to be vulcanizing. Moving on, we can think about what the traditional solution to closely held trade secret formulas is. And the tool that was designed to solve that, though only does so imperfectly, is the patent system. Maybe we can find something in a patent filing. A quick check over on Google Patents yields something promising, Cold self-vulcanizing rubber compositions; however, upon reading the patent, it's a three part mixture, and the process involves things like "the rubber used is a natural rubber, partially depolymerized by mechanical working and peptization with diorthobenzamidophenyl." I don't know about you, but peptization with diorthobenzamidophenyl is not exactly something I feel like trying to cook up with common household substances in my basement. Reading further on, we find some further promising patents like Tire repair with cured patch or Tire repair by "patch only" method, but they all also involve discussions of the following form: