So as you can see there are quite a few issues which are hard to overcome, and definitely hardly worth the effort. A more reasonable way to reduce drag and improve muscle efficiency is to use a recumbent or semi-recumbent bike, where it's easier to incorporate direct drive. In such a concept pedals are attached to the front wheel and you can see this employed in designs by Thomas Kretschmer. 

The difference in chain width between 9s and 10s is less than 1mm so it won't make much of a difference once the mech is adjusted correctly. I have M660 on my bike and M665 on brother's bike and they aren't so much different, so if 10s is proven to work on one, it should work on the other. Front shifters have the same cable pull, but front derailleurs have different travel rate between 9s and 10s. Therefore if you want to use a 10s shifter with a 9s crank it's actually better to use a 9s derailleur. Although both would work, a 9s would be more accurate in this case. 

As long as it's a 9-speed power-link, you can. I have chains in all bikes connected this way and find it most convenient method. The one made by SRAM is also the easiest to open. 

Any steel, even hi-ten is less silly than alu for the trip you're planning and the age of your bike. The endurance strength of steel is much higher, and the material itself is not as bad as it's said to be. Also steel is easily and cheaply repairable, which is a serious advantage when you're going on a long tour with potentially few bike shops. But the problem with hi-ten frames is that these frames mostly exist in rreally cheap bikes, where the quality of manufacturing and quality control are quite poor. With a frame this old it means it could crack any time. Comparing your frame to a new one, it would be much safer to buy a new one. Simply because it's new and the material and joints aren't fatigued (and the fatigue would be much quicker with you and racks full of luggage). But comparing a new cr-mo to a new hi-ten frame, there's not too much of a difference in terms of what they offer for touring bikes. Hi-ten steel has lower tensile strength, but higher ductility, so it's more prone to damage at extreme loads, but will bend rather than crack. Well in the end it's all a matter of compromise and in case of this specific tour, it would be largely opinion-based, thus out of scope of this site. 

The position does change from one discipline to another. There are no fixed values or ratios, but, at least until recently the differences were significant. In the early day of mountain biking racing cross country was a long race (almost 3 hours) with few technical sections. Since these races were flatter, it was thought that aerodynamics could play a bigger role. Therefore the rider's frontal area was reduced with narrow handlebars seat much higher than bars, and longer effective top tube. Long stems came naturally to make up for short bars to make steering less nervous. Then came the big split into numerous disciplines and different frame geometries came up for cross country, four cross, dirt jumping, enduro, downhill, freeride etc. Disciplines such as enduro required better bike handling and safety on steep slopes, therefore handlebars are wider, top tube is shorter and head tube is longer. This plus the fact that enduro was often defined as relaxed riding on mountain paths (it's still an arguable definition) caused rider's trunk to be almost vertical, which is more comfortable on a long trip. Note: there are way more differencees in geometries for various disciplines, but we're only talking about rider's upper body position. These days as world cup XC courses become more technical, cross country bikes get wider bars and a position safer on downhills. Tarmac/gravel sections are now much shorter so aerodynamic drag isn't an issue anymore (has it ever been?) and while top tubes on XC bikes are still longer (for better ascents) we can currently see more and more similarities between XC and gravity-sport bikes. 

So the story began some 4 years ago, when I bent my rear derailleur hanger while crashing, and my chain got stuck between the cassette and the wheel scratching a few spokes. Everything was fine until this year when some of these spokes started to snap and I had to replace them. I have 32 DT Revolution spokes that are 1.8-1.5-1.8mm in diameter and replaced 4 of them from the drive side to plain 2.0mm spokes. I trued the wheel with no problems and after some 500km everything looks fine. The question is: for how long? Will the thicker spokes exert more side force and lead to over-tensing the other side? Or is there a risk in quicker fatigue of spokes on either side? 

You don't need to remove existing fluid prior to bleeding. Unless you use two incompatible fluid types (for example replacing DOT 5.1 with 5), mixing an existing fluid with new one is completely normal and part of standard procedure. The only situation where you may want to remove the old fluid completely is if you know it has ben heavily polluted with water. But even then normal bleeding procedure is enough to have satisfactory results. During a standard bleeding procedure you push the old fluid with a new one and they don't have even enough space to mix together. If you do want to remove the fluid before, just push the old one with air instead of new fluid. It may take a few attempts to get rid of everything, but the result should be satisfactory. And if you're going to fill the system with an incompatible fluid, such procedure is not enough anyway. In this case you would have to take the brake apart, clean everything with alcohol, let it dry out and put back together (paying particular attention to rubber parts). Also note, sometimes a given brake won't accept other kinds of fluids because of its design. In some cases o-rings can be damaged if wrong fluid is used, even if they are clean and dry. 

The design which is shown in the picture i.e. saddle somewhere around rear wheel axle - when using a standard frame your position will be very hunched. Yes, this may give an advantage in terms of drag coefficient and frontal area, but it is proven that your muscle efficiency falls with decreasing trunk angle (about 1% per 1 degree of smaller angle). Therefore the consensus is for TT bikes for this angle to be not lower than 30°, while in this design the angle would be way less than this. Hence the frame must be designed to be much shorter. This will make a bike be less stable, especially at high speeds. Body-balancing is also an issue because your weight is put around the rear wheel level, meaning you would have less control over the front. There is also another problem with weight distribution. In order to achieve the same pedalling efficiency, the sadle needs to be behind the rear wheel axle (to work like an inclined seat tube). This puts your CoG (centre of gravity) more than less over your rear wheel axle. This in turn means that during accelerationyour front wheel will be pulled upwards unless handlebars are much below the saddle, which as mentioned above decreases trunk angle. This can get even worse on the uphil when your CoG moves virtually behind the rear wheel additionally decreasing wheel grip (although this change would be barely noticeable on tarmac). Another thing you can do is leave saddle where it is in a normal frame and just put entire drivetrain at the back. In this case you would be practically lying on the frame, so both frame and saddle would need to be redesigned. Also since the rear wheel axle is further than bottom bracket, the range of leg motion will be smaller thus producing less power (although it may result in fewer injuries). Also your technique would be impaired as body balancing could turn out to be virtually impossible. Plus obviously it would be less comfortable and standing on the pedals would require almost superhuman agility. (well, maybe not, but still it would do more harm than good) 

Yes, you are correct. The seat tube angle is measured relative to horizontal. There is also a separate angle called "derailleur angle", which is measured between the seat tube and chainstays. You'll rarely find it specified in the geometry data though... 

Most of these points are equally valid for all configurations with the larger wheel at the front. Basically the goal of such change is usually to make a bike beter on the descents, not looking at its performance on flat gruond or uphills. Now to your specific case: note that the difference between a 29" and a 27.5" wheel is not very significant - ~6% when we look at ISO rim diameters. Therefore if you aren't too sensitive to geometry changes, you may not even feel the difference. And obviously you need a 29er frame for this to make sense. If you decided to put a 29er fork and front wheel on a 650b frame, you would end up with a bike unsteerable on flat surfaces and exhausting to your knees. There are a few bikes on the market which use various wheel sizes, such as this Trek with a 29"/26" setup, but it's still a niche. On the side note: a small brand called Unibike once made a cross-country bike with a 26" wheel at the front and 29" at the back. This idea seemed a bit pointless for off-road use, but they tried to forces itfor some 2 years, before letting it die. 

The differences are quite significant from race to race - each track is different. Also events such as Rampage are not too much about speed. The top speed may vary between 55-65km/h on tracks such as Mount Sainte Anne up to around 80km/h in Pietermaritzburg which is known for high speeds achieved. Of course all assuming good weather. Also these speeds are kept only for a few seconds (in the best case), the average speeds come around 30km/h mark course and weather dependent. 

The Oregon series only reads your speed and distance from the GPS which is not always as accurate as classic speed sensors - from my experience the difference can be up to 4-5% depending on the terrain. And you will probably have to buy a separate handlebar mount, because they are not provided in the box as far as I know. You can use Garmin Connect, so uploading to Strava shouldn't be a problem. Oregon is more of a universal GPS than a discipline-specific device, so if you don't mind any of the above, it will probably be quite enough for you. Edit: As for maps and routes, you can add both, but check for format compatibility first. 

With todays 2- and 1-chainring cranksets, chain-crossing isn't a problem and with the cranksets where it may be a problem (which are rather rare in high-end groups) the sound and feel are good signs of it. So you don't really need to know which gear you're in. And when you spend a lot of time on your bike you just start to recognise the gears by feel and are able to tell which one you're in... well, +/-1 let's say. I switched from Shimano Deore (with displays) to Sram X9 (without displays) some 5 years ago, and never felt the need to look down and check the gears. So they are not this important, just a matter of changing habbits. 

Provided that the chain length is adjusted correctly, with a 2-chainring crankset you can freely use the entire range of gears. The "dangerous" gears are the ones causing cross-chaining. These are: small sprocket at front + small sprocket at the back, and big sprocket at front and big sprocket at the back. Especially the latter can cause trouble when your chain is too short. But it's more of a problem if you have a 3x crankset, where a chain on gears 1 and 3 is further from its perfect line. I have a 2x9 drivetrain in 2 of my bikes and using all gears whenever I want to. I haven't noticed any quicker wear and haven't had any problems with this setup for the past 5 years. Though I did have a problem with a previous bike with a 3x crankset, when I snapped chain riding a 3-1 gearing...