Gusaocheng, a Ming dynasty fortification in Liaoyang prefecture, Liaoning China and located just a few miles from the previous Koguryeo site. It has been restored somewhat in modern times. 2. The 2012 announcement is actually the same study as the 2009 one. The 2009 article was mid way through the study. The 2012 announcement was at the end of the study. As before, the eastern end point and the western end point have not changed. They simply did a more accurate study taking in more detail of the twists and turns within the length of the wall itself. The key difference between the 2009 and 2012 announcements is that the former is talking about the Ming wall where as the latter is about all walls. 3. Very little of the Warring States, Qin and Han dynasty walls remain. The lines drawn on maps are just approximations based on texts and accounts passed down over the decades. Some Koreans, for modern political reasons, try to debunk these texts however a great deal of care needs to be taken here. You cannot project a modern nation state into history. During the Qin and Han dynasties, there was no Korea. The Yalu river was not the national boundary. If these dynasties did build walls in Liaoning, it would be very odd if they observed a modern day bounder line for a country that didn't exist at that time. Since North Korea isn't free and open, it is not easy to do actual on site research to establish definitively any remains of walls within Korea today. 

Democratication came at the hands of improved communications, improved education, the industrial revolution and the agricultural revolution. Not at the hands of cheap weapons. The invention of the printing press democratised knowledge. Books became significantly cheaper to make and were more widely distributed. It was possible for a wider range of thoughts to be made known. Pamphlets on political subjects were easily printed and widely read. Other advances in communication have increased further this democratisation of information. This makes it easier to mobilise the masses to action. Example, the English Civil War saw rampant propaganda via pamphleteers. The weaponry on both sides was quite similar, both having mounted cavalry, muskets and pikemen. The Enlightenment in Europe brought improved eduction. People understood complex political systems and had the knowledge to use them to their advantage. Knowledge can be seen as continuing tool of democratisation throughout the developing world. It can be see that as the population's education improves, kings, tyrants and dictators fall and are replaced by more representative systems. The industrial revolution changed the finances of the world. Countries no longer derived their wealth from the land. Other sources of money meant that other people, than the landed gentry, would have the financial clout to affect the politics of a country. Agricultural Revolutions changed the balance of power too. People shifted off the land into the cities as the farms were consolidated and mechanised. A feudal system requires a peasantry and after the Agricultural Revolution in the UK, there was little peasantry left. Power shifted to the new cities and to the workers. A second argument can be made that cheap weapons are available throughout the world today. However, rather than democratise the world, they have been tools of dictatorship and tyranny. In the less developed areas of Africa, South America, and Asia, where the previously stated factors had not yet taken effect, we saw a great many dictators. Throughout the 20th Century, dictators in the third world have used cheap weapons, such as the AK47, to build there empire and stifle democracy. 

From a British perspective, America is not used exclusively as a synonym for the USA. I have several times encountered the conversation: "Where are you from" "America." "Oh cool. Which country." "The United States." Another example would be a recent BBC program I watched talking about geography in Iceland. The presenter was standing on the fault line there and said, "My left foot is in America and my right in Europe." In this example America was distinctly not a synonym for the USA. Yet another case, when describing the location of a country such as Canada or Mexico, a British person would describe them as being in America. Obviously not the USA but a greater America. The plural form, mentioned in another answer, "Americas", is usually used to describe locations outside of North America such as Brazil, Jamaica, Columbia. 

The arrow is the key difference rather than the bow. English longbows were used both for hunting and fighting. When visiting musiums, I usually see just bows described as bows but the arrows described for various purposes. Both hunting and fighting arrows want to cause damage when hitting the target, and so use blades on the side of the arrow head to maximise the cut on the target. However, a hunting arrow is designed so that it can be easily removed form the animal after it has died. The blades make a diamond or kite shape so that they can be pulled out of the corpse. In contrast, fighting arrows are designed to be difficult to remove. The blades will have barbed edges making a V shaped head. This is intended to be difficult to remove from the body and pulling the arrow out will cause additional injury to the victim. There are a range of other head shapes used. These may be intended for cheaper mass production or for use in practice shooting or sport. 

Scotland has gradually changed to using English without being conquered by England. Now I shall temper that a little in that there have been English speaking people living in Scotland just as long as there have in England. The Anglo-Saxons settled south east Scotland as well as north east England. However, English didn't become the majority language for hundreds of years after that. Scotland had several native languages such as Scots Gaelic, Pictish, a Brythonic language similar to Welsh, and also some Norse or Norn speakers. The Angles brought in Old English. Magnus Magnusson's book "Scotland, The Story of a Nation" has a map of this distribution on page 35. Old English changed to Middle English and then split to become Scots and Modern English. By the late middle ages just three languages remained. Gaelic, Scots and a small minority English speakers. (Map of Languages in Scotland circa 1400) After the Union of Crowns and latter Union of Parliaments, Modern English started to increase in use and Scots and Gaelic withered. However, the Union wasn't an invasion. Scotland was never conquered by the English. In fact the opposite. The Scottish king inherited the English crown. Today almost nobody uses Scots. Instead they use Scottish English with a few hits of Scots. There is a small group of Gaelic speakers but no where near the number of just 200 years ago. Wikipedia gives numbers of 297,823 speakers (18.5% of total population) in 1800 and just 58,652 (1.2%) today. Thus I would argue that Scotland has changed it's language without being conquered. Mongolia would be a contender for a second answer. Mongolia split from China during the early 20th Century. At that this they used a mix of Mongolian and Chinese (Mandarin) and a little Tibetan. They had there own Mongolian script for writing. However, today if you travel to Mongolia, you will see little use of the Mongolian script. It was replaced with Russian Cyrillic script. The strong influence of of the Soviet Union, which bordered Mongolia, brought about a change in the written language of the area. However, although the Soviet Union had a strong influence, Mongolia always remained a separate nation state and was never conquered by the USSR. Today Mongolian script is usually only seen in Inner Mongolia, within China. Outer Mongolia changed. Taiwan would also make a third answer. This one maybe politically contentious depending on how you view the status of Taiwan. However, before 1949, Mandarin Chinese was a minority language on Taiwan. When the Republic of China government relocated to Taiwan in 1949, a large number of refugees from the Mainland settled there. Today Mandarin Chinese is the majority language. So officially, the language changed without invasion. Some Taiwanese will not agree with my assessment as they consider Taiwan to have always been independent form China and was assigned to Chinese control, and occupied after WWII. However that is a minority opinion. Others will disagree with me on the opposite argument that Taiwan is not an independent country and thus as part of China, doesn't count. Singapore will be my fourth contender as an answer. The official languages are Chinese, English, Malay and Tamil. The Last two, Malay and Tamil, are the native languages of the area. English came in via conquest and colonial rule. However, Chinese is now the largest language in use (49.9% of total population) but Singapore has never been conquered by the Chinese. Rather a large influx of Chinese immigrants has changed the cultural balance of the country. 

Poseidon is associated with dolphins. There are also stories of him having various sexual encounters with a large number of other humans and gods. These do include rapes and also transformations into other animals. However, I don't find an exact match for your line. I did however find that Melantho, Daughter of Deucalion, was raped by Neptune as a dolphin. In Greek mythology, sex plays a big part. Many of the stories concern unpleasant aspects of sexuallity. 

It has long been known that the eastern end of the Great Wall is not Shanhaiguan. Sections of wall exist all over China's North East as well as what is now Mongolia and Korea, well beyond Shanhaiguan. Your 2009 date seems spurious as the wall at Hushan near Dandong city was already a well known tourist attraction by that date. We must be careful with the term "The Great Wall". Really there are many walls and fortifications, of various ages spread over two thousand years, which collectively get the title "The Great Wall". Really it should be plural, "The Great Walls". We should also take care when ascribing the title "China" to the walls. They were built over such a long time period and by various people, some of whom pre date the founding of China itself. So rather lets talk about the Qin Wall, Han Wall or the Ming Wall and such. 1. The sections of wall discussed in the New York Times (2009) article are between Hushan in Liaoning and Gangsu province. They are not a single section but rather a collection of fragments of wall over a very long area that was already known to contain wall sections. This means that although the wall is now longer, it is not extended any further east or west. Hushan was before this date the eastern end and Gangsu has long been the western end. When measuring the length of a fractal, you can get any answer you want depending on how accurately you measure the length. The more accurately you measure, the longer the result you will get. However, the object that you are measuring has not changed. It has not actually got any longer, only your method of measure changed. See How Long Is the Coast of Britain? Statistical Self-Similarity and Fractional Dimension by Mandelbrot. There are sections of Ming Wall in Liaoning. The Ming loosely controlled much of North East China and even down into parts of Korea. They built walls and other fortifications in the region in order to stabilise their control. A tactic that ultimately failed with the Manchu/Qing conquering China. The Koguryeo did not build a wall in the style of The Great Wall. They built a series of fortified cities that loosely draws a line on a map. I have visited four of these cities. The Koguryeo style of building is distinctly different from the Ming Chinese building style as you would expect given the many hundreds of year that separate the two. 

In Spring 2012, I visited the above Koguryeo city walls which belong to Baegam (Hangul :백암성, Hanja :白巖城) They are near Yanzhou village in Liaoyang prefecture, Liaoning, China. This city was the site of a major battle between the Koguryeo and Tang dynasty China. They city is of classic Koguryeo construction with walls forming a half moon shape set against a river and mountain crags for natural defence. The wall is made of stones of various sizes, the middle fill is with small rubble. 

Shields for soldiers were tried during the First World War. In order to stop high power rifle rounds, they had to be rather heavy weight steel plate. This made them difficult to move and carry. One French design made a wheeled shield known as the Mobile Personnel Shield. This proved too heavy and cumbersome to use in combat. However, it may have played a role in inspiring the first tanks. The Canadians also developed the MacAdam Shield Shovel which doubled both as a digging tool and as protection when firing. It was made of three-sixteenths of an inch thick steel. There was a hole in the blade for sighting when used as a shield and the handle was detachable. Some 25,000 were produced but soldiers found them to be poor for digging, being to heavy, and ineffective at stopping bullets. An additional problem for shields was that protection was not only required to the front. Shells and shrapnel would come from all directions when out of the trench. Thus a shield would be of little use unless completely covering the whole body. If so done, it would be to heavy to move by one soldier. Mechanising the shield would lead directly to the tank. Not all shields proved useless. During WWI, shields were mounted on machine guns to protect the operator, who is generally more exposed than other soldiers and less required to move at speed. Such shields continue to be used to this day. Look at USA troops in Iraq or Afghanistan who are manning machine gun positions or using the mobile machine guns on the back of a truck, and you will see they have a shield in front of them that can turn with the gun.