Yes. In Patricia Donegan's theory of vowels, contextual conditions on vowel fortitions are generally dissimilatory. (Vowel harmony and umlaut, which you mention, are lenitions rather than fortitions.) 

In your example, the complementizer "that" converts the S "a student asked whether the eclipse would occur" into the complement "that a student asked whether the eclipse would occur", and the complementizer "whether" converts the S "the eclipse would occur" into the complement "whether the eclipse would occur". 

I will dub this very interesting construction "indirect mental discourse", since it seems similar to ordinary indirect discourse with verbs like "say". Indirect discourse allows a direct quote to be converted to a "that"-clause which characterizes indirectly what was said, rather than giving the exact words (which may not be known to the reporter). In converting from a direct quote, the tense of the indirect report may be changed to one which is relative to the time of the report. 

A determiner determines reference. Although in traditional grammar, nouns are spoken of as though they have reference, really they don't. Nouns predicate, but do not refer. Instead, noun phrases refer. That's why linguists insist on making subjects and other sentence arguments noun phrases, rather than nouns. To get a noun phrase that refers from a noun, which predicates, you combine the noun with a determiner, and now you have something which can refer, a noun phrase. The fact that determiners may have no phonetic shape obscures what is going on and may make it seem sometimes that a noun can refer. This is not to say that noun phrases with determiners do necessarily refer. But sometimes they do. 

To summarize, I don't know. But the question seems a little fuzzy, to me. Are you concerned with predicting how such words will be borrowed into English given their source forms, or is it about how English speakers (not necessarily the borrowers) will say them? And are you just looking at the spelling of the English word? In the SPE analysis, "decorum" could be assigned an underlying form with a tense penult, and "exodus" could be assigned an underlying form with a lax penult, and that would predict the correct stresses, on the penult and antepenult, respectively. The fact that they are both spelled with "o" in the penult is neither here nor there. I don't know how they were borrowed. "Tycoon" and "samurai" aren't much like the other examples you're concerned with that have their last stress on the antepenult or penult, because these words have stress on their ultimate syllables, just as one would expect, since the ultimate syllables have tense vowels. 

There is an obvious difference known between words and letters that should make Unicode systems feasible for letters, but does not apply to words. So far as I've noticed no one has mentioned it, so despite my having already offered one answer, I think I should mention the obvious. Alphabetic writing systems have letters which correspond roughly to phonemes. You could think of them as primitive and traditional phonemic theories. Here are two things we know about the phoneme systems of the various human languages: (1) Each language has a very small number of phonemes -- around 50-200 -- which are very stable over time, and (2) the phoneme systems of the various languages are very similar, making practical phonetic alphabets like IPA and feature systems like that of SPE (with about 17 binary features, giving 2^17 possible sound segments). Are the words of human languages anything like this, being very small in number and limited (and fairly well understood) in their reference? No. Not at all. 

For A., the two sentences do not make a coherent discourse, and "he" refers to some other person. In B., "he" refers back to Harry. C. has contrastive stress, and "he" refers back to Harry, but the implication is that although Harry was happy, he was the only one, and others concerned who did not get toys were not happy. 

How to find out what category an expression is in? How to decide? When to worry about it? Who to ask? When to accept a proposed answer? Since expressions of the same category can be coordinated, where to seek evidence, how we should construct examples, and why not to doubt their significance seem relevant. 

I agree that the argument based on [B] is bogus. I have my doubts that Beauty as well as love is redemptive really has a subordinate construction. Suppose we elaborate the example, Beauty of form as well as love of form is redemptive and see what happens when we try to extract form. 

The first has a conjunction of three nouns; the second has a conjunction of three NPs. A standard example of structural ambiguity is 

The basis of the traditional classification of IE, since the 19th century, has been neither shared grammar nor shared vocabulary, but rather shared sound changes. 

Why would you need a virtual machine? Here's a flex for Windows (I haven't used it, myself): winflex. 

The adverb "boldly" modifies a VP in "Our mission is to boldly go out there". If you also accept "Our mission is boldly to go out there" with the same sense, it's evidence that "boldly" can modify "to go out there" as well, and that consequently "to go out there" is also a VP. So, then the "to" part of the for-to complementizer must have been Chomsky-adjoined to the VP "go out there": [VP to [VP go out there ] ]. 

To interpret some sentences in the way their author intended, you have to imagine circumstances different from those you believe to actually obtain. If you refuse to do that, you are deemed communicatively uncooperative. We are all very practiced at creating new worlds as settings for what people say and write. It's not a problem. Somewhere or other, George Lakoff proposed that linguists' grammars should generate pairs of sentences and presuppositions, rather than just sentences. 

I agree with McCawley that the English "or" is always inclusive. Sometimes extraneous circumstances make the "both" interpretation unreasonable, giving the false impression that there is an exclusive sense. I think that argument is probably in McCawley's book What linguists always wanted to know about logic, but were afraid to ask. 

"sleep with" is not a phrasal verb. If it were, one could say *"He slept her with", and one could not move the "with" phrase as a unit, as in "With whom has he slept?". Compare the phrasal verb "dust off": "He dusted it off", *"Off what did he dust?" So, yes, the "with NP" is a PP. (And two race car drivers could say "We passed each other repeatedly".) 

No, not unless you think that everything that happens has a cause and that you can determine that cause (which is a religious rather than a grammatical thesis). 

I bet if you knew more about juncture, you'd regret the time you'd spent learning about it. It's an old fashioned theory which might or might not be accurate (I couldn't say), but it doesn't really make sense of the facts. It's also formulated to fit the peculiar methodological ideas of mid-20th century American structuralism, which require you to be able to deduce the phonemic description, including junctures, from observable facts. I like the description in SPE (The Sound Pattern of English) much, much better, and it has had much more influence in modern linguistics. In the SPE theory, "junctural" phenomena follow from speakers' understanding of syntactic and morphological structure. We can take your example "an aim" versus "a name" to illustrate a non-junctural description. The phonetic difference between these two is the lenis "n" in "an aim" versus the fortis "n" in "a name". Lenis means weakly articulated, and fortis means strongly articulated. Lenis articulation is typical of syllable offset consonants in English and in many languages, and in some American dialects leads to flapping of the "n" in "an aim", [əɾ̃ẽj̃m]. On the other hand, "n" in "a name" fails to flap, because it's fortis, being at the beginning of a syllable. And why is one "n" at the end of a syllable? Well, it's obvious, isn't it? It's at the end of a word. But back in the era of juncture and all that, this would have been regarded as a methodologically unsound statement, because when you're observing pronunciation as an analyst, you don't know until after you've figured out the phonemics where the words begin and end! Thus, the need for junctures, which were thought of as being phonemes, or at least like them. So nice to have all that behind us. 

I think your i)-iii) are adverbs, but I don't agree about what they modify. I don't know about iv). In i), it is the event of the man leaping, described by a sentence, which is modified by being said to be sudden. So "suddenly" modifies a sentence. In ii), it is the inception of the state of Alice being afraid, described by a sentence, which is modified by being said to be sudden. So "suddenly" modifies a sentence. (Alternatively, perhaps it's the state of being afraid expressed by a verb phrase which is modified.) In iii), it's the temporal relationship of two events that "when" concerns, each of the events described by a sentence: The grunions come ashore [at a certain time], and We all feast [at that time]. So the adverb "when the grunions come ashore" modifies the sentence "we all feast". This is something that traditional grammarians are not good at, because somehow they've gotten the idea that modifiers always modify words. Often, adverbs modify phrases. In the typology of adverbs offered by McCawley in The Syntactic Phenomena of English, the only clause adverbs that modify verbs are adverbs of extent, such as "completely". 

Modern syntax was first put on a scientific basis by Zelig Harris and Noam Chomsky: Harris with his development of formal models of phrase structure and Chomsky through his elaboration of Harris' techniques, by his clarifying the distinction between empirical study of syntax and language pedagogy, and by devising the first formalized model of the traditional idea that many language constructions involve movement of sentence parts to new positions. That last was, of course, transformational grammar. In an historical account of our discipline, Pāṇini of course deserves a prominent role, but his grammar can't be accounted as right or wrong, except on accuracy of factual claims, because it is all about pedagogy. It gives a method for reciting the scriptures without error. While Chomsky made the crucial point that a scientific account needs to make predictions about expressions that are never problematic for human language learners. I do not mean to imply that Chomsky's theories have been correct theories. As a matter of fact, I think that transformational grammar has been shown to be wrong. But this is a characteristic of scientific theories -- they can be shown to be wrong. It is confused to disparage Chomsky's place in developing modern linguistics because you happen not to be a follower of TG, or minimalism, or whatever Chomsky's very latest ideas are. The great thing about TG is that you can tell whether it's wrong. (It is, as Ross and others showed.)