TLDR: given we can change the cycle time and the human brain can keep up with it, anyone who wants to learn anything would choose to log in and learn in accelerated speed. 

You can defend your islands utilizing Brine pools or Carbon Dioxide lakes. These two naturally occurring underwater geographic formations that are heavily populated by extremophiles. Brine pools are known for killing fish and crabs that go into them due to their salinity(3x to 8x higher than the ocean). These Brine pools are higher density than the surrounding ocean and swimmers would most likely be pushed out if on a normal swim. However if it were an armed raider walking along the floor the metal he is carrying would cause him to sink in. 

Limestone makes some very cool rock formations and interesting caves that would be perfect for your labyrinth given they have Stalactite's 

These are all underground bunkers, most likely they will leave in sensors that will detect earthquakes and such. I suggest turning up the sensitivity to detect more subterranean activity or creating something that can be sensed by the other bunkers, simple explosives should be effective. going the simple explosive route the bunker that starts this can send Morse code to communicate. This will be visible to every bunker around, so there will be no secret meetings. 

A lot of these answers are saying its not nearly possible for a full spacecraft so I wish to provide an alternative. A way to defend the earth with artillery. The Verne Gun Essentially it is a cannon capable of sending a bullet into space. The idea is from 1865 and with the advent of modern artillery you may be able to do this with WW1 era technology. This comes with a caveat that it has never been built before, along with being unguided and impossible to launch a human with. Although the Germans with the V-3 cannon and the Iraqi military with project HARP have tried in the past. 

I think you are going about this the wrong way. Look at this as a carrot and stick issue. A dog is friendly if you feed it, but will be defensive if hit. Your creatures are offering a stick with very little to enforce it happening. I suggest you off a carrot with the stick, "feed me and you'll be rewarded, if not you will pay". These rewards could be food (typical for research projects with pigeons), or it could be drugs (typical for humans). This relationship should be parasitic in nature, as your creatures are hunters. an interesting case would be the Oxpecker, which feeds on parasites for the host, but also harms it by creating open wounds. I suggest your creatures give their subjects something like alcohol after they are fed, then can get an easier kill if still hungry as their subject would be slightly intoxicated. 

Body fat is a very efficient way to store extra calories on living creatures. Unfortunately there is not an equivalent procedure to storing water, This is interesting as water is just as important for life but it can actually kill some people when they over drink. What if, we turn off the ability to store extra calories in the same way. All the sugars you eat would go right to the blood stream, thinning out your blood. The more your people eat the more "light headed" they would feel, as they wouldn't be getting enough oxygen. The lack of oxygen would be a natural way for your species to know they are over eating. Unfortunately not having access to body fat would create a number of other issues. You would also have thrill seekers who would eat to much high caloric foods just for the weight less feeling they get. 

Time to learn something My whole premise revolves around the game speed. While these games would offer completely unique experiences we can integrate them into the real world fairly easily. This is a game/simulation so when people log in time can move at a different speed. This gives the player the feeling of a longer life and can learn more things. Whether what they learn are "soft skills" (how to manage/organize group events), a new language (I use Spanish more online than in my personal life), or facts (do you remember runescape willow trees?). 

There are count downs for estimated dates we run out of metals to build or fuel our life. This is only predicted on newly extracted metals and there are ways to extend the timeline (ex: new veins of the metal) but the more humans use in industry, the quicker this timeline goes down. Another article explaining the problem. the lack of these metals would increase prices of every day far beyond the purchasing power of normal Americans almost over night. The "have not" countries would need to look for new sources of materials and could potentially lead to wars. PS: Please take this with a grain of salt, while we are running out of metals inventors always look for ways to use cheaper materials of less material per product, it is explained well here. 

In a modern industrialized country, the government issues bonds to cover the majority of their debt. There is an individual, or group, that wishes to push policy to favor their morals. What percentage of the debt would need to be purchased that threats of divesting would work? assume: 

Most people here are answering based on the effectiveness of the estoc, for a story this is the wrong line of thinking. The estoc has a backstory In Europe during the 1500s there were a few different groups of fighters; to simplify Nobility, levy and professional. Nobility are trained because nobles were supposed to lead in war times. They would have knowledge of a wide range of weapons but master only a select few, think lances or longswords in France. The noble would not choose which they would get to master and would typically be pressured into learning what their parents thought were the best weapon. Levy are the working poor who are given a weapon and told to line up when war is being called. Most times they would not be skilled with weapons and just have a boot camp before going off to fight. Their weapons would be crossbows, spears, and short swords in Europe. Professionals is the final group, they are mercenaries, bandits, crusaders and anyone else who makes a living using violence. Most of the professions offer a large range of weapon choices and they can freely change between them based on what is needed. These mercenaries could be bought to guard your palaces in groups or as individuals. Their loyalties could even be earned for permanent skills soldiers, although most did go the other way If you make your Palace Guard Captain a professional soldier that you earned the loyalty of there is no reason for her not to use whatever weapon she had used on the battle field. 

Your stuck in space with only so much processing power. Your ship is doing some hard recalculations but they are taking to much time so your crew must do some more time sensitive chores like repairing the solar sails because cleaning the bio waste stores smells much worse and you want the robots to do that task. 

A reclaimed earth is all we need here. Even in a Utopian Society there will be a few that do not wish to live in the modern world, even today there is a resurgence of national park usage. These people will be roughing it in a world that is dangerous typically in small groups. This is your 'warrior' caste. With the earth reclaimed by nature then we have mega-herbivorous again, which would lead to the conclusion of mega-carnivorous too. These groups would have to both survive nature and survive fights against 100lb (est) carnivorous like lions, tigers, and wolves. Adding some narrative magic, make an annual event where these groups gather and show off their big hunt. Just surviving in the world will make them as hard as green berets, but actively searching for danger will bring these people into a competing caste that would promote the risk taking needed for war. 

your asking for a scenario where intelligence is a disadvantage maybe you have heard of a movie called idiocracy. If so, this answer steals the core idea behind it. The idea is that intelligent members of a species reproduce less often than their less intelligent counterparts. So technology could be developed but never in a widespread fashion, because the smart one is not reproducing. Most things have a few basic requirements to be invented. creativity (who knew a stick and sting hold tension!?), spacial awareness (a stick cannot go into this tunnel well?), and efficiency (why push a stick into the earth when I can screw it in?) creativity is an element of intelligence, lets leave this alone. Spacial Awareness is a combination of eyesight and intelligence, a candidate. Efficiency is a physics issue, lets not mess with the fabric of the world. Out of the above, Spacial awareness is probably our easiest affected. This is a good thing as eyesight is a complex thing that took a long time to develop, now we need to discourage it. Thankfully we have some preexisting modals, blindness. This typically happens in Nocturnal and Subterranean animals, the commonality is a lack of natural light, that gives a few obvious solutions. solution 1 Dim your world a bit across the spectrum, this promotes a lack of food that will increase the cost of brain power. it will also delay technological advances. between the two, less intelligent animals should mate fast enough to offset intelligence growth through evolution. It will also lead to advances of other senses, like smell. solution 2 make the surface nearly uninhabitable. either through solar radiation, harsh climates or something else. if the majority of your animals are evolving without light for sight, it will never happen and will cause the same impediment for evolution as solution 1.