You've asked three very distinct questions here. I'll try to answer them all. Could this scenario even happen with Earth's gravity and atmosphere? I doubt it. For one thing, most of the ring material would burn up in the atmosphere, much as meteors and deorbiting satellites do, never reaching the ground. Second, even if you manage to handwave the atmosphere problem, there's a reason why there are no mountains on Earth bigger than the Himalayas. If Earth did somehow have a mountain range twice as tall as Everest, the weight of the mountains would overcome the shear strength of the rock they're made of, and they'd pretty quickly (in geologic terms) slump down to something closer in size to the Himalayas. I don't know how long this would take, but the slumping would probably go faster than the mountains would build up, so the ridge would never get much taller than the Himalayas are now. How long could this ridge last in Earth-like conditions before the forces of wind and erosion eat it away? Probably about as long as any other mountain range... however long that is. Quick Internet suggests somewhere in the neighborhood of several hundred million years after the ring system stops building the ridge up. Maybe. This could be a question for another StackExchange. Are there any unique changes that would occur to Earth because of having essentially a huge mountain range circling the Equator? For one thing, the ocean currents would be severely disrupted. You wouldn't get seawater circulating around all the world, simply because there's a huge mountain range around the equator that water cannot flow through. I have no idea what impact this would have on the global climate, although it's possible that one hemisphere could be warmer or cooler than the other to an extent that is not possible without an equatorial ridge. This could make the entire Earth more prone to having ice ages. If the Earth's axial tilt and orbital eccentricity line up such that the Northern hemisphere has harsher winters than it does now, snow and ice will build up in Europe, Asia, and North America, reflecting sunlight back out into space and cooling the planet further. This leads to more snow ice in the Northern winters, creating a positive feedback loop that culminates in an ice age. When the Earth's axial tilt and orbital eccentricity lining up to give the landmasses of the Northern hemisphere more severe winters (and summers), they also line up to give the oceans of the Southern hemisphere a more temperate climate. The oceans may be able to moderate this effect by exchanging water between the hemispheres; but if there's a tall equatorial ridge, that could not happen. Also, it would become much more difficult for air to pass from one hemisphere to the other, but I don't think this would have as great an effect on the global climate as disrupting the ocean currents would, simply because not a whole lot of air crosses the equator anyway. All of the major convection cells lie in one hemisphere or the other. The ridge would also have a major impact on life on Earth during the (relatively short) time that it would exist. Very little in the way of plants or animals would be able to cross the ridge, so life in each hemisphere would almost certainly follow very different paths. 100 million years ago, dinosaurs roamed the Earth. 200 million years ago, the Triassic gave way to the Jurassic. 400 million years ago, the earliest ancestors of all modern land vertebrates (amphibians, reptiles, mammals, birds, etc.) hadn't even come out of the oceans. However, do keep in mind that if you want to keep the two hemispheres completely separate, so they can follow utterly different evolutionary paths, you'll have to make sure the ridge doesn't get broken up as the tectonic plates beneath it move around. I don't know how you might go about ensuring that. If you just drop more material on the equator continuously, then you'll have less of a clean ridge and more of a messy system of massive ridges and plateaus. Plate tectonics will carry what exists of the ridge away from the equator much more quickly than it will erode away. Also, you'll get gaps where plates are moving apart, such as in the middle of the Atlantic, where living things will be able to pass through. 

I couldn't find a question that addresses something like this. Retractable claws have been discussed: Retractable claws in otherwise human-like hands? But these are (curved) claws on fingers; I'm not sure if their design would work on my creature ('shards' on a tail). 

The creature I'm designing has a tail with spikes on the end of it. The material of the spikes should be strong/durable (not break easily), and very sharp (the edge as well as the sides, being able to cut through most materials like metal). The tail has several uses where these spikes might be a very real problem (like balancing, flexing around stuff to pick it up, and such). I'm looking for a way for the creature to protect itself and its surroundings from these spikes when they are not necessary. So far I've come up with: 

To be clear, they fly by flapping the wings / soaring on currents, as birds do.The dragons in this case are small (somewhat bigger than a big dog / size of a medium-sized pony). They do not weigh much to be able to fly (how much is still open for debate). Does such a material exist? Would it be plausible to appear naturally in a creature? What speed would a dragon as depicted be able to achieve with wings consisting of this material? 

Primate has reasonably strong and dextrous hands (because its species climbs trees all day). Primate smashes a couple of stones together, creating sharp edges (whether by accident or for some other purpose entirely- some modern apes have been known to break open rocks to lick off the dust produced... for some reason). Primate discovers that those sharp-edged rocks are useful for hunting and/or butchering meat. Primate learns to use fire to cook meat, making it easier to digest. Primates with larger brains due to random mutations can be more successful, since they have a larger energy budget due to #3 and #4. Those larger-brained primates can make better stone tools, allowing them to hunt and cook even more efficiently. Their descendants can support even larger brains. So on and so forth. 

You're not going to get this to work at atmospheric pressure, or if you insist on the air in the cave being composed of mostly nitrogen, but is is possible to get water to float on top of a gas. Or, at least, something close enough to a gas. Enter supercritical xenon. Xenon is an extremely dense gas at atmospheric pressure (as far as gases go, at least); but at pressures around 6-7 megapascals (60-70 atmospheres, roughly), its density at room temperature reaches that of water. Granted, at this pressure, xenon is not technically a gas, but rather a supercritical fluid, which combines properties of liquids and gases. However, to Joe A. Venture, it'll look enough like a gas for the water above him to look like an upside-down lake. An extremely dense gas that he may well be able to float in if his pressure suit isn't too heavy. And he will need a pressure suit- an atmospheric diving suit rated to 600-700 meters of water on Earth, to be precise, both because of the pressure and because xenon is a powerful anesthetic. Also, pressurized xenon has a tendency to form solid clathrates with water. However, as shown in that Cody's Lab video, adding large amounts of alcohol to the water seems to prevent this- and, as a bonus, doing so lowers the density a bit and keeps the xenon from dissolving into the water-alcohol solution to the point that it becomes too dense and sinks. So. A cave filled with xenon gas at 60-70 atmospheres of pressure, with a lake of 150-proof vodka on the ceiling. A sight to behold, I am sure. Although I'm not sure you could have a stream of alcohol flowing along the floor of a cavern that then rises up to the ceiling at some point and continues flowing. More likely, it'd just form a floating pool at the altitude where its density exactly matches the surrounding xenon. Which would be a pretty interesting sight as well- xenon above, xenon below, and a layer of alcohol floating in the middle. 

While fleshing out the details of my species, I have some concerns regarding reproduction. This species has several constraints which make it difficult to get pregnant and reproduce. These include: Major issue: 

Most (quadruped) dragons are depicted as having two wings sprouting from their back, consisting of a limb structure draped with a leathery membrane as the way to create lift and fly, somewhat resembling bat wings. I'm looking for a material to replace the membrane with, with some better qualities than a thin, fragile piece of skin. I'm excluding feathers and somewhat stiffer wings like pterosaurs seem to have had (according to this question: Bats With Pterosaur Wings). The properties I'm looking for: 

This question differs from the question How many humans do you need to maintain a population indefinitely? because of the given context that everyone in the group is the genetic parent of exactly two children each with a different partner which is violating above assumptions. This question differs from the question Minimum Population For a High Tech Society? because it is not about genetic diversity, but the skills and intelligence needed to run a high tech society (which is possibly a follow-up question). Some other questions touch this topic, but they are (slightly) different in either the assumptions or the direction of the question. 

Yes... for a certain definition of "use" There will be no ill effects to turning on a magnetic-confinement fusion engine in a planet's atmosphere because there will be no effects at all, beyond wasting fuel and spraying small amounts of radioactive tritium into the atmosphere (if you're using D-T fusion). Fusion reactors don't work in atmospheres. Magnetic-confinement fusion works by using magnetic fields to contain and compress incredibly hot plasma in order to give the nuclei within the plasma any chance of fusing together and producing more heat. This is possible because plasma, by definition, is a stew of charged particles- positively-charged ions and negatively-charged electrons- and charged particles can be controlled using magnetic fields. Air, however, is composed of neutrally-charged molecules that do not react to magnetic fields in any way relevant to this question. Try to fire up your fusion drive in an atmosphere, and the heat in any plasma you try to inject into the reactor will almost instantly be absorbed and dissipated by the air, preventing any fusion from taking place. Of course, it's possible to put a fusion reactor in a vacuum chamber, and indeed, this is what all the teams working on magnetic confinement fusion do. However, a fusion drive in a vacuum chamber is a rocket in a very sturdy metal box, and won't be able to go very far. It may manage to structurally compromise the chamber, and it it isn't destroyed by the collapsing vacuum chamber, air will rush in and quench the reaction. 

I'm working on creating a species that favours small families for a number of reasons, and have no interest in 'breeding as much as possible'. As a consequence, their population size is small. But how small can a population be, without running (ever) into problems with genetic diversity? I'm interested in more than 'survivability'; the species' gene pool should not degenerate (some margin allowed). I'm looking for some well-founded answers or directions. Assume that genetics for this species works similar to that of humans, and that their gene pool is of good quality at the start. You can also assume that they choose partners wisely, but there is no designation of partners, so margin is necessary. They have good health care and low child mortality rates. Assume that at least 90% of the population reaches at least fertile age. Other 'rules': 

This question differs from the question What is the minimum human population necessary for a sustainable colony? because: 

Well, I regularly sleep twelve hours when I've been sleep-deprived for a few days and then don't have to get up the next morning (i.e. on a weekend). So if your unconscious person has only gotten a few hours of sleep per night over the last few days, and then finally got a chance to rest freely, they could easily be out well into the afternoon, if they went to sleep early in the morning. In order for someone to be sufficiently sleep-deprived for this to work, something will need to wake them up a few hours after they go to bed for several days in a row. My alarm clock has done a pretty good job of that in my personal experience; if that doesn't work in your setting, maybe your dude is being chased by some very noisy bad guys? You ask about how exhaustion, dehydration, hunger, and blood loss might affect this situation. I'll be honest; I don't know. That's well outside my area of expertise. However, I'd imagine that any of those factors would only decrease the amount of sleep deprivation needed for it to happen. 

I guess there is a reason most animals have either retractable claws or no claws if they need their hands/feet. But would there be a solution that is (biologically speaking) logical / plausible? 

I am concerned that this species has too much of a difficulty to reproduce to make it viable or at least believable. You would think that such a species would probably have gone extinct. I would like the species to be sustainable. My main question is: how can I make this species viable? What can I add to their culture / world / other to make their existence believable? In other words: are there any prerequisites I need to fulfil for it to work? My first idea is to embed the 'find your soul mate' more into their culture, making it a major point on everyone's agenda. I'm not sure yet if this fits the world as it is in my mind, and would love some more input. I'm okay with the idea that the difficult connection as mentioned in the major issue above is more of a recent thing, and that in the past it was a lot easier. But that does not prevent them from going extinct in the (near) future. *Difficult meaning that if the partner is not right, the connection can not be made completely and reproduction is not possible. This goes, of course, both ways. Whether a partner is 'right' depends more on the mental aspect and trust. It can be build between two individuals, but it takes time. Addition: the size of the population and its viability, also regarding number of children or reproductive rates is out of scope for this question. That is already covered in an earlier question: How small can a population be with regard to genetic diversity? 

Not really; not without just crashing it into a planet and destroying it completely. Any technology capable of safely slowing down a spaceship from interstellar speed will also be equally capable of accelerating it; and will almost certainly be the most convenient method of accelerating it. This is why ships powered by ion and plasma drives, which are capable of producing a small amount of thrust continuously for a long period of time, will typically accelerate for half of the trip, then turn around and slow down for the second half. If you're using nuclear pulse propulsion, then you'll use half of your delta-V (and more than half of your nukes) to accelerate to cruising speed, then spin around at the end and use the rest of your nukes to stop. It's possible that you might be able to brake using interstellar gas, the radiation pressure from the target star, or the star's stellar wind, but as far as I know, those things are all far too diffuse to be able to slow down an interstellar ship much.