This is pretty clearly a definite description. An example of another one is "The tree closest to The White House on Jan 1, 2016." It picks out a unique thing which may or may not have been given a name. It is not the case that definite descriptions are sentences. 

You've asked both how Kant approaches the Is-Ought problem and whether he does a good job with it. I'll give the outline of an answer to the first, and you can decide whether it side-steps the issue. Kant works around Hume's problem by focusing on the idea of rationality. He argues that it is rational to act out of respect for duty and to respect rationality wherever it occurs. That is, his ending point is clearly at ought-statements, like that we ought to act out of respect for duty. The question is whether his starting point is merely descriptive—about what "is." Rationality is a word or concept with not only a descriptive function but also an honorific function. Another word like this is "artistic." One the one hand, if I describe a painting as artistic, I'm simply saying that it's art. I'm making an "is" statement. On the other hand, built into the very idea of being appropriately called "artistic" is the idea of being (at least somewhat) good art. I would hesitate to call my sloppy napkin sketch artistic. This is the word's "honorific" function. I point this out to suggest that Kant's concept of rationality may have normativity (or the idea of goodness) built right into it, in which case he doesn't so much move from "is" to "ought" as postulate a kind of "ought" people probably ought to accept (in so far as they want to be rational), and then argue that it implies some other "ought" statements. That's the start of an answer. A great deal has been written on how Kant argues, and there are significant disagreements among experts about his strategy. 

This is not an easy question. The first problem is that the German ‘bedeuten’ means something like ‘mean’ or ‘signify’ or ‘indicate’, which led to the translators changing the translation from ‘reference’ in the original edition to ‘Meaning’. Thus ‘sense and Meaning’, not ‘sense and reference’. This was controversial. The second is that Frege seems to have changed his mind about ‘Bedeutung’ as his views progressed. Originally he held something like a ‘direct reference’ view of the sentence. Thus ‘John is tall’, on his original view, contains the object word ‘John’, which refers to John himself, and ‘is tall’ refers to the concept ‘is tall’. Thus what is signified by the sentence is the complex entity John+is tall. John himself is a component of the meaning (bedeutung) of the sentence. Later he realised that this view is absurd. How can a mountain such as Mont Blanc, with all its snowfields, be part of the meaning of a piece of language? So he revised his view to include ‘sense’ or ‘Sinn’, so that the sense is something more like the meaning, whereas the Bedeutung is the object meant. I suggest reading the early chapters of Gareth Evans’s The Varieties of Reference which outline the problem of exegesis in some detail. Also recommended is The Frege Reader by Michael Beaney. Caveat, I am writing this from memory. It is some years since I looked at Frege. 

Well, according to Wikipedia, Michael Martin is such a philosopher. Also, the ontological argument in every form has been pretty thoroughly eviscerated by any number of philosophers--atheist and otherwise. I wouldn't restrict myself to just atheists when looking for well reasoned arguments against Plantinga. 

Your question assumes that we have an immaterial state. There's no evidence to suggest that this is the case: even if you are a brain in a vat, you might only have material state--the current state of your physical brain as various inputs are produced by some other thing. Your state is only and always material. There is a logical progression out of the vat, and it goes something like this: Once you accept that there must be at least two distinctions, the "I" that you commonly think of as "I" and the "it" that is defining the restraints of apparently physical reality, and that the "I" part is distinct in some way from the "it" part, it seems most reasonable to believe that other people, since they appear to be just like me in most other ways, are also parts of "me" that experience themselves as "I". From there to believing that a goldfish has an independent experience of reality isn't that far to go. So the world appears to behave in a way consistent with the hypothesis that there is a physical reality, and reason informs me that even if this is not the case, the part of reality that I commonly conceive of as "I" is constrained to behave as if it occupies a physical reality along with other bits of reality that appear similarly constructed and constrained. By seeking to understand these apparently physical restraints we may either improve our experience of and within the system of constraints or discover the nature of the system of constraints. Furthermore, one of the constraints appears to be that if there is no physical system involved, learning is impossible... so the only thing we can learn about is the apparently physical universe. 

We can understand one of the central theses of Investigations to be "Meaning is use." For Wittgenstein, coming to understand the meaning of a bit of language is not a matter of forming a mental state in which the bit of language appropriately maps on to the right parts of the world. Much of Investigations works at encouraging skepticism about that account of meaning. Instead, coming to understand the meaning of words and phrases is just learning how to use them in the right ways in the right contexts. The main processes of language acquisition are therefore imitation, experimentation, and participation in activities involving language. If we sometimes employ ostensive definition when teaching language, we radically over-estimate its significance for actual learning, on this view. We notice those obvious acts of pointing, and incorrectly infer that that's how learning works. In doing so, we miss the more subtle processes through which a person tries out bits of language and gradually begins to deploy the right ones, or rather ones that work in the various contexts of one's life. 

There are a number of options available to the theologian who wants to refute Dawkins position. First, she can simply place God outside the rules of causality and grant God the ability to do things which look contradictory and impossible from the human position. This isn't actually particularly absurd, it simply places humanity in a position, like that of the shapes in Edwin Abbots Flatland, where something routine to a 'higher being' is practically inconceivable to us. She can also grant the "many universes" hypothesis. In that case, everything that God considers happens. So somewhere there is a universe without humanity, and somewhere there is a universe where humanity is not destroyed by beings from Sirius III in 2050 because God sends them a horrible plague of rats. In that case, God can intervene back in time, forward in time, change his mind and intervene again... because everything just creates new timelines. Of the two routes, I think that the first is the more compelling. It actually makes sense to say that you can't use human concepts of space, time, foreknowledge, and causality to meaningfully discuss the traits of a being that supposedly knows the precise position and velocity of every particle in the universe, since that knowledge alone violates everything we understand about space, time, causality and particles. To clarify this answer somewhat, the problem with Dawkins' logic is that the premise actually denies the possibility of a logical conclusion. An omnipotent being is without limits by definition, so the imposition of logical limits on the being is a denial of the premise, not the conclusion. The inconsistency of Christianity is not in the assertion of an omnipotent, omniscient being, it is with the insistence that such a being could be said to have motives or behavior that would be even remotely comprehensible to us. If we assume a god on that scale, the conversation must end there: we cannot divine that beings motives or desires or even say that it has any motives or desires that we would understand as such. In other words, the problem with the Christian god is that Omnibenevolence is logically inconsistent with Omniscience and Omnipotence. An analogy that might be helpful is the idea of a computer programmer. Let us assume I write a game like the Sims in order to play it. The game is large enough that I can have multiple villages of sim creatures. I might encourage them to go to war with each other just because I want to see them go to war. I might give them competing religions just because I think its funny. I might do absolutely anything, for any reason. To the Sim people, none of this would make any sense. In fact, from my point of view, a Sim lacks the capacity to even have things make sense or not make sense. From my point of view, a sim has no thoughts or feelings that I would recognize as such. They are just simple robots. And from their point of view (assuming they have a point of view), I am utterly beyond comprehension. To a truly all powerful god, we would be simpler by far than a Sim. We would have less capacity for self direction, less capacity for self awareness, and less capacity for intellectual thought than a computer program. There is just no way for us to intuit the motives or desires of a being that is that much more powerful and intelligent than we are, and no reason to believe that such a being would ever give us directions that were to our own benefit in any way. God could be totally ethical from its own point of view and still lie to us constantly, because it just isn't unethical to lie to creatures who can't think or feel. 

You raise a few points. First ‘Sum of logic’ is the Wikipedia title. Don’t trust anything that Wikipedia says, or at least, be cautious. The book is generally known by its Latin title, Summa Logicae. ‘Summa’ is difficult to translate in English – it doesn’t really mean ‘summary’. The essay by Peter King that you link to is a short ‘summary’ of the work. You say: “But I can't find any scans or photos of the original handmade manuscript or the original (first) edition. Do you know any links or libraries or museims, where I can find it?” Until the 15th century, all such works were published in manuscript (i.e. handwritten) form, so there is no sense in which there was an ‘original first edition’. The concept of an ‘edition’ arrived with printing, when instead of writing a copy, you do a lot of work to set the type and get everything just right, then you publish with a large print run, and keep on printing until you decide on the need for a second edition. There is also the concept of a ‘critical edition’. Rather than rely on the old 15th century printed works and other editions copied from them, you go back to the original manuscript sources, and compare them together to look for copying errors, with the aim of finding out what the author ‘really’ said. The first critical edition of the Summa was published in 1974 as the first volume of Opera Philosophica (St. Bonaventure, N.Y. Editiones Instituti Franciscani Universitatis S. Bonaventurae, 1974. 899 p., eds Boehner, Philotheus, Gál, Gedeon, Brown, Stephen). I don’t have the full list of all the ms used for the critical edition, although two of them were: Bruges, Bibl. de la Ville 498 (1340); and Avignon, Bibl. Mun. 1086 (1343). I am not sure you would want these, however, as they will look something like this $URL$ I.e. not just in Latin but in a written form of Latin which is difficult to read without training. I hope that helps. Personally I would stick to the published translations in English – see below. Note that the whole work has never been fully translated into English, Ockham’s own language. Loux, Michael J. 1974. Ockham's Theory of Terms: Part I of the Summa Logicae. Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press. Complete Translation. Freddoso, Alfred J., and Schuurman, Henry, trans. 1980. Ockham's Theory of Propositions: Part II of the Summa logicae. Notre Dame, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press. Longeway, John Lee (2007), Demonstration and Scientific Knowledge in William of Ockham, University of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, IN. A translation of Summa Logicae III-II: De Syllogismo Demonstrativo, with selections from the Prologue to the Ordinatio. 

is a statement in a formal system. The central axioms of the system can't change without introducing a new formal system. Formal systems are abstractions created by people to describe or discuss the universe, and they are very robust. However, the shapes of the symbols used to describe the system do change. In ancient Rome, for example, the sequence of may not have led to the conclusion , since they didn't use arabic numbers. Instead, they would say (although I don't know if Romans used the same symbol for equality or addition, even). So the rules of a formal system can't change but the notation does and can, so in a million years, as a string of symbols might not mean anything in the current notation. 

An edit, based on muz's comment. It occurs to me that the questioner mentions "a god" as opposed to "God". In that case I suppose we could have many such books, and the best way for a rational person to be convinced that it was written by a god would be for the god to claim credit. For example, if there actually were an Athena and her powers and attributes were sufficient to demonstrate her godlike nature, then if she appeared on the Daily Show to promote her book, there wouldn't be a rational reason to doubt that she wrote it. My first answer is based on the assumption that the book itself has to be proof of the existence of the god in question. 

You imply that you sometimes reject (1) in such arguments. I would find it hard to agree, though, that at least poverty and sickness are not bad. (Anger, meanwhile, is often just fine.) But if you accept that the named thing is actually bad, then if you want to assert that there's a fallacy at work, you need to deny (2) or (3). In some cases of sickness, (2) does not apply, because no amount of time or money can fix them. That might even apply to some cases of poverty. But there are clearly many cases of poverty and sickness to which (2) does apply. The cholera outbreak in Haiti after their 2010 earthquake, or the current situation in the Philippines after their typhoon involve a lot of people suffering who don't have the resources to fix their problems. Meanwhile, it is possible to reach them with meaningful, economically-efficient aid. And so, in that sense, time and money can work to address bad situations. So, it might be that you'd just want to deny (3). You don't think it's good or important to stop bad things — or rather, you dont think that stopping bad things is as great a good, or is as important, as your enjoyment of luxuries. That yields a consistent position, though it's one that ethicists argue against in a number of ways. More specifically, philosopher Peter Singer argues that many of us do accept (3), and even demand that others accept it, when faced with a situation like a nearby drowning child, but deny it for more distant situations we would rather not think about. Singer argues, among other things, that distance is not morally relevant, nor is the presence of others who are able to stop the bad things but don't. His argument is worth engaging. So yes, you can assert that a fallacy is involved, by noting that the conclusion only follows when other tacit or silent premises are presumed, and then by denying the plausibility of those. Whether or not you categorically deny them is, of course, beyond the scope of your question. 

I think there's a central problem with this conclusion, which is that there are actually two conclusions you reach. One is that there are infinite doppelgängers with the power to contact their doppelgängers. The other is that because of the first conclusion, there are no doppelgängers which are not contacted by at least one doppelgänger. Neither conclusion actually follows from the premise. The second conclusion actually contradicts your premise. If every possible thing that can happen does happen, then somewhere, there is a lonely doppelgänger who is never contacted by his fellows. If that's the case, we can safely assume that you're the you that no doppelganger wants to contact. Or to put it another way, if I accept your premise, somewhere there is a doppelgänger of you putting a question on a version of StackExchange about whether there is a doppelgänger of itself that hasn't made contact with any of its doppelgängers. Of course, there's no need to feel bad about being this lonely doppelgänger, since everything that can happen happens an infinite number of times, there are an infinity of lonely doppelgängers to fail to keep you company. The first conclusion only follows from the premise if the probability that you exist is finite. However, it may not be finite, and instead be infinitesimal. If that's the case, there may be a finite number (even only one) of you, even in an infinite universe in which everything possible happens. I tend to think this is more likely than not, because there may be an uncountably infinite number of possible evolutionary paths. The first conclusion is also vulnerable to the finite nature of time. It takes time for things to happen in. So it is possible that while it is possible to travel instantaneously, no species ever figures it out because they don't last long enough, in which case no doppelgänger of you ever has time travel. The first conclusion is also vulnerable to uncertainty about what is possible. There is no civilization of spacefaring proto-lemurs anywhere in the universe because such a thing is simply impossible: to design and operate spaceships, you need a different mental toolkit than a lemur has. So the configurations of matter are not determined solely by random chance, it is random chance plus the laws of physics, which yields the laws of chemistry, biology, etc. The fact that lemurs can't build spaceships doesn't make spaceships impossible, it just makes them impossible for lemurs. It is possible that a species that develops time travel has necessarily evolved biological structures which we lack, in which case there is no doppelgänger of you that has time travel, but time travel is still possible. In conclusion, the only thing that you can conclude from the fact that you haven't been contacted by a time-travelling you-doppelgänger is that as far as you know you haven't. 

"there are no facts, its our perception" is a very strange claim. For a start, is this claim a fact? If it is a fact, i.e. if it is true, then there are no facts. But if it is a fact, then there is at least one fact, namely this one, so it is not true to say 'there are no facts'. So it is not a fact. Generally, it's a logical fallacy to argue from (1) S perceives (or thinks, or believes) that p to (2) It is the case that p The truth or falsity of a belief report is nearly always logically independent of the truth or falsity of the reported belief. Note, however, that if we say 'S knows that p' then it does logically follow that p. However, this is in virtue of the meaning of the word 'know'. 

The answer depends on your definition of ‘philosopher’, as has already been noted. On one definition ($URL$ ). A philosopher is someone who tries to answer a question, usually a deep and fundamental question, without any appeal to any revelation, to myth, or religious knowledge of any kind, but rather try to get the answer by using reason alone, based on common principles that everyone recognises as true (e.g. ‘I exist’ or ‘whatever exists, exists’). On this definition, Jesus was not a philosopher, because of his frequent appeal to personal revelation and his own spiritual authority. 

My question is two-fold. First, is my understanding of the ethical position of Cicero correct, and second, are there modern schools of philosophical thought that follow this tradition? To clarify the second question further, are there modern metaphysical naturalists who maintain that questions of good and evil are meaningful? 

Yes, it is possible to scientifically determine what is good and what is evil if you allow definitions of good and evil. Let us take an example: Is it evil to torture and maim babies for entertainment? If you believe that this question is simply a matter of opinion, you have a purely local definition of good and evil that amounts to good being stuff you approve of and evil being stuff you don't. If you do not believe that this question is a matter of opinion, than you must be taking the position that there is something about that action that puts it into the class of things that are "evil", as opposed to things that are good. Harris takes the position that "good" and "evil" relate to suffering and happiness, and that since the suffering and happiness of conscious beings are observable facts, we can use science to promote the latter and reduce the former. This is true, we can in fact use science to reduce suffering and increase happiness. Harris defines this as "moral", which is where other people disagree with him. So what is interesting to me is that in terms of goals and facts, many people agree with Sam Harris, but they reject that you can define evil, and therefore reject the argument itself.