Yes, that's the idea. It's in fact not that uncommon. How much they can change will depend a bit on what else the contract states. Most likely this is to open up for changes that are required in the future. It's not like you'll sign a new contract if you're promoted, thus also given more\different tasks. This requires changes that would possibly go against points in contract, thus requiring new or changed contract. 

Textbook answers are common, but everyone knows them, and thus it can lead to sneaky questions trying to peel the exact reason why you left to begin with. The cards you can play here heavily depend on what you carry to begin with. If you need to move house, and the new job is closer\more available, that's a start. Got kids? Maybe the area has better schools. See where I am going here? Just don't lie. 

Depending on where you are located, you can, by law, deny any picture that includes you be kept away or taken down from the net. Exception is images that are pure crowd (think football stadium) where you happen to be visible + some others, but generally public crowd scenarios. Now, pointing at the law will likely make you look like a "tinfoil hat" person, and at the same time dent your group relationship. A simple way is to decline from being part of the picture, but offer yourself to be the one taking the picture. You can further add that they can add your name to the people present at the event (a name is quite meaningless without a face in therms of photos). I see your reasoning, not wishing to have your information spread across the galaxy, but I can assure you, if you are already not using sites like facebook and google+, or any other site where you "need" to add personal information, it's highly unlikely that your information will even be usable for any big company. A simple name connected to a job without any details beyond that, is useless, it tells nothing about who and\or what you are. Companies are usually more interested in your information for add revenue anyway. If they have no idea about your interests, location nor personal detail, you are useless to them. So if no such information is out there, you should be quite safe. 

It can be a great disappointment when a new employee changes or attempts to change your relationship with what has been up to now a great customer. However you need to do (or already should have done) several things. 1. Have a reporting procedure This can be as simple as a dedicated blog for that client, so any bugs simply get posted to that blog. In that way you can prove either how quickly you respond to bug reports or how silly some of them are, by pointing out they are based on a misunderstanding. Or you can prove no one has yet reported the 'bug' to you. Put this in place immediately for all your customers, so all bug reports are dated and visible and not reliant on email. 2. Get a thicker skin Silly complaints, ill informed moans and blame culture focused on the outsider are all part and parcel of dealing with customers. Take it on the chin, be professional, do not reciprocate, respond in a timely and effective manner and they all pass with time. Do not take it personally because it is not a personal matter. Even if your work is below par, perhaps that is what was requested despite your protests, perhaps that was what the budget allowed, or the timescale, or the requirements at that time. Out of context anything can be complained about. My Ferrari could be a bit more powerful. 3. Never be the baddie. Do not succumb to the level they are setting. Let them moan, let them complain, let them blame you for the ills of the world. As long as you remain professional and address each issue as it is formally raised to you, all it means is more work for you. 'It doesn't do this', 'We can do that if you want, that will cost X'. etc etc. Do not start bemoaning them or seeking rectification of wrong doing. If they want to be an arse, let them, but do not be one yourself. The chances are the moaner is moaning about everything and you are only hearing the half of it. When they get the sack and you are still there you can smile to yourself, safe in the knowledge you were the professional. 4. Never be reliant on one customer If one customer is so big to you that if they went you would be in trouble, you are already in trouble. No single loss of a customer should throw you into jeopardy. If it does, or risks doing so, you should be spending far more time finding new customers than you are. Customers change, things change, environments change, needs change, technology changes, companies change, and your customers will change. No customer is for ever, no matter how much you like them, or get on with them. So just make sure you are not dependent on any one customer, because they will eventually leave you, and when they do it must not kill your business. 5. Love your enemy (or at least seem to) The moaner you are complaining about, go to see him, explain the vision as it exists, take on board his comments, get his plan, buy into it, share it, tell him you are glad he is finally on board as now things can improve. Tell him how to log issues to be fixed, or ask for a new path, a new plan, a new direction, curtail to him, tell him he is right, even when he is wrong. What is more important to you, your income or your pride. Perhaps he has a point, see it from his point of view. If he truly is an arse, get him to see someone else as a target, and you as a compliant, subservient external service provider, which is after all, what you are. Bide your time. Either you will be replaced, or the other person will be sacked, or you will have to work with them. Either way, good relationships with customers are always worth fostering, even when you do not personally like them, respect their opinion or you think they are wrong. As long as they pay your bills, quite honestly, what do you care? Yes it is a shame when a great customer relationship changes, but they always do in the end. Milk it, raise above it, and if needed, move on. What more can you possibly do? 

I work with a relatively small (6 people) Software Configuration Management team in what would be considered a more traditional or "non-agile" environment; however, within the past year our CM lead has instituted the practice of holding a daily "stand up" meeting for just our CM group in which we cover: 

I recently left a support contracting position after several years of working very closely on site with my government clients and other support contractors for a new position with a new company in a completely different location. I have no intention of returning to this company or location (Relocated from Florida to New York). After leaving, I am now receiving multiple phone calls and text messages a week to my personal cell phone number during work hours at my new position. The questions are for generally minor requests related to my previous responsibilities for which I was a lead for several years and are from both the clients which my company used to support onsite and my previous coworkers with my previous company. I gave a full two weeks notice and attempted to document as much "tribal knowledge" as possible before leaving while making myself available to those below me in my role for technical questions/training. Some questions/messages mostly from my previous clients who did not want me to leave, have been more personal such as mentioning how my previous counterparts are overwhelmed and I am greatly missed. I generally hesitate to respond and when I do so it is a brief objective message, where I may give a small amount of knowledge but encourage them to reach out to a specific individual who may know the answer still working for the project. I find this behavior slightly unprofessional and disruptive when coming up to speed on a new position. what is the appropriate professional way to handle these requests? 

Not illegal, but not really a nice thing to do either. You'd want to avoid that as much as possible. Usually the contract won't take effect before you start, if ever, just a day or so before set start date. In your situation, maybe you'd be best to consult another lawyer while yours is out? 

Yes, that is acceptable. During my search for work, I was asked questions regarding knowledge in my field (IT here as well). Usually general things, but still enough to find who was worth looking more into, and those who were... bad... Regarding quiz in general, several people I know have told me that they were quizzed to test knowledge. One that stands out is a guy who applied to a CD\DVD store, he was quizzed about various songs, artists and music genres. As long as the questions are not about race, religion or other personal matters, most questions go as long as they are actually relevant to the job. 

I would include it, definitely. It is nothing but a good thing that you consider education and training a continuing and ongoing thing. However, I would add it not under 'education', but under extra curricular activities, or interests and hobbies. As a 'sunday only' activity I would feel it better fits here. Once you have passed of course, it should go under education, but as an interest and outside hobby, the continuation of your interest in your subject matter and your perseverance to self improve it would sit very well indeed. Also in this section there is no doubt that this is a side line of a continuing interest and will not interfere with your job or work. Just add it to your education. Putting it in the section I originally suggested, following comments and a re-think, is actually a bit silly. Just to say you gain nothing from leaving it off, but stand to gain a lot of credit by adding it in. 

I understand this is relatively standard practice within an agile work environment and can see the benefit of it there; however, we do not follow any other agile processes and the meetings tend to be very back and forth and also tend to drag on. Several members of our team go too far into detail which does not concern the entire team and would be better served in an offline conversation when answering the first two questions specifically. Additionally our leads, who essentially serve as the scrum masters and run the meeting tend to ask a lot of follow up questions, which further derails the conversation from being beneficial to all which are involved. These meetings are mandatory and in my opinion a waste of time (45-60 mins a week including driving back and forth five days a week) As a participant, how can I help to make our meetings more focused/relevant/beneficial/shorter to our team? Update: The meetings have become sit down meetings where none of the three questions above are even covered. 

Working within IT, where sub departments work with different tasks, I can relate to this completely, and the answer I've got for you is this: Be honest, and provide all the information you can. There is no real way to avoid pissing of some people, there will always be those who just won't accept any answer not equal to what they wanted, and there is always those who try to play you by making you feel guilty or stupid. As long as you keep your cool and provide all the information you can in an honest way, you are doing your part. There is no shame sending them to other people you think can answer a subject better, that's how work synergy should be. Your job is primarily to send them in the right direction, a little detour here and there is bound to happen at times, so never feel bad for that. 

Easy, if your old job is similar to the new one, and maybe even close in a geographical setting, your previous boss and potential new boss MAY know each other. Slim chance, but it's a trap you DON'T want to step in. Besides, you'd want some papers from your old boss, to show your new, and likely they will end up talking on phone regarding you. Lastly, as mentioned, you don't want to seem like the asshole. Not like your new boss can know if your old boss actually was a douche, or it was you who were the douche all along. In short: If you badmouth your previous boss, you only badmouth yourself. 

Definitely put two divisions down. In your application reference both divisions in order, 1st division first. So your answer is something like: First line - why the company is so brilliant and a perfect fit for you Second line - why the first division is so exciting Third line - why the second division is great too Fourth line - be proud to join the company and would consider any position You put two divisions because they might want to employ you but have better candidates for division 1, it fills up, where are they going to put you? Your job is to impress the HR division first on paper and actually get an interview. That is the first and primary hurdle that most people will fail on. They allow you to apply for two divisions for a reason, it is not superfluous. 

I think you gave a great answer. The usual formulae is to compliment, address an area that could be improved, then finish with a specific compliment. But if you hit on a sensitive area you can turn an interviewer against you if they feel personally slighted. For the non complimentary bit of the above formulae, I would normally couch it in 'get outs' like "no website is ever finished", "a website is a process of continual improvement", or "well technology moves at such an astounding pace" or even "a modern design is an ever changing goal" or something similar. Then whatever criticism you are touching on lightly is already couched in a 'get out' or an excuse for a poor area. You took the easier path of not criticising at all, but often this is the time when you can show you have something to bring to the table. If another candidate had an actual 404 error or broken link to talk about, your answer might not have compared as well. However you answer though, you have to tread very carefully, and avoid anything that is absolute or damning like "The logo looks like a child did it" or "your colour choices are garish and clash", whatever you might actually be thinking. 

In short, any reference is (usually) a good reference. I've never really heard about a company writing a negative reference, instead of writing none at all. The only exception, as mentioned, is any reference where family (or friends) is involved in a significant way, such as working at your fathers workshop, or in your mothers flower shop. A reference is more to show who you are, so if you've been on time, tidy, kind to customers, respecting coworkers and been actively taking part in various tasks, you're already in a good position. General knowledge about what you work with will usually be expected, but it's rare to just enter a work space and instantly mastering its rules. Something that is perfectly accepted one place, might be frowned upon somewhere else. So yes, use your references, it's better than going blank. In the end, the worst thing that can happen is to get a 'no', and it's not uncommon knowledge that one will have to work for that one 'yes'. 

I am currently a contractor and I have been offered a position as a federal employee doing essentially the same thing working with the same people with the essentially the same tasks/responsibilities. I would be taking the number 2 spot after the lead retires and the current number 2 becomes the lead. For personal reasons I wish to remain a contractor. Our contract has several years of work remaining so there is no immediate need for me to change positions. The person who is looking to retire soon is advocating that I take the offer which puts additional pressure on the situation, but I currently would feel more comfortable remaining where I am; the reasons being flexibility (I may want to move locations and employment in less than a year) slightly better salary and annual raises. I am aware that I am giving up job security and benefits but feel at the time the pros outweigh the cons. How can I politely decline while keeping a good working relationship? 

I started a new job about 8 months ago. I am quite experienced and skilled at what I do. Since I joined I seem to be getting more and more work piled on. My initial role I still do, but I did it very well. So I also took on the email marketing when they were having issues with another employee. So I was doing my original job plus the design, build, implementation and writing of the quite considerable number of email campaigns they run. Then the dropship manager left and I now do my original role, the email marketing, and now look after all the dropshippers (which was a full time job for another employee that was never replaced). Now a new key account sales manager has been employed, and with the additional emails he wants, and as the "reliable one" in the office, he now uses me as his sales support, because it seems I am the only one he can rely on to get things done. On top of that, I now support the warehouse manager with several order systems, so every morning I am supporting him, helping to manage all the orders from multiple systems, for a few hours every day. Yet, the digital marketing manager, that just manages ebay, amazon and one retail site (which I help fix when it goes wrong as he is not a developer), gets paid more than me, so does the sales manager, the key account manager and the general manager. However, apart from doing the job now of what was originally three other people, plus supporting the customer services staff, plus doing my original job and two others, plus running and managing the other three sales channels, which equal the sales income of the digital managers sites, and managing the same level of growth, I am now being asked to do the digital marketing for the channels I manage. I work so hard, I am the first in every morning, about an hour before anyone else, I work weekends and bank holidays trying to keep up. I cannot cope with any more, and already I can see the massive overload is starting to affect the quality I can do with any of them. But, it has been hinted at that I am very valuable and I am treated very well. There have been hints at promotions in the future etc. All the more junior staff say how they enjoy working with me, and how much better everything is since I joined. Even the warehouse staff say these things even though there is a rift between the office and the warehouse, I seem to bridge that gap quite easily. Now I hear on the grapevine that the whole company is moving next year to a place I have no interest in relocating to, and is, instead of a 30 minute commute, over an hours commute. However, having addressed this directly with the owner, it appears that it is just a possibility, not a concrete plan. Feeling deflated, undervalued and definitely overworked, I have a CV service writing a CV for me. But I am still not sure if I should start job hunting or let this opportunity play out. I really like the place, the owner, the people I work with, and in truth, I also get to run around, unquestioned, doing whatever I like. I literally report to no one. Is it too good a role to give up or am I being taken advantage of? I really do not know what to do. Any advice would be greatly appreciated. What is the best way to approach my boss about this situation, and what approach could I take to reduce the overwork without affecting my standing. Or does a leopard never change its spots and should I just start job hunting?