Predators that rely on stealth will struggle, as will prey that relies on hiding. They will need to adapt their behavior, but it's hard to say how successful they will be. 

The cooling rate, especially around the freezing point of water, needs to be controlled carefully in order to not cause damaging crystal growth. Wearing clothing makes the rate of cooling more unpredictable, so it introduces more risk. If any clothing is used, it will be special outfits whose isolation properties are well known and thoroughly tested. 

I'd say no, it's not possible according to our understanding of physics. From "moves through different galaxies", I assume you mean that the star moves at relativistic speed, so that it will see more than one or two galaxies before the heat death of the universe. I also will assume the planet somehow ended up in an orbit around this star intact. Together, they will be crashing through any matter in their way. The neutron star is so tiny and dense that it could likely fly straight through a planet without slowing down. Interstellar gas clouds and gravitational influence from nearby stars and planets are barely noticed at all. The planet, having a tiny density compared to its star, will be bombarded with all those particles and slow down, destabilizing its orbit until it either spirals into the neutron star or flies off into deep space. 

What shape would the eggs of a species of oviparous humanoids be? Eggs are common enough that you'd be hard-pressed to find someone who hasn't seen one. While birds' eggs are often thought of more frequently, a wide variety of eggs exist and are in use by various species around the world. However, something worth noting is the shape eggs take on in relation to the parent species and environment. True spheres have no strengths or weaknesses because the pressure applied to one point is distributed evenly across the surface of the object. As anyone who's seen even the roundest eggs will tell you though, eggs are not true spheres. In fact, what most people think of as eggs are more oval in shape. This is believed to prevent them from rolling away--which would occur with truly spherical eggs--while also making it easier to get the eggs out of the body because of the tapered end at the top. However, this phenomenon is not often observed in species that nest in holes or other cavities, whose eggs tend to be more spherical, though this most likely has to do with decreased risk of rolling away in a closed area. With that in mind, I am looking to determine the shape of the eggs that would come from a species with the following traits: 

Most Earth cultures — as far as I know — tend to use square or rectangular surfaces to write upon, and similarly our texts are also organized into square and rectangular shapes. However, a culture that writes in circles (as in all the letters fall along the circumference of an invisible circle) would likely not use squares or rectangles for writing on surfaces due to the wasted space and instead elect to use circular or oval surfaces. For an example of this writing style in action: 

Abundant resources, low/weak predation, female dominant breed selection. You look at peaceful megafauna and they tended to get there by simply having enough to grow larger, and predators that couldn't easily take them... There are multitudes of variations on how this could happen. Think of an evolutionary path where the "smaller" ones would get killed or die, leaving the larger ones to continue to breed. As long as the environment can support the increase in dietary/shelter/space needs relatively easily, they can grow larger. This isn't too far from what you see in disparate races here on earth, different environments have different requirements of our bodies skin tone, muscle mass, and size until they become "traits" of our heritage... your world just takes it to another order of magnitude. Ensuring that the females are fighting over the males, or at least choosing the males in a method other than who can punch who the hardest, will remove the genetic benefit of males growing larger. === Edit for the clarification about the "matriarchal" requirement === You get larger females the same way you get larger males... have them fight each other. It benefits a male to have a breeding pool, multiple females he can keep pregnant and safe... A matriarchal society tends not to fight over males... cause why? There is no genetic advantage to them keeping a harem. There is no "downtime" for the male where he will need a strong female to provide for him or protect him. You would have to find a motivation, a genetic one, not a social one, to enable this. Extremely long (months) refractory periods where the males are not only unable to breed, but maybe too lethargic to hunt or protect themselves? Even then, at that point the female, biologically speaking already has what she needs, there is no reason to "protect" the male... she can just find a new one later. An argument could be made that the females have to be bigger and sturdier to be capable in a predatory environment during pregnancy... but that only makes sense if the males are somehow not able to provide them with safety. This doesn't add up... whatever time it took for the females to get stronger would make the males stronger as well. The "easiest" way would be socially... but there would have to be cultural motivations in place for tens of thousands of years before this would be significant... which is extremely unlikely. 

In the world I'm building, there is a race of people whose main shtick is that they can detect the magnetic fields of their planet and use them to navigate. In one of their cultures, the people are nomadic and use the same "roads" to travel to different historic or religious sites in their culture. What's even more interesting is their sense of these lines, which is widely perceived as being innate knowledge. Members of this culture may not know where these paths lead, but their existence is widely known and understood to them, even if they've never followed them far or at all. However, what these ley lines really are has been difficult to pin down. I am essentially looking for a phenomenon that can explain the following traits: 

One of the first things noted about pretty much any humanoid race with horns or antlers is that the neck would not be able to support the weight, making the idea unfeasible. However, some horns are larger than others, and I find it difficult to believe the idea of horned humanoids is entirely not plausible—especially when taking into account that cutaneous horns are a thing. Ignoring how these horns came to be or what their purpose might be, how large could horns resembling animal horns be on an average human without any charges to the current body plans and muscle structure? 

Concerning longevity, your ships could theoretically stay airborne indefinitely without using fuel. In practice, the ship would always have a steam engine running on standby to maintain enough pressure for sudden maneuvers, as well as to power onboard electrical devices. In an emergency, some fancy clockwork might allow the sailors to manually extend/retract the pistons, but too slow to be acceptable under normal conditions. Eventually, most ships will need to land to take on coal/peat and water, though some could have it delivered by smaller ships and never land. Note: upon re-reading your question, I realized that your catamaran designs would need some way to synchronize lift between the hulls or risk being torn apart. Piping between them to equalize steam pressure would probably solve this. A backup of two trained engineering teams and good signaling between them is advisable regardless. 

This will fail quickly as there are only a handful of big producers across the world, who all use roughly the same process and get their ore at a number of known suppliers. They know exactly how much ore you should be buying, how much electricity, etc. When they contact your suppliers to find out how much better of a deal you made, they find out you're not buying that much ore, or electricity. They will suspect you're actually selling ill-gotten Aluminium, either stolen or from a country under embargo. This ensures a government investigation and that's it. Game over. Turning that situation around, here are the things to aim for when selecting an industry: 

What does this mean for the medium on which longer texts--such as books, records, and even personal writings--are written down? I'm very attached to the idea of books and scrolls as I know them, but in the context of this writing system, I can't see how those would form or be useful to the people using them. 

It's a fairly well-known fact that reptiles are ecotherms, meaning that they require outside sources of heat to stay warm and metabolize. However, being too hot can cause heat sickness (not fun), and being too cold can trigger hypothermic states where metabolisms slow down, and movement becomes difficult. Now, size and shape affect how well creatures retain heat, which also influences how much heat they retain and how well they can retain it. Since the creatures in question are human-sized, humanoid creatures, how would you determine the upper and lower temperature limits? 

In essence, I am looking for a natural phenomenon or something that could be a widespread phenomenon on some other world to use in this setting that meets most if not all the criteria above. 

The reproductive method is thought to be something resembling a cloaca, but alternative methods are welcome. The color and size of these eggs are also not a required part of the question, but if you feel you can tackle those as well, have at it. 

Divide and Conquer The only chance the underclass has is to turn the upper class against each other and let them destroy themselves. The following plan would only work if the underclass has some exposure to the leaders of the upper class on TV or in real life, because it starts by promoting interest in the doings of the elite and making them look larger than life. The next step is to identify a number of upper class people that are narcissistic and vain. Think of Donald Trump as an excellent example of the type needed. The more they are disliked by the rest, the better. Then a number of positive attributes are assigned to each of those people. Things like "generous", "kind" and "trustworthy". These are then injected into public life, by members saying things like 

Create or stir up a threat to the kingdom Defeat said threat Marry the princess (or prince, if that is applicable) Arrange accidents for other heirs to the throne Initiate succession 

If you're not concerned with the aftermath of the initial attack, the answer is fairly simple: Electronics would all be shielded by then. In fact, the new smartphones and other portable electronics would probably be charged by induction loops leeching off the EMP. It should not have much effect on the environment, except possibly some migratory birds getting a little lost. 

Look at the Front Range of Colorado. Not a desert, but it gives you good parallels. If the mountains are RIGHT THERE, you have access to the water, vegetation, habitat for animals... traveling along the mountains on the desert side is easier, you can see for a very long way... so you have feasibility and a good reason to be there... harder to defend if invaded from the mountain side, but probably not to detrimental. Its seems practical and reasonable. 

It might be an interesting challenge, but a curious experiment... but even at the time, the south insisted the north didn't care about slavery, they were just using it to galvanize their people into action. Assuming slavery WASN'T as important as independence/taxes/commerce as they claimed there is a move they didn't pursue. The south could pre-emptively abolish slavery... sorta. They could replace it (as is the way of our species) with something that was nearly the same thing (a company store creating debt slavery, for instance). Their "property" becomes "free" but has little choice but to continue to work for basically nothing, while knocking the arguments of the north out from under them. It would be a lot harder to rally people to fight and die for interstate commerce regulation. Of course, it does NOTHING to correct the moral issues related to the conflict... in fact, it probably puts in place structures that would take much much longer to deconstruct... but it could stop the war itself. Todd... if he could use his skills to become important and valuable enough to the confederacy, he could eventually get the ears of those who could hear the logic and be led to make those decisions.