Yes, a twin planet impact would almost certainly end up with one bigger planet and one moon, BUT! You're better off focusing on making aliens that could survive that than focusing on the planetary physics of it all. An impact of that nature would screw up the atmospheric content, actual amount of atmosphere, gravitational pull, would make a dust cloud dense and long-lasting enough to screw over photosynthesis, and thus anything more complex than plants would almost certainly die if they didn't have access to climate control (atmosphere generation, food generation, gravity controls, etc). So you're either talking about a space-faring race who's going to have a really rough time, or tardigrades. 

It's really not the 'gold standard' in the historical sense if it's the minting that gives value, not the substance. Part of the reason why the historical gold standard worked was because while you could make counterfeit coins, there are foolproof and verifiable ways of someone auditing exactly how much actual wealth you had in this system, because gold was gold was gold. In an interplanetary market, you'd need a peasantry that didn't have access to molecular bombardment (or gold was low enough in value per ounce that X-to-gold schemes would be cost-prohibitive), and a government that was okay enough with social mobility that a peasant becoming suddenly noble-tier wealthy via an El Dorado asteroid wouldn't destroy the social hierarchy. An Emperor-type setting might make that difficult. 

The feline is (slowly) forced towards omnivory and/or out of the apex predator spot. Specifically, food that requires preparation or overcoming some passive barrier of some kind. If you can just get the nutrients from biting something, the big brains and dexterous hands won't develop. Look at scavengers like rats or raccoons. Bipedality becomes useful in addition to another mitigating factor. The grasses become too tall and thick, or the prey evolves some way to totally avoid detection from ground-level might point towards bipedality, but that bipedality might only need tiny T-rex arms. You'd need some reason to use those now-freed-from-walking digits. Complex social requirements? A longer onboarding process for young? Taking down prey suddenly requires eye-gouging ala Three Stooges? Tool use. Prey starts using burrows that require you to use a stick to get them out. Lean times has the felines start eating bugs like termites where obtaining them at a distance is the best way to avoid being bitten by the whole mound. Prey develops some armor that outdoes the felines' bite strength or teeth sharpness, requiring the use of a rock to break it open. 

Tourniquet. If you tie it tight enough, you will lose feeling in that limb. Is it safe? Certainly not. But it both avoids massive blood loss and allows you to ignore the injury until in safety. 

100% of known sapient life came from opportunistic omnivorous scavengers that could be considered invasive species, so you've got that going for you. Considering all wild goat species are mountain-dwellers (where quadripedal is king), it might be a wise move to evolve them from a domesticated breed so they'd have a better chance of bipedality. 

We are currently able to distinguish 'weird' stuff outside of our planet by the wavelengths it emits/reflects back to earth. If the satellite was small, accepted passive input from something/somethings on the ground instead of actively sending radiation/waves to the Earth, and did a tight-beam sendoff of its information in the direction of space, it would be damn hard to spot. 

In this time period, ice is likely going to be popular with the very rich for its rarity and its ability to preserve delicate foods so they can be eaten out of season, especially if wizards are rare enough that someone's only going to be able to buy a few dozen ice barrels at a time and if there aren't any nearby tall mountains for easily-accessible snow. Back in Roman times, the super-rich would hire fast chariots to speed the asparagus harvest (early Spring) from the Tiber river high into the Alps so that the snows would preserve the asparagus until the feast of Epicurious in Fall, and they'd pay insane amounts for the service. 

Immediately after the apocalypse, a call went out for able-bodied adults in what was considered a noble death sentence at the time: go out into the radioactive wastes and begin to neutralize the fallout. Those that volunteered were provided radsuits, the means to repair said radsuits indefinitely, and lumbering zamboni-like machines that tilled the top six inches of soil under the ground so as to effectively bury the radioactive dust that had settled, then applied a thin layer of bacteria-synthesized Prussian Blue to the turned earth to serve as both a marker of 'neutralized' ground and to provide protection against caesium created by uranium-235. Two hundred years later, this group still exists in the wastelands, having multiplied and flourished in their nomadic journeys. They have essentially become a cargo cult, still fulfilling their purpose in the 'blue zone' and essentially elevating the lumbering cleaning machines (along with their self-sustaining bacteria tanks) into supernatural protectors while they await the return of those who gifted them these great earthmovers. I'm trying to think of a good, scientific reason to give them an odd physical trait that disallows easy reintegration into society. Originally, I hoped the Prussian blue was an effective skin dye, but I haven't yet figured out a way to pull that off without giving them major potassium deficiencies. They're likely a bit inbred by now, so my second thought was something akin to methemoglobinemia, the inherited disease that makes people's skin turn silvery. But combine that with the radiation they must have absorbed in their lifetimes, it strains credibility to say they managed to wander a radioactive zone for generations with a blood disease. Can you think of a good, easily-discernible physical difference this group might have that would help reinforce their isolation without resorting to Fallout-style ghouls/supermutants (overdone) or crippling diseases? I can come up with plenty of ideas story-wise, but I'm coming to you guys for science-based, rational consequences of the scenario I've set up. 

What does the 'bee' get from getting into an oyster but not eating it? What evolutionary advantage would a pearl-laden oyster have over a non-pearl-laden one? 

I'd look at body types that already have formed due to ice age conditions: Inuits/Inuvialuits for Asian stock, and Sami for European stock. They both came out fairly differently, depending on their main food source. Inuits survived on pinnipeds and cetaceans, and developed stockier frames and insulating fat to help better keep their core temperatures up. Sami depended on reindeer herding, and thus utilized a more lithe frame and compensated with furs. The only reasons facial features would play into any of this might be the nose, and the ability to better insulate against heat loss via breathing, but even that would be minor and probably just involve hairier nostrils. 

As others have mentioned, the basic food web needs to change. Felines pouncing on game don't really require hands so much as claws to hold and pin. Reasons this setup could require hands: 

Pearls form naturally at a rate significantly smaller than that of farms, so tweaking all those environmental factors will help, but not enough to get you to where you want to be. If you want something massive, you either need an insane number of oysters/mussels to begin with, or introduce an outside force, like an animal. On the animal front: if you've done a little research, you'll find that pearls are kind of like a pustule or cyst for the bivalve. Once the waterproof 'lips' of the bivalve are violated, it excretes mother-of-pearl to repair the damage. Cultured pearls are made from a little bit of shell and a little bit of mantle from a different bivalve deposited inside the host, for the same reasons we use titanium in human bodies: the body won't reject it, but it won't absorb it either. So you could imagine some sort of bee-like creature that gets something from violating the bivalve but not killing it, and then accidentally cross-pollinating genetic material from the last oyster he violated into the wound. This would make for a much, much higher percentage of pearl-hosting oysters. The problems to solve would then be: 

Your bigger problem is to come up with a scenario/setting where melee isn't even a consideration, but is able to become a consideration very quickly. Armormakers are going to protect against the threats they see as likely, and unless there's some onus against people being within melee range of each other or lack of appropriate melee armor material, they're going to give the n-n armor a backing to prevent melee stuff. Enough of the science is there to project that we will be able to produce a fluid that will effectively split and roll an impact around the torso. You just need the proper setting to allow that to be the only consideration. 

Clumping it into a massive bludgeoning instrument. Embed silicon crystals into the matrix, craft a belt of nanocellulose and invent a power sander. 

There's a simpler answer depending how often you need to pivot. If you only need to pivot when landing, positioning the air release valves on the sides of the inflatable would act like the oar example without the necessity of wind in your favor. Just release the left valve when going right and the left when going left. It's not going to be super-fast, but if you're landing, that's not likely a major concern. 

If you're transferring information on a medium that doesn't effectively limit packet loss, your message has to be repeated many, many times. This would either take forever, or require encoding individual parts of the liquid itself. The lowest-hanging fruit would be genetic encoding like DNA/RNA being placed in the medium to be 'drawn out', but this only slightly meshes with your theme. My favorite (but a bit more difficult) means of communication could come in the form of complex covalent bonds acting like kanji (characters standing for words) along with one or more cipher molecules used to arrange/structure the other molecules to make a cogent thought. So you might have a page molecule saying to look at paragraph molecule A, then paragraph molecule B, etc. And paragraph module A has reference to the order of kanji in the paragraph. Then you'd include every kanji in the document to be assembled. This would much better fit with the alchemy theme, but wouldn't allow for different messages in a short period of time or back-and-forth messages. It'd work best as a passive news system: Flood today's news in the pipes from 9-5, and then flush the pipes for a few hours so you can start again tomorrow. 

Does it rotate? If so, the trash would be more likely to pile up on the plane of rotation, which for an earthlike setup is the Tropics of Cancer to Capricorn. However, I think you need to think through the whole low orbit thing. If people were being at all careless in their dumping, there would quickly be a sheath of debris orbiting this planet such that it'd be difficult to land there, and it'd be constantly bombarded with impacts. This would be a tough place to live. 

This is actually a much more interesting question that it looks like on its face. So now we have two 'camps' warring against each other. Because of the apparent proportion of forest to desert, the immediate effect is going to be a drop off in the humidity levels of the remaining forest, as it lost its most humid portion. This is going to slow vegetation growth and mess with animal symbiosis something fierce. Likewise, the fact that the desert sands send hard rains flooding across its surface, and softer rains just sink deep in below where a tree could get it, it would take generations to build up enough tilth to sustain forest plants. So this sudden desert has a very good chance of messing up the existing forest. The answer? Eventually, this whole island is going to be savannah/grasslands. The forest animals are very likely to compete over suddenly scarce resources and die out, and those that are left are very likely to kill off most of the larger plants in a desperate attempt at survival. Grasses don't need complex ecosystems to maintain, and are likely to exist where the forest meets the ocean anyways. So slowly, the desert is colonized by grasses, and then the scraggly bits of what's left of the forest will be colonized too. 

I'd personally go with Damascus steel, especially if there's access to magic to bump up the heat. The main issue with straight-up crucible steel is the inconsistencies created from mixing materials with different melting points together and trying to engender proper homogeneity. If you can make that sucker hot enough, you can smooth out the 'bumps' enough to fold the steel and get something very Damascus-like. 

This article goes into a few types of molecules that can carry genes but aren't DNA/RNA. Digestion doesn't really intersect with the possession of DNA. We don't eat the DNA, we eat the base nutrients (nucleotides) that thing provides. That being said, what we eat can affect our DNA indirectly. If it's radioactive, we can absorb that radiation. If it has a crapload of sugar in it, the end result can be an insulin disorder, some of which are actually heritable in something close to a Lamarckian sense. 

You've got two forces at work here: Insular dwarfism vs Island gigantism. This balances out population numbers with available calories. So let's say the hard limit on resources means there can only be 100 plaid-tailed lemurs in the island at their current size. If there's evolutionary stress (limited resources, high predation), the tendency is towards smaller but more numerous. If there is little to no evolutionary stress, then size is no longer on the list of traits selected-for, so gigantism can occur in exchange for fewer members of the species. Strangely, smaller animals have a tendency to get bigger, while bigger animals tend to get smaller. Some theorize it's due to the fact that smaller species (like rodents) are able to self-regulate population sizes, whereas bigger ones tend to overstrip their ecosystems and crash towards extinction. 

My post-post apocalyptic society (200+ years after the fall) is extremely technologically stratified, with the haves hoarding near-future technology and the have-nots making do with pre-industrial and very limited industrial tech. Enough knowledge has been lost that the fundamental concepts behind high-tech have effectively been lost, and apprenticeships begin to form around the maintenance/repair of these artifacts. Any remnants of the information age are long gone. Enter: a trove of information similar to 4-chan, ie, a jumbled mess of political, technical, anarchic, meme-focused and borderline-edgelord content that often speaks in memetic 'code' and is not focused on teaching concepts at the tactile/applied level my people would be at (What qualities of corn would be best for ethanol? How do I repair/replace a semiconductor if I don't have scrap parts of this exact thing?). My question: What could people with conceptual knowledge of industrial stuff (how and why a basic engine works, simple machines) and only applied knowledge of post-industrial stuff (electric stuff needs a battery, a computer can't think without the chips inside it) ...do with the information they'd find on 4-chan (defining 4-chan as it currently exists in 2018 (not the rest of the internet) and unable to be added-to afterwards) to better their lot?