70% support and a country like America? "On January 20 at the swearing in we will retake our nation. March on Washington unarmed, our sheer numbers will prevent us from being stopped." Get the word out enough. Remember, even in China the government had a hard time finding troops willing to take up arms against their own population. With 70% support the police and military will not be able to stop sheer numbers--an awful lot of their members will be on your side. 

Almost 3 years and I find one that's been missed: Drop a device into the sun that will explode, causing a shock wave through the photosphere. The idea is runaway nuclear fusion--create an enormous flare that will fry the biosphere. I have seen an estimate that puts the energy needed within the range of h-bombs. Protecting it until it's deep enough would be a challenge, though! 

Stargate, biological version: Some alien made a synthetic lifeform. It's method of spreading it's seeds is a stargate. While it does make fruit it's contained within the plant, not available for eating. It grows a bunch of fruit (which is extremely long-lasting) and then builds a stargate around it. If it manages to complete the gate it's last act is to activate it. Unlike the TV show this stargate isn't controllable. All the mass drawn into the gate is flung to random locations but subject to energy balance requirements: 1) The air pressure at both ends of the gate must be similar. 2) The two locations must be at similar depths of the local gravity well. 3) The two locations must be at similar depths of the overall gravity well. Each object drawn in is flung to it's own random location, but "object" is loosely defined--a group of people holding onto each other solidly will be one object for this definition. Some cavemen from Earth were investigating a gate plant when the gate fired and were drawn through. (As the gate triggered they grabbed onto each other in fear, this caused them to be thrown to the same location.) They were in a bad way where they came from (game hunted out, bad weather), they arrived in a new land with good weather and no competition. (Remember, plants and animals can be drawn through also, the galaxy will be colonized by the same sort of life, it will mostly be edible.) Thus was born the legend of the gate plant transporting people to heaven. Over time this has been refined as they have learned how to prod a gate plant that is almost ready to fire. When conditions are bad groups sometimes seek out a gate plant as a method of escape. Note that while the energy balance rules ensure you arrive at a planet with an atmosphere they by no means guarantee it's habitable--most voyages actually result in a very quick death. Since there's no return nobody knows this, though, the legends only tell of the past which inherently is the jumps that worked. 

I must object to the problem requirements. Given the tech level I see no reason to require manual control of anything and every reason to think it's a bad idea. Given that, yes, it can be done. There are two important issues: Deorbit and reentry heating. First, deorbit: The posts above have attempted to deal with this with a gun type device which is problematic due to the barrel length. This is going at it backwards, a gun is absolutely the wrong answer. Don't push them off, pull them off: Your passenger is strapped into a ring which is then deployed outside (but still attached to) the station. When it's in position the passenger is ejected prograde at low velocity. They are still tethered by at least three cables, probably more for safety reasons. The passenger drifts forward as far as needed, the cables playing out as he goes. When he has reached the required distance they are wound back up quickly. Instead of a barrel that must withstand force in compression you have simple cables that only must withstand force in tension--much lighter, they can be much longer than the size of the station, a passenger can be deorbited from above ISS altitudes even. When the cables are fully rewound as the passenger zips through the departure point they disconnect, ready to be attached to the next passenger. Second, reentry: This is the harder one to deal with as the plunge through the fire is very, very hot. I would handle this by making a cheap dish of foamed material (refinery slag from lunar mining makes a likely candidate.) While such a dish isn't going to be as good a heat shield as NASA builds we aren't so weight-limited when dealing with stuff built in space. The shield isn't going to be reused, either, so it can be a simple ablative design rather than the fancy stuff NASA put on the Shuttle. During the trip through the fire the passenger is strapped to this dish to ensure their weight doesn't shift around. It extends enough around them to keep the center of mass ahead of the center of pressure so it's stable without flight controls. The back is covered by a thin layer of foamed material with a reflective layer on top--all you need to do is slow the entry of the heat, the shield is jettisoned before the heat bakes through. At the right point pyro charges (the only equipment on the shield!) release the passenger from the shield. You do this while there still is some horizontal velocity left so the spend shield diverges from the passenger and won't smack him on the head when his chutes deploy. 

Take a lesson from Iraq: Command detonated explosively formed projectiles. Since you're talking a higher level of sophistication than most of our opponents had over there it will be much easier. Put a camera on the charge so it can see exactly what's in front of it, the operator only pushes the button when he sees a mech in it's sights. It's extremely hard to defeat the plasma jet of an explosively formed projectile. Reactive armor works against man-portable missiles because their charges are very short range--the armor destroys the missile before the jet is fired. When you don't need to send it after it's target on a tail of fire you can build it bigger and longer ranged. 

Look at how the ovum develops: In addition to the ovum three additional bodies are produced with 23 chromosomes. These are all discarded and die. Extrapolation from lower animals suggests that 1 human child in a billion should be the result of such self-fertilization although no examples of this have ever been discovered. The result of such a fertilization is either a clone of the woman or what amounts to incest with herself--with the high genetic risk this entails. There are no Y chromosomes around, all the children are female. To get a purely female civilization: They suffer some major calamity. All the men are killed, the women are pushed to the brink of starvation. In their desperation they discover that a certain plant is actually edible, after things return to normal it is discovered that consumption of that plant greatly increases the rate of such self-fertilization. (Nobody else has discovered this because the plant is known to be poison--but it actually is only poisonous to men.) You get an all-female society that eat the plant in question when they want a child. This requires a plant with some very particular properties, it doesn't require technology. I think it fits what you're looking for. 

Something to keep in mind: Those long-working things in the stories are almost inevitably sealed away somewhere where they are shielded from the elements. Generally no water, almost always minimal temperature changes, no UV from the sun eating things. Very often the power source is gravity--a weight on a pulley doesn't lose power over time. 

Theraot went farther than is needed in order to accomplish this: You don't need government monitoring of all transactions. Instead, use something like Bitcoin but where all the currency units come from a central authority, there is no mining. If money is stolen from you you report the offending transaction and the relevant currency units go on a suspect list--anything on that list can't be spent. If the investigation upholds your report they go on a dead list--again, can't be spent but this is permanent. To guard against spending the money before the theft is noticed put a time delay into it--you can't spend money for period of time after obtaining it. (Note that banks will likely waive this for good customers like they let you use the money from a check you just deposited.) Note that such tracking schemes won't help with extortion or blackmail because the victim won't report it. 

It comes down to where he shoots and how the weapon is designed. If he can see the explosive core and shoots it it is no longer a nuclear bomb. It's hard to imagine a core that can still function correctly after taking a bullet. The whole point of all the complex engineering of the bomb is to perfectly symmetrically crush the core. What do you think will happen if you fire bullets into any reasonably soft piece of precision engineering?? If the bullet hits a detonator the result very well might set off the detonator and the shooter dies (but he dies anyway when the timer runs down) but again it's not a nuclear bomb. Now, if his target choice is bad we have some different options If the bullet tears through the electronics he may block the detonation signal, he may block the timer, he may block the proper distribution of the detonation signal (resulting in merely a conventional explosion) or he may set it off (full nuclear yield.) Finally, if he shoots it's power source it depends on how it's built and how much residual power might exist in capacitors. If the weapon was designed to salvage fuse it goes off (full yield), otherwise it depends on whether the capacitors still have enough charge when the timer runs to zero. Note that in all cases "conventional explosion" means the plutonium core is scattered about to some degree. I would not want to enter the area for a while without breathing gear or a very good dust mask but it's nowhere near as nasty as a dirty bomb. If the emergency crews know it's a failed nuke there should be no radiation casualties. My personal choice would be to put my first round into the core, upon seeing that it was torn up I would then aim for power sources--a single large capacitor if I saw one (my understanding of modern military weapons is that they are set off by dumping a very high current through a wire, this is more complex than a traditional blasting cap but basically immune to being set off by shock. Kill the capacitor and it's not going off), otherwise batteries. While you only specified one type of weapon the same basic reasoning applies to most any weapon the police or military might carry. Things with enough boom would no doubt cause a conventional detonation. The only things that wouldn't be of use are the subdual weapons police carry (taser, mace etc.) Hollywood almost always gets this very wrong, the only way the bad guys can ensure the bomb can't be defused by smashing it is by denying access to the bomb with something that will set it off very quickly if breached. This will make for a pretty big package as you have to set it off before the jet of a large shaped charge can destroy the core--and said jet is moving at NASA-type velocity. 

I wouldn't rule out plagues. Yes, no plague has ever been that catastrophic but that doesn't mean it's not possible. While no such thing could occur naturally (there's nothing close in nature) it could still be an accidental release of a bioweapon while it's developers are still working on a vaccine. Think of a bug that doesn't kill in the usual way but instead causes paranoid schizophrenia and overdrives the heart. You have patients that resist treatment and flee (bringing the bug with them!) but which aren't so ill as to be incapacitated. They eventually die of a vascular rupture somewhere. It would also have to be something that spreads incredibly well. Even more destructive would be a pathogen that drives it's victims to incredibly destructive acts. (Say, it leaves them believing everyone around is an enemy and that they only have a day or two to live anyway.) If you have a whole bunch of people trying to kill as many as possible you'll see a lot of death and a lot of destruction of technology. The two-man safeties on nukes mean no nuclear war (if everyone's an enemy they certainly won't be able to work with them to launch a nuke) but expect a lot of conventional weapons to be used and an awful lot of non-weapons. (Think of tens of thousands of Bophals. There will be a lot of engineers who understand how to create catastrophe from the systems they normally keep safe.) As for other approaches there have been multiple mentions of impact events. However, a sufficiently large body can be deadly without it being an impact event. A neutron star or black hole could come traipsing through the solar system with very little warning. Imagine something coming in at a high angle to the ecliptic, for a neutron star the jets are aimed far from the Earth and for a black hole it can't have much of any matter along with it. A sufficiently near miss will do very bad things, the closer the pass the worse the Earth fares, for a very close pass the rubble that's left from passing within the intruder's Roche limit is ejected from the solar system. A nearby supernova does not meet the requirements--there's nothing close enough that would fry us that badly that fast. Blowing off the ozone layer won't get the requisite kill. 

I would add one more criteria: Does not regard human-sized objects as food. Thus we can domesticate the housecat (although it actually seems like they self-domesticated) but not the lion or tiger. 

China, before the government imposes teaching everyone Mandarin. There are many local dialects, they are not mutually intelligible. The words and grammar are identical, though--I would not call them separate languages. People who had to deal with people outside their own domain would learn other dialects, the average man would not. 

I must disagree with Joe Bloggs. While at first glance his argument is right there's a problem with it: It is obvious that kryptonite-phobe can somehow apply force to a whole object rather than just at the point of contact. There are two oft-repeated examples of this at work: 1) The manipulation of objects that by no stretch of the imagination could hold together given how they are lifted. 2) The acceleration of objects at crushing g levels, yet they are unharmed. To a lesser degree we even see this based on his outfit. There are occasions where he has moved at accelerations that would have overcome any possible chemical bond holding his attire together--yet he has never been stripped naked even when chasing c. And to take it farther he has been known to move at velocities that would be utterly lethal to nearby observers, yet they are unharmed. Thus I conclude that his flight is actually in some fashion a warp drive and that he can extend his warp field to surround anything he's touching. Thus I can conclude he can land the asteroid. However, the problem isn't over yet. I suspect the asteroid does not have the strength to avoid collapsing under it's own weight. I am not going to bother to figure this out, though, because there's no doubt the ground underneath does not have the strength to support it. It is much denser than rock, this is the equivalent of a mountain 43km high. That is far beyond the tallest possible mountain--it sinks. Even when it has sunk to it's own depth it's still the equivalent of a 29km mountain--it doesn't stop. The asteroid sinks into the Earth and doesn't stop until it reaches the inner core. Figuring out the rate at which it sinks is too far beyond my knowledge, I'm not even going to attempt it. 

I don't think it's a big problem. With current technology we have only one way of producing a gamma ray beam coherent enough to be of any value as a weapon: A bomb-pumped laser. The laser is destroyed in the process and it's not a shipboard weapon at all--the only way you can use it is to eject the whole device into space and put either a lot of distance or a pretty substantial shield between you and it. If you can put a substantial shield in the way then your target can do the same thing. While you could get some radiation through it wouldn't be militarily useful. Thus you are limited to shielding yourself with distance. Oops--that means you just sent a delicate and expensive device (you need a very accurate seeker and pointer on board) out into space where your opponent can pick it off with an ordinary laser before it's gotten far enough away to safely detonate. Note that such a scheme has been proposed for ballistic missile defense but there's no way it passes the practicality test even though the targets have no ability to shoot back. Thus we are left with the reality that you have some way of manipulating gamma radiation. If you can manipulate it why can't your target? The same technology should be able to construct a reasonably effective deflector. (Note that the same issue applies regardless of frequency. It's awfully hard to punch a laser through a mirror made of the same material as the mirrors in your own laser at any realistic combat range. This does not apply within atmosphere, though--the atmosphere will damage your excellent mirror.)