Climate Change and Natural Disasters A strong factor in the dissolution of states, which can be observed all across history, is environmental change and disasters. A few caveats: 

Land that had previously been on the borders of the desert, and had thus been cultivatable, was now desert, and land that had previously been behind that frontier now was the frontier, and was thus of a lower quality. There was therefore less land from farming and pasture. These 'frontier' regions had previously served as a useful buffer between desert peoples and the agrarian heartlands of the empire. As the desert encroached into these agriculturally-productive territories, so did the reach of those who dwelled within it, leaving imperial territory more exposed to raids, thus rendering its borders less secure and its soldiers far busier, and also reducing the productive capacities of the farmlands that would play host to such raids and skirmishes. 

I can't think of any examples in which environmental factors have brought about the direct and extremely rapid demise of a state (although local polities have certainly been annihilated by sudden and extremely violent environmental disasters, e.g. Herculaneum and Pompeii were famously wiped-out by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79AD), as their role tends to feed into historical dynamics in subtle and complicated ways. This means that environmental accounts of historical change rarely have direct or immediate impact in the same way that military activity might. Whereas a sovereign territory could be invaded, its cities razed and its governmental and administrative structures dissolved inside of a month, in which case military activity is the obvious explanation of events, the effects of environmental change and disasters will not be so directly apparent when considered in relation to geographical constructs the size of empires and nations. Instead, it is more likely that the effects of slow-burning environmental change will accumulate until a tipping-point is reached, at which the prevalent arrangements of a state-entity may no longer be economically tenable. This may manifest itself as political and social unrest, migration, or even military annexation of surrounding territories, all of which may bring about the end of a state's political or administrative existence, but it has rarely (ever?) been the case that "environmental disaster X occurred, the Empire of Y collapsed as a direct consequence." Closely related to the fact that environmental factors rarely have direct consequences is that these factors are rarely immediate. Here I note that your question related to state-entities "dissolving", the definition of which I take to include the relatively slow demise of a state. This could include scenarios of "deaths by a thousand needles", as well as the gradual detriment of a state's economic viability, leading to a consequent reduction in military clout. Similarly to my first point, it has perhaps never been the case that on day 1 there was state X, environmental catastrophe Y occurred on day 2, and on day 3 X was no longer extant. While you're asking for historical reasons for the dissolution of states distinct from military action, I'd argue that military action has often been driven by other factors, and one such factor could be environmental change. Such is the glorious flux of history — change can seldom be taxonomised, and designations such as 'military', 'political', 'economic' are rarely satisfactory summaries of change. Humanity is complex; likewise are its motivations. 

So, yes Trotsky was detained by British authorities in Halifax, NS, in 1917. He and his family were on their way there from New York, NY, and it was not until the Russian government begrudgingly demanded the British release Trotsky that he was released. 

I know that "The Great Game" was originally concerned with Russian-British competition in Central Asia, but my question is was this competition and British fear founded on anything? My understanding of Russian history at this point leads me to believe that the Tsarist empire was not in a position to try and undertake such a massive task. Perhaps I am mistaken about this, but I would like to see evidence supporting, or disproving, the British concerns. 

Interestingly, the Prohibition Amendment invalidated all state and local regulations that dealt with prohibition because the Constitution became the supreme law in this area, and granted police power to the feds to enforce the amendment. For Further Reading See: 

So, with neither domesticable animals nor usable crops, the hunter-gatherer cultures in the Americas did not have the food surpluses that are a prerequisite for specialised crafts, particularly metallurgy. (Source: All of this is from my memory of the book, rather than looking up references. Errors are almost certainly mine, not those of Jared Diamond. You should, thus, all read the book, because it's very good, as well as probably more accurate than my summary.) 

Eric Hobsbawm's The Age of Empire: 1875–1914, ISBN 0-521-43773-3 is probably the best reference for this period, I would suggest. Whilst it's part of a trilogy about the long 19th century (The Age of Revolution: Europe 1789–1848 and The Age of Capital: 1848–1875 preceding it and fourth book, The Age of Extremes: The Short Twentieth Century, 1914–1991 completing the set), it's a particularly good set. But it's relatively weak on the pre-19th century colonialism, as that's not the trilogy's focus. I believe Hugh Thomas's trilogy (1, 2, 3) is meant to be one of the best works on the Spanish Empire. Thomas Pakenham's The Scramble For Africa is one of the definitive works on that set of events. I'm probably missing something really obvious, but I can't think of a more comprehensive guide to the wider period you're looking at, I'm afraid. I hope this helps nonetheless. Edit: Doing some reading on Wikipedia, it struck me that this might be a book that would suit you well: Anthony Pagden (2003). Peoples and Empires: A Short History of European Migration, Exploration, and Conquest, from Greece to the Present. Modern Library. ISBN 0-8129-6761-5. 

However, there is no cite for this and I can't seem to find definitive information. What group, or individual, put forward this as the boundary between Europe and Asia? I know that this boundary has changed a lot historically so I'm curious as to the most current boundary, assuming Wikipedia is correct. 

Just to expand on MichaelF's answer, the House began to debate the increasing size of Congress after the 1910 census. There was worry that the House was becoming unwieldy, but as Representative Edgar Crumpacker stated: 

The important point here is that the federal government can pass regulations related to federal elected offices, and the state governments can control elections via the "Times, Places and Manner". However, the federal government has much more limited power with respect to the election of state officials. Since your question is limited to primary elections I won't go into how the federal government can get involved via your voting rights, etc. For further reading see 91 Corpus Juris Secundum United States § 18 It's not just the states that have the power though, the actual elected officials have power as well. Art. 1, Section 5, of the Constitution states in relevant part: 

I've hopefully done a reasonable job of explaining that, so now for some examples: The Bronze Age Collapse It has been speculated that environmental change was a driver behind the massive migration that took place during the Bronze Age Collapse, an upheaval in population movements that has in turn been advanced as a cause of the widespread violence and destruction that saw a great many established states disappear from the historical record (indeed it seems that the historical record itself disappeared, a potent indicator of the collapse of civilisation). The Bronze Age Collapse is a massive and complicated phenomenon ('event' doesn't really seem to be an appropriate designator), with myriad forces at play in its unfolding, but environmental factors which, it is speculated, have been influential include famine in Anatolia, drought and natural disasters. The decline of Roman agrarian holdings There is a thread of historical enquiry arguing that the relative decline in quality of Roman farming and pastural territory had a role to play in the gradual weakening of the empire, particularly in the Byzantine periods. The hypothesis runs that in the empire's north African territories and, I believe, in Syria, either climate change or over-farming, or perhaps both, actually caused the desert to extend into what had previously been productive agricultural land. The 'bread basket' was being devoured by the desert. This was detrimental in two ways: 

I'm afraid I know nothing about which pre-Columbian cultures had any metalworking, but I can answer why metallurgy was, in 1492, very rare in the Americas but widespread in Eurasia. Paraphrasing liberally from Guns, Germs and Steel, which I happen to be reading at the moment, Native American peoples were largely hunter-gatherers. Metalworking, like any specialised trade, is very unlikely for hunter-gatherer cultures, as having the time for individuals to develop craft specialisms requires a food surplus that can usually only be generated from agriculture, plus hunter-gatherer cultures are often nomadic, which rules out heavy metalworking equipment. The reason why Native American peoples were hunter-gatherers is the premise of the bulk of the book. To oversimplify, there were two main factors: 

Almost all the large mammals died out from the Americas after the last Ice Age, meaning there were no domesticable animals (to pull ploughs and provide transport) until the arrival of horses with the Europeans. At the same time, there were much fewer useful seed-plants (with high protein content, as well as digestible carbohydrates) in the Americas, compared with all the grasses from the Near East. (As well as a lack of domesticable animals impacting on the productivity of farmland, it is thought that this also led to a greater preponderence of disease in Eurasia (plague, smallpox, measles etc), meaning that we were more likely to have inherent immunity, whereas Eurasian diseases could ― and did ― decimate the aboriginal inhabitants of the Americas.) Eurasia is longer on an east–west axis, whereas the Americas (and sub-Saharan Africa) are longer north–south. The east–west axis means that animals and plants can spread to areas of similar latitude (and, thus, of similar climate). The deserts and rainforests in the Americas, and the narrowness of the isthmus at Panama mean that domestication of plants and animals took an exceptionally long time to travel to other parts of the continent. 

Please note: I do not have a nice source providing a summary of this process and an insight into its relative weight in comparison to other causes of the Roman and Byzantine Empire's (long) decline. If anybody could provide some useful links, I'd be very grateful! The Maya Collapse This is not an area of history that I know anything about, but so far as I understand things, many of the theories explaining the mysterious and dramatic collapse of the Mayan empire centre around changes in climate, soil exhaustion and drought. Indeed, similar reasons have been posited for the dissolution of other previously concentrated societies in South America, for example the Lambayeque. Addendum For me personally, environment (i.e. material context) is the bedrock of all macroscopic history, and humanity's shifting relationship with that environment, via the means of technology, is the locus of change. While many may not share my Marxist theoretical leanings, it is difficult to argue against the relative importance of environmental change and disasters as an agent for historical change, and included are the rise and fall of states. After all, there can be no society when there is nothing to eat.