Although i can see the comfort side of their design i feel like they have created a solution to a problem that wasn't a very big one. With that said i do feel like spinning grips could be potentially dangerous in the "perfect storm" sort of circumstance, especially with it in mind that if they can spin they could potentially slip off as well if your really yanking on them in the turns... However, under normal everyday commuter and similar conditions I don't think it is something to stress about unless they are loose to the point of spinning freely. Lock ons are proven to work, as is using hairspray between the grips and bars for a little extra grip. 

You should be perfectly fine, the 622 is the ERD [effective rim diameter] in mm. The other number is the inner width of the rim. What this effects is the range of tire the rim will hold. So your rear wheel will be slightly thinner, which is kinda strange but not that big of a deal. You can probably fit a 1.95" (700x50) tire on there without any issues but i would not try and go any wider than that. If your using 700x35 or something similar you should be just fine. Make sure to check the axle spacing though, you can measure the axle of the replacement you have and then measure the rear dropouts. If its a steel frame and they do not match you should be able to space the frame a little with no issues. If its an aluminum frame make sure the wheel is the correct axle length. You can't space aluminum. So yes! You can use that size rim with no issues assuming it is the same axle spacing. As always if your change to a larger tire size make sure your frame has clearance but it sounds like what your doing is pretty straight forward. 

Some sealant seepage is normal once the tire is on the rim, the only real way to do it without pushing it through the valve is to pour it directly into the tire. I like to pour a tiny bit and then roll the tire in your hands spreading a thin layer around the surface of the tire. Just a weird personal thing i do, not necessary really. Then install one bead to the rim, install the other bead leaving a small space unset, a small funnel will help pour the remaining specified amount into the opening. Seat the bead and then hit it with an air compressor (if available) and spin it one good time, bounce it on the ground, spin it again and your good to go. It would be worth saving for some tubeless valves in the future that have removable valve cores as the process is a lot easier and can be done without messing with the tire seating. Especially if you use a sealant that comes with one of the easy fill tubes such as Orange Seal. 

from Chain Reaction Or Origin 8 also offers decent affordable pads such as these that are intended for wet weather use, but they are a static pad rather than an insert: 

If your doing this sort of activity I would NOT look at cycling related, or "sports" GPS devices. Your shopping for something that could potentially save your life. You won't need many of the functions of a cycling computer on a ski trek. You may also check out "The Great Outdoors" stack and search through there. In my humble opinion two key factors for your application would be battery life [the biggest factor], or the ability to change or charge the battery, and Durability, considering you will be using it for Ski treks in addition to bike treks, your going to want something the elements won't bother, cold, wet, sand, mud etc. I would look at one that is waterproof for sure. Easy to use with gloves on would be a definite plus, as is the size and weight, but the latter shouldn't be a big issue. I would also read a lot of reviews online once you narrow it down to a brand or style you like. You may also think about looking at one that is usb rechargeable and a good quality power bank or two depending on battery type and life. 

But it also says that different states and municipalities may rule differently on it. On a personal level, i think that drivers should yield all the same if there is a person in the crosswalk, although i realize this doesn't happen because people are rude and impatient. There are many instances where even standing in a crosswalk does not garnish a stop by oncoming traffic even though it is the law. 

We can't recommend a specific tire, also there are very similar questions already on this site but i will do my best to answer your questions. First: it is indeed inches, although not all tire are measured that way, it is rather common for MTB tires to be listed as such. Other tires, say road tires are listed in a millimeter* sizing such as 700 x 40* Secondly: Clearance measurement will be inside the fork/frame triangle, both on the side and the top near the crown of the fork, and between the stays on the rear. It's hard to say from the image but it looks like 2.25" tires would be doable but not much larger, one issue to keep in mind is that if the tire is extremely close to the fork but doesn't rub, it may do so under a big hit or heavy load. Third: The size limit is decided by two things, inner rim width and frame clearance. It is likely that 2.25" would be acceptable as a 2.1" tire is compatible with inner rim widths from 19 to about 28mm widths. 2.25" falls very near to this, and i would imagine the rims that came on that bike are right around 19mm inner width. So i wouldn't go any larger than a 2.25" i think it would likely work, but cant tell you for sure without seeing more or knowing more. Tire choice should be based on you budget, and the type of conditions you most often ride in, whether it be on a trail or tarmac. I tried to keep this answer short, but their are a lot of more in depth explanations available if you search the site. Hope this helps 

Rotors are pretty much across the board compatible, so yes you would be fine using a Sram rotor with Shimano calipers. Running a smaller rear caliper is also pretty common. Be sure to follow the proper burn in procedure when you do set up the new rotors and pads though. 

The 24" Traditional trikes use the 19" support bar. The 23" versions are for aftermarket longer seat posts. So if that is the original seat post, and your mother is not extremely tall, then you need the 19". The 23" comes into play for taller riders so their knees are not smacking their chin and requires the use of a longer seat post than what comes with the trike. 

I work for a distributor that sells several brands of winter studded tires and everyone of them comes with this warning, this particular one is from Schwalbe 

My experience when a rim is advertised with an inches width [Rather than an internal diameter in MM] it's much more of a general statement. Chances are that you will be able to use the exact same tire you used before. Generally a 1.75" tire fits just fine on rims with internal widths of 17mm to 26mm with out any real hazard. If you go outside of that range there is a higher chance of burping the tire, having a blowout, or popping a bead on hard turning. A 2.00" tire will safely fit on a 19mm to 28mm internal width. So if the inner width of your new rim falls between 19 and 26mm you can use the exact same tire you had previously. If the internal width is 17 or 18mm then i would consider a slightly narrower tire such as the 1.75" or a 1.95" With that said i would check to see if they list an internal rim width on the site your looking at, this will be an indicator as to what sizes of tire it will work best with. Having a more narrow tire on the front however is neither uncommon nor problematic. 

To further what Zenbike touched on, park tool makes a harness that turns several of their tool boxes into back packs. They work with the BX-1/2 and their travel and event kits. Tool rolls could be easilt attached with some creativity and a couple carbiners as well. As far as losing things, do you own a magnetic work tray? I find them extremely handy, i use them working on my car as well. 

You could take the tire off and measure the inner and outer widths as well as the side profile and whether or not they are double wall and compare. If it all matches my bet is they are Mavic A119s. Which is a decent beginner set but nothing amazing. 

I have also seen one or two that were described as axle mount but do not know much about them, although that sounds a little sketchy to me. I will also add that most "serious" cyclists tend to remove kickstand if the bike comes with them as they are rarely used and add extra weigh, in addition to being prone to coming loose and or snagging on road/trail debris. 

Yes, stick to it and keep doing it, each time will get you that much closer to your goal. It is very possible, start slow and stay dedicated. 

This era of bicycle is especially hard to pin, it could be a Elgin, Hawthorne/Wards, Phillips, an Iver Johnson or many others that were making similar bikes. Do the pedals have any words on them embossed in the plastic? If i had to guess i would agree that it is a Pre-WWII as other have said probably around mid to late 30's. Many frames back then had the dual top tubes however many had a bend in the upper one and a "gas tank" in between them. I assume there is not head badge or any other kind of markings? If original the hub and components may lend some information but it is difficult to say from this era. The saddle was likely a dual rear spring leather "brooks" style saddle that looked something like the one seen on this Iver Johnson: 

There are a few questions to ask yourself. 90% of the time what sort of riding are you doing? Hike-a-bike where you'll repeatedly walk your bike up a hill and ride down, do you commute by bicycle, etc. If you want to use it solely for riding down hills and hucking off jumps and nothing else then maybe get a downhill rig. If you do any other form of riding at all don't get a downhill specific design. Their made to be ski lifted up mountains and then ridden down, that's about it. From what i read though it sounds like an all mountain or all around trail bike would be ideal for you, something you can use the lockout's on the suspension to get around. Trying to ride up large steep hills on a downhill bike is pretty horrible and tiresome. You also loose a lot of work in the bob of the suspension if you're just tooling around town. A good quality trail bike with 120-140mm suspension with lockout sounds like it would be right up your alley as far as the type of riding you're doing. The most important part of the suspension system is your body after all. But with 120-140mm of suspension that should be plenty to soak up what your doing but still be usable in other aspects and styles of riding as well. 

As mikes indicated, the chemicals in your top coat reactivated your primer coat, much like if you were to write something in sharpie, it is dry to the touch, but if you were to wipe alcohol over it it would smear. I use aerosol cans for a lot of different types of painting, and unfortunately drips are often impossible to remove without a lot of sanding or starting over. The best method is to avoid them in the first place with good technique. I realize this sounds a bit arrogant but correcting them often leads to more issue and the clear coat not laying smooth. You can wait for them to dry, sand the entire area or tube smooth and start over. Don't only sand the area of the drip or you will get an uneven surface. As they say in the autobody world, paint is 90% prep and 10% skill. When using rattle cans it also helps to let the cans sit in warm/hot water for several minutes before use. This allows the internal temp to rise and allows the paint to atomize more efficiently. You may also find "artists" paints used for graffiti murals don't drip as easily and they are very heavily pigmented and a bit thicker paint. Brands as an example would be, Belton Molotow, Montana, Loop, and Flame amongst others. Also when sanding large areas or tubes, you should not hand sand as your fingers push at different pressures making the sanding stroke uneven, this can be remedied by using an electric sander, block or something similar, ive also found for round tubes a thick cloth or towel behind the strip of sand paper works well for pulling around a circular shape, the cloth helps prevent the sandpaper from tearing and gives nice even pressure. Good Luck! 

However after checking Swissstop's site for their yellow carbon compound pads, there was no mention anywhere of them also being compatible with alloy rims. I would also tend to think the specific compounds like differ quite a bit and something that stops quick and quiet on carbon or basalt brake tracks would not have the same attributes when used on alloy. Has anyone ever heard or seen such a thing?