"insight" typically is a short-hand way of saying "insight into the true nature of Reality" or "insight into the true nature of our situation" So if insight (by meditating on selflessness, for example) leads one to see definitively, directly, and intuitively that there is no separate self, then the aims of the many and the aims of the nominal "individual" are seen as overlapping to say the least. So what's the real condition? In a sentence, all sentient beings want happiness / freedom from suffering. They don't wish to suffer, they wish to be happy. Insight can lead to an experiential understanding of this, which is where insight into selflessness of all dharmas yields its fruit so-to-speak. Selflessness can be demonstrated by various shapes of reasoning. The computer monitor you see is not really "a computer monitor" because it's made of many separate parts. Each part is itself not a computer monitor, you have the shell, the screen, the stand, the cable. The shell is not a monitor, the stand is not a monitor, etc. So where is the monitor? Similarly, we can apply this clear and logical reasoning to a separate, independent, lasting self and see that truly no phenomenon has self-ity. Some might jump to the conclusion and say "well then everything is one!" but that is also excess talk. One is a word that comes up in dependence on the concept of Many and, therefore as dependent upon each other, neither one exists nor not-exists in the middle free of extremes. The logical part must always be supported by and footed in the understanding that we don't want to suffer. From the largest man to the smallest insect, from the whales to the birds, all beings are day-and-night avoiding pain (or perceived pain) and working toward happiness (or the skewed cultural reinforcement of what happiness should look like). Insight into the situation gives us compassion, which is a fundamental aspect of clarity. Much like a person watching the inner workings of a clock, when we see the cyclic functioning of samsara, we feel for the beings who are trapped in unwholesome cycles. Furthermore, the only separation between us and other beings is really just our karmic histories/trajectories. Had we accomplished the same deeds and thoughts as other beings we would be on their exact paths, and thus knowing that we could just as easily be in switched places with others is another key element in understanding selflessness, which in turn gives the incipient awareness of true compassion. Compassion (yearning for and acting for the end of all beings' sufferings) and Wisdom (that realizes emptiness) are what makes a Buddha. 

They are called Brahmaviharas which translates roughly to "divine fields of becoming" or "godly dwellings" Hindrances and afflictions are overcome by wise effort. 

I think if you have enough contact with reality to be able to post on here, you have everything necessary to develop insight into the true nature of reality. By having faith in the teachings and meditating on the four dharma seals, there is no doubt you can benefit yourself and others greatly in this life you have. Don't squander your human birth -- it is precious and rare to obtain. Even with impairments, you still have a capacity infinitely more potent than that of an animal. 

It's really important to do wise and healthy things even if they take a bit of effort to get the ball rolling. Very fortunately, we can use habit to overcome our habits, which is something very beautiful. Personally, on days when I do not formally sit I cultivate many aspirations and cast the thought (joyously) "How good it would be to sit and meditate, to cultivate wisdom and insight, to perfect samadhi." Meditation is not the only branch of the Eightfold path as was historically presented by Shakyamuni Buddha, so keeping all the folds in balance will help with your meditation, and vice versa. The purpose of meditation is to uncover these enlightened qualities that are within us all. On a mundane, physical level meditation strengthens the density of the cortical structure of the brain. Please read about the methods of calm abiding, insight, and the altruistic motivation, because knowing what those are can really help nudge our patterned-ways into open ways. In general, reflecting on the many benefits and really making a strong wish to spend more time and regular time meditating will be great. It has been taught that beings should seek enlightenment like trying to put out a fire on their heads. It's true! Based on how well we can see the value of our present condition (!) and how well we understand what we can accomplish through practice, the more clear it will be the need for meditation in our daily life, until the blurry edge between formal and off-the-cushion becomes such a natural and melodious flow that we will wonder why we had not been doing it this way the whole time. 

There is a book called Conscious Dreaming that has many really pro tips on successful dream journaling. Here is a small list of tips, some from that book and some from my own experience. 

I shall try and state in a useful metaphor these key insights. I like to imagine a wheel and at the center of the wheel are some basic operations like multiplication, addition, subtraction. However, it could be anything. We are basically trying to figure out all the infinite possible combinations of our basic fundamental rules and then see if we can make this infinite variety of conclusions both internally consistent and completely exhaustive of every possible outcome. This is like trying to build a house with some basic pieces: a roof, a chimney, a floor, a basement, a fridge, a garage, a kitchen. Now say you try every combination of possibilities such that the fridge ends up on top of the place and the roof ends up on the ground. This is us trying to make all the exhaustive combinations possible, but in doing so we contradict the terms we have used: fridge is now roof and roof is now floor. In short: if we tried to make our system demonstrably "complete" then we would invariably end up with a plethora of contradictions. That is, we could say 1 = 1 and 2 = 2 but once we start saying 2 = 1 and 1 = 2 to get "completeness" then we have contradiction (non-consistency) Likewise, if we want to have consistency (1 = 1 and 2 = 2 and 5 = 5 and 4-3 = 1) we cannot have completeness guaranteed, because we omit terms and therefore don't know if there is a true term we have not yet discovered. So the basic idea of Gödel's incompleteness and completeness theorems are that mathematics cannot be both consistent (or coherent) and complete which means that mathematics, is in fact, empty. Any postulate is empty of its own being because it is necessarily dependent on other terms to relatively define its value/position/significance. Any postulate is also empty of an absolutely true nature because there is no way to have absolutely true consistency, for that would require completeness, and Gödel showed that you can only have one or the other, like a scrambled egg or an unbroken egg, you cannot have both unless you sacrifice consistency (the egg is both unbroken and scrambled?) or completeness (just one or the other). So in short, all mathematical systems must abide as either incomplete or inconsistent which is [another reason] why mathematics in itself is not graspable and not inherent. This, however, is a long way to arrive at the basic truth that all phenomena are empty of their own being (they have inter-being as Thich Naht Hanh says). 

Trying to find a good link to what is commonly rendered as The Four Mindful Establishments There are details in the Sattipathana Sutra as well as in other sources. Here is a useful passage from a pdf found via search: 

Autopositivity is indeed a great skill, virtue, accomplishment, and in its own way a paradise. With constant watchfulness and training in the Four Immeasurables (the four Divine Abodes) ones natural and spontaneously occurring thoughts can be patterned and trained to be of a purely helpful and nonharmful nature. Essentially we are developing the skill of choosing positive conscious states and being patient with nonpositive states. Anyway, as mentioned above, the four immeasurables are worthy of your immediate attention and application. 

Please read the Anupada Sutra $URL$ From what I have gathered over the years, before the lion of the Shakya clan (Buddha Shakyamuni) was enlightened, he had found teachers to teach him various methods and practices, and he would master all of them. He found that his most advanced teacher of the period taught him all the way to the state of neither perception nor non-perception which he figured out to be "pretty cool but really only puts the cosmos matrix on pause and is not taking me all the way to liberation" So I think if you go through the jhanas, those were basically the states he was able to master, and if you can practice them (and use them as a ladder) you can eventually tap into the Sublime Holy state of Emptiness, which transcends all the jhanas. Blessings and stillness be with you 

First off, you have to realize selflessness. Selflessness is the entry-way to great understanding, and it is what sets us free from birth in the lower realms. Consider that your name or your label, whatever you could connect as an "identity" no longer points to You. Then, one can be patient. There is a lot of depth to the story: the good qualities of patience are amazing. The essential truth, as I have learned from writings by Tai Situ Rinpoche, are that circumstances arise based on karmic fruition and so being able to be patient makes what would otherwise be a recurring fruition into and empty husk. It's almost like a bee that would be stinging you forever says "hey, if I sting you just this once, the causes for me to sting you again cannot arise if you maintain your patience with the situation" However, patience is not simply waiting or stewing. It is an openness, an acceptance that is dynamic. Something that lets many aspects breathe. All is transitioning and when we command identity, we are freezing flowing water. Thus, depersonalize who is being attacked when you feel attacked. Then, know that the situation itself is transformation. The acceptance of what is as a clear recurrence-representation of reality is what lets the future fruitioning agent expire into an empty husk. Rejoice, for patience is what lets us see that we learn patience with ourselves when we can admire the expression of nature through other peoples' experience. There is sometimes scrubbing that must happen in order to clear up stains, in general consider such situations as valuable and see them as enlightened. Then, you can reap the benefits of having being patient fully. Adjust your intentions (for the limitless benefit of the innumerable sentient beings in the six realms) and take plenty of time to reach stability in meditative practice. True natural balance comes from true natural harmony. When we see life as teaching, impermanence as teacher, transition as change, we can finally begin to relax into the space that accommodates all life's situations. From the expanse of creativity and openness, one can resign the normal atmosphere of control and extension, and be attuned with what is simply manifesting. 

In my limited and paltry understanding, the mano-vijnana or the "sixth sense according to the Buddha" is [just] another sense-consciousness linked with a sense-gate. That sense-gate is gateless. Just like all your senses. The gateless gate. Streams. Mind is the hub of these six streams -- the hub of a wheel is Mind and the six spokes are the different sense-consciousnesses. All sense-consciousnesses can become "suspended" in penetrative insight and samadhi. Your sense-consciousnesses get suspended when you sneeze or when you have an orgasm. Even the "thinking" sense consciousness. I hope that helps. Anyway, these words, upon your realizing their meaning, will not be an accurate reflection of your understanding (they do not accord with the Ultimate truth) but perhaps they may be helpful in getting you closer to a breakthrough.