Would you invest the same amount of time if it was completely anonymous? If someone would downvote your answer, how would you feel? Would it make a difference whether your answer is downvoted with your name in in the answer, or completely anonymous. If you could choose to add your name or signature to it, would you care? If you had to choose up front, with your name/signature, or without, not knowing whether your answer will be up or down voted. Would you wish you have added your name/signature if everybody is upvoting your answer like crazy. And would you be happy that you didn't add your name when everybody was downvoting it like crazy. Some extremes to create clear contrast: Someone asks a question why to continue with life because he/she is horrible depressed for years and seriously considers suicide. You provide an answer and he/she completely turns around and started living life to the fullest, the moment he/she read your answer. Would you tell this story to your friends/family including that it was you that provided the helpful answer. Or would you just tell how someone was helped by some answer and don't care at all to mention that you gave the answer. 

me, or someone else. a current situation that is beneficial to me (or others) an imagined, less beneficial, situation of which I think the chance is realistically high that the current situation was like that. 

My experience of letting go and detaching I know that meditating on letting go and detachment is a fruitful activity. I experience physical discharge when I see I am holding on to something, that isn't true, and I let it go. In other words, I detach from it. As a variant to this meditation practice I also attach again. That is, I try to get myself back into that feeling that I had when I was attached. The moment that I notice the slightest mental activity of getting carried away again, I reevaluate that it isn't true and keep my focus there until I feel I am detaching again. I do this a couple of times until I know longer feel any interest arise anymore when I focus on attaching, and thus, the attachment doesn't happen anymore. To me it is like getting bored with the subject. There is nothing in it for me anymore that I want to grasp. It seems that all energy that caused any attachment dissipated. Stop creating mental constructs instead of letting go of them Now on the the purpose of this question. Today I realized that what I attach to is always a mental construct. And that mental construct is always created by myself. Then I came to think about the words 'letting go' and 'detaching'. These words seem to imply there is something there, that exist on their own, of which you 'need' to 'let go' and 'detach'. There is something, but not there in objective reality, but here in subjective mental constructs. What if, the moment I observe a mental construct, I realize I don't want to create that mental construct in the first place. Then there is nothing to let go, there is nothing to detach from, as it simply doesn't exist anymore. It isn't being created in the first place. That puts me in the chair of being the 'creator' of all my experience. So then I do not practice the 'letting go' and 'detachment' from anything anymore, I practice the 'stop creating' of unfruitful mental constructs, which leaves energy for creating mental activity that is fruitful. Questions: 

The gross psychological interpretations of the 6 realms are as follows: hate (hells), craving (pretas), stupidity (animals), passion (people), belligerance (asuras) and pride (gods, or devas). These are samsaric worlds, which means that even the worlds of gods are still mundane, not 'spiritual'. That means that it is important to understand 'a realm level' for mundane purposes or for understanding another person's / one's own state of mind/existance, that is, at least from the first two Noble Truths, but it's irrelevant from the point of the Fourth Noble Truth (ayam dukkha-nirodha-gamini patipada). There are also four more realms in the Tiantai school and Nichiren lineage that give a way to liberation from the samsaric existance, which makes ten worlds altogether. These are of Learning, Realisation, Boddhisattvas and Buddhahood. As milestones on a path, they are important from the position of the Third and Fourth Noble Truths. In Nichiren lineage, this interpretation results in ichinen-sanzen concept stating that any moment of a human consciousness embraces three thousand different states of mind from the ten worlds. Because a human being can hardly encompass all the three thousand states at a time, it is not important from an [unadvanced] layman's perspective, since in terms of conventional logic we are capable of perceiving only a single state of mind within a given moment. 

That depends mainly on a lineage or on a specific Buddhist teaching you follow, so the definition of 'being a buddhist by practice' varies greatly among different schools, lineages and teachings. Because you have tagged your question as 'mahayana', it would be safer to ask your spiritual master about this topic. If your question means 'does one become a buddhist by reciting a mantra' than the answer would be 'it depends greatly by your intention and state of mind when you recite it', and also 'what kind of a mantra is in question'. Yet, Buddhism is not Islam and my understanding is that you don't become a buddhist just pronouncing a mantra X times, because motivation and transmission of a mantra matters. 

Interesting and challenging question. I would say Buddha is a person who can help anyone of His friends in any situation and speaks so that everyone can understand Him because He knows everything. 

My questions concern Monkey Year Teaching held by Kagyu lineage (Great Phowa of Chagtsugma). Is this type of Phowa similar for all Monkey Year Teachings held through the Kagyu lineage? What is the destination land and deity of this Phowa? Are there specific samayas and life-long obligations related to this teaching? 

My background is that my father was/is an alcoholic and I had pretty rough childhood. I recently turned 33. I always was pretty self aware. I have a good job. I’m easy going open person, have a bunch of friends, but in spite of that there are often times when I feel really lonely. I always had this anxiety/fear shadow on my shoulder, usually visiting me while I was walking street alone, or commuting. I got divorced 3 years ago and after some “rebound/reset” period and couple of toxic relationships decided to get my head straight. Wanted to end the family script of going into toxic relationships and then getting divorced again. That’s why I decided to start meditating. My journey with meditation began a little more than a year ago. Since then I’ve been meditating almost every day for about 15-20 mins (usually in the morning). I’ve been using one of the more popular apps on the market to guide me through this process, and never had a real life teacher. It’s a standard practice of body scanning, and then observing the breath (+ sometimes some noting/visualisation techniques). I feel that I’m still a beginner in all of this and barely scratched the surface. I started reading “Mindfulness with breathing” by Buddhadasa Bhikkhu but after the first steps the rest is hard for me to understand. During that year of meditation I gradually got calmer, gained a bigger distance to myself, stopped drinking so much, my empathy and understanding towards others grew. I stopped partying so much (realized it’s meaningless). I pretty much resigned from part of my activities that I noticed had bad motivation underneath. Seems great, and I’m really greatful for all of this, but recently some dark thoughts began to cloud my mind (thoughts like ‘will I always be alone?’, ‘what if everyone turn their back on me?’). I’m not sure what’s the cause and I’m afraid that my meditation had something to do with it. Recently during the weekend I had a big panic attack while in the pub with my friend. I quickly got home and realized that I can’t go to work on monday cause I’m too scared of walking the street… I wrote to my boss that I’m sick and I had to work remotely. I even thought about quitting my job on the spot, I couldn’t imagine walking to work again. I still continued my practice. When I finally went out to get to work (just couldn’t give up), the whole journey was a nightmare. I couldn’t stop thinking about the imminent danger. When I walk, the bad thoughts start to arise I try not to repress them, but see them, observe, accept, and get back to the breath. I have to do this almost every 30 sek, cause they keep coming back. It helps when I occupy my mind with other thoughts. But whenever I bring my mind to present moment the anxiety kicks in and I start having this panic attacks again. I have a feeling that by practicing the meditation I dig up something buried very deep inside me and now it messes up my mind. I know I couldn’t handle it alone, so I went to psychiatrist and got some meds to help me during this period. I will begin the therapy shortly. My question is, should I quit meditating? is that bad for me because of my childhood experiences? am I doing something wrong? Best regards, Robert 

It was said in a book by my spiritual master that 'breaking unloyalty to one's spiritual master is worse than breaking a kapala', of which I deduce that breaking a kapala is a really bad sign. Is there any root text explaining what is particularly bad about breaking a kapala and what is the meaning of it? 

No, it's not possible to attain Nirvana without an external help, because attaining Nirvana without a help from an external teacher would be relying on self-existance exlusively -- not in the sense of 'ego' but rather in a sense of svabhava. So it is not a conventional self (ego) is an error, but rather the idea of it as of something perpetual, undividable and non-dependent on other phenomena, such as non-dependent on causes and effects. 

According to Mahayana doctrine (at least within Nyingma linbeage), different incarnations of body, mind and/or speech of a same sentient being are possible. By which I deduce that a sentient being of a lower realm could also be reborn into a human realm having, say, two bodies of opposite sexes. Hence, given the conditions listed, my questions will be: a) Can a same sentient being be reborn in a human form in two or more body incarnations having opposite sexes? b) If yes, would a sexual union between, say, two such body incarnations of a same sentient being having opposite sexes in a human form count as a sexual misconduct, provided the other requirements for a proper sexual conduct are met? Any reference to a sutra and / or abhidharma text would be of a great help. 

This Sutra, known in Chinese as 佛说譬喻经, has been translated into English by Charles Patton. The Sutra makes a part of Taisho Tripitaka (Takakusu Junjiro's edition). The text is known worldwide, also as a part of parables from other than Buddhist tradition. My question is, do Theravada and Mahayana acknowledge this Sutra as words of Buddha as well? 

First, we have to distinguish between mundane devas and supramandane deities. The mundane devas can either follow Dharma or not, but usually they do not, because of their illusion of everlasting happiness. This means they are not compassionate and so they don't have a cause to deign to humans, nor human beings have an ability to see them, just like ants don't have ability to see humans and/or communicate with them, or just like humans usually don't treat ants as their peers. Second, those mundane devas who follow Dharma might be compassionate, yet they can hardly be noticed by those humans who haven't achieve an ability to see devas and/or supramandane deities. Last but not least, the supramandane deities require a practitioner to have special abilities and/or to be determined by some special causes to see them. E. g. all the - if I am not mistaken - Kashmiri women put together are the manifestation of the Shri Devi's speech, yet which mortal can perceive all the Kashmiri women at once?