We actually have history to guide you, for we as a species have recently developed a new form of transport who's effects on the human body were not understood, which took humans into an unknown environment: Space Travel. $URL$ We started with a TON of unmanned probes with every sensor we could think of. Then we tried more complex life forms (dogs and monkeys) full of sensors, then escalated to humans in ones and twos and threes. The process took decades, but that was mostly because we had to build new rockets for everything. I would base any hypothetical exploration of your Physics Tube on the space program; I don't think I could come up with a better research plan than two incredibly driven world powers. As stated in another comment, nowadays we worry more about contaminating other environments more than necessarily contaminating ours, so that has to be kept in mind. Safety would also be of higher concern (no plywood chairs in launch capsules) but don't over-estimate the need for confidence in exploration. While I don't think explorers would happily throw themselves into a woodchipper, one constant theme I've heard from astronauts is that they'd made peace with Death before climbing onto that rocket. Anything could happen, anything could go wrong, and they'd have to overcome that hurtle once we got to it. In other words, once a few complex critters and computers had survived the passage (computers are more likely to be burned out by microscopic misalignments and whatnot, and they CAN be fully debugged on the other side), explorer humans will be champing at the bit to step through. 

Be less... hasty. At the scale of the Starbuilders, they don't want to communicate to any one mayfly, but to the mayfly species. This means the starbuilders can still take their time, as long as they can communicate with at least one myfly species. They'd notice that even if one dies out, there's another one eventually taking their place, so there's no rush. Grab their attention with an event at mayfly timescale that you can plan and set up. Set up an incredibly, incredibly unlikely event: a mass supernova of 20 stars, which all took place in the same second, but separated by light-minutes. This would capture the mayflies attention, as it's impossible (or at least incredibly unlikely). This gets the mayflies attention, allowing you to use some other method to transmit data at a slow bitrate. Hopefully you can capture the imagination of multiple generations of mayflies, giving enough time to at least transmit a "hello". You could even encode data in the structure of your nebula, or in an incredibly irregular pulsar, or whatever abilities you have. Eventually one of those mayflies may come to look to see how that improbable event happened, which will allow them a chance to find your stone tablets or whatever, with your words of wisdom. Another idea: Grab a mayfly. Depending on your abilities, you may be able to find a large mayfly ship nearby. If you have the ability to grab it and somehow accelerate it, or move a black hole next to it, you'll be able to slow them down to your speed, enabling communication. Then, when you release them, or decelerate them, their time frame of reference will speed up again, allowing THEM to be your envoys. 

Souls are attracted to mitochondria, the powerplant of the cell. So mitochondria are the basic building block of cellular respiration. Without functioning mitochondria, your cells die, and when cells die, you die. So in your universe, perhaps it's not the afterlife that souls are attracted to, but "perfection of form." Heaven/hell/nirvana/whatever are places of great beauty, by whatever criteria souls use. Maybe Heaven (or positive afterlife) exists as rings of perfectly formed ice around the planet, while Hell refers to the super-heated crystalline structure of the planet's core. However souls view the universe, what they're really attracted to are beautiful structures. Mitochondria have their own ring-shaped DNA in our universe; perhaps in yours the DNA evolved to be perfectly symmetrical, or via some other means souls are attracted to the structure of mitochondrial DNA. The "perfection" of the DNA would be more powerful than Heaven or Hell, and the soul would attach itself to the DNA. When somebody dies of natural causes, the process breaks down the mitochondria in their cells, and as each mitochondria dies the body loses grip on the soul; at some point, there isn't enough "perfection" left in the body to attract the soul, and it disconnects and leaves. At this point, you may still have a body that can breathe, or stay alive through magical means, but the soul has departed. So what happens when a soul is ripped from the body? Souls attach themselves to the perfection they percieve, and as such, they've attached themselves to the DNA of Mitochondria. When a soul is torn away from any "perfect" container (a crystal ball or other soul container, for example), the container is destroyed in the process. So, too, are the mitochondrial chromosomes destroyed in the process of tearing away the soul. Because of this, the cellular powerplants shut down, and the body goes into massive cell death. Another interesting thing this brings up: old Human cultures believed that the liver could be used to foretell the future, and that the liver was the seat of emotions. Others believed the liver to be the source of courage, or power. In your universe, this is literally true! The highest concentration of mitochondria are in the liver, with some cells containing 1-2k in each cell. If there was one part of the body most associated with the soul in your universe, it would be the liver. You could even say that, by attaching to the mitochondrial genome, the cell subtly shifts the function of mitochondria, and therefore you CAN predict the future, or do other divination, with the liver because the souls can communicate with each other and (intentionally or unintentionally) modify the cells they are attached to. An emotional extrapolation: it's well known that, when a married couple has been together for decades and one dies, the other one seems to have trouble carrying on. Perhaps their souls really have become intertwined, with each soul attracted to their mitochondria as a whole. Perhaps, when one dies violently, or of natural causes, when their soul departs, it literally leaves a "hole" in the other partner's makeup, and perhaps losing the anchor on the other body makes it easier for the survivor's soul to escape. One final thought on this: Souls are attracted to the DNA of mitochondria, so any life form with a massive amount of mitochondria would attract souls. It would be possible, in your universe, for a soul to be attracted to a mutant animal, who's mutation encourages higher densities of mitochondria in it's cells. This may have repercussions... 

So, this is "forage feed," your hay and grasses. According to Dayville Hay and Grain, 8 pounds of Hay (a mix of Alfalfa Hay and Timothy Hay, because we're running up against a lot of assumptions and estimates here) runs up to 7,124 calories. So, the "fuel economy" of a single reindeer, dashing up and down hills (average them out to flat) is about 407 calories/mile (7124 / 17.5). Santa has 9 reindeer, so his sled's "fuel economy" is 3,664 calories/mile. 828,012,342,857 calories in mixed Alfalfa and Timothy Hay. This doesn't include trips back and forth to the North Pole, because I don't know what the sled capacity is for toys, and therefore I cannot calculate how many north pole trips would be required. With the fuel economy figures provided, you can add on however many additional miles you deem necessary. Using the same reference material above, Santa's reindeer would need to eat **662,409,874 lb (331,204.937 short tons) of premium feed oats. That comes up to 73,601,097 lb (36,801 short tons) each! Bonus round: To grow that much oatage you would need 103,501.5 acres of land, assuming a decent harvest for silage source. To get that much, you'd need to plant an area at least half the size of Rhode Island in nothing but Oats, just for consumption this one night. ALSO UPDATE. According to the San Diego Zoo, reindeer would actually eat about double the numbers above. The exact numbers depend on the specific animal and their workload, but we can give an estimate of 1,324,819,748 lb (662,409 short tons) of premium feed oats. This would require oat production across the entire state of Rhode Island to produce the food burned this one night. 

The answer to question one is YES We have it today, it's called Tor. Onion routing allows you to access services and data using Internet technology (TCP/IP and Web Browsers) without having direct access to the network it's on, and without malicious third parties being able to access your endpoints. Note that this is assuming Tor Services, where the end application (the bridge to Alien Internet) is on the Tor network, and therefore traffic never leaves Tor. You meet your Alien buddy at the Men In Black immigration center, and you are given a TOR onion address to the S-mail service that sends emails back to Planet Q. You can use any computer with any web browser, install Tor, punch in that onion address, and use S-mail. Yes, you will be emitting encrypted packets, but much of the data flowing on the internet these days is encrypted anyway, and Tor packets (which never leave the Tor network) look exactly like any other SSL traffic (Gmail, Amazon, online banking...). The NSA might be interested, but without all the metadata they slurp up from the insecure Internet it'll be nearly impossible for them to snoop your alien data. The tech is here today; it's how Snoden leaked stuff FROM THE NSA. If it's good enough to slip PRISM to the media, it's good enough to send vacation photos to Planet Q. Tor hidden services can have a public internet component as well. In that case, the aliens can use the "Darmok" code from Star Trek, TNG. Google Searches for Flubba and President Goo at the River Bloob would be pure nonsense to Humans, but could lead to a historical page listing on pastebin or Fanfiction.net that contains information about getting in contact with an embassy, based on historical context relevant only to aliens. But you can't have both secure communications and an open channel. You simply cannot. Unless you're willing to cheat. See, there's one method for two parties to share an encryption key without meeting each other face to face: public key cryptography. This depends on super advanced maths on prime numbers that allow two parties to agree on a key while a middleman eavesdropping lacks some data required to reconstruct it. So, if you're willing to wave your hands a bit, and the aliens are allowed to have advanced tech in their possession, they could have equipment that allows them to calculate HUGE prime numbers, vastly bigger than anything the NSA can do, and use those as part of an RSA or DF key exchange. Every other encryption system requires that some pre-arranged piece of data be shared publicly, and that requires a face to face meeting. 

The consensus so far seems to be that self-driving cars will see us to the Megacity Of The Future, but I'm going to buildoff @Mikey's Short-Term worry, because I frankly think that makes much more sense. And I have reason to believe so. I live in Houston. Unlike just about every other major city in America which was built during the 1800s in compact little clusters (necessitated by the average walking speed and distance of your average American at the time, because that was how you got around. That or horses.), Houston was built up after the era of the Interstate, and it shows. HOUSTON IS YUUUGE. The thing is, Houston grew up with a pre-existing network of Interstates (10 and 35), many US Highways, and a sprawling grid of subsidiary highways. Why buy a 10 foot box downtown when the same cash could buy anyone in Houston a two bedroom house just outside town? This trend just kept continuing; Houston now has THREE HIGHWAY LOOPS, each loop, like the ring of a tree, showing the size of the city at various ages. We've upgraded another highway to Interstate specs (US 59 is now I-69), and most spoke highways are being expanded. US 290, a main feeder road into Houston, was one of the first places to be sub-sub-suburbed; traffic is a nasty snarl that never seems to ever abate. It's rush hour all day; the HOV lane shuts down once a month due to congestion. They're doubling the lanes of the highway, but by the time they're done it's gonna be at capacity again. Because, in general, people want space. They want a yard, and a fence, it's The American Dream. This is not to say that there aren't serious city-folk who love New York. We have a few here; they all live in the Galleria. They live in a world of foot traffic and high rises. We have public transit as well; it's fares are constantly sucked out to build highway infrastructure. But Public Transit doesn't scale out well over vast distances, which end up leading to that nasty gridlock. And this is why self-driving cars will enable spread out sprawl, as opposed to centralized cities! Self-driving cars deliver us cake, and help us eat it as well. Point to point travel is always more efficient to the rider in time and energy expense. The reason the busses don't reach out to my area is because there would be too many stops necessary to build the type of hub-and-spoke system they depend on to be efficient. But Self-Driving cars gives me the convenience of a bus ride (cheap, shared with others) but with the efficiency of owning a car (leave when I want, direct travel). Uber and Lyft and Google will, of course, do what they can to encourage people to live closer to where they work to save money (I mean, save the Environment.) on maintenance and fuel, but that's just an added expense. I already pay extra in wasted fuel, wasted time, car maintenance, etc. I'd continue paying a premium to live out where I am, because I want breathing room. And as self-driving cars take over more and more of the bandwidth on roads, I see more and more people able to afford the "premium" to live out in the sub-sub-suburbs, because the cost will be spread over everyone. The rich will own their own self driving cars to save the inconvenience of having to use an app and wait. Many people will utilize self driving cars to get where they need to go. Busses will still flourish where they can run at capacity, but many "almost always empty" lines will be replaced by automated mini-busses. Job schedules will become more flexible, as you can give your RideID to your boss, and they can see you're actually on your way. People will be able to spend more time "socially networking," even if they aren't actually sitting next to each other. Self driving fleets, able to optimize highway traffic, will double, triple, or more the amount of people able to travel on a highway, and the increased speed of computation power will make high speeds possible. EVERYONE will be the cool guy doing 120 on the highway. My 35 minute commute will go down to 10, and I'll still be able to live outside the city. City centers, as hubs of commerce and business, however, will still be your huge shining cities on the hill. The expectation is that those huge, shiny towers are residences full of people; I see it more likely to be just like Houston; huge business blocks and commerce buildings. The high efficiency of the automated autobahns will allow more business to be concentrated at the centers, where transactions can be handled faster and inter-business shipping becomes more efficient. Additionally, shipping bandwidth into and out of a city will be much wider, without the rush hour inefficiencies requiring businesses to spread out from the main hub (I even see companies like FedEx running "priority trucks" that pay extra just to be able to pass other traffic, even during high-volume times). You're still getting your huge, fancy cities with shiny towers, but they're not jammed full of people like some kind of Dystopian future; they're 24 hour hubs of commerce, and their happy and healthy employees will be able to use the Cars Of The Future to spread out, each to their own preferred residential density, using highly efficient point to point traffic to reclaim the hours of life we all lose. I look forward to it!