Sea-level only sort-of corresponds to the oceanic–continental crust boundary. In depth, they don't correspond at all: 

For colour, you might be interested in the Munsell Rock Color Chart, though it's for describing actual rocks, not making geological maps. There are lots of books on cartographic design, for example: 

Note that we're not talking about triggering surface waves that a person might feel — nuclear explosions definitely do that. This is about causing a fault movement or rock fracture. Goldblatt & Cox are saying that the explosive strain is too small and too transient — that is, temporary. It seems beyond belief that a large detonation very close (within a few kilometres?) to a shallow, 'locked' fault, past due for an earthquake so to speak, could not trigger an earthquake, but I can't find any record of this having happened... maybe someone can unearth something. 

$\dagger$ Forward models are useful because we can try to figure out ways to solve the inverse problem better when we already know the answer. Inverse problems are useful because they are a systematic way of making data-constrained inferences about unknowns. Here's some reading on forward and inverse problems: 

There's a little more to it than its substantial age, but not a lot. First, a bit of background. We need a few conditions for accumulations of oil or gas: 

I think it's a weathered piece of gypsum, CaSO4·2H2O. Gypsum weathers this way, especially on a beach or wave-cut platform. I expect it feels rather hard, sugary and abrasive. I haven't seen it on Cape Breton, but there are similar outcrops of the same formation near Cambridge, Nova Scotia. Here's a similar piece from New Brunswick. This white, microcrystalline variety is sometimes called alabaster. It's from the Carboniferous Windsor Group, a series of carbonates and evaporites that occurs across eastern Nova Scotia. My guess is that you collected it from the shores of Bras d'Or Lake, though it does occur in a few other localities, as you see from this excerpt of the Nova Scotia geological map (the light blue colour): 

Only 'conventional' hydrocarbon deposits need all these conditions (sometimes called a 'petroleum system', such as you might find in the North Sea). 'Shale gas' is basically just a mature source rock — we can extract hydrocarbons from it by fracking, for example. As you might guess from the list of conditions, there are lots of things that can destroy a hydrocarbon accumulation, or preclude its formation. For example, deep burial destroys porosity by diagenesis and compaction. Time increases the likelihood of trap leakage or thermal destruction of volatiles. So, why no hydrocarbons in the (mostly Precambrian) Swedish-Norwegian shield? Maybe these are the top 3 reasons: 

With the caveat that incised valleys can be filled with mud (non-reservoir) too, there are a few reasons why lots of hydrocarbon fields have been discovered in incised valleys: 

A cavern filled with natural gas would look like an ordinary cavern. However, natural gas is rarely abundant in caverns. Most natural gas reservoirs occur in the pore spaces of sandstones. These pore spaces are generally up to about 1 mm in diameter. Here's a photomicrograph of a sandstone — the green-blue colour is the pore space; Q, F, L, and M are quartz, feldspar, lithic fragments and mica respectively: 

Measure as many crests as you can, keeping track of the tide. As Isopycnal Oscillation explained in another answer, the wavelength with vary with water depth. Perhaps measure around high tide, and again around low tide. Take the means of your various sets of measurements. You'll need a longish tape measure, or phones with GPS, and a stopwatch, or phone with clock, if you want to measure periods as well (you might as well). 

The pores of reservoir rocks also contain 'formation' water in various proportions. The relationship between the water and the hydrocarbons can be quite complex, depending on the fluid composition, the reservoir temperature and pressure, and the mineralogy of the rock. So what about caverns? Trace amounts of methane probably occur in many, if not most, caverns — we're talking here about abundant methane. This is much less common, but it happens. In certain limestones pore spaces can be quite large — up to several metres in diameter. This is called vuggy porosity. If the limestone is charged with natural gas, the vugs will fill with gas, just like the other pores. The space would look like any other limestone cavity. Very large ones are rare, based on a typical power law size distribution. There are (copyright and unlicensed) images of such super-pores here and here. Recently Mattey et al. (2013; EPSL 374) wrote about methane in a karst in Gibraltar. I'd estimate that less than 1% of the world's gas is held in vuggy reservoirs. There's another kind of cavern in which you can find natural gas: man-made ones. Natural gas is often stored underground, usually in porous rocks, but sometimes in caverns dissolved out of salt. Around a quarter of natural gas stock is stored this way in the US. Here's a video from such a salt cavern. Last thing: methane seas can only occur at low temperature. As far as I know, liquefied natural gas or LNG is only stored above ground or on ships in tanks. Lots of natural gas reservoirs have very light hydrocarbon liquids in them — but again the liquid would be in tiny pore spaces, not caverns. 

Usually these parameters are, at a gross scale anyway, positive, because usually velocity is faster along bedding (roughly horizontally) than across it (roughly vertically). But it's easy to imagine scenarios where the relationship is reversed, especially if we're talking about small scales — as in log measurements. Intuitively, we can draw these conclusions about negative parameters: 

Here's an especially nice specimen, with its caption, courtesy of Rob Lavinsky on Wikimedia Commons: 

If I understand the question, I don't think you can do what you want to do. The spectrum of a Gaussian time series must contain frequencies down to DC, i.e. very low frequencies (Python code from scipy.org): 

A first-order estimate is about 5%. This is a trickier question than it first appears because of ice shelves. Quoting from Kusky (2014): 

A wavelet whose spectrum is a Gaussian is called a Ricker wavelet, or sometimes Mexican Hat wavelet. I often use this wavelet to model seismic reflection data. It has a central frequency, and is bandlimited. As such, the wavelet oscillates around zero amplitude — it does not have a DC component: 

So they are floating, and they can be up to 2000 m thick, according to antacticglaciers.org. So they definitely make a substantial contribution to the world's sea ice fraction. Continuing with Kusky: 

I recommend learning what you can about rocks — their genesis, their properties, and especially their acoustic and elastic behaviour. If possible, go and see outcrops or at least cores. If possible, take classes in sedimentology, petrology, or even reservoir engineering. You need to read about integrated interpretation; here are some other phrases to look for: well ties, phase estimation, spectral decomposition, seismic inversion, pre-stack seismic analysis, AVO. I recommend subscribing to CSEG Recorder, EAGE First Break and SEG Leading Edge. Good luck in your quest! 

The name Cay is sometimes applied more generally to an island or group of islands. In some cases, as in Cay Sal Bank, Bahamas, the feature is actually an atoll: a ring-shaped reef. Cay Sal Bank is one of the largest atolls in the world, and did not form on a volcano. Charles Darwin hypothesized in his monograph The structure and distribution of coral reefs that atolls form when a fringing reef around a volcanic islands grows as the volcano subsides: 

Sandstone bodies in incised valleys can be good hydrocarbon reservoirs. Incised valleys form on the coastal plain and/or continental shelf during a fall in relative sea-level by a combination of fluvial and marine processes (e.g. fluvial erosion, headward erosion). Here's some coastal plain incision by the Orari River in New Zealand — look at those sand bars! 

Like any correlation in geoscience, it's not perfect. But, broadly speaking, there is one. Footnote: Actually, there are at least two correlations. As with fracking for shale gas, well stimulations and other industrial activity in geothermal fields has recently been blamed for induced seismicity in places like the Imperial Valley of southern California. Sometimes correlation does imply causation! 

The Space Shuttle photo (left) of the Imperial Valley annotated by the USGS shows the relationship between the San Andreas fault, about 5 km from the volcanos, the Brawley Seismic Zone (BSZ), and the Imperial Fault to the south. At this scale, it's essentially one big fault system. 

As you can see at the pockmarked Nevada Test Site, nuclear weapons really don't make much of a dent by comparison — these craters are about 200 m across: 

Count data. Quantitative data that varies discretely and arbitrarily along some scale can be called count data. Nick Chrisman (1995; Beyond Stevens: A revised approach to measurement for geographic information, presented at Auto-Carto; see this PDF for a transcript) pointed out that there are many more typologies of measurement than the 'classic' four proposed by Stevens and outlined in Wikipedia's Typologies of measurement article. None of the measurement typologies are rigid or prescriptive, but Crisman is not alone in recognizing counts as an important statistical data type: 

Yes. The moon is lit by the sun, so as its position relative to the sun changes, so does the angle from which it is lit. I recommend reading the Wikipedia page on lunar phase for a good overview, some data, and some good references. This diagram from that page more or less sums it up — the bottom row shows how the moon looks from the earth over the course of a lunar month: 

It's hard to go into a lot more detail, other than pointing at more things to read. There are a couple of really good books on this subject: 

One model is the OVATION auroral precipitation model. OVATION stands for Oval Variation, Assessment, Tracking, Intensity, and Online Nowcasting. The NOAA Space Weather Prediction Center uses the OVATION Prime model for their 30-minute aurora forecast. They use a modified version of the model for their 3-day forecast. It was devised by Newell et al. (2010) at Johns Hopkins University. You can read all about it in Machol et al. (2013). The paper is open access and contains several equations and a description of the method. They explain: 

Because of these two things, you may want to ignore deviated wells in the tying effort, if that's an option. If it isn't, focus on tying the straight hole. Ultimately, you'll want to build a 3D velocity model, using horizons to interpolate the velocity field, and maybe even using other velocities (like stacking velocities) to 'fill in' where there are few wells. At that point you can position everything properly, deviated or not. 

Yes. In fact there are already volcanos associated with the San Andreas fault system. Neenach is an extinct Miocene volcano split in half by the San Andreas fault. Garry Hayes wrote a nice blog post about this volcano system: A Volcano Sundered: A Field Trip Along the San Andreas Fault. If you'll allow some latitude in what counts as 'a San Andreas volcano', then there is active volcanism too. The Salton Buttes are a group of rhyolitic volcanos in the Brawley Seismic Zone, a set of oblique transform faults — actually in the axis of the active Gulf of California rift — on the south-east shore of the Salton Sea. You can see them in this Google Maps image (on the right; the big fields are 800 m across): 

Condition all your data. Compute any 'missing' data you need or want (e.g. porosity $\phi$, lithofacies, saturation $S_\mathrm{W}$, S-wave velocity $V_\mathrm{S}$). Inspect crossplots of relevant properties like velocity vs porosity, acoustic impedance vs elastic impedance (or maybe Poisson's ratio or ${V_\mathrm{P}}/{V_\mathrm{S}}$), and so on, colouring points by depth, $S_\mathrm{W}$ or lithofacies, say. Look for helpful discrimination. Use judgment, research, advice, or inspiration to decide on how to use the relationships you find... perhaps you are aiming for seismic inversion, or facies prediction, or log modeling, or something else. 

The difference, shaded grey in the map, is the continental shelf. It is sometimes emergent (e.g. at the end of the Permian, or during ice ages, when global sea-levels are low). It is sometimes, as now, flooded. The vertical change of ca. 100–250 m means a lateral change of 100s of km, because the shelf is almost flat. OK, enough nit-picking, roughly speaking, why are the oceans on oceanic crust? Continental crust is relatively thick and low density (ca. 2700 kg/m$^3$), compared to oceanic crust (25–70 km and ca. 2900 kg/m$^3$). So it 'floats' higher on the thin, dense mantle (7–10 km and ca. 3300 kg/m$^3$). When a new rift forms, it creates a depression and space for new oceanic-style crust. This is happening right now in the Gulf of California, the Baikal Rift Zone, and in the extensive East African Rift system. All of these places have large lakes and/or are extensively below sea-level. It's a divergent 'tear' in the continental crust, so intuitively we might expect a depression. As it fills with thin oceanic crust, the depression is maintained and eventually fills with ocean water. Why is ocean crust so thin? I don't have a lot of expertise here, but I think it's determined by the relative rates of melting and cooling, and the heat balance at the ridge and subduction zones. There's a nice answer to this question on Reddit, complete with links. As insinuated in that thread, the thermo- and chemo-dynamics of the spreading centres and subduction zones are intimately related to the presence of the ocean, so together they make a complex system (indeed, the entire planet is a complex system), as @stali points out in his comments and answer. 

The oldest known metasedimentary rocks are about 3.8 billion years old, formed in the Eoarchaean era. 'Metasedimentary' just means they have been metamorphosed, so they started out as sediments. They are found in the Isua Greenstone Belt of southwestern Greenland. You can read about their discovery in Moorbath (2009). Quoting from there: 

Two-way time to depth calibration is a vertical problem. How you handle deviated wells probably depends a bit on how you are tying the wells. Here are two things to watch out for: 

Not all sediments are deposited in water, but water is important in the formation of most sedimentary rocks. If we're just thinking about the deposition of the sediment, then we don't necessarily need water. Some counterexamples are: 

Yes, the earth emits electromagnetic radiation. It emits infrared radiation with wavelengths of about 1 µm to 1 mm. This is heat, essentially, and much of it radiates into space: 

Indeed, one popular open source GIS tool, GRASS, apparently only handles cell-registered data, as explained in the GRASS wiki. So after loading (to wherever) you should check where the pixels of the raster actually end up. 

Note: Step 4 usually involves estimating the wavelet from the seismic data, using the reflectivity from the wells. It's basically the reverse of making a synthetic: , where denotes deconvolution. Caveat interpretor I would complete the workflow for each seismic survey (e.g. a 3D, or all lines in a 2D). Your goal is to use a single wavelet for each survey. This goal reflects the assumptions in this workflow: