The rules of the game don't require truthful answers: "I don't know" can always be uttered in response to any question. A strict epistemological nihilist (skeptic) must answer all questions with "I don't know": the opposite of such an epistemological affliction, which doesn't have a conventional name but we could call him an omniscientist, can never truthfully reply "I don't know". Similarly, which conjoined with an explanation of Aristotle's first principle of logic, the sentence that ends "and do you agree that those who deny the first principle should be flogged or burned until they admit that it is not the same thing to be burned and not burned, or whipped and not whipped" can't be answered "I don't know". Perhaps you have in mind that lying, being uncooperative, or being a skeptic, is proof that a person is unhealthy, so maybe you should first define "healthy". 

The primary source of dictionary definitions is authoritative dictionary definitions. The first cut would be between (online) lexical-redistribution systems which just take definitions from dictionaries and put them online, leaving information content unchanged. I ignore those. There are dictionaries that do some work on definitions; of these, the Oxford English Dictionary and the Merriam-Webster dictionary have a substantial research underpinning. The general strategy is to not reinvent the wheel unnecessarily, so that definitions tend to be very similar across editions. There does not appear to be any automatic rule regarding what kind of attestation is sufficient vs. insufficient to warrant a change – furthermore, the driving goals of dictionaries are not constant (OED and Webster's both aspire to being descriptive rather than prescriptive, which leads to a volley of denunciations when an evil new word is added, such as "ain't"). The tendency is to base modifications in meaning to those motivated by "upper-echelon" sources. There is no attempt to sample usage by the masses. Reading definitions in the OED (full version) is particularly informative, since they are quite happy to list all of the senses of a word and gives ample historical attestations, for which reason OED is my go-to authoritative dictionary. Almost no dictionary, though, gives really current definitions. The exception is Urbandictionary, but the problem there is that you get whatever (mis)understanding of a word a user feels like submitting, and I think there is a certain amount of vandalism (esp. lexicalized phrases that refer to shocking or repulsive situations). You will not find any source that gives an exhaustive listing of all of the definitions of a word "out there", because there are too many hundreds of millions of people to survey. The approach that good dictionaries take is to focus on respectable sources, and in that sense they do not reflect contemporary usage. 

As far as I know, the unpronounced citation consonants of are not ever recovered phrasally before a vowel. There is the puzzle of knowing which orthographic consonants are unpronounced (Norwegian [rø] "red", Swedish [rød], but note that even before a vowel suffix, the is gone in Norwegian ([røeste] "reddest"). I cannot parse Danish consonants, and I'd suggest consulting Basbøl's book if you want to know how that stuff is pronounced. 

In American English, this is often thought to be a generalization of (de)aspiration as in pit, spit. We typically analyze stop aspiration as addition of aspiration foot-initially, but depending on your theory of how rules can be written, you can state that as deaspirating stops which are not foot-initial. /h/ is also deletable when intervocalic followed by a stressless vowel, i.e. when /h/ is foot-medial (it's always syllable-initial), thus there is a standard alternation in prohíbit, Prò(h)i[ə]bítion. In the nominalization prohibition, where /ɪ/ is not reduced to schwa, /h/ is also not always deleted, though in my dialect the pronunciation with h and ɪ is an unnatural spelling pronunciation. It's hard to find words that lend themselves to h ~ Ø alternations, so you've found the main source of examples (h-initial pronouns being the other). It also plays a role in people figuring out how to pronounce non-English names based on spelling. The Arabic name Fahim could in principle have stress on either syllable (people vacillate randomly between [hǽmɪd] and [həmíd] for Hamid); but initial stress is out because [fǽhɪm] would put h in foot-medial position, which is a no-no. However, I have no problem pronouncing [wǽhɪb], [rǽhæt], but it's completely impossible for me to say [átʰa]: the aspirate allophones absolutely cannot be foot-medial. So while h-deletion and aspiration are surely related, they don't literally reduce to one rule. As far as I know, "h-dropping" is applied to context-free deletion of h. I think the Wiki entry is in error in implying that all dialects of English delete h sentence initially, such as "Her mother said 'no'". Of course, you can always define "H-dropping" any way you want, but as far as I know, that term is used for context-free deletion of h. 

There is a valid trend whereby vowel height distinctions are more perceptible in front vowels than in back vowels, and if there is a front/back asymmetry in terms of number of vowel heights, front vowels will have more heights than back vowels. The pattern is clearest when you specifically look at front unrounded versus back rounded vowels, and virtually always, there are fewer heights for front rounded vowels than there are for front unrounded vowels. The most likely explanation for this that F1 and F2 are fairly well separated for front vowels, so that the exact frequency of F1 (the cue to vowel height) is more perceptible. There is some research on the question of perceiving vowel distinctions, which involves comparing pairs of pairs – for instance, i / ɪ versus u / ʊ. A basic limit on this kind of study is that you have to use speakers of a language with the relevant contrasts, thus you can't ask a speaker of Italian to make i / ɪ judgments, since Italian doesn't have that contrast. Instead of doing perceptual experiments (which are done, anyhow), we rely more on patterns of historical sound change, for example observing a historical loss of an u / ʊ distinction while preserving the i /ɪ distinction. 

"Trill" is a property of the primary consonantal articulator, so [˷] is not a trill. All modes of voicing constitute a kind of "trilling" of the vocal folds, including normal, breathy and creaky voicing. What makes creaky voice distinctive is that the arytenoid cartilages are pressed together, so that the glottis remains closed longer and the opening and closing phases are shorter and more abrupt. On the other end of the glottal-constriction scale, breathy voicing has less glottal constriction leading often to incomplete closure during the closed phase, and a more gradual, sinusoidal shape of opening. The concept of "active articulator" vs. "passive articulator" does not apply to the action of the glottis. However, it is a basic truism of physics that if you supply sufficient force to an adjustable opening, you can block airflow, given normal subglottal pressures. 

I assume that you are not asking how you, yourself, can talk slowly, you want to hear recordings stretched out. The first thing is to get the sound file itself, which in the case of Forvo is not trivial, but not impossible. Let's just assume that you have a sound file on your computer. The program Speech Analyzer has 'slowing down' as a built-in slider-type function in its player, so you can play back (the file or selection) at rates between 10% and 333% of recorded speed (at those margins the distortion is fairly extreme). This can also be done in Praat, using Convert-Length(overlap-add) and setting a suitable factor (2 or 3 are reasonable, 4+ gets strange and also you lose the end of the recording: SA seems to implement this concept without the truncation). I will mention that Audacity has a Change Tempo function, but it's really not any good. 

The basic phonetic property explaining this rareness is that the sounds are too similar. You can add to the list things like [iɪ], [ɛe] and so on, where there is also just a subtle shift in F1 or F2 frequency. Essentially, you have to be paying a lot more attention to detect the small and relatively brief shift in formants in such diphthongs, which means that they are less likely to develop historically. They do get started (assuming we're at the historical state where such diphthings are first coming into existence in a language), and if they are aren't further distinguished by other some development (uw → ɨw) then whatever is causing diphthongization in the first place is likely to be suppressed in these cases. "Two closed vowels with the same roundness" means that these are purely backness -changing diphthongs, which means that the components are acoustically almost the same. The primary acoustic correlate of backness is F2, which is also the primary correlate of rounding (which is why back vowels tend to be round and front vowels tend to be non-round). Backness-shifting diphthongs will therefore have only a very subtle shift in formants that requires bringing in higher formants to tease out the contribution of rounding vs. backing. An example of roundness dissimilation (in a height diphthong) is that general North Saami uo e.g. guokta "2" becomes ue i.e. guekta in the Kárášjohka dialect. Various dialects of English have this as well, so that /u:/ which is generally pronounced as [ʊw] in the US is often further shifted to [ɪw] (California speech and younger speakers are two high points of this trend). Analyzing diphthongs with the completely same vocoid features is tricky, since analysis is often smuggled into the transcription. The specific issue is whether one has a glide plus vowel sequence as implied by transcribing , versus a two-vowel (one-syllable) sequence as implied by . There certainly are languages that have "wu" and "wu" can even contrast with [u:], and that is a context where it is certainly appropriate to transcribe the "diphthong" as a glide plus vowel sequence. In onset position, the glides [w,j] are much more constricted and it is easier to parse the glide as a separate phoneme. It is typical to not analyse "wu" and the like as a diphthong, and in every language that I know of with "diphthongs" so transcribed, they behave as CV... syllables, not as VV... syllables. Phonologically speaking, I don't know of any reason in Mandarin or Korean to treat initial glides as elements of a diphthong (I have no opinion of Cantonese). Although I would not be shocked to learn of a language with a contrast [wu] vs [uu], the obvious question to ask is why one is claiming that there is a diphthong [uu] as opposed to a long vowel [u:] (that is an answerable question, but it's a question that has to be raised). Same-element diphthongs with the "glide" portion on the right are usually alternatively treatable as long vowels. This brings us to the question of where diphthongs come from in the first place: most often they come from long vowels, so /u:/ → uʊ → uo, uɨ.... I would say that [uu] and [ii] are the absolutely least likely diphthongs, because there would be no phonetic fact and hardly any phonological fact that could support such an analysis over a treatment of the nucleus as having a long vowel [u:, i:]. I try not to make predictions about the future of languages that I know nothing about. However, since you ask, I predict that [uy] is most vulnerable and would change to [ui]. 

The only context where "same phoneme" makes sense is if identity is based on a fixed and universal feature system like the SPE system, and underlying forms are fully specified (because underspecification leads to a immense degree of indeterminacy what the feature values are in a single language). You also have to make some analytic assumptions about what is phonemic in either language (such as whether there is a flap phoneme in English). "Phoneme" or "phonemic" has at least two meanings, so you would have to specify what meaning of "phoneme" you have in mind. One meaning is "present in underlying representations". The other is "is not fully predictable as a variant of some phoneme, looking only at surface phonetic segments" (so, is not strictly allophonic, as would be the case with the rounded and non-rounded variants of /ɹ/). The intermediate territory between these two concepts includes the flap (which can come from /t/ or /d/) or aspiration (caused by stress differences which are then neutralized, as in capitalistic versus militaristic). There are a number of other analytic choices that need to be made, for example, in "gate", is there a vowel [e] that is distinct from the vowel of "get"? One answer is "yes, it's [get] vs. [gɛt], and another answer is "no, it's [gɛɪt] vs. [gɛt]. Since [ɛɪ] is, in the SPE system, a sequence of phonemes and not one phoneme, the analytic question is whether to add a new segment /e/ (as opposed to a new sequencing of existing phonemes). For German, one can analogously treat [ø:] and [œ] as long and short variants of the otherwise same vowel [ø(:)]. Then you also have to decide what dialect of the language you're interested in, since some dialects of English lack [θ ð] and others lack [ɔ]. My rule of thumb is that if someone doesn't specify dialect, I get to use mine. In the case of German, I'm not a native speaker, but I will use the values of the dialect that I tried to learn in high school. Oh, and you also have to decide how to deal with marginal phonemes like English [x] as in "Bach" or German [θ]. I think one should be really conservative in admitting such phonemes, because if you're not, English would end up having phonemic /q/ and /ʕ/ as exemplified by words like [ʕira:q] "Iraq". And what about the click in the language name Xhosa? You'd need to set some kind of social criterion for filtering out recherché pronunciations by people in the know, if you feel that [ʕira:q] is too unacceptable but [bax] is acceptable. In other words, it seems like a straightforward question, but it totally isn't. 

The essential reason is that writing systems historically tend to not be modified, until there is a frenzy of orthography reform, and some languages have had more phonological change than others. English and French are noteworthy because their spelling was fixed a long time ago and there has not been a massive reform; and then there substantial phonological changes in the spoken language. Tibetan is similar, having been written for as long a time, and having undergone probably more substantial phonological change. Norwegian spelling can also be a nuisance (there is no "d" in bønder; one kind of has to guess how "o" is pronounced; for some dialects, you have to just know how to spell ʃ in a given word: "rs", "kj", "sj"). In contrast, German had an orthography reform just a decade ago, and was standardized much later than English. Indeed, Standard German as a spoken language is a relatively new language, somewhat over 200 years old. Many people would like English spelling to be "phonetic", in that if you know how a word is spelled, you know how it is pronounced, and vice versa. This is perhaps tenable for small languages with only a couple of speakers in one village. For any other language, you do not know how all speakers actually pronounce words. ɪf ɔl ɹaɪɾɪŋ wɹ̩ bɛɪst ɔn hæw ðə ɪndəvɪdʒʊl̩ ækʃəli tɔks, ɪɾəd bi ɹɪli dɪfəkl̩t tə əndɹ̩stæn pipl̩z ɹaɪɾɪŋ. wɹs, sɪns ðɛɹ aɹ mɛni wɛɪz ðæt ən ɪndəvɪdʒʊl̩ dʌz prənæwns ʌ wɹ̩d, you would spend all your time trying to figure out how you pronounce a word, so that you would know how to spell it. This is not to say that improvements to English spelling are unimaginable: but especially for a language like English (with a huge set of pronunciations for all words), just adopting phonetic spelling is a fairly bad idea. The Oxford list of most common mis-spellings does point to candidates for change. "Amoeba" is not on the list, probably because most people don't use it.