One of our Users is having a strange issue, before explaining the issue I should clarify that our user Exchange server is collecting mail using a POP3 connector. (not sure if it's relevant) The user having the issue can receive all external. However 2 accounts are unable to send to her. If I send a message from one of these accounts and cc a working account then only the working account receives the message and only if it's fwd'd to the user does it come in. As I said above it's a POP3 setup, so I tried created a forwarder and tested that in the same way and the result was the same. I've tried removing her local user profile, reintsalling Outlook, setting account up on another user account. All had the same result. Any ideas where to go from here? 

Can someone direct me on how to install cURL on a CentOS server. Preferably through WHM if it's possible to recompile PHP that way.. I am a noob in SSH and this is a production server. 

The question could also be rephrased. I've got a software application that requires a USB dongle. It works correctly when running at the console of the remote machine, but when connecting via remote desktop it does not seem to work. I've seen this behaviour before a few times and wondered whether or not it is possible to block access to the usb ports, and if so, it should be possible to allow access. 

I use terminals for all remote desktop sessions - unless they require the additional authentication that Vista and WS2K8 ask for. In fact, I would go as far as saying that terminals has made my life much easier. Having multiple sessions connected without lots of different windows has been great. I especially like the ability to resize the window contents! I tried it for VNC and SSH, but it didn't work. If I had the time, terminals is a project I would love to help out with! 

How can you run a 32 bit version of explorer on 64 bit windows 7 x64? This is to allow tortoisehg to work. I've tried running "c:\windows\syswow64\explorer /separate" and it just starts another version of the 64 bit explorer. 

I ended up fixing this problem by switching to a different company. SecurityMetrics had no trouble with our network. (And I never did hear back from Trustwave with anything helpful.) 

You just need Route policies in place, and they should have been created automatically for you when you set up X0 and X4. Make sure that the computers on both subnets have the firewall set as the default gateway. 

This is kind of a long story, but we discovered that controller B had quit working some time ago. We bought a used replacement, and I swapped it out. But I got an error saying there was a mismatch between the controllers. At this point, I also got errors saying "Writeback Cache Forcibly Disabled" and "Insufficient Cache Backup Device Capacity" - but they were for controller A, which I had not touched. I discovered that the replacement controller had an extra board in it, and after removing the extra board and reinserting the controller, the DS3524 was happy with it. But the cache errors remained. I thought maybe it was because the battery on the replacement controller needed to be charged, so I let it go overnight. Now the battery in controller B is charged and has completed the learning cycle. But controller A is still having the cache errors. I ran some scripts I found to disable and re-enable caching, and that didn't fix it. I then tried doing a reset on the controller. That also didn't fix it. I guess I'll need to go in person (the DS3524 is at another location) and try removing the controller and reseating the SD card. But it just seems really odd to me that these errors occurred on the controller that I didn't touch. Is there anything else I can try that doesn't require physical access? I should also mention that the firmware level is 7.86.32.00. I did see some information about a firmware bug that causes this problem, but it's for a lower version. 

Any idea what I could be missing? Thanks! UPDATE: After opening a ticket up with my hosting company/phpMyAdmin I realized didn't make it clear that I ran the in 

I have a bash script for deploying code from a beta environment to a production environment but currently I have to add the list of files to a txt file manaully and sometime I miss some. Basically my deployment script cat/loops copying the files over. (exports/imports db as well but that's not relevant..lol) Anyway, I'd like to use the command to generate a list of files modified in the last 14 days. The problem is I need to strip the path out in order for the deployment script to work. Here's an example of the find command usage: 

I've been trying for hours to enable phpMyAdmin Designer Mode on a CentOS cPanel dedicated server with no luck... here's the steps I followed, perhaps I'm missing something? I created the user and granted proper permission to the table: 

I have a "Standard UCC SSL Certificate" from GoDaddy. I needed to add another SAN to it. They were able to reissue without having to create and submit a new CSR. However, I am now having trouble getting Exchange to recognize it. I went through the wizard for "Import Exchange Certificate" in the Server Configuration, and it said it was successful, but the new cert does not show up in the list. I tried doing it again, and was told that a certificate with that thumbprint already exists. So it's apparently there, but I seem to be missing a step before it will let me use it. I've searched for help, but everything I've found is about renewing the certificate or installing the initial one. 

What model and services do you have? And what methods are they using? The CFS settings allow you to restrict access to HTTP proxies, and the application firewall should keep them from using a VPN. Many web sites are now using SSL, so if you want to enforce your policies through SSL you will need a DPI-SSL subscription. Or the new SSL Control feature (under Firewall Settings) may be helpful. 

I've got a corrupt ntbackup file that won't open in ntbackup. There are various utilities that a google search turns up that say they can repair the files. Do I need to use one or is there a simple way of using ntbackup to do this? 

I've got a 5 year old shuttle machine. It's 32 bit, only takes 2gb of ram and is old. I'm looking for a replacement machine that is a similar size, is 64bit and supports at least 8gb RAM. I'm not looking for a rack mounted system as they are too deep and I don't have a rack at home! Ideally it would be a similar form factor to the shuttle. Any recommendations? I'm probably going to run windows server 2008 R2 

I've got a situation where a windows server (Windows server 2003), that can only be accessed using remote desktop or citrix, appears to freeze temporarily. What is the best way to monitor this system. Sending more data across the network link could be causing the freeze, so I don't want to have tools like process monitor running and causing network traffic. 

I'm not exactly sure how to whitelist them. I set up a couple address objects in the WAN zone, but I'm not sure what to apply it to. I tried turning off "Stealth Mode" (due to an associated complaint of over 60,000 open ports, which is impossible) and I even went as far as to turn off IPS (I turned off protection but left on detection because I don't want to leave us totally exposed). However, the scans are still failing. It does seem a bit ridiculous to turn off security in order to test security, but apparently that's now a normally accepted thing for PCI scans. I've opened a support ticket with them, but the first guy I talked to had no idea what to do other than reading the same information I already had, and I'm waiting for a call back from their "scanning team." I'm hoping someone here has already figured this out on a Sonicwall and can help me better.﻿ 

We've started having Trustwave do monthly PCI network vulnerability scans. The last couple months we've passed, but this month it failed for "Scan Interference Detected." This is their recommendation: