Caligula ("Little Boot," singular) was a nickname lovingly bestowed on the future emperor by his father, and was used by the soldiers as a term of endearment. It was never an insult. I don't see how being nicknamed "Gallic Cloak" can be insulting. These two may not be as flattering as "Philip the Fair," "Louis the Sun King," or "Honest Abe," for that matter, but they do fall in the same category as, say, "Gentlemanly Johnny," the nickname General Burgoyne, who almost became Prime Minister of England once, was known by among friends and enemies alike. 

The word psychopath only dates back to the 19th Century. It is difficult to imagine, given the Romans' sophistication level in all kinds of matters, that they could not differentiate among various forms of mental disorder. Surely they knew there was a difference between, say, a wealthy man's penchant for stealing trinkets from his friends' wives just for kicks and Caligula's antics. Did they have a word for psychopath? 

His round-trip routes were suspiciously perfect. For him to think it was actually India would have been a gross miscalculation of the planet's diameter. He must have at the very least allowed for the possibility that the land he discovered was, in fact, a separate continent: he did have an imagination. As for him refusing stubbornly to admit it, he must have had pretty good reasons. He had a contract of sorts with his superiors to deliver a new route to India. Delivering something else may have been tantamount to voiding the agreement and everything that came with it: privileges, money, status, etc. He may not have wished to provide them with the loophole. What others said, and what his employers thought was not his concern: he stuck to his guns in order to force them to honor the deal. 

@Relaxed is right to point out that Germany was unified under Prussian, not Austrian hegemony. Prussia’s 1866 military victory over Austria at Koeniggraetz definitively shut out the Austrians. Subsequently, the 1870 war between Prussia and France, with many of the remaining German states outside Austria joining in, led to William I of Prussian being crowned German emperor in 1871. Austria, besides being half of the Austro-Hungarian dual monarchy, was in itself a Vielvoelkerstaat or multinational state – besides German-speaking Austrians, there were Czechs, Poles, Italians, Slovenes, Ruthenians, etc. Emperor Franz Joseph I, who had been on the throne since 1848, tried to maintain the loyalty of all his subjects regardless of ethnic or linguistic affiliation, but ethnic tensions were rife. As Brigitte Hamann’s Hitler’s Vienna describes, the future dictator entered a politically charged atmosphere in high school in the provincial town of Linz from 1901 onward. His favorite teacher, Dr. Leopold Poetsch, was a German historian who also gave public speeches. Hamann quotes Hitler about him: 

Yet Poetsch was at the same time an “Austrian patriot” who later was reportedly upset at being cited as an inspiration by Hitler in Mein Kampf. The Pan-German students were actually more radical than their teachers, who as public servants had to stay kaisertreu to some extent. Even at that time they supported an Anschluss, or having the German part of Austria join the rest of Germany. The “Heil” greeting (later so familiar!) was one of their identifying symbols, as opposed to the “Hoch” of the loyalists. The young Hitler would do things like distribute pencils with the red-gold-black German colors during class. Hamann (whose book I recommend) sums up Hitler’s early German nationalism quite well. (The sections in italics are quotes from Mein Kampf.) 

If you don't have horses, there's no point inventing the wheel. If there are no wheels, there's no point inventing roads (rather than paths), boundaries, city-states as we know them, states as we know them, etc. Really, that's all there is to it. Addendum: One of the commentators suggested that there were other draft animals and potential beasts of burden in the Americas. He or she adduced three of them: lamas, bison, and slaves. That's a laugh. European distances are a joke compared to their American counterparts. Control of territories is predicated on quick access and communication. Try walking from New York to Boston, or from Washington D.C. to Chicago, see how long it takes you. The only reason the Roman Empire and China never tried to conquer one another is the distance is too great even for horses. When comparing civilizations, the first thing that needs to be examined is the different natural conditions. That's the root of pretty much everything. What did the Americas have that Europe, Asia and Africa didn't? Potatoes, tomatoes, broccoli, cocoa, tobacco. What didn't the Americas have that the others did? Horses. Let me reiterate: that's all there is to it. P.S. People talk about the invention of the wheel, which is a fallacy. The wheel by itself is completely useless. When we say "the wheel," we really mean two wheels connected by an axle. Which is a log with the superfluous wood shaved off. No horses = no demand for wheels and axles = no wheels and axles = no control of territories = no empires as we know them, no cities, no legislature, no judicial system, no executive power, no palaces, no doric or ionic columns, no opera theatres. 

The Wiki page on the spread of Islam in Indonesia stresses that our knowledge of this macro-historical process is fragmentary, for instance often we don’t how the religion diffused out into the general populace after a ruler converted. Bali seems to be the most prominent example of non-conversion, as opposed to say Java, earlier the site of the Hindu kingdom Majapahit. Javanese courts like the one in Yogyakarta retained a lot of Indic cultural features like court ritual, dance, and costumes while becoming Muslim. What prevented Balinese courts from going the same route? Possible factors: Bali was isolated from the trade routes that spread Islam; conditions after the fall of Majapahit made Bali a refuge for fleeing Javanese aristocrats; charismatic Hindu mystics like the Shaivite Dang Hyang Nirartha (see Wikipedia) helped rejuvenate Hinduism on Bali at the same time as Java was going Muslim. And if not at that time, why not later as with Lombok and other islands to the east? 

The Hakkas were the exception because their heartland was actually a mountainous area peripheral to several river systems. In the early Qing period, they migrated in large numbers to several different areas that were expanding economically, but by the 19th century changed economic conditions and overpopulation led to conflict between immigrant Hakkas and the core speech group (Cantonese in the Lingnan region, for example.) This conflict took on an ethnic character, so we could actually say that the speech groups within what is now called “the Han Chinese” behaved like ethnic groups in some ways. Yet according to Leong, there wasn’t much in the way of pan-Hakka solidarity across regions, even when the Hakkas in, say, Lingnan banded together for self-defense in the face of Cantonese discrimination. So generally, linguistic/ethnic divisions within the “Han Chinese” can be explained by looking at regional systems within China. Reference: Sow-Theng Leong, Migration and Ethnicity in Chinese History: Hakkas, Pengmin and their Neighbors (Stanford UP 1997) 

7. Knowing when to stop: Hadrian. There's only so much territory an Empire can control without running into harm and having to deal with the law of diminishing returns. (For further information on this please see the Wiki articles on David Ricardo and Thomas Robert Maltus) Emperor Hadrian decided (wisely) that further conquest would be counterproductive and bent his energies on construction and domestic issues instead. 

Another interesting thing about the tower is that it combines to architectural periods: Romanesque and Gothic. 

8. The legion as a well-organized construction team. The Roman army differed sharply from all preceding and subsequent armies in history. The Romans weren't interested in merely conquering and levying taxes. A Roman campaign camp wasn't merely a bunch of tents: the legion built a makeshift fortress each time it stopped for the night. When the conditions were favorable, this makeshift fortress could be converted into a permanent one. Engineers and contractors followed the legion: the path turned into a paved road. Hills were razed and tunnels drilled, bridges spun rivers. Here's one over the Danube: 

There is a theory that only after dividing Romania, with its oil fields, and ceding a portion of it to Stalin did Hitler realize that he would soon run out of oil. The Battle of Stalingrad was Hitler's desperate attempt to get to the oil-rich Baku. Stalin and the Allies knew that once Hitler had access to those fields, there would be no stopping him, which was why the battle turned out to be so gory. After the failure at Stalingrad, it was all downhill for him. Converting coal is an extremely expensive, labor-intensive process. Severe shortages followed; Hitler was doomed. It's only a theory, though. 

Problems mentioned in the article – Hitler looks too old, Lenin is supposedly wearing a disguise but in fact he never did so at this point, Lenin had given up chess and Hitler probably never played, there was no reason for them to sign the picture, there is no record of Hitler taking art lessons, etc. It’s also suspicious that there is no documentary trace of the artist in Vienna. Brigitte Hamann in “Hitler’s Vienna” has gone through the archival record for Hitler’s contacts at the time. In fact, he did visit the house of a cultured Jewish bourgeois family in 1908. His roommate at the time, August Kubizek, played the viola and was sometimes invited to the home of Dr. Rudolf Jahoda to fill out a string quartet at musical soirées. Once he brought Hitler along, and the 19-year-old was largely a silent observer. There is no Lowenstamm/stramm in Hamann’s index. 

It seems like the term is Zählappell “roll call”, from the verb zählen 'to count'. It may not be necessary to look for the pronunciation in a dialect or Yiddish, if this was the official term used in the camp. The following excerpt from the Dachau camp regulations (Strafordnung) suggests it was: 

There were several. 1. Someone was bound to take advantage of the advent of the Iron Age. Bronze is a lot easier to work with. So long as copper was easy to mine, iron did not look very promising. Whoever exhausted easily mined copper on their territory first had an advantage. Bronze weapons had no chance against steel. 2. Location, location, location. Food production was relatively easy compared to the territories north of Italy (or south of Italy, for that matter), and could easily support the growing population. One less headache. More attention could be given to other things: civic matters and warfare. 3. Cato the Elder. 

I believe he was a French king who ruled shortly before the Renaissance, but I'm probably wrong. The story goes like this: A knowledgeable courtier reported to the king that there was in his kingdom a man who could tell the future: not quite an oracle, nor a wizard: merely a God-fearing fellow who had this special gift and whose fame was growing by the minute. The King demanded that the seer be brought to him. Shortly before the man's arrival at the palace, the King gathered his guards and told them to wait outside the chamber in which the interview was to take place and, upon the seer's exit, grab him and cut his throat. As the guards stood waiting outside, the seer entered the chamber. After a brief exchange of greetings, the King asked: "When am I going to die?" The seer was an insightful man. He quickly realized what was to follow and, upon some reflection, replied: "The week following my death, Sire." After composing himself as best he could, the King expressed his gratitude to the seer. When the seer was on his way out, the King followed him closely, and, the moment the door opened, gestured desperately to the guards from behind the seer's back that they should stand the hell down. The guards got the point, and did. Who was this king, and who was the seer? Any ideas?