Source: FIVE PRECEPTS (PACASILA) The Buddha used many techniques to teach the Dhamma but lying and deception was not one of them. See: 

When micro analysing it does not wonder away. Then this will at some time become natural in which case you drop reviewing and determination and just watch the process. But when you start each session it is good to have reviewing and determination for sometime before dropping it regardless of how second nature staying with the breath has become. When your mind wonders away and your mindfulness and equanimity has lapsed you have started creating verbal fabrications. Anchoring the mind is to stop creating verbal fabrications. When new fabrications are created there will always be some sensation associated with it (pleasant, unpleasant, neutral). When you realise that your mindfulness has lapsed, 1st realise it, examine your body and mind staying with the sensation with equanimity for a short while (few breaths) or until the tenseness has gone (at later stages this happens instantly - when you look at fabrications the fabrications pass away), which ever comes sooner, then return to the breath. 

Life of the Buddha - Chapter 18: Seven Weeks After Enlightenment The Jewelle Chamber is separate from the time under the Mucalinda Tree. 

They occur together hence why the words "Thina Midda" appear together and translated as Sloth and Torpor. 

There is no hard and fast rule. Just give what you can afford to give. In times you are short give less and in times you are well to do give more. This way giving will not be a burden and will help you reap more benefit as you are not mechanically doing but doing it out of strong competition without attachment. If you set a proportion then this becomes like a tax. Many people do not pay taxes with joy thinking "Oh how wonderful, my tax returns will benefit many!" 

The feeling you are getting is just a feeling. This is aggravated by continuous thinking as to I should have done this or not done that. (E.g. not writing the complaint, just only making a verbal complaint, etc.) This additional thinking is rubbing salt in your existing wound of remorse. Best way is to cut it out by focusing on the breath or another chosen object. (Nīvarana,pahana Vagga) Also another way would be is just to concentrate on the bad feeling keeping in mind that this also will pass away, i.e., look at the arising and passing or the impermanent nature of the feeling. (Pahāna Sutta, Avijja Pahana Sutta 2) 

The 1st thing ins Buddhism is to look after one's well being. To protect to protect one's well being is to protect others. But in this problem you are protecting people at the expense of the other. Hence you will be breaking Sila, for which he conditions are: 

An Arahat does not sleep like a normal person. He may give rest to the body but in doing so is fully aware hence not asleep. This is a natural consequence of reducing impurities of the mind. 

According to Satipatthana Mula (By Sujato Bhikkhu edited by Piya Tan) Śāripūtrābhidharma Satipatthana contains a section on oozing orifices. What exactly does Śāripūtrābhidharma sources say about oozing orifices in English? Are there are parallels in Theravada literature especially the Tripitaka which compair with what Śāripūtrābhidharma sources say? 

Source: Saññā Nānatta Sutta This also can be further analyzed using an Abhidhamma as: sanna > vedana > sankhara (chetasika) 

What is wholesome is what you perceive positively at the time the result manifests. Since all worldly experiences are unsatisfactory, experiencing Nirvana is wholesome. Anything that reduces your stress and suffering is a good thing. When you are practice Right Mindfulness, you do not create new Karma then your old Karmas start surfacing which reduce your old stock of karma and newly created karma. Development of the path factors is good Karma. Path factors are also part of the Mental Factors (cetasika). 

Some Buddhist may have precognition if they develop abhiññā. Precognition is not limited to Buddhism. Hindus also have meditation techniques which develop these kind of powers. Though not frequent there are cases outside Buddhism also which such phenomena has been seen. See studies in parapsychology. Having said this only a handful of people even among Buddhist have precognition as an ability. 

The breath patterns you are mentioning () is generally found in Yoga / Pranayama than in Theravada Buddhism. Nevertheless, Anapana Sutta does mention about the long and short breaths. The breath is considered a bodily fabrication and it is tied to the body. (If you stop breathing then you are dead.) In meditation you have to calm your fabrication, out off which the bodily fabrication generally cease before mental fabrications. As you get concentrated your bodily fabrications also slow down hence shorter breaths. When you come out of meditation your breaths become longer as you start creating fabrication. If you start thinking and pondering (verbal fabrications) again your breath becomes longer as these fabrications influence bodily fabrications. Kamabhu Sutta, Culavedalla Sutta & Rahogata Sutta covers more on the 3 fabrications out of which bodily fabrication is tied with the breath and breathing process. 

In countries without a Buddhist background the best way to teach is as a lay person. The issues like conversion, unfamiliar customs and outer look will not hinder people from accepting the practice. Once you start practicing you see benefits for you self and the practice will continue, but some cases the initial contact is best done by a lay person. So yes. Ley people should teach, especially in the West and regions where there is not Buddhist culture. 

Morality (Sila / Vinaya) is the basis of developing Samaddhi which helps developing Panna. So strong morality is needed. 

In Buddhism there is not concept of Atman. But has the concept of Anatta, means you have not control over the aggregates or anything else to be considered as self, me or mine. Also there is no core which is unchanging or everlasting which you can consider Atman. It does not relate to the concepts given in your question. 

Your behavior is conditioned by pratice not necessarily practice. Also mental constructs which we cling to. 

This is not possible as I would believe you to be human hence having Nama and Rupa, in which case conciousness cannot exit without a physical body. This is the case in any other plane of existance other than The Immaterial Worlds. 

Once contact arises you will get some sensation. This can be pleasant or unpleasant. You have no control over this. Only thing you can do is not react to the sensation that follow. You cannot stop sensation. As your perception becomes less then your reaction will be less. 

There is no pretending. It is the fact that you are not sure if this is the last period or not hence what needs to be done in case you die. No one can plan the time of death and many die unexpectedly. This is what you have to look at. So consider each breath your last as there is a chance that it is very well your last breath hence establish your self in mindfullness. 

Since Mahayana Agama contains parallels in the Pali Cannon I am answering using the Suttas in the Pali Canon which I am more familiar with. Abiding or contemplating the 3 characteristics [impermanence (anicca), suffering (dukkha) and not-self (anatta)] is called abiding in emptiness. [Cula Sunnata Sutta, Maha Sunnata Sutta] The opposite of the 3 characteristics is perversions (vipallasa) [what is impermanent is taken to be permanent; what is painful is taken to be pleasurable; what is not self is taken to be a (or the) self; and what is impure is taken to be pure]. [Vipallasa Sutta] Hence non empty might mean something is deluded, i.e., conceptual constructions are empty since they breakdown under further scrutiny. Attachment to concepts, review and throughts or being subjected to the perversion is non empty. Also: 

(Source: The Four Foundations of Mindfulness by Sayadaw U Silananda) The best translation may be "the way" 

One case of Zen Sickness (Zen Sickness by zen master Hakuin) mentions about excessive striving. In Buddhism you effort should be balanced. Excessive striving can lead to craving, restlessness and doubt: 

Imagination, visualisation, verbalisation all leads to verbal fabrications. One objective of insight meditation is to progressively calm the fabrications. So any activity which feeds into creating fabrications and also perceptions is strongly discouraged. But for a beginner you may use it as a aid if it helps, but it is discouraged. 

If you include the other Brahmavihara: - break you tendency to classify people into better off, same level and worse off and react to the perception of them with clinging, hatred or neutral feeling creating the unwholesome roots 

If you think about the sun the thought of it arise instantly. Hence your mind is much faster than the speed of light which takes 8 minutes to reach earth. Thoughts and memories of distant objects can arise instantly in your mind. Hence why the mind is called it is faster than the speed of light. This is not to be confused with the literal meaning where here is actual travel from one place to the other other than when rebirth is happening. (When there is rebirth you die in one place and the conscientiousness instantly arises somewhere else where there is a ready womb.) This is similar to a simply used in Milinda Panha though this is discussed in the context of rebirth. Science is always a model or approximation of reality, hence always changing with new research and discovery. The Dhamma is Akāliko (timeless). Hence Buddhism teachers an absolute reality where as science is and approximation.