Acceleration only happens when there's an external force accelerating the object along its direction of motion. I.e. when something is actively pushing it. 

Does Saturn look equally soft in the center of the image, as well as near the edge? Good optics (mirrors, eyepieces) make a good image everywhere, cheap optics make an okay image in the center and a blurry image at the edge. My bet is that it's either bad collimation, or you haven't compared the view at 200x with another scope, or both. But it's hard to diagnose things over the Internet. You should probably get a 15mm eyepiece as well. You'll use it a lot, probably more than the 10mm. 

That value for aberration of starlight is "horrible" in two ways: One, in that's is very small. And two, in that it's large enough to interfere with parallax measurements. In the late 1600s, scientists had already adopted the heliocentric model, and so were looking to measure the distance to the stars via parallax. Robert Hooke was among the first to attempt it, and probably the first to claim a measurement of the parallax. His observations were not very convincing at that time, but he probably did observe some effects from aberration of starlight (though they didn't know such a thing existed back then). In the early 1700s, Bradley attempted to make a more precise measurement of parallax, and did obtain significant data, but the variations in the star positions were out of phase with the model. Using the speed of light estimate by Ole Roemer from Hooke's time, he correctly proposed that this was not parallax, but a speed-of-light phenomenon, now known as the aberration of starlight. More info here: $URL$ It took another century, until early 1800, for Bessel to measure the first parallax. Basically, aberration of starlight produces the same variation in the positions of all stars, a periodic elliptic "wobble" that is the same for all stellar objects. Parallax produces a similar kind of wobble, but the amplitude depends on the distance to the star, and the phase is different from the aberration's. There are also other effects, such as nutation, which introduce further perturbations. $URL$ 

It’s well known that (lunar) tides on Earth result in a transfer of angular momentum from Earth proper to the Earth–Moon orbital motion. That’s why the Moon resides now in a high Earth orbit, and Earth’s axial rotation is nowadays much slower than in the past (Hadean, Archean etc.). What about effects of solar tides, indeed? The angular momentum certainly must be transferred from Earth proper to the Earth–Sun orbital motion. Does it result in a tiny increase of (Earth+Moon)’s heliocentric orbital angular momentum over millenia? What about Mars and Ceres: does the solar tide brake their axial rotation and change slightly their orbits? And what about Venus: does its solar tidal braking explain the slowness of rotation completely? Addendum. The solar tide may not be confused with “dual” effect: planetary tide on the central star. It exists as well and has much significance for (extrasolar) planets on near orbits — but this question is not about tides on Sun. Ī̲’d accept an answer assuming gravity of the Sun to be spherically symmetric, neglecting Sun’s deviation from spherical symmetry, as well as rotation (even going to account for General Relativity). The solar tide is interaction between this gravity and the orbiting object. By Newton’s laws, gravitation affects Sun’s momentum reciprocally (and, hence, velocity), and we may ignore here any effect on Sun beyond its translational motion (momentum/velocity/position). 

The confusion about finite or infinite time dilation at the Schwarzschild radius began since Karl Schwarzschild in 1915 used a space-time coordinate system where coordinate time went to +∞ when a falling object approached the Schwarzschild radius. But t → +∞ for a world line that approaches the horizon is a thing different from t → +∞ far from the black hole. An object that is about to cross the horizon is in no position to synchronize clocks with an outside world. No, completely opposite situation to the OP’s expectations. If a falling observer will transmit a powerful beam of light out of the hole, then photons will reach increasingly far future of the exterior universe. But the future seen by the falling observer will be very limited; see $URL$ for graphic depiction. 

In addition to the other answers, that are right, a different doubt seem to arise from the wording of the question: 

If the question is if the Sun is in f1 or f2, the answer is that it doesn't matter. Ellipses are symmetrical, and therefore both foci are equivalent and any naming of them is just conventional. Just by saying that planets move in elliptical orbits and the Sun occupies one focus, Kepler's first law is unambiguously established. If you need to mention a particular focus, one is just the Sun position and the other one is often referred as the empty focus. 

In addition to already present good answers, I would say that if we found life on Mars on a century there is a noticeably probability of it being made from Earth microbes accidentally taken there by one of our probes or their descendants. Risk of contamination of other planets is addressed by carefully sterilization of probes but no sterilization is complete, so there is always a small risk. 

The answer depends on your definition of a day. If you define a day as we usually define it in the Earth (time between the Sun is at noon or average time between sunrises, a 24 hours day in Earth), the length of a day in the Moon is the synodic period of the Moon and it takes 29.530589 days (29 d 12 h 44 min 2.9 s). Anyway, if you define a day as rotation on own axis, that is, time between a far away star being at noon, you have what in Earth is called sidereal day (23 hours, 56 minutes in Earth). In the moon the day defined this way would be 27.321661 days (27 d 7 h 43.19 min 11.5 s). Please notice that since the Moon is tidally locked to the Earth, rotation periods equal orbital periods. 

In short: If you know length of shadow and object height (assuming vertical object casting shadow of an horizontal surface), you can tell time if you know date and you can tell date if you know time. If you know direction of shadow (e.g. relative to north) you can tell date and time without knowing any of them. The most tricky part is to measure objects and shadows from a photograph - because you need their real length and perspective distorts object and shadow lengths -. To do this you need to make some assumptions about the geometry of the objects in the photograph. In fact, if you know the geometry of the settings, after some geometrical calculation you can find the Sun position and therefore date and time. For example, with an image like this one and a detailed map, you can find date, time, position of camera and even focal length of lens - with a lot of measurement and geometry calculation, of course. However, if the only objects casting shadows in your image are trees and people, measuring their exact position and size would be impossible and date and time estimations will be quite rough, specially if the image doesn't show any other identifiable and measurable features - and even worse if you can't tell the north from features in the photo. In general, finding date and time from shadows works better with buildings, specially with sharp shaped buildings with known orientation.