Spiking in volleyball is much more about timing and approach than hand placement. I would first focus on learning when to jump and swing in regard to the set and flight of the ball. If you can't contact the ball at the right time, then it doesn't really matter what you hit it with. Personally, after practicing approach and swing, the "hitting" aspect seemed to just fall into place, but I know that's not really an acceptable answer to your question. If you check out this site, it gives a step-by-step approach of how to spike a volleyball. For the most part, I agree with everything that it suggests. Step 8 & 9 instruct: 

In the "field of 65" style tournament bracket, there were two 16-seeds (presumably the weakest teams) that had a play-in game in order to play the overall #1 seed. When they expanded to 68, it's now 4 play-in games between 16-16 seeds, 13-13 seeds, 11-11 seeds and 16-16 seeds. Why didn't they just do it between all 16 seeds? Was there specific reasoning? Is it the same seeds in each region every year or is there a mechanism for selecting which teams will play in Round 1. (I know it can be debated that playing in such a game can be a good warm-up for lower seeds, but I don't think that was the official reason.) 

So, regardless if it hits the side or back wall, the ball can only bounce at most once to keep the rally going. The rules only mention the requirement of hitting the front wall above the tin. the ball can strike any other wall at anytime provided the ball only has at most bounced once. 

No. The positions are fixed and each player will have to fill those positions. As far as position formations there are no variations like there are in football. However, during a match, depending on strategy players may either swap position or location on the field during a phase or 2, but only really skilled teams can do this since it is important to fill your roll and have the knowledge that the guy next to you is where you expect so you can pass to them. In other cases utility players (typically backs) can be skilled enough to fill a different positions. (i.e. a player may be able to play full-back, or wing). Nowadays teams like the All Blacks pick players that can fill different positions off the bench. Forwards tend to be rather specialized so don't mix so much. Really only the flankers (6/7/8) could have players interchange but the tight 5 are so specialized they tend to stay in that position. 

I read a USA Today article that talked about how Tiger Woods is nearly 2000 under par* for his career. I've tried searching, but how does this compare to others all-time? Obviously this is a rolling score since Tiger could end up shooting over par for the rest of his career and end up at 1500 under or something, but is this the lowest in history? I'm just looking for some comparable stat to compare against the other all time greats' career scores. 

To expand on gbianchi's answer, it's often typical in team sports to rate a defensive player on the offensive proficiency of the person he is covering. Rating a defensive player on goals scored, tackles, and headers might not really be indicative of how well he is playing. If Lionel Messi comes into a game averaging 4 shots/game and has 0, that is a good indication of how well the defender was playing. This type of analysis obviously requires some amount of knowledge about the opposing players, but from my experience, the type of people who care about rating defenders are the ones who follow the game pretty well. Nonchalant fans are the ones who are watching the ball the whole time. 

Which means throwing the ball down at the wicket (which is much harder than the grass) could damage the ball. The umpire may warn the player (and captain) of such behaviour according to this rule. 

Now if you are attempting to run out the batsman a fielder wants to hit the stumps. A ball that bounces actually takes longer to get to the wickets since the bounce slows the ball and the trajectory is slightly further. However a bouncing ball has more accuracy than one on the full. It is harder to hit the stumps on the full than a bouncing ball. This decision is a split second decision. Now as far as a returning the ball just to reset the game (no run out) a fielder should throw the ball on the full, and not hard either. A bouncing ball may make it more difficult for the wicketkeeper to catch and may risk overthrows. As for damaging the ball Law 42 (FAIR AND UNFAIR PLAY) has a clause: 

Eventually Jenebah Tarmoh pulled out from the tie-break and surrendered the spot to Felix. A situation like this is obviously rare and will probably only happen in shorter distances. 

First, it's important to understand what constitutes "finishing" a race in Track and Field. The winner is not the first person to get a body part across the line or "touch the tape" as you referred. The winner is the first person to get their torso across the finish line. A situation similar to this occurred in the US Olympic trials for the 2012 London Olympics. Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh tied for 3rd (which was important because only the top 3 qualify for the Olympic team). Originally, Tarmoh was declared the winner by .0001 seconds, but later they determined it was a tie (the cameras they used shot at 3000 fps - quite capable of determining a tie). If this were to happen in the Olympics, both would be awarded the bronze medal. If the tie were for 1st, they would both be awarded a gold medal and the 3rd finisher would be awarded a bronze and no silver would be awarded (This happened in 2000 when Gary Hall Jr. and Anthony Ervin tied in the 50M freestyle swim). However, because only 3 members of team could qualify, a tie breaker was necessary. The USATF (nor the IAAF - the international governing body of T&F) had no rules in place to settle this particular tie, so they resorted to the following: 

As can be seen, the first was in 1998, 2 years 6 months after the previous cricket world cup. The hosting of the 1999 world cup would have been determined by then (and the date) so having it every 2 yrs since would not have caused any clash. You can also see they adjusted in 2009 (3 yr gap) which was caused by concern over pakistan security hosting the 2008 trophy. After that it became every 4 years and would fall right in the middle of the world cup cycle, which worked out quite well. Another consideration perhaps is down to the 5 other major global sporting events and their dates (Summer and Winter olympics, Rugby World cup, Football (Soccer) World cup, Commonwealth Games), all of which are in 4 year cycles. 

In the 4 majors of Tennis, the men in the singles competition need to play the best of 5 sets. From what I have seen, is that if a player plays a 5 setter and wins, they are going to have less of a chance of winning the next match than if they had won by 3 sets (just my observation). This is considering more about endurance, stamina and fatigue rather than skill or who they play against in the next round. Have there been such analysis done and if so what is the probabilities. Like saying that the same player against the same opponent in the next round is a % greater chance of losing if they played a 5 set match beforehand instead of a 3 set match. 

DISCLAIMER: I am not a doctor, nor do I claim any sort of medical expertise. If you are experiencing discomfort beyond normal soreness, I would recommend seeing a competent doctor. I merely intend to impart my personal insights and experience. I'm not sure if I understand "Where is the red spoted zone", but the picture you provided is pointing to the sartorius (the upper line) as well as the quadricep ("quad" - the lower line). If both of these are hurting it's probably two separate issues that could've been caused by any number of things. The sartorius connects the interior knee to the anterior (outside) hip. If you're consistently getting problems with this, your spine could be out of alignment which is causing your hip to pull in an unnatural direction. As stated before, I would suggest seeing a competent chiropractor/sports medicine doctor. I consider myself to be an above-average runner, but I've never run the 15-20k/day for 6 days/week as you mentioned. Your body needs rest and time to recover. If you don't let your muscles recover, after time they become stressed and incredibly susceptible to increased injury (especially when there might be an existing injury that's been neglected). This article talks about the necessities of recovery and how it might vary from person to person. It might give you a better idea of how to maximize your recovery and workouts. My suggestion: see a doctor. Determine what the issue is, then when you've fixed it, you can ask for better help about how to avoid it. 

It does come down to the specific organisation running the game but generally the rules are consistent. Injury is more detailed and depends on its severity, but I would not call that so much as a 'break' 

If you look at the time of year these world cups took place the time between them are almost comparible. wikipedia list 

So with all the above, LBW is considered at the point of first strike of the body without the bat. If that is not LBW, he is only given out if he swipes at the ball to prevent the ball touching the wicket with his hand unless it is to avoid injury. Using the bat to prevent the ball striking the wickets after the shot has been played (and already made contact with either the body or bat) is considered not out. If any other part of the body including and it is deliberate then it should be out. I have seen this happen in matches and have not seen anyone given out 

Because attending game would include travel, lodging, tickets, etc. that weren't readily available to the general students, it became a violation. Players' travel, lodging, food, etc. can be provided by the school if it directly correlates with the athletic event the team is participating in. Since the team wasn't participating, benefits couldn't be provided. As an FYI, given the circumstances the NCAA did grant an exception to this that would've allowed U of Louisville to pay for the team's expenses to travel to this event. However, the team had already made arrangements to travel home. 

(emphasis added) If you feel like you've already got your approach down, try these suggestions, I think they'll work for you. 

There isn't a rule stipulating who "can" cut down the net. In terms of numbers, there are typically 12 connections of the net to the rim (which could be cut 24 times if they needed more). Normally, the players on the team (up to 12 per NCAA rules) will cut off a piece of one of the connecting strings as a momento. However, if there are honorary people who helped the team in some way, they usually are also given an opportunity to cut a piece as well (read the following article for such a case). Typically, the head coach cuts down the last string which brings down the net, but in the case of the 2013 NCAA championship, Louisville's Kevin Ware cut down the last 3 "connections" to bring down the net. (Kevin Ware had a gruesome injury during the Elite 8 and wasn't able to play in the Final Four or Championship game). Whether assistants or staff do/can, it's really up to the team. This is largely a ceremonial event to celebrate the champions, so it's at their discretion. In my experience, they typically leave it to the players and head coach to do the cutting, but others may get a piece of the net later. As a matter of history, you can check out this article detailing the origin of the tradition. It wasn't always as ceremonial as it is today. 

I did not see the coverage so cannot comment on their disagreement however when fielding within closer proximity there are considerations the fielder must make. 

So basically once the batsmen complete the first run (which is the only run required to win) then the match ends. If the ball goes to the boundary then that won't count, and therefore the batsman will only be credited 1 run not 4. However if the ball goes to the boundary before they complete the first run then 4 runs will be given to the batsman (and the team score also), since once it reaches the boundary the match ends. 

Note that the Rugby world cup and Commonwealth games features almost the same nations as the cricket world cup. As you can see the "even" years are pretty jam packed so making it the "odd" makes sense, though they are the same years as the cricket world cup which could make planning harder so they don't happen at the same time. Remember, all these tournaments take a lot of money to host and the TV rights, sponsor money and getting the people in are all important. Having the lesser sport of cricket not competing with the likes of the Summer Olympics would work in their favour.