It depends which part of the wrist you want to reinforce. I suggest to strenghten your hand muscles and your forearm muscle. Any grip based exercise will be good. Armwrestlers use these type of tools to strenghten their grip power and aswell their wrist and forearm muscles. Also try to work on your range of motion. Remember that having a healty fascia tissue is key to avoid injuries. Common stretching exercises for forearms are not so complicated and you can find them anywhere. 

Hearth rate is a consequence of how you use your body. It is regulated by catecholamines ( a class of hormones that includes adrenaline and noradrenaline ). It's not a problem if you do that in such short amount of time. A lot of sports require immediate changes of pace in terms running or cycling. 

If you want to maximize mechanical and metabolic stimuli you want to be consequential in the exercise order. The best option is to target for first the muscle group you want to prioritaze. There's a misconception in the bodybuilding/online community that you can isolate a certain muscle group. That is actually not realistic. There will be always more than one muscle group involved, the difference is in the amplitude of stimuli. Obviously the fact that biceps ( for exemple ) are fatigued prior to back training is not taking anything away from your back training and vice versa. It's just a matter of focus and precision. 

What you want to do is having the smaller deficit possible and recharge your glycogen stores on rest days ( you can do this by having a calorie/week deficit but eating more, and expecially carbs, on rest days ). To answer your question: yes, you can and will lose muscle mass but the magnitude and the onset of this loss will depend by several factors you didnt even mention. 

Is actually the opposite. With increased health of the fascia you will actually get a structure called CRIMP that is found in young and healthy connective tissue. This will garant an optimal transmission of kinetic energy through the muscular-skeletal structure and improve your stability. When you stretch you do not act only on the myofibrils, but the part of the muscle you modify is the cytoskeleton ( intended as the whole structure ) and the connective tissue ( comprising of tendons ). 

You can absolutely do them on the same day. There's no way why you should restrain on doing them. You just have to manage your total workload based on how you feel physically and mentally or based on your overall periodization regimen. 

Exercise stimulus is a pro-inflammatory process. If you do a quick search in scientific litterature you will notice. The best way to reduce inflammation was thought to be cold exposure, but has been widely debunked in recent decades. The best way to reduce inflammation is probably recovery, and with this I mean every kind of low intensity active recovery type of activity. This will actually increase blood flow in the district area and reduce inflammation. If you are referring to whole body inflammatory process, oriental meditative disciplines are claimed to be useful in this sense: but no real proof at all of this. 

The metabolic hypertrophy stimulus actually involves "no" part in mechano transduction ( how biologically the body translate the loading on the muscle in molecular signals ). Actually this signal is translated as the amount of work at the given intensity the body does. The molecule that does that is called calmodulin, and is sensitive to calcium transient inside the muscle cell and actually targets its downstreams and produces changes in the muscle ( changes in the organelles, enzymes, and structure ). [1] Mechanical hypertrophy stimulus 

On top of that there are several other factors that the article covers ( but not in line with strictly what you ask ), that I'm not going to quote here but you can find in the article and are: 

Common sense is that you avoid any load on your back, and expecially from squats and deadlifts ( direct putting load on vertebrae ). Anecdotal experience is not reliable at all. Here is a study that shows how a load can worsen idiopatic scoliosis ( that is the less severe case and reversible ). Even if its a transient load and not a constant one, I wouldnt recommend it. P.S. Those workout you linked are absolute garbage: not a single indication and just no consideration of any personal characteristic, they are just there to be. No mention to squat or dead for scoliosis. 

Just quit the whole body fat mentality. This advice of mine is really generic but you can take some benefits from it. One of the main reason could be that you're dieting wrong, or as someone suggested your abs are underdeveloped. Or you could be genetically prone to lose belly fat later than the other regions of your body ( and with this there's nothing you can do ). You're basically asking if you're doing something wrong. Probably even your training regimen could be flawed. High volumes of training during these phases are detrimental. I advice you to go back to a bulking phase a study a better plan for next dieting window. 

First of all you have to build your speed up. With this I intend that you have to slowly adapt to a certain speed you consider ideal: 

I really advice you to get this paper and read it. It's not complicated, and in my honest opinion is the best aviable right now. 

Is it possibile but not that much. Two weeks are yet only two weeks. Your case has a problem: that you've been inactive for a long period of time. You can't provide a tremendous amount of workload just from nowhere; you must at least restart the machine and try to acquire all lost physical skills ( flexibility, strenght, and conditional capacities ). It also depends on you as individual and how you tolerate training loads and how your body responds to them. 

Always work on your flexibility: at least one day in every microcycle you have to work on whole body flexibility to keep that fascia healty. The reason is because cytoskeleton, to work at his best, needs tension to be transmitted evenly and nicely along the whole muscle lenght and width. Only having a good and healthy fascia you will maximize your mechanical stimulus and avoid injuries. This workout session can be put either on a separate day as the resistance training ones, or you can utilize the time before training ( I strongly recommend ) to perform an active stretching mixed with warm-up exercises. Always work the tecnique of the main exercises: I am referring to basic foundations on squats, deadlifts and overhead press ( I don't recommend Bench Press to anyone ). Tecnique work is more a mental work. You're trying to build the neural patterns and actually internalize the movement so the motor skill become as familiar as possible in the correct way. You have to learn with proper emulative exercise ( splitting the exercise in chunks and work on the muscle to activate in that particular moment ) to activate muscle groups and use them all. 

It depends on the exercise but I wouldn't recommend it. First of all you can develop muscular imbalances. Second thing, you could actually injury yourself due to uneven load on passive structures ( ligaments and joints ). The only case in which you can use different loads is in isolated circumstances due to a recover from an injury. For exemple you are using a leg extensor machine first with one leg and then with the other leg that is actually recovering from an injury or vice versa. Loading the barbell with highly uneven load in some cases will cause you majour balance issues and make impossibile to perform the exercise. 

I know this is an old question, but I can provide this with a different approach and a different perspective. My advices are provided and to be utilized as long as you are healthy and don't have any majour disease. Part of what I'm actually writing is taken from a book I've written myself that has the structure of a notional book with plenty of reference and research in the scientific field ( so I will try basically to make a big sum of what the book is about, since it answers the exact same question you're making ). So here the key factor is: as soon as possible. Thus we want to focus on two particular stimuli taken by training: metabolic and mechanic. Here's the question: why didn't I just come up with the old sarcoplasmic and myofibrillar hypertrophy tale? First of all because it has not convincingly been proved by academic research and still dwells in the limbo between broscience and science. Secondly, most of the people in the field tend to approach the argument with an only regard to cytoplasm ( also known as sarcoplasm ) and myofibrils. Hypertrophy is far more complex than that. Expecially if you want to comprehend all its mechanism ( and yet not everything is understood ). So I'm going with mechanical hypertrophy stimulus, and metabolic hypertrophy stimulus. You may argue that is basically the same thing, but actually I'm putting emphasis on the cause and not on the consequence and that is crucial.