They never explicitly considered secession, but the structure they set up prohibits secession. Klarman is very good for this, as is Maier. 

The critical period of the National Assembly (the episode I linked in the prior paragraph) was a bizarre case of everyone proposing that someone else's prerogatives be nullified. The National Assembly fought for some time to find a way to preserve the relationship with Rome. As I understand it, they thought they had a solution. THey were, unfortunately, mistaken. The French Revolution took place in the context of a global revolution in epistemology & belief. The power of the church had been on a decline, the power of science had been on the rise. This was going to affect the revolution somehow. Although the National Assembly included clerics, many of them were Bishops and above who were not aligned with or incentivized by Rome. Counterintuitive, but true. 

To Althea, from Prison Napoleon was imprisoned. He could not travel beyond the confines of the island, nor could anyone visit him. "Prison" isn't defined by the quality of the cell, but by the restrictions on liberties and the possession of civil rights. Napoleon's world was bounded by the coastline of the island, and he had effectively no civil rights. Had the guards decided to abridge his privileges, Napoleon could not have appealed to anyone. As far as granting him title to the island, the title of Emperor and the "possession" of the island are utterly meaningless. "Emperor" is meaningless if you are your only subject (the British guards on the island remained subjects of the English crown). Titles are only meaningful when they are in the context of an effective, powerful state, and supported by some governance. I wouldn't be surprised to discover that the title was more of an insult than a consolation. 

The Assize establishes arms as an obligation of a full citizen and prohibits the right to Jews and others. The requirement extends down to the lowest born freeman. 

Depending on OP's interpretation of "knighthood" and how loose the answer can be: Scaly Llama - My favorite source on the topic. British History Podcast - I highly recommend this discussion of Aethefladd (I think episodes 270 through about 280 touch on the subject). BHP covers a number of high ranking commanders who happen to have been female, but my favorite is Aethfladd. " Among the towns where she built defences were Bridgnorth, Tamworth, Stafford, Warwick, Chirbury and Runcorn. In 917 she sent an army to capture Derby, the first of the Five Boroughs of the Danelaw to fall to the English, a victory described by Tim Clarkson as "her greatest triumph". In 918 Leicester surrendered without a fight. Shortly afterwards the Viking leaders of York offered her their loyalty, but she died on 12 June 918 before she could take advantage of the offer, . . . " Isabella of Portugal, Duchess of Burgundy - ". . . , when Charles VII of France began attacking Burgundy in January 1432, Philip—leaving Coudenburg to defend Dijon—ordered that she represent him during his absence." Women of the Cousin's war - this is a preferred source in how we think about women in warfare, and how their contemporaries felt about them. This isn't a simple source, but it helped me tremendously to understand how to interpret history about women in warfare. Based on this book I conclude that Margaret Beaufort commanded troops in the field. She Wolves (hat tip to @AlgyTaylor for this one) including the Empress Matilda, Eleanor of Acquitaine, etc. There are many examples of women commanding troops in defense during a siege - I'll have to wait till my professional historian girlfriend has time - she has a rant on this subject. Wikipedia lists quite a few Mental Floss has another set Ms. Magazine lists a few Rejected Princesses has to be mentioned just for the name. Margaret of Anjou if you don't mind leaving Europe, Tomoe Gozen my personal favorite. Japanese women were trained to, and expected to defend themselves and their territory. I believe Aisha (one of the wives of the prophet Mohammed) won reknown on the battlefield. (Hat tip to @Leo for reminding me of her name) There is a lot of work going on right now in this field - recontextualizing our understanding of women warriors. I have a few more references scattered about the house, but I don't have time to find them right now. Marking this as CW so others can contribute. 

Burnet's History of my own time and Rushworth's Historical Collections and Annals of the Coinage by Ruding, Rogers 

A quick google on Judaism might address whether there were monotheists. In any society that tolerated Jews, there were monotheists. The other trivial example is Akhenaten. There is also a Hindu teaching story about a man who so vigorously and vehemently denied the existence of god that upon his death he transcended. (Sorry cannot find a cite, and I fear I may have botched my recollection; I welcome corrections from those more knowledgeable). Google reveals results like this Of course you may really have intended to ask whether there is a history of intolerance by polytheistic religions against members of their societies that chose to deny the polytheistic nature of the religion. I think that question is impossible to answer; there are too many polytheistic societies, and what may be true in one generation may be different 50 miles or 50 years away. 

I'll provide a few comparisons; this is an interesting question that deserves a book length treatment. My apologies if in my attempt to be brief I oversimplify either side. The American revolution occurred at the beginning of the British imperial age; the first Indian rebellion occurred during the height of Imperial power. The American revolution occurred during a time when the English constitution was undergoing significant reform; the first Indian revolution took place when the English consitution was fixed. Without getting too Whigish, the American revolution was driven by the desire to guarantee English rights to Englishmen living in English territory, and so enjoyed significant popular support even within the mother country. ("independence" was an accidental outcome desired by neither side). India sought rights which were somewhat alien to the English domestic population. John Bull could sympathize with the notion that an Englishman shouldn't be taxed without representation; it was more difficult to persuade John Bull that enlisted men should be protected against beef tallow. The American revolution had a relatively coherent ideology; the Indian revolution as wikipedia states, failed to provide a corresponding ideology. Probably the most important factor was that the United States relied on the assistance of France, while India had no similar external ally. Update: @Lohoris asks about the native populations. Both countries had native populations. The British policy in America was to displace the native population and settle the territory as English territory. (Jack Rakove's lectures are indispensible to understanding this), while India was more densely populated and the British policy centered on economic exploitation rather than full displacement and incorporation. I think the British strategy in India was in part derived from the results of the American revolution, which is one of several reasons I chose not to address it. I think the role of the British relationship to the native population is complex and nuanced, and I know that I'm not qualified to address that question, and I'd be very skeptical of anyone who tried to deal with that question in an essay the length of a SE post. I'd love someone to analyze the diversity of the rebelling populations, the role of the Company, and other factors. 

The reason for the meeting was finance. I don't have that research to hand, but France was absolutely screwed for finance. They had a structural deficit and had tried everything (including inventing entirely new and fantastic monetary systems, firing successive finance ministers, etc. There wasn't a mechanism to levy new taxes or to change the allocation of existing taxes. It had been tried, and internal inertia and hostile stakeholders had ruined the effort (Imagine that every bureacrat in France was [Ted Cruz], 2). update in response to comments. The King could declare a new tax, but unless he went door to door to collect it, he would receive no tax revenue. Tax collectors performed the function their fathers did, in the way their fathers did, and distributed the revenue the way their fathers did. The tax collector didn't work for an institution, he held a sinecure, and there was no real way to remove him from office. (which had something to do with the levels of corruptions which are unimaginable to modern students.) Every tax collector, every judge, every magistrate, every gendarme, every minor elected official had their own version of how the government was supposed to work. (actually they had two - one they paid lip service to, and one they actually carried out day to day.) If the King declared "Water is wet", the entrenched bureaucracy of these street level bureaucrats woudl interpret that as "The King has declared that water is wet, and in accordance with my ancient perogatives and the authority of my office, I interepret that to mean that I should have more Jam on my bread!". And there wasn't anyone in the whole country that could disagree. The king could dismiss you from his presence, and might be able to dismiss you from a top level office, but he didn't control enough offices in the country to make a difference. It was "personal rule" not just because he ruled without governance, but because the limit of his authority was the limit of his personal influence. There is an excellent source (I've lost the title and reference, but the paper made a deep impression on me) about efforts to reform the French Salt Tax. Can anyone recall? France didn't have the equivalent of a constitution, or a real legislative branch. France had a perplexing combination of absolute personal rule combined with entrenched customs that could not be altered by any known mechanism. If I remember correctly, the Estates General was called as a "Hail Mary" play - get the largest possible buy in to the emergency measures necessary to keep the country from disintegrating into anarchy.