Take the plunge and try it! Either you'll find that you don't enjoy it or you'll have discovered a wonderful new aspect to cycling. Regardless, you're only out a race fee. Community The cycling community is just like that of any other sport. You have some people who are pros, those who were, some who wish they were, some who think they are and some who don't care. Within every group, you have the people who are out to crush everyone and those that just want to have fun. It becomes an incredibly complex and impossible to map ecosystem, but in the end it doesn't matter; what matters is that you are getting what you want to be getting out of the sport. Find a group of people who are interested in the same things as you and ride with them. If you enjoy it, great. If not, keep looking. I have one weekly group ride that turns into a hammerfest, while the next day I have one where we usually all hang out at the shop later. It is what you make it. If you're looking for "cycling buddies" who are also interested in racing, one option is to look around at some of the more race-focused bike shops in your area. See if they have group rides and jump into one! Technical competitiveness When I started racing, I was on a bike I bought used for $200. My current bike was purchased used for less than $1000. Both bikes have modern shifters, are 9 or 10sp, weigh around 20lbs and are more than adequate to keep pace with or beat people on bikes costing 10x as much, especially at the low- to mid-levels (Cat 3/4/5 in the US). From my experience (marketing departments to the contrary), the bike typically isn't the thing that holds a cyclist back. That being said, my advice would be to try to ensure your bike has these main advancements: 

I'd like to mention that there's more than one kind of Gore-Tex (Gore-Tex is a manufacturer and brand of fabric by the way, which various other clothing manufacturers then use to make jackets etc.). For example, MEC mention at least 3 maybe 4 kinds, some heavier, some more breathable: 

Is this also true in France? I asked a french man (the father of a competitive cyclist) who replied something which implied, "no": that cyclists should keep right at all times, and that although groups ride two-abreast, they return to single-file if a car approaches from behind. I would like to double-check: is it legal, and is it at all customary or is it likely to annoy or cause aggressive driving? Examples of when I might want to use it include: 

So 50 km is routine. I once tried 100 km and, as I remember it (pleasantly), that seemed no more difficult than 50 (though it took longer obviously; I was alone and not racing/pushing hard) ... except, one difference, I have a partial bottle of water (when it's not too hot) but usually don't snack during 50 (which takes me 2 hours or so); and for the 100 I used several bottles (I knew where to refill en route) and bought a snack for the way home, not that I was sure I needed the snack but to make sure that I wouldn't suffer a lack it. Having some rest (a rest day before the ride) might be important. I guess that exercise actually makes you weaker, and it's the recovery/rest that you have after exercise that makes you stronger. I don't know what clothes you have, you'll want things (e.g. shorts, shoes, and gloves) that don't chafe. I don't use bike shorts (i.e. the "chamoix" mentioned in a comment) but I'm choosy about what cotton shorts I wear, and I do use bike shoes and gloves (though bike shoes need special pedals and maybe longer than 6 days of practice). 

If this is present on your rental bike, the chain will very likely slip under load (like when you're out of the saddle) - especially when combined with a worn chain. 

In addition to improperly tuned derailleurs, drivetrain slippage may also be caused by a worn chain or cassette. Worn Chain: One way to check whether the chain is worn is to use a chain wear indicator. They're cheap and easy to carry with you, but if you'd rather not buy one and if the rental place has a repair shop, you could ask to either borrow theirs or see if they could check the chain wear. You would use that tool by placing it in the chain like this: 

An article on VeloNews about EPO use featured the following photo of Lance Armstrong from Stage 8 of the 2003 Tour de France: 

Most likely sodium. However, a lot of it depends on the person. One person might need more of one electrolyte than another, so it's difficult to make a judgment on the order of your "most critical" electrolytes. A sweat test would be a great way of testing which it might be. 

In common cycling parlance, 53/39 is referred to as "standard" gearing for road cranksets, and most mechanics or experienced cyclists will understand that if you say you have a "standard crankset", you have a 53/39. Why is this the case? Who or what caused cycling to specifically adopt 53/39 as "standard" (rather than 52, 51, 50, etc)? Most bikes nowadays ship with a compact crankset, since manufacturers recognize that the majority of cyclists have difficulties turning over a 53T chainring. However, that only explains why 53/39 is not shipped as standard equipment on most bikes, it doesn't explain how 53/39 came to be referred to as "standard". As to the "ego/testosterone" explanation, that explains why some cyclists upgrade from compact cranksets. However, there are cyclists that are more than capable of turning a 53T chainring and, therefore, their reasoning for using a 53T does not involve ego/testosterone/posturing. Additionally, this explanation doesn't really explain why 53T is the "standard" big ring, rather than 54T or 55T. A comment on a previous question sparked this (apologies to that user as I can't seem to find their comment now). 

No, of course not. Having your bike wet and unlibricated for one day won't damage it in any way. Washing it and letting it unlubricated for long period of time will cause you some issues. But one day is not a problem... 

I suppose you are a beginner. If you are not oriented to racing xc, get a cheaper bike. Once you have learned technical stuff and have concluded to the ride discipline you prefer, get a serious bike. 

Apart from setting up his suspension and his tyre pressure (around 27-29psi if talking about downhill bikes, tubes and tyres), he can't do much... It's all about his skills. He can only practice. Bikes don't make riders. Lack of brains does (always with the good meaning ). I have found myself riding faster than guys with serious downhill bikes, on a 120mm full suspension trail bike. Push your friend to go harder. Ride hard, ride free 

There will definitely be some geometry differences compared to what the manufacturer made the frame you will choose for. Unless of course you want to make an enduro bike with 180mm front suspension, so its not enduro anymore! If I wanted to build something nice and strong from the beginning, I would start with an enduro frame. Both frame options can get any peripherials we want - fine! As far as suspensios are concerned though, we need to bee ccautious, cause their size affects geometry. Bigger suspensions up to 20mm are acceptable to most frames and geometries. I wouldn't personally risk go lower though. DH bikes are made for 180-200mm and putting a 160mm enduro fork would mean bad behaviour from the frame and the fork in trails, bacuse geometry is ruined. But an enduro frame upgraded from 160 to 180mm is not that terrible. Actually is not terrible at all, its awesome and its predictable both by manufacturers and riders! 

It can be safe and/or it can be dangerous: depending on the road, the time of day, and how you ride. I have been hit once (from behind, not my fault). 

The destination is "Bosques del Poniente". The approach from the north east crosses the "Monterrey-Saltillo" highway. To avoid that, approach from the south: for example via "Robles" and "Benito Juarez". Continuing to work backwards, south of "Robles" is "Mar Rojo" which looks residential. I expect that residential roads have less traffic, slower and with fewer trucks, so easier for cycling. To approach that neighborhood, staying south of Highway 40 ("Diaz Ordaz"), maybe take "Hermenegildo Galeana" as a good east-west route for cycling. So a route like $URL$ (or, even better if there's a bike-only route that would let you start your journey heading southwest, to get onto "Bravo" or "Miguel Castilo y Costilla"). 

So: around freezing. Coming home on Friday (no snow or anything) it was around 0C / 32F, with an intermittent 20mph / 30kph wind. I was wearing cycling shoes, cycling-specific full-length jeans, a thin sport shirt, a zip-up thin woolen jersey with the zip partially down and the sleeves pushed up, and gloves. At the end of my hour-long commute, a group of pedestrians (all wearing coats) asked if I wasn't cold: but I was hot. When I got home I was still warm (slightly sweating). But although the inside of me was warm and pumped, the outside of my skin was cold (even under my shirt). Cycling can let you burn quite a lot of calories. Also my feet were numbing by the end, and thank goodness for warm-enough (but not too warm) gloves. I'm trying some Sugoi Firewall GT cycling gloves, which have a built-in lining, and don't get too hot. I think I'll use warmer gloves, and a wind-proof shell, and do something about my feet, when it gets colder (below freezing). Your commute is 4.5 miles, so 7 km. I cycle that in 20 or 25 minutes (to give you an estimate of how hot I'm running). If the road surface gets treacherous (e.g. snowy) then you want to be dressed more warmly, because you dare not (for safety) cycle so fast, and therefore can't generate as much body heat (mitigated slightly by there being less wind at lower speeds). 

Bottom bracket and the inside of the frame might get oxidised (rusty). Cover the hole with a plastic bag or something else, to prevent rain from going inside your frame. 

Gloves are pretty handy. First of all, they offer better grip with the handlebar, without causing skin loosening or similar symptoms. Secondly, they help avoid scratches and injuries in case of fall or passing through trails with thick bushes (mtb). They are also a good piece of fabric to absorb sweat and clean your googles. Last, but not least, they might be great when theres cold/wind/rain. 

Before outnumbering some key points I usually look when I want to buy a bike, I will tell you this: Ride them both. Form an opinion for each one and buy the one you think that comes better to you. 

First and foremost... Yes, you can definitely ride trails on a hardtail and it will help you get lots of technical skills that a full suspension bike wouldn't give you, unless you jumped class (enduro) on a trail bike. Plus, it will be way more comfortable riding in the city. Secondly, given your budget, i would suggest you didn't make a custom one. Buy a new one. There are lots of good ones on that budget. 

Compare their peripherials (suspension, drivetrain, brakes etc). Check what their manufacturer made them for and the warranty provided. If you have two bikes having drivetrain from the same manufacturer, it is wise you choose the one that might have a better series on (why get sram x9 if you can have xx for example). What is the frame warranty from the manufacturer? Make sure you know what are you spending your money to. Both bikes you are looking at are expensive xc bikes with some top peripherials. What discipline do you really want to ride? Do you need something that expensive? Are you a competitor, or just a fan of mtb? What is your experience level? Beginner or pro? Spending a huge amount of money on a bike as a beginner is wrong. Learning and evolving on a reliable, yet not top of the class bike, will make you a better rider. 

I'm going to take a wild guess that it might be because you don't have fenders: that it doesn't matter how often or how well you maintain your chain, if it's filthy again within 5 minutes of getting on the road. Also, the usage instructions for your Pro Link lube suggest that you shouldn't be sticking your chain in a solvent: that there's a cleaner built in to the lube itself. 

If you're planning to have accidents, then armour (e.g. as worn by inline skaters) might be cool and protective: because it would only cover your points, e.g. elbows. 

It's worth getting tires like Marathon Plus which I hope won't flat, but run well. It's important to keep tires inflated: a good pump at home. 

The seat-back curves backwards towards its top. So if your child were a little higher in the seat (taller/older or, perhaps, sitting on a cushion), then their head would lean back more. Having a little padding behind the upper back and neck shoulders (so that there's more room for the head to fall backwards) might do too: a "travel neck pillow". The back of the helmet is pushing the head forward, away from the seat (but I can't suggest altering the helmet). 

Discover that tire is flat when I'm riding Reinflate the tire without fixing it, and steer towards home Tire remains inflated for at least 20 minutes before it needs reinflating 

I use a lock from $URL$ instead of having a Quick Release: so the wheels are already locked to the bike, and I needn't carry a secondary lock.