Unfortunately, you can't change the shape of your muscles (you're not going to be able to morph your peak to width ratio), but you can work on the illusion. If you're not already, consider adding reverse curls and hammer curls to your training program. 

In short, yes, your daily walks are aerobic activity (definitely not anaerobic...start farmer's walking that distance, and you'll really get some looks as you pass people). Just about any by-the-book doctor would applaud your efforts; you're doubling the American Heart Association's recommendation of 150 minutes/week of light-to-moderate aerobic activity. Is it enough to compliment your resistance training? Yes, in general terms. Your light-to-moderate hour/day walks are slowly improving--at least maintaining--your heart's ability to deliver fuel and remove waste from your muscles. That said, some anaerobic "cardio" every now in then (e.g., interval hill sprints) will improve your muscles' efficiency to use that fuel. If your aim is to be (or continue being) a generally healthy individual, keep doing what you're doing. That said, I'd recommend experimenting with some shorter-session, higher intensity training once or twice a week if you can fit it in your schedule; especially if you consider more specific, performance oriented goals in the future. 

Both of these lifts train the brachialis and the brachioradialis (as well as the biceps brachii). Growing these commonly neglected muscles, and continuing to train the lateral, medial and long head of the triceps, will grow your arms' overall cirumference, and likely add the perception of increased "fatness". 

Moderate exercise boosts your immune system, but you experience diminishing returns as you increase in intensity (one study here). The two biggest factors that can have negative effects on your immune system are inflammation (inflammation suppresses your immune cells), and overtraining syndrome (list of symptoms to monitor). David and Berin's answers are solid; get plenty of sleep, eat right (especially avoiding foods that cause an inflammatory response in your body), and allow yourself to recover. The only thing I would add, especially if your going hard during those two hours, is listen to your body before, during, and after training. Consider monitoring biomarkers like HR, HRV, CNS tap testing on a daily basis; push through discomfort, but don't push through pain; and on the days you're working out, if you're not feeling it, don't kill it. 

For several weeks now, I have noticed a mild pain on my right knee after squats, I am on strong lifts 5*5, 57Kg/179cm/M. My squats weight reached 115 lbs but for the last two sessions have brought it down to 95 lbs to see if the pain is still there. Although its nothing like a pain that stops me from daily activities, but its more kind of a sensation that occurs during the day. Upon searching about the form, I did the following things, I squat like I am about to sit on a chair, I discarded tennis shoes and used flat shoes, I keep my feet at 30 degrees and shoulder width apart. Please advice me what can I do to avoid this pain and keep increasing weight seamlessly, thanks! 

My workout routine is as follows: Chest/Biceps Legs Back/Triceps Shoulders and Legs again. I want to include some good core/ab exercises, please recommend some and tell me on which routines should I add them. I am a skinny person, looking to build mass. I weigh 57 Kgs and am 180 cm tall. In the past I have been doing planks, crunches, decline board sit up, leg raises. Also is it possible for me have those engraved ab muscles? 

Basically started with the low bar squat (following StrongLift 5*5) but being very skinny (179 cm, 58 KG) the bar doesn't rest at the shelf created in scapula as described by Mark Rippetoe in this video. If I try going that low, the bone hurts there. This led me to squat with the bar a little up, somewhere on the traps, which qualifies for the high bar squat. Things went smoothly till now, when for the last couple of workouts I noticed a mild knee pain afterwards, its just some sensation that I know goes away with rest. Secondly as the weight has got a bit heavier the current bar placement also feels on the bone, which I guess causes the thumb to go numb after the workout. Here is the video I shot today to check my form. Please advice me for these two issues and point out things that I can do to improve my squats and bear more weight. 

If your goal is simply to achieve the ability to do a bunch of push ups, you should attack it with volume (in other words, you gotta do a lot of push ups to do a lotta push ups). Spread out the load throughout the day. Here's how I would take it if my max rep range was 5: 

I'm 6'4 250 lbs, and a current BJJ and kickboxing practitioner (though I compete very rarely). I have a couple favorite methods I use to stay in decent fighting shape: Two handed, lightweight (~35 lbs in our case) kettlebell swings. I really try to focus on driving the bell down, and using the hip action to pop the bell up. The explosiveness, especially in the hips, is fantastic for supplementing striking power. I've also recently fallen in love with the sledgehammer. A lot of folks hit a tire indoors, but I prefer hitting gravel piles, for what it's worth. I typically alternate both sides using a 12 lbs hammer. I usually design my workout in intervals based on the length of rounds I'm training for. For instance, if I'm training for 3 minute rounds, I'll do kb swings for a minute, sledge swings for a minute, then shadow box (usually working on a particular set of combinations for a minute). Rest however much time you're alloted in between rounds, and repeat the cycle the maximum number of rounds the fight might last. This will probably gas you pretty good. don't overdo it, especially the first few times. I train in class twice a week, lift heavy three times, do light aerobic work twice, and a high intensity anaerobic cardio workout like this max twice a week (and mobility and stretching whenever I can). That said, you'll probably have to feel it out for yourself. 

My workout is divided as follows: Chest/Biceps, Legs, Back/Triceps and Shoulders. I workout 4-6 days a week, depending on my week's schedule. I have been off work lately for these past 15 days and working out with full swing. Although I have noticed that even when I get 8 hour sleep at night, I am very sleepy even after I wake up. What is causing this? Muscle soreness occurs after a day of first 3 workouts, but its tolerable, only slightly more than before because of increased weights. I am getting the same nutrition, only a bit better than before. What should I do to avoid this sleepiness and feel energized once I am awake? Thanks 

Its been a month and a half since I started following SL 5*5 after a gap of around 6 months from the gym. Having started from the empty bar, I have reached: Squat - 110 lbs BP - 75 lbs Row - 80 lbs OHP - 55 lbs DL - 165 lbs As you can see the barbell row and the OHP are lagging behind - for the row, everytime at the gym some trainer comes and ask what are you doing, this will ruin your back etc, so it has demoralized me a bit and made me conscious to check my form (I shot a video, but form looked OK). And these days, squats are a bit challenging which leave me which less energy for remaining two exercises. So my question is, is it time to leave this workout and switch to some conventional routine like doing machine rows, lat pulldown etc? If yes, then please help me build one. If not, then how do I progress with SL? Or should I just mix the two? My current weight is 56 kg, height 180 cm. The gym has all standard machines and equipments. Thanks. 

Treat every daily session as push up practice, rather than a workout with pushups in it. What you're going for, especially in the early stages, is getting all the correct muscles to contract and inhibit in perfect harmony (while eventually strengthening the muscle fibers at play). At this point, it's closer to learning a new dance move than it is "exercising". Once you get to the 20-25 range (I know it's arbitrary, but 20-25 is a solid foundation to build on...at my age, it would be enough to meet the minimum Army PFT push up score), start playing with different push up variations. Honestly, just Google "push up variations", and experiment. Use these new variations to program a path to your goals; whether they be strength, muscular endurance, or hypertrophy (muscle growth). If you want to just keep on bumping up your max count (like...I don't know...100+) at this point, I recommend a program designed specifically for doing a lot of push ups. Stew Smith is a master in this domain. He has a lot of different programs to help US military ace their fitness tests, but here's a relevant free one: Stuck on Pushups? Try the Pushup Push Workout! I tried the above myself (along with pull ups), and had very solid results (went from 51 to 64 in two weeks). I wouldn't recommend this without a strong foundation, and he says to only do this once, maybe twice a year; he's serious...it's taxing, but it's a great plateau killer. Here's a write up on my results if you're interested: Over 20% Push Up and Pull Up Gains in 14 Days Using Stew Smith’s Program Be patient and consistent and the results will come. 

I have heard various powerlifters on youtube to use the leg drive(1) and keep your shoulder blades tucked in or together throughout the rep(2) (just as we do on the low bar squats) while doing the bench press. I am on stronglift 5*5, 22/M/58Kg/179CM, and as the weight is increasing gradually I want to learn how to use the legs as stabilizers on the bench press, even though I have them in correct position I am not able to generate any force with them. Secondly, a common recommendation is to keep your hips glued to the bench, back arched and shoulder blades as tucked as possible to prevent unnecessary shoulder use, I have been trying this but it seems I loose this tension mid way. But today I noticed this all the more because I felt some abnormal sensation in my right shoulder (maybe the rotator cuff). Please help me achieve 1 and 2 effectively. 

My current body weight is 57 KG (125.6 pounds) and am 179 cms tall. I am on stronglift 5*5 and my squat weight has reached 110 pounds and deadlift at 155 pounds, while the weights for other exercises are comparatively lower than my body weight, I'd like to know what would be the correct weight to start wearing a belt while squatting and deadlifting or even consider wearing a belt at all? The idea of wearing a belt came to my mind because I noticed some lower back soreness today, which has never happened before. Also I am wondering if the belt provides some support to the back, all I know is that it gives your abs something to push to. 

Yes, testosterone is produced more when you have sexual stimulation. This is because testosterone is produced in the testicles, which are responsible for sexual reproduction. When a male is aroused, his testosterone levels will spike up, due to the fact that it stimulates the chemicals moving around in the guy's testicles. In a 2012 study, it was discovered by British researchers that levels of testerone increased in almost forty percent of men after visiting a sex club. $URL$ 

Yes, but only to a degree. Chances are about 90-95% that you will not be lifting weights or running marathons when you are 80, sorry. Once you are pretty old like that you probably will be able to walk, swim, bike, golf and stretch for exercise; but not much more. You can also keep a healthy diet so that could benefit you, too. When you are 60-70 you could probably lift lighter weights and maybe run slower so that would be good for you; yes, be worried about fitness, until you pass age 70. Otherwise when you are past age 70 the ability to recover from an injury or even to climb up steps safely are both way more beneficial to you than the ability to bench press 225. 

There are two different answers to your question. For the friends that are saying they stayed awake for 30 days without a break for sleep, these friends are obviously pulling your leg. To make things more clear, IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO STAY AWAKE FOR 30 DAYS STRAIGHT WITHOUT DYING, so if your friends are presumably "alive," then they were lying. I should also note that the World Record for most days without sleep tolls to be about 11. If somebody went past 2 or 3 weeks without sleeping, they would die. Common side effects of lack of sleep persisting more than a single day can be hallucinations, confusion, blurred vision, immune system shutting down(I don't believe it is for good, though, as with the other things), slurred speech, in other words, the person who was lacking proper sleep would experience close symptoms to that of a person who was drunk. Secondly, the friend who says he sleeps about 2 hours daily could in theory be doing this, but he would eventually die of a heart attack after about 10 years of this so I advise you suggest to him that he add about 5-7 extra hours of sleep onto his current level so he totals with about 7-9 hours daily. If your friend is sleeping 2 hours daily though, he probably would currently be a very crabby person and also show symptoms of exhaustion and confusion constantly, assuming he has been doing this for over 4 or 5 days. He would also have black or purple rings under his eyes. 

Some background - Its been around 8 months since I have been exercising regularly, I am 178 cm tall, used to weigh 52.4 Kg when I had started, I have increased to 57.8 till date. Though I was advised about whey protein all along in the beginning I ignored it thinking it was a supplement, it affects kidneys, I can consume that much protein in chicken and fish etc. Now at this point, I think the gains have not been as much as I had anticipated, mainly because of not reaching the daily protein intake on some days as I don't eat meat daily. So is it a good idea to consider taking whey protein? How much, which brand? Or just keep on going as it is and reach my goal of 64? Also, once I decide to stop taking it, will it affect my weight? 

I am on stronglift 5*5 and as the weight is increasing with each workout, squats are getting challenging, while the program is really good, I want to keep doing it and avoid any injuries. The other day after squatting I felt some pain in my left shoulder, it got me worried about my form. After watching a few videos, I think my bar position might be causing this pain. The Mark Ripetoe Video says that the elbows should come back to create that shelf with the posterior deltoid, while this video by OmarIsuf very clearly demonstrates that elbows should be inline with the body. My question is how do I figure out what is the correct bar position for me? And how does it feel when the bar is correctly positioned. Another complication is that guys in these videos have fully developed deltoids so they can create that shelf very easily, I am very skinny with almost no deltoids, so it hurts my bones with the weight gets heavy and is wrongly placed. As it had happened while doing high bar on local trainers advice. So please tell me how to perfect the low bar squat. Thanks!