No, the rest of the drive-train should not be affected, at least not of the new BB is fully compatible. If it has a different shaft length or chainline, there might be problems (so it's best to avoid that). 

Recently the upper fastener of my luggage rack broke. The part that broke is a small block with two holes, which connects the rod that is screwed to the frame with the rod of the luggage rack. See photo for details. It's just this small part (two parts actually) that broke, so it feels bad to dump the whole rack. However, I could not find this connector block anywhere, and I don't know the make of the rack (it has nothing written on it). Is there any way to repair this, or should I just replace the whole rack? 

Note: Do not use oven cleaner - it is meant to be used on enameled surfaces, and will strip off paint (it is actually a fairly decent paint remover). Thanks to andy256 for this warning. 

Most modern fenders avoid the problem by a) placing the fastening points for the wire holding the fender such that in case of a jammed object, the fender is pushed away from the wheel b) having an emergency release mechanism for this wire, such that it snaps off rather than pulling the fender into the wheel. One example of this emergency release mechanism is "SKS Secu-Clip" by SKS Germany (see $URL$ for pictures). It is basically a plastic part that the wire clips into, such that it can be pulled out when something gets caught in the fender. If you use such a fastening mechanism, the risk of an accident from a jamming fender is minimal. 

My impression is (though I don't have sources to back me up) that generally the human system is most power-efficient (i.e. best ration of pedal power to exertion) at cadences around 90-100 RPM, so that's what a cyclist should strive for. Interestingly, the best cadence for maximum power is apparently much lower, that's why pro cyclists will use high gears and low cadences for sprints - however this is much more tiring than higher cadences, so inefficient over long distances. 

You might consider contacting the ADFC (Allgemeiner Deutscher Fahrrad-Club). It is an association specifically for people who cycle as a means of transportation (rather than as a sport - though of course the two are not mutually exclusive). They are part service organization, part environmental organization. They have local groups (Kreisverband / Ortsverband) in almost every city, which usually have regular meetings. Contact your local group (or just go to the local meeting); they will be very happy to give you hints, share local knowledge etc. (even if you are not a member yourself). Many local groups even have explicit meetings for people new to the area, or new to cycling in general, where they try to pass on useful knowledge. For a list of local groups: ADFC vor Ort They also have a lot of general information on their website. See e.g. Sicher unterwegs. Note: Most stuff is only available in German, but I hope basic German is enough to read it. Local groups will be German as well, but many people will speak some English. Disclaimer: I am an ADFC member myself, and have been active for several years. 

I don't know specific numbers, but they should last at least as long as a chain, and modern belts should have no trouble with high/low temperatures (they are used in cars as well, after all). 

I agree with the other answers suggesting a pannier - panniers are more suitable for transporting stuff than a backpack. However, if you do not transport anything except for short shopping trips, you can just use any half-decent backpack. Groceries for 3-4 days is not really that much, and it's only for a mile, so ergonomics should not be such a big problem. There are many special bike backpacks, but they are usually designed for bicycle tours, to hold a helmet, a bottle etc.. For transporting groceries I'd just use a regular backpack. 

This is not a complete answer, but one factor certainly is that nowadays bikes often use powder coating as their finish, rather than liquid paint. Powder coating has signifcant advantages over paint (more resilient coating, no risk of running, no solvents required), but the surface characteristics are different. In particular, the sparkle effect of metallic paint can not (easily) be achieved with powder coating, and I believe multi-coloured finishes are also more difficult. So check whether the new bike has a powder coating - that may explain the difference in apperance. 

Photo of damaged connector below. Note: One of the two connector blocks is still present (though shifted a bit), only the top part is missing (it broke off). The other block is gone, but there were two of them, one on each of the horizontal rods. Originally, the blocks joined the horizontal rod and the rod of the luggage rack passing above it at a right angle. 

Germany Local trains On Deutsche Bahn, local trains ("Nahverkehrszüge") usually carry bikes. Many trains have special open areas for big objects like prams, bicycles and wheelchairs ("Mehrzweckabteil"); in others bicycles may be put into the corridors. Sometimes bikes are not allowed during peak times, like weekday morning and afternoon; this depends on operator and type of train. You may be denied boarding if there is not enough space for the bike(s); this is not unlikely to happen for larger groups, during peak times and on trains with little space. Long-distance trains On long-distance trains, bicycles are only allowed with a reservation, and only on trains which have bicycle compartments (which most do not have). Buses, trams and subways Again this depends on the region and operator. Usually bikes are only allowed outside peak times, and only one or two bikes per bus/carriage, because of space restrictions. 

Actually, steel chains don't strecht (noticeably), the just get longer from wear. Belts on the other hand do strech under load (see above). 

Exactly. I bought an LED rated for 6V DC by the manufacturer (I think they have a built-in resistor), so I could skip the external resistor. Adding an external resistor should work too, but means more work and more connections that may fail. 

I believe the main accident risk is that something gets caught between fender and wheel and blocks the wheel. If this happens with the front wheel, a crash is quite likely. This can happen in two ways: 

See Ley sobre Tráfico, Circulación de Vehículos a Motor y Seguridad Vial, article 47. So as long as you are in a city or village, you're fine. Otherwise you need a helmet (though I can't say how vigorously this is enforced). The fine can be up to 200€. 

While you can certainly improvise something using metal fasteners, you could also consider buying a dedicated basket fastener. Ask your local bicycle store for a "basket fastener" or "basket holder" - they should be able to help you. The nice thing is that in addition to fasteners that are screwed in place, you can also get fasteners that can be detached by pressing a button or lever - that is useful to detach the basket if you want to use it for shopping, or if you temporarily need the rack for something else. I personally use the KORBfix (non-detachable) by Rixen & Kaul (German company, but also sold e.g. in the US) . For more information, go to the manufacturer's site, and enter "korbfix" in the search box. Rixen & Kaul also offer a range of detachable fasteners, under the brand name KLICKfix. 

Well, that depends on which "power" you are measuring :-). Obviously, the power exercised by the bicycle as a whole is the same - if it's moving at the same speed, it's the same power. However, the power that your body exerts may well be different, for a variety of reasons: 

Well, in many countries there is a nationwide cycling advocacy group, often organized similarly to motoring clubs. In Germany there is the ADFC, the Netherlands have the Fietsersbond, etc. A international umbrella organization is the European Cyclists'Federation. I don't think there is any global umbrella organization. These organizations are all part service organizations, offering things like advice, insurance, member newletters, guided tours etc., and part political/advocacy organizations, which lobby politicians, work for better conditions for cyclists, promote environmental measures etc. Just google, there may well be a similar organization close to you. Disclaimer: I am an ADFC member. 

As explained in the IHPVA paper linked in moz's answer, apparently lubricating the chain makes little difference for efficiency, so yes, it's mainly to "reduce wear/prevent rust". However, you should note that the IHPVA paper apparently used a new chain in mint condition. It may well be that the lubrication does not make a difference in this case. Still, an unlubricated chain will corrode much faster than a lubricated one, and corrosion does make a huge difference in efficiency (as it increases internal friction). So in practice, lubrication include efficiency, though indirectly (by preventing corrosion). 

My experience: Hybrid bicycle with accessories (fenders, lighting system etc.), so not too light. A ride of 6km takes me 20-22 min (=16-18 km/h). That is with few traffic lights, but a height difference of about 60m (uphill). I am reasonably fit, but do not train, apart from my bicycle commute. In general, to estimate how long a trip will take, I'd take my personal speed under "ideal" conditions (fit and rested, good road, no traffic lights or other obstacles, no height difference, good weather) - that speed will vary on how you ride, but you should be able to estimate it from past rides. Then apply correction factors for less than ideal conditions. Again, you'll have to estimate e.g. times at traffic lights. That should give you a good rule of thumb. 

I omitted the the wire and cables due to ASCII art limitations :-). This worked reasonably well. Electrically, it was fine, but mechanically the setup is rather wobbly, and the wire can break if you bend it too often. Also, getting the angle of the LED right is tricky, because LEDs have a fairly narrow beam. Still, if you want to give it a shot, it's worth a try. It was not very hard to do, and did not require expensive material (the LED cost less than 1 Euro).