It is quite likely that farmer/ranchers like my grandfather were listed as "farmers" (since they probably can only pick one profession on the forms), but of course that doesn't address the mystery of those landless "grazier" entries. * - ...and a Cowboy, and an Indian. 

The main change was that the Age of Cavalry ended. From roughly the popularization of the stirrup to that of gunpowder-using infantry, Cavalry was the dominant military branch. Infantry during this period was essentially only useful as support units for the cavalry (particularly against other non-cavalry units). A good cavalry force required a lifetime of training, which meant the strongest military forces tended to come from places where people already spent their lifetime in the saddle: the Eurasian steppe. The steppe dwellers nearest China were Turks, Mongols and Manchus, so they were a constant threat during this period. Settled farming societies are good at providing large infantry armies, but in an era when infantry was not the decisive arm, this didn't help them a lot. They were reduced to trying to bribe the pasoralists, and failing that, trying to culturally absorb their conquerers. However, when gunpowder made large infantry units the dominant arm, the situation reversed. Suddenly the relatively underpopulated pastoral regions became power vaccums. The Mongols managed to keep some semblance of a country together during this period, but the Manchurians held more strategic coastal territory, and thus weren't so lucky. They essentially got divied up amongst China, Russia, and Japan, based on those power's relative performace to each other on the battlefield. 

People took prohibitions on premarital sex seriously, as Massachusetts had one of the lowest rates of prenuptial pregnancy in the Western world. And almost all Puritans eventually married: 94% of women and 98% of New England men. Love was an important Puritan value, so they did encourage couples to court before marrying. One device for this is quite quaint: 

The direct/indirect distinction is minorly anachronistic. As Bernard Bailyn discusses at length, the colonists denounced the Stamp Act (1765) as an internal tax, claiming that Parliament only had the right to levy external taxes. External taxes affected international trade, whereas internal taxes affected colonial affairs—and because the colonists had no representatives in Parliament, Parliament had no right to levy internal taxes. As colonists developed their arguments for the illegitimacy of external taxes, their reasoning had less to do with trade per se than with the distinction between unavoidable (direct) and avoidable (indirect) taxes. Here’s Ben Franklin, being examined by Parliament in 1766: 

What was the ethnic composition of Massachusetts in the decades before the Civil War? I am particularly interested in knowing what percentage of the population claimed English, Scottish, North Irish, and Irish descent (but information on other groups is welcome). The only good source I've found is the 1790 Census, but obviously the ethnic makeup of Massachusetts was very different only a few decades later. Ideally, someone knows of a table that updates these figures every decade, but I'd still really appreciate any solid, empirically grounded estimates at any point between 1790 and 1860. I might use these figures in calculations for an academic article, so good answers will be sourced. 

Note that the first such peoples from the Eurasian Steppes were the Germans (Goths in particular), so it wasn't the people themselves so much as something about the environment. The period in which this was occurring, roughly 400AD to 1350 (or Andrianople to the popularization of Gunpowder), is what historian Charles Oman referred to as The Age of Cavalry. During this period, there was essentially no good answer to massed Cavalry from the other military arms. The problem Europe (and China, and other settled farming societies) had here was that a good cavalry arm of the day required an immense amount of training. Pastoral societies (which the Eurasian steppe was uniquely suited to) essentially get this for free, as every adult male practically spends their life on horseback just to perform the herding functions they need to survive. At need, every adult male in this society can be drafted into the military as expert horsemen. However, a peasant farming society cannot do this, so militarily they just can't compete. Different societies dealt with this problem in different ways. China was rich enough to buy off the pastoralists a lot of the time, and coherent enough to absorb their conquerors when they couldn't buy them off. The Byzantines (nee Eastern Roman Empire), were sitting on a rich trading route, and used a combination of buying off the pastoralists, and very strong fortifications. The poor western empire disintegrated, but eventually hit upon a kind of caste society where the lower classes, along with all remaining governmental machinery, worked entirely to support an upper class of horsemen. 

Franklin’s argument can be summed as: Any American can avoid external taxes on imported goods by foregoing consumption or turning to household production, so such taxes are legitimate. An internal tax placed on official documents or other necessities is a mandatory and unavoidable tax, thus it is illegitimate. Thus Franklin’s reasoning about internal taxes really has more to do with how avoidable the tax is. Accordingly, secondary sources will sometimes annotate colonists' language to explain that when they say "internal tax" they actually mean "direct tax." However, the language of “direct tax” wasn’t current until a few years later (see Google Ngram below). And anyway, it wasn't ultimately the “direct” or “internal” aspect of the Stamp Act that angered the colonists. They objected to taxation without representation. This became clear when Charles Townshend took the colonists at their word and drafted a series of acts that would raise money by levying "external" duties on glass, lead, paper, paint, and tea, believing that the colonists objected merely to internal taxes. This belief was false, as we all know how the colonists responded to that famous tea tax. 

(emphasis mine). Presumably both the extra armoring and the added turret mobility shows that in combat situations they ended up needing to be able to hold their own against enemy ground forces. This picture shows the turret of the Wirbelwind, which can pretty clearly fire down to ground level. The quote above shows this was no accident. 

The green outlying area in the Balkans is of course the Hungarians. What appears to have happened was that this one group of Finno-Ugric speakers sometime around the first Century picked up pastoralisim from their neighbors*. This is a very large cultural package, but for some reason they kept enough of their identity to keep their language. They first became known to history as the Magyars, the furthest west of the eurasian pastoralists in the mid 9th century. There happens to be one good large area of pasture in eastern Europe, the Alföld in modern Hungary. This made this area a very tempting target for pastoralists throughout the Middle Ages. The Magyars just happened to be the last Eurasian pastoralists to conquer it and hang onto it long enough to put down roots. Magyar today is known as an alternate name for the Hungarian language, as well as the ethnic group that primarily speaks it. * - Yes, these unnamed example people could well have been Turkic speakers. However, given the geography and timing, Indo-Europeans like the Iranians or perhaps even the Germanic Ostrogoths are much more likely. Another remote possibility is the Huns (whoever they were). 

There are various theories about why one side of the road was preferred to the other, often based on the handedness of riders or the side of the body on which travelers wore swords: 

The association with the 4th of July is relatively recent, starting in 1974 when the Boston Pops played it for a televised celebration of American Independence. 

The UNESCO report mentions two other archaeological sites deeper in Saudi Arabia that display the typically Nabatean rock-cut architecture. Basically, there is plenty of archaeological evidence that the Nabateans had the resources and craftsmanship to construct cities like Petra while relying largely on their own resources. Despite the wealth and importance of the Nabateans, we apparently don't know much about their society. Much of what we know about older Nabatean culture comes from Strabo. This little knowledge suggests that the Nabateans did much of their construction on their own: 

That might lead us to think that the effects of BDS were largely non-economic. However, let me pull a line out of that abstract: 

So basicaly, he was an anti-Macedonian political pundit. You only have to watch a few minutes of this type of person today to realise that they will make any argument available that they think might advance their point. So if he noticed an inflationary effect, or even the hint of one, or even something that could be argued with a bit of work to make it look like there was one, he would have made that argument. So, while it would be nice to find the actual reference, if nothing else we can say it certianly would have been in character for the guy. 

I can't speak to boiling in particular, but if its just evidence you're asking about, there's evidence of Homo Erectus (a human ancestor) using controlled fires about a million years ago. Archeologists are actually involved in a raging debate about human cooking right now. The oldest faction argues based on artifacts and skeletal features like denature that it was an innate behavior of Homo Erectus, which would make it about 1.8 million years old. The youngest faction argues that man certainly "harvested" wildfires when available, but didn't master the ability to create fires at will until only about 12,000 years ago (which would make it a part of the Neolithic Revolution). 

You are not going to find these statistics. I put the evidence for this “below the fold.” Basically, crime stats experts all say that crime stats are unreliable before the mid-20th century. However, I think private trips must have been robbed at much higher rates than commercial trips for the simple reason that the vast majority of highwaymen operated in the frontiers, where economic activity was overwhelmingly “private.” Read through Wikipedia's descriptions of American highwaymen, and you'll see that they mostly preyed on private travelers on isolated frontier roads. According to Wikipedia's highwaymen list, the last New England highwaymen died in 1821. Well, New England (and the other developed coastal regions) are where the vast majority of the nation's commercial activity occurred. Banks didn't have that much incentive to be shuttling large shipments of gold across Illinois. If they did need to transport something as bulky as gold coast to coast, they'd take a boat. Because the majority of commercial traffic occurred in the safest parts of the country, commercial trips must have been, statistically speaking, very safe. One wrinkle is that river pirates were probably more important than road agents/highwaymen. In an era of worthless paper currency, transportation is a major limitation to efficient robbery. Unless you are able to consistently target victims carrying high value-to-weight ratios (e.g. rich folk with pocket watches and diamond jewelry--unlikely on the frontier), you simply can't carry away much value after a robbery. It's also hard to make speedy getaway down backroads when weighed down with bulky item. Furthermore, how do you fence unusual stolen goods on the frontier? Even if you didn't have to worry about giving yourself away by constantly selling pocket watches, who on the frontier is paying top dollar for pocket watches? The problem of transportation is likely why the most ambitious robbers were river pirates. Farmers are constantly drifting down waterways on rafts and boats loaded with valuable commodities. A pirate relieves them of their wheat, then floats downstream and sells it himself. This is much safer, because you can't prove that wheat once belonged to a particular farmer (like you can with a pocket watch), and you know that riverside towns are teeming with factors looking to purchase commodities. Plus, river pirates were able to put greater distances between where they committed crimes, where they sold stolen goods, and where they lived. This was undoubtedly important--once again, read through the biographies of the highwaymen on Wikipedia, and you'll see that a significant portion of them were eventually routed by local posses. PS- I know that 19th century bank robbers and train robbers have an outsized grip on the American imagination thanks to Westerns, but for the most part 19th century banking was very staid.