You mention Android, but that has only been in use for about 4 years. You may have a goal of focusing on one area and then have the entire market change. There are developers with years of experience developing software for Palm, RIM, who may have trouble getting jobs developing for Android, iOS, and Windows phones. If you are just out of school, focus on what can help you grow in your company. If you don't see a clear path to growth in the technology you know, decide if it is better to learn a new technology or move to a different company. Sometimes a company abandons a technology because they don't see themselves in that market anymore. The market and the changes in technology will dictate if switching is necessary. When you do jump make sure you also try to gain authority, the goal is to become a senior developer or manager, not just a programmer with 2 years experience in 10 technologies. The balance between years in one technology and the years spread across a few technologies is hard to predict. Some projects are have small staffs: you may find yourself writing all the code, testing all the code and installing all the code. On a larger project you only be responsible for speeding up the openGL routines. The first project requires broad experience, the second project needs expert level. The choices you make along the path will constantly open and close future doors. You just can't predict which ones they will be beyond the near term. 

The bigger companies, which self insure, can dictate that they will cover somebody from day 1. They don't have to, but they can. They will still require you to signup by a deadline, but will cover any expenses you have starting from day 1. The fact they self insure means that they have a more control over certain rules. They still use an insurance company to arrange doctors, hospitals and to process paperwork, so the card might take weeks to arrive but the coverage starts before the arrives. Medium sized companies will not have the power to dictate the rules they want on the insurance company. Therefore they don't have the flexibility in this area. They will still give you a deadline to register, but will start coverage for new employees on a set schedule. In some cases a boutique company could decide to cover an employee starting on day 1. Their size doesn't allow them to dictate to the insurance company the start date, they just cover the employee from corporate funds for that initial period. This is vary rare. The reason why an insurance company likes a set schedule for the new employees is that is simplifies their processes. They know when they will process the accounts for the new employees, they know that they don't have additions every day of the month. They also don't have to bill for partial months. In a related situation how companies handle the end of the employment. Some will continue your policy to the end of the month, others will end it on the last day of employment. Knowing before quitting is important to make sure that you don't count on insurance that isn't there or don't take advantage of the insurance that does exist. I don't see how there are a large number of employees who find a job, get insurance and quit as soon as they get the expensive treatment. Just by chance there will be some, but it can't be a large number. 

and if they reject you at any stage you get an email... At no time would the hiring manager contact you to give you the bad news. If they have enough candidates they may decide that you aren't worth the risk. In fact your best hope this time was a shortage of viable candidates. That way if they picked you they could hedge their bets. If you bailed on them they would be sure that they didn't reject a qualified candidate. Also they would probably open up the process to get more resumes, so if you quit at the last minute that would just be another opening. I would just move on and keep applying to other companies. 

You have to assume that whenever there is wide spread economic crisis employers will understand the impact on job histories. I would expect that auto workers in Detroit didn't have to spend much time explaining why they lost their job, and that other workers in Detroit didn't have a hard time explaining how the related job losses impacted teachers, hospitals, restaurants... It can be be used to explain a gap in the work history, or a short job that only lasted a couple of months. Flipping burgers for 3 months does pay some bills, even though it doesn't help your programming skills. While the news reports unemployment numbers, they sometimes mention the underemployment number's. Those are people who have to work part time, or in lower paying jobs because they have no other choice. A non-perfect employment history in the economy the world has had the last few years is not something you need to worry about. 

"receive no company benefits from either A or B, as A is too small of a company to afford fancy things like that" - that shouldn't have been a surprise that you learned after you started work. Every job offer I have ever seen for professional position included a description of benefits: vacation, sick , holidays, health insurance, life insurance, education benefits, pension, 401K. Even if they don't provide all the options they do discuss the ones they have. You need to know things like the number of locations, where the employees work, where is the company HQ. It is OK to work at a customer site, but they should let you know where the rest of the company works. They will be handling HR, purchasing, management... The actual working conditions will depend on the work location. The customer site may control hardware, software, and office space. The customer site may be more or less impressive then the company site. You also need to know the other contracts they have to judge their ability to provide a follow on contract if the current contract ends. A small number of contracts, with growth but an inability to keep current employees is a warning flag. 

The more you deal with customers, face-to-face, the more important being neat in appearance is to your employer. Retail doesn't mean short hair. If your clientele were teenagers or early 20's, or you worked in surf shop, or music store it might look appropriate. If the clientele was older, the company might think they would be turned-off. If your company/store has a employee hand book, review it. They might discuss length of hair, or other appearance issues. They could discuss warnings or consequences. They might even suggest ways to minimize the issue. If there are guidelines, were they discussed during the interview, training or orientation? Did you sign anything saying you read the handbook? Keep in mind that in some places there are safety or health concern/regulations. There can also be religious exemptions. 

Use one credit card only for travel related items. Everything on the card (air, hotel, taxi, restaurant) is related to the trip. And use that card for everything you can. If the food truck accepts the card, use it. If the taxi accepts the card, use it. This minimizes the amount of cash you have to remember to keep track of. Use your phone to make a copy of all receipts that you can't get a replacement for. The rental car and hotel can send you a copy. the restaurant will probably not be able to. 

There is a second possibility. Management and HR are politely telling you that your teasing may be going over the line. They aren't ready to formally write anybody up, but this could be step one of the process. If this is the case, you have to make sure that you don't single out the new employee. You also will have to work on stopping the worst of the teasing, or the quantity of teasing. It may be nothing, but the fact that they came to you shows that there is at least some level of concern. 

Once you said yes, they started the process of telling other candidates never mind. The longer you wait the more of the acceptable candidates they will have contacted. They will view your rejection of the position at this stage as a black mark. How long they will remember it is debatable. If the rumors are true, you shouldn't apply to that company in the next few years because the odds of them changing faster than that are slim. Therefore the best advice to to reject the offer formally, as quickly as possible, and them move on. You don't have to go into great detail as to why you are rejecting the position. They are unlikely to change because of it, and if you are wrong about them, they still won't come running back to you. I have never had to accept a job with a two year bond. I have known people who have to stay for a year to pay for some special training or moving expenses. I did have one place who wanted me to verbally commit to a year, then 30 days later they decided to in-source and told all the contractors they could only keep their job if they were hired by the government. Most contractors left as soon as they could find another contract. If it is normal in your field to have the two year bond, then you must look very carefully at any new position. The actual work being done, the working conditions, the corporate culture are frequently mysteries when joining a new organization, knowing that you will face a big financial penalty unless you survive two years seems to be overwhelming. Because rumors about working conditions made you balk, you might want to rethink your choice of companies/positions. 

You need to figure out how it will impact your income and expenses, then calculate what you need to charge to not be worse off with the additional travel. If you were on average billing x hours per month then you still need to be able to bill for those same number of hours. Requiring frequent 16 hour days due to the travel, could impact your ability to generate billable hours upon return. The travel across timezone could also impact the day before or the day after the meeting, due the logistics of flight availability. I have seen this done by defining travel hours. This limits the hours that they can expect you to travel, and how those hours are billed. This also means that you will have to calculate and provide an estimate of the hours and costs for each trip so they can approve each trip. This will need to be done as each trip is requested. You will also have to specify the limits of flights, parking, hotels, food while on these trips. Some could be fixed, while others can only be done after the destinations are known. All of this needs to be covered in the contract(s) you have with the company. Of course you have to factor in the risk that you will lose the customer if they decide you no longer meet their needs. 

The question is not is the 1-3 trial task an appropriate way to find a new employee. The question is what barriers are there to most corporations doing this via paying for a 1-3 hour task. The first is money. The company knows it costs money to find new employees. They know that they have to pay the HR person, they have to pay the hiring manager, and everybody involved with he interviews. Now you are asking for the ability to cut checks for $X to Y people to determine who should get the job. You will have to decide is this done to take everybody who passed the interview, or is it used to determine who will get an interview. You will have to also spend time designing the task, and evaluating the task results. Which has to be paid for. You will need to address internal applicants. If all finalist are being evaluated via the paid task, you will have to pay current employees also. Or only do this for positions not open to current employees. Which brings up other EEO issues. You have to address how the pay will be processed. The applicants are now contractors. You will need social security numbers for everybody who gets paid. There will be tax issues - for both the company and the applicants. Are you going to pay everybody. If I was unemployed and I could find enough people to pay me 3 hours to write a hello world program I might survive. Which brings us to unemployment benefits. To keep them I have to apply, but will the payment end the benefits because now I have worked for money. Many of these are US centric issues, but similar issues might apply to other countries.