If this is actually a goal, I'd like to suggest that you may have wandered off from your true intention. Mindfulness during daily activity can produce a sense of peace and satisfaction, but if it is so self-contained that it forbids laughter, it becomes restrictive, and won't produce anything lasting. While concentration is important, mindfulness includes the entirety of your environment, not just the task at hand. That means mindfulness includes attentiveness to others; to the dog across the street wagging his tail in such a way that you can't help but laugh; to the non-restrictive space that grants being to all that exists. A couple quotes: 

This closely ties into listening. You can make anything anyone says gold - just because they said it. They said it - it matters enough to them that they said it - it has value. You don't have to like it. You don't have to agree with it. A priori it has value. Humans have value - language is rich with value - what they say matters. Before you can have the opportunity to get into another's world you must acknowledge to yourself (repeatedly) where you don't give a shit about their point of view. It's okay - people proudly defend nonsense all the time. More to the point - it's their point of view - what do you care? Tell the truth about it though. It's quite liberating. Once you are aware that you don't care at all about what another person is saying - you again have access to listening. This may sound contradictory - it's not. When you can tell the truth about what's in the way of you fully being with another - there is nothing more liberating. We catch ourselves in kind of a trap otherwise. We are thrown to only care about ourselves - it's kind of our default way of being. It doesn't look good to only care about ourselves, so we cover it up by pretending to care about others. While pretending to care about others; we are simply incapable of caring for others (it's like pretending to enjoy running while running). Once we can tell the truth (it's not a once and for all thing - it's ongoing) about where we're pretending (mostly just to ourselves - sometimes to others) - then we don't have to pretend anymore. When we don't have to pretend anymore we are free to truly be with other people. When we are free to truly be with other people; we can't help but love them. We see their nastiness and pettiness and we don't consider ourselves superior. We realize we are looking at ourselves - and what they are experiencing is instantly obvious because it is merely a shade of our own experience. When the barriers obstructing our listening disappear - there is no distance between self and other - no difference between speaker and listener - then you don't have to wonder about how to experience their experience - because it's right there. Note: There may come a point where one is always authentically interested and capable of listening and caring about another's experience. I have never caught a glimmer of a persistent state like that. For now it is enough for me to notice where I'm full of it - acknowledge it - and then allow the space for listening to arise. 

This means that everything has the potential to teach us. We can learn about impermanence, dukkha, and not-self from anything which arises in the mind. 

For the first point, Theravadin cosmology doesn't contradict any known laws (e.g. conservation of energy or non-decreasing entropy). Does Theravadin cosmology make any further predictions about things which we can measure but don't yet have a complete theory of? If so then there's a chance we could develop our theory and find Theravadin cosmology to be impossible. If not then we can't use this approach to question Theravadin cosmology. For the second point, we really have to speculate about what we might or might not be able to measure in the future. Because this is based on speculation I don't think this counts as a good reason to believe that physics will end up allowing a Buddhist timeline of events. 

A law of nature which creates measurable predictions in our universe (the human realm of existence) is discovered, and this law contradicts a prediction of Theravadin cosmology. We gain the ability to measure new phenomena such as interactions with another realm or measuring a beings' mindstream. With these new measurements we can test a prediction of Theravadin cosmology and find that the prediction is false. 

Normally to distinguish between Hindu ideas and Buddhist ideas of afterlife we use reincarnation and rebirth as different terms. Reincarnation is often used to describe a soul (self) being born again in another life like Hindus and other faiths believe. Rebirth is used as a word in Buddhism to describe the aggregates constantly changing and coming together to continue existence. There is no self involved in this process. This quote sounds like he's talking about the term rebirth: 

People always tell you everything. They may not say it in a way that you are comfortable or familiar with; and they may not say it such that their words clearly match what they intend to communicate (mostly they don't). But they reveal almost everything in their experience when they communicate. It's there if you listen. Now this is the tricky part. Mostly what we do when we try to improve our listening skills is to try to listen better. Maybe there are some pieces of advice we employ, or some tips on being a better listener we follow (e.g. Ask lots of questions, etc). The vast majority of those tips are absolute garbage. They do nothing but strengthen the ego's ability to appear to be listening while providing nothing in the way of authentic listening. Authentic listening is magic. This quote from Siddhartha by Herman Hesse does a very good job of expressing what is possible with real listening: 

Well that's it isn't it? The answer is in the question. The beauty of the nonsense we tell ourselves is that as we become aware of it, it ceases to have power over us. For example: I suspect that somewhere in the background you are harboring some notion that something will happen when you become sufficiently mindful - enlightement, happiness, perhaps something more subtle. I suspect also that you think (I'm not picking on you - I promise this isn't personal to you) something like 'being mindful is a place you get to, and then you know you are mindful....maybe other people will notice too and treat you accordingly - and once you are there that's kind of it - that's now who you are and things work out nicely after that.' Bad news - It isn't like that at all. Good news - It isn't like that at all. It's good news because there's nowhere to get. Thus, you can't fail. You can't succeed either, but you can master the game (mastery is not an endpoint). Thus the most self-aware / mindful thing to notice is when you are not being mindful. "Huh. I was just lost in my mind for like fifteen minutes." As soon as you notice, you have the opportunity to return your attention to the present, regaining awareness. You go to 'sleep' 2 seconds later - start thinking about your favorite movie - no problem! Notice that you went away - don't make it wrong or scold yourself - just notice - and then come back; ad infinitum. As I said; mindfulness is not the end - it's not even the goal - I sometimes allow myself to flow along with my thoughts for long periods at a time - I like my thoughts. However, mindfulness allows for certain side effects. The side effects of awareness include but are not limited to: 

Well done, you have realised intellectually that things are impermanent but you are still attached. Intellectual knowledge doesn't end attachment (but it can help). To end attachment we need real knowledge, with real knowledge you will instinctively know that things are impermanent. I think you have switched from attachment to having a relationship to attachment to not having a relationship. Whether you have or don't have a relationship is not the point, the point is how we think when do/don't have a relationship. While you are in a relationship there is some pleasure from love. You can experience this pleasure with wisdom and work towards your relationship with wisdom. Doing it with wisdom means that you know that it is impermanent so you can do it without attachment. Don't forget that you can be attached to single life too and that also causes dukkha. You think that if you're single you can control your relationship status and make yourself constantly single, but this is also impermanent and can't be controlled so it is a source of dukkha. Edit: Real knowledge is quite like an instinct, it is effortless. With intellectual knowledge we have to remember what we learned and then use thinking apply that to the situation, it's slow and takes a lot of effort. For example, if you know intellectually that things are impermanent then if you drop a glass and it breaks your initial reaction will be "Damn I liked that glass, now I've lost it", you are suffering at this point but then you remember "Everything changes, the glass had to break so I never could control it". This thinking might reassure you and calm you down. If you have real knowledge of impermanence like an enlightened person then before the glass breaks you are not viewing the glass as something which inherently exists, it's a temporary phenomena. When the glass breaks it has no effect on you because you never thought of the glass as being not-broken. 

While on the surface there are more distractions in today's day and age than any other before, there are in fact not any more distractions than there have ever been. While it would appear that what pulls you away from meditation is , these are not what pull you away. What will always pull you away, and what has always pulled any human away is the stream of incessant chatter that you hear when you sit down and close your eyes. There is nothing in the external world that is capable of causing distraction by itself. There are stories of Zen Monks who did not stir from Zazen as an earthquake struck. Distractions happen internally; not externally. I'm going to limit the scope of my answer to a specific kind of meditation - the kind of meditation where you sit and focus - but for the record, meditation is in no way limited to that one definition. Meditation is available always; independent of circumstances. For now, what would be powerful, I think, is if you really tell the truth to yourself about some things. First - I don't know anything about your circumstances; but I'm gonna go out on a limb and suggest that time is not the issue. If you really confront how many hours you have in a day, and what it is that you are doing during each of those hours; I would be shocked if there were not 20 minutes you could claim for uninterrupted meditation time. Most people live their lives in a haze of abstractions and stories about reality. Few people live their lives grounded in reality. In reality, you can only ever do the thing you are doing when you are doing it; and whatever that thing is doesn't take a long time or a short time - it takes some specific relatively predictable amount of time. In our stories, "I have too much to do", "I never have enough time" , etc. In reality, quoting Werner Erhard: 

Those three terms do have a lot of similarities when we apply them. Anapanasati is a broad term translated as "mindfulness of breathing", it can refer to any type of breath-meditation where we apply mindfulness. In the anapanasati sutta it mentions being mindful of the body while you are breathing, therefore you don't have to be mindful of the breath directly. Samatha means a calm state so samatha meditation is a type of meditation where we try to create calm. Often being aware of the breath is a way to create calm so this can appear similar to anapanasati. The word satipathana means a foundation for mindfulness. This is a type of meditation where to aim to practice mindfulness of anything we choose. The satipathana sutta uses the body and feelings as examples of things we can be mindful of. If you don't have much calm then it can be good to be mindful of the breath because it is quite stable. This can be a type of anapanasati meditation; also notice how it is linked to creating calm (samatha meditation). Those three types of meditation overlap a lot and sometimes we could use more than one of those words to describe what we are doing. 

Having a position about what is Buddhism has similar drawbacks to having a view about the eternal-ness of the cosmos. Tozan is discouraging views like "This practice Buddhist" or "That idea is part of Buddhism". 

When the Buddha searched for truth in the world he used a method of empiricism. Empiricism is the precursor for modern science and although I believe that rebirth can be verified empirically I am not certain that is qualifies as a scientific theory. The exact theory I am referring to is that rebirth is a mental process which occurs during our life and continues after physical death. Although I do not think that rebirth is contrary to scientific evidence I do wonder if it is a theory which can be considered scientific. One requirement for theories in modern science is that they are falsifiable which means that if they are wrong then we can show that they are wrong. Usually theories predict things and we can test if those predictions are false, however, I cannot think of any predictions which can be tested in this life. This is assuming that one has a very still mind and can observe fundamental processes. I understand that this is related to the twelve nidanas and the stages when clinging leads to becoming which leads to birth. Is it possible for somebody to know what they should be seeing here before they see it?