The best equivalent I know of is Naismith's rule. "Allow 1 hour for every 3 miles (5 km) forward, plus 1 hour for every 2000 feet (600 metres) of ascent." Secondly, when it comes to run it will come down to how good you personally are at running up hills. You may need to calculate the factor yourself. Remember that Garmin devices display sea-level distance, not slope distance. 

Remember the standard advice for all things running: we are an experiment of one and you need to find what works best for you. You haven't said what distance you're warming up for or if you're talking about racing or merely training. Stretching Yes, the research on this is discouraging or, at best, mixed. However, a great many health professionals will advocate for it - based on experience. Personally, I know my body and I know that if I do a certain stretch before I run then I don't get calf tightness. I ignore most other stretching directly before or after running. I do, however, stretch most mornings to keep my back loose. Racing If you are preparing to race then the length of your warmup is inversely proportional to the length of the race. So, if you're about to race 5km you might do a 1-2km light run as a warmup. This is so your muscles are in operating condition right at the start and you don't have to wait a minute or two before they're at full speed. However, on an ultra you've got plenty of time for things to get going so nobody bothers. Training If you are out to do a speed training session then generally you would want a few kms of a light run first so that your legs are operating at peak. You're speed training to run fast when your legs are in that state so you need to get into that state first. 

must remain in balance. Note that your sex hormones do much more than erect your penis, and your growth or "repair" hormones do much more than allow young people to grow. In short, if your insulin level is too high, in fact your sex hormone level must be too low. If insulin goes up, your sex hormones (and/or growth hormones) must go down. I direct you to Leben Ohne Brot or in English Life Without Bread by Dr Wolfgang Lutz. As soon as the book arrives from Amazon, turn to page 22 and study the chapter on hormone balance, and then the following chapter on insulin resistance curves (interestingly enough some of the charts therein are time series ECG charts, which you will appreciate given your profession!) 

Regarding aerobic exercise (jogging). (i) If you do an enormous amount of jogging (say, two hours a day) that will use a very small amount of calories - i.e., you will be able to additionally eat a small amount of food equal to "that many" calories. However (ii) exercise makes you hungry (far, far in excess of the "amount of calories extra you can eat"...) so exercise is pointless if your aim, as such, is to eliminate body fat. 

Swimming is much more about technique than fitness or body type. I'm a fan of Total Immersion. I used Triathlon Swimming Made Easy to re-learn how to swim in order to swim much better. This system makes you think about what you're doing and gives you fantastic tips on how to do it. The second idea is to join a masters swim club in your area. That will get you lots of swimming, against friendly competition and you may get coaching as well. 

Many trail races have un-runnable hills (except for elites - and even for them. Ellie Greenwood (WS100 course record holder, current Comrades champ, etc.) is known for a spectactularly fast speed hiking style. Like most things in running it's down to what works for you. I would consider keeping upright so that your lungs get maximum air. You lean into the hill from your ankles. I try and keep the cadence fairly high and take small steps where I can. However, I avoid too much zig-zagging; I prefer going straight up the hill and will take a big step if I have to. I have to gain that elevation anyway. 

As the caption says the dotted curve shows what hypoglycemia looks like (it can cause migraines and similar problems not unlike AnAnt describes), and the solid line shows a healthy person. Conceivably eating just right for a year or so could bring you to the "normal" situation. 

There seems to be a basic problem that you are perhaps confusing these two things: (1) aerobic exercise -- say jogging (perhaps on a treadmill), or exercise bike, or rowing machine, or jazzercise or other aerobics classes (2) weightlifting These two things are completely and totally different. If you are literally every day ... that is 365 days a year ... going to the gym, then you should be doing a lot of aerobics exercise. You can, and should, do that every single day. So maybe swim two days a week, run for an hour two days a week and do jazzercise three days a week .. whatever. Regarding literally weightlifting (ie, to make your muscles large), that is a fairly technical topic. (Note some of the very technical information in Daniel's excellent answer, for example.) If, incredibly, you are literally weightlifting every single day, it's hard to believe you wouldn't have a trainer at least once a month or something. That person would have specific technical ideas on weightlifting science. I mean it could be that you do different groups on different days .. whatever. There's no "broad general rule" like "don't weightlift every day". A footnote - many are trying to reduce body fat. If that's you, it's fine that you're doing aerobics exercise every day, as it will burn a small amount of calories. But don't even bother with that until you slash carbs from your diet and also generally control your calorie intake. As they say "weight loss starts and ends in the kitchen". Indeed, a huge problem is that aerobic exercise makes you hungry: this is a danger if your goal is indeed fat reduction. (Regarding weightlifting, it has no connection to eliminating body fat; it just makes your muscles bigger.) 

So they're just sore? Intervals hurt - that's the point - you want to be a bit sore because that's your body getting stronger. Stretching's probably not going to help much. The intervals are doing a small amount of damage to your body so that it can then repair itself and a bit more and become stronger. You need to rest and eat sufficient protein to help the process along. This advice does not apply if you get a sharp pain - which might be a hamstring tear. 

VFF's used to be a bit of a fad in the ultra community. We do see people show up with them at the start line. Unfortunately, we rarely see them at the finish line because they drop early. I would suggest that if you find VFF's painful for long distances then you consider slowing down your training and building endurance adaptations in your feet before trying again. After all, it's those adaptations that you wanted in the first place. By slowing down your training I mean running to the distance you can before your feet hurt but do that distance more often that week. Frankly, if you're not prepared to do the training required then a more comfortable VFF for long distance is called a shoe. Spend more time training on distances that don't hurt or give up and go for a shoe. 

Note that the more modern, trendy wristgps are smaller, but have only data numbers, no map display. (By "map" I mean not a carte, but a white screen with a black line showing your own trail, and also waypoints, lapmarkers etc you save.) (I guess, you could go running with a garmin Dakota, which you hang around your neck (or just shove in your pocket I guess) and that has actual map maps. But it's not as good as a 401!) BTW ..... other than the chart, another HUGE advantage of the old-fashioned 401 over the newer models, is that, you can click to an display of your heartrate (or indeed distance, time, speed, or whatever) that is shown in ENORMOUS, HUGE digits. The digits are much, much, much bigger than on any other wrist-instrument. Perfect for glancing at when pounding along. 

Max, you hit on the nature of the debate between the "low-fat" theory (proposed by some departments of the USA government for 20 years or so) and the "low-carbohydrate" theory which was normal science for 200 years and is now promoted by basically all popular books on eating and diet (Carpender, Lutz, Heller, Mackarness, Taubes, Atkins, Eades, etc etc etc). For example, with myself, I eat only a very modest amount of carbohydrates each day. I simply don't eat "new" foods like potatoes, white bread, sugar. I eat an enormous amount of meat, cream, fats, eggs, and green vegetables. (I mean ENORMOUS - for example I eat at least six eggs a day, just for starters.) My caloric intake would be some huge number if I bothered to measure it. But again, ALMOST NONE of the calories come from carbohydrates (sugars). The calories come only from fat and protein. In my case, the weight is just falling off me (easily one KG per week). So you ask "Will simply managing calories be an accurate method of weight control?" In fact no, calories have no connection to weight control. You have to slash or indeed eliminate carbohydrate intake to see the weight come off you. But then again, many people disagree with "pro-fat" (ie, low-carb) thinking, they believe in the USA Government concept of "anti-fat" thinking. So before the question can be answered, you have to decide which camp you are in. the two camps have absolutely opposite beliefs so it's a difficult question to answer. Consider reading the book "Why we get fat" by Gary Taubes. (To get "one side" of the situation.) Hope it helps in some way! 

JohnP's answer is good. To answer the question directly - probably 2 years would be safe - but it's kind of the wrong question. Tim Knowles' book contains plans for a nice progression from no running at all through to finishing the ~90km Comrades Marathon. It starts by training for 10km, then a half, then the full marathon and then the ultra. Each stage is, from memory, about 4-6 months. That plan has be scientifically evaluated and shown to work pretty well and not have many injuries. Going faster than this is likely to cause problems. I say that it's kind of the wrong question to ask. I believe people are ultrarunners because they enjoy running. They do it for a variety of reasons (and, if you were to dig deep enough, some of those reasons are about being able to brag) but they're more motivated by the joy of running and being part of that community. So, instead of wondering how long it's going to take, I'd just get out there and start planning to run a 5km or 10km well. 

Yes - what about a Garmin Foretrex 401. It's the old-fashioned "military" Garmin you wear on your wrist - boxy looking. It includes a map-chart screen. 

(If you grab your gut and feel "flab," that is just fat cells, blown up like balloons, with triglycerides inside them.) 

Image from page 25 of this book. Here's a dramatic example of the issue of "where" fat deposits happen. This woman injected two spots on her upper legs with insulin for many years. Two unusual fat deposits grew at exactly the sites of injection! 

It is absolutely impossible to target fat loss to any particular part of your body. Once again, it is absolutely impossible to target where fat will come off. This is at least one piece of fairly well established science. {As a footnote, other than, arguably, the notion of your sex hormone balance - which can affect your overall body shape - women and men have different fat patterns - but that is completely irrelevant to something like "fat on my thighs".} All you can do is smash your intake of carbohydrates, and the FAT on your body will go away, week by week. But it is absolutely impossible to target WHERE adipose tissue is reduced. I have no idea if you are (A) starting to put on weight, and that is happening in your thighs or (B) you just happen to have really large manly thighs (like some people are tall, some people have a big nose, etc). IF the situation is (A), simply smash your carbohydrate intake and exercise more and you will lose the fat from your body, eventually including this fat on the thighs, (To repeat that's only if it IS THE CASE of (A). If it's (B) there is utterly nothing you can do, other than genetic time travel.) By the way, I also have enormous, rather unsightly, thighs! Heh! they look great in a kilt (if you happen to be scottish) but that's about the only advantage. Or, I could easily play say a speed skater in a movie :)