No, those weren't mere farmers - they were militants made up of farmers. According to the International Rice Research Institute: 

"A well regulated Militia" being the first part of the Amendment appears to steer the legislation towards militia/national guard - especially with "being necessary to the security of a free state" being right after it. However, "the right of the people to keep and bear Arms" steers the legislation towards individual rights of citizens to own/operate Arms. But since there is a ',' (comma) rather than a ';' (semi-colon) it is a little confusing to me that it should be in conjunction with the aforementioned statement rather than a separate statement in and of itself. So, does the 2nd Amendment actually give the individual people of the United States, the right to bear Arms, or does it merely give the States within the Union the right for Armed people to make up a militia? 

Both of the maps shown in the article can be downloaded from the NOAA's website on a page of Global Temperature and Precipitation Maps. I have selected from the form December 2016, and four "products": 

I have not read the full papers, but I think the key is that the combined data set measures relative rather than absolute temperatures, and is therefore able to combine them across much larger regions. (See also question 7 in the FAQ.) This accounts for the low resolution evident in the graphs which have full coverage. The GHCN-M data has not benefited from this "smoothing", so instead shows smaller patches of data; and it contains absolute temperatures, not deviations from average, so can only be plotted where there is enough to form a meaningful comparison. Similarly, you might question why a dataset would contain enough data for an average across 1901-2000, but not for 1981-2010. The GHCN-M overview page explains that the dataset was first produced in the 1990s, but composed out of existing historical records. So at the relatively high resolution of the data set, a particular grid point might have values for 1900 to 1980, but none since, while a neighbouring grid point has only recent data. The map of station ages on this page shows very few long-established points in Africa, which would be consistent with the theory that map 1 is missing Africa data because of a lack of consistently placed observations to compare. To be clear, the "missing data" on map 1 does not mean that there are currently no measuring stations in Central Africa (the location map above shows plenty); it also probably does not mean there weren't any in the period 1981-2010 (I would be very surprised if there weren't). What it probably means is that the measuring stations currently in place are different from those that were in place between 1981 and 2010, meaning that comparisons must be made based on larger analysed areas. 

In 1988 in Archivum immunologiae et therapiae experimentalis in the article "The influence of blood donation on antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) in voluntary blood bank donors". 3 

Lewis, S., Kutvirt, S. G. and Simon, T. L. (1992), Investigation of the effect of long-term whole blood donation on immunologic parameters. Transfusion, 32: 51–56. doi: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1992.32192116433.x Lasek, W., Plodziszewska, M., & Jakobisiak, M. (1987). The effect of blood donation on natural killer activity in man. Journal of clinical & laboratory immunology, 22(4), 165-168. Lasek, W., Jakobisiak, M., Płodziszewska, M., & Gorecki, D. (1987). The influence of blood donation on antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) in voluntary blood bank donors. Archivum immunologiae et therapiae experimentalis, 36(1), 37-43. Lasek, W., Jakobisiak, M., Grochowska, M., Płodziszewska, M., & Szczytnicki, W. (1992). Two patterns of NK activity changes following blood donation: decrease in the beginners and restoration in regular blood bank donors. Archivum immunologiae et therapiae experimentalis, 40(3-4), 191. Marquet, R.L., van Papendrecht, M.A. H., Busch, O.R. and Jeekel, J. (1993), Blood donation leads to a decrease in natural killer cell activity: a study in normal blood donors and cancer patients. Transfusion, 33: 368–373. doi: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1993.33593255594.x 

Urea vs. Urine Urea is a nitrogenous waste - but it isn't urine... yet. Urea's molecular formula is CH4N2O. It doesn't have the sulfates and phosphates that urine does. Urine is nitrogenous waste - but it has much other stuff. Human urine consists primarily of water, with organic solutes including1: 

Not really. Metaphor: One part doesn't make a whole. Flour isn't a cookie. According to the European Food Information Council, "The salivary glands in our mouth produce about 1-2 litres of saliva daily. Blood plasma is used as the basis, from which the salivary glands extract some substances and add various others." What are some of those ingredients (according to the Journal of Contemporary Dental Practice): 

The following publications/organizations have reported that the Eiffel Tower has dimmed its lights in response to the terror attack (and this is not an all-inclusive list): 

There is inconclusive evidence. The Cochrane Review found there is inconclusive evidence to support whether or not electric fans may cause an adverse effect on one’s health1. Citation 1Electric fans for reducing adverse health impacts in heatwaves 

Cook and Sanstead reported Wallenberg syndrome (lateral medullary infarction) in a 33 year old woman. 2 Rothrock et al reported a similiar case of vertebral artery occlusion in a 35 year old man. 3 In February 1991, Johnson et al reported another case in 26 year old male in The Australian Medical Journal. 4 

As rightly pointed out this study only measured the counts but not activity of the immunological lines. Now we will have look at work of Lasek et al, who had done quite a lot of work understanding this. All the references are from Pubmed. In 1987, In Journal of clinical & laboratory immunology under the article "The effect of blood donation on natural killer activity in man". 2 

Finally, In 1992 again in the same journal in the article "Two patterns of NK activity changes following blood donation: decrease in the beginners and restoration in regular blood bank donors". 4 

Conclusion It is extremely plausible that MLK was indeed an adulterer, and that the FBI has evidence of such activity. The article mentioned below can help sum it all up best: The Hollywood Reporter article, "Selma and the Sex Tape Controversy," reveals: 

Just because we urinate phosphates, nitrates, and sulfates, doesn't mean we are "peeing liquefied mustard gas." 

One could ask the question, if local farmers vandalized rice research, why would they be regarded as the fastest adopters of said research? 

Statements by the Biotechnology Information Center even identity who led the assault - Wilfredo Marbella. Wilfredo Marbella is a leader among the Kilusand Magbubukid ng Pilipinas, a "peasant movement of the Philippines" and wholeheartedly declare on their own website as "a democratic and militant movement." Additionally, they encourage mob tactics and even promote their destructive affairs online via social media. 

An excellent article, by Peter Dykstra, in the Summer 2008 edition of Society of Environmental Journalists starts documenting all of the unfounded claims: 

but only to reiterate that the activity becomes normal. 5 In conclusion, we can only say even though transfusion may cause a transient decrease in quantitative immunological parameters (if measuring activity), body has its mechanism by which it restores the immunolgical status over a period of time. Although increase in complement levels have been reported, the claim that its boosts (or whatever) seems probably not true and needs to be substantiated with further studies. 

Rothwell, D. M., Bondy, S. J., & Williams, J. I. (2001). Chiropractic manipulation and stroke a population-based case-control study. Stroke, 32(5), 1054-1060. Cook, J. W., & Sanstead, J. K. (1991). Wallenberg's syndrome following self‐induced manipulation. Neurology, 41(10), 1695-1695. Rothrock, J. F., Hesselink, J. R., & Teacher, T. M. (1991). Vertebral artery occlusion and stroke from cervical self‐manipulation. Neurology, 41(10), 1696-1696. Johnson, D. W., Whiting, G., & Pender, M. P. (1993). Cervical self-manipulation and stroke. Medical Journal of Australia, 158(4), 290. 

So the effect is quite easy to demonstrate scientifically (an awful lot of our knowledge of the brain comes, somewhat grimly, from studying what happens when you damage bits of it). The reason they are reversed is actually one of optics, not neurology: light rays passing through a pinhole cross over, and project an image that is reversed both top-to-bottom and left-to-right. So it is actually the left half of each retina which transmits to the left half of the brain, and the nerve fibres which cross (at the "optic chiasm") are the ones closest to the nose. 

It would seem an obvious question to ask how an ocean data set can be used to fill in land temperatures. However, the combined data set does more than just overlay the two sets of observations; details of exactly how it is computed are available in these references: 

the "Global Land Mean Temp Anomaly Map" (labelled on the graph as "Land-Only") is the one being labelled as "the reality" the "Global Land & Ocean Temp Percentile Map" matches the "real" graph, but fills in the oceans, and also broad smudges of land the "Global Land Temp Percentile Map" (labelled on the graph as "Land & Ocean") is the one being labelled as "fake" finally, there is the "Global Z-Score Map"; this has the same coverage as the "fake" map 

Serial killers targeting policeman and their families, so far, is wholly fictional. You can spend hours using different search engines and you simply won't find one case of that outside of Hollywood. 

The article first extrapolates origins of the 5,000 number. Bjorn Lomborg's 2007 book, Cool It: The Skeptical Environmentalist's Guide to Global Warming." The book said, there were about 5,000. What was the footnote? "Krauss, 2006." Clifford Krauss, a reporter for The New York Times, who wrote on May 27, 2006, about the conflict between polar bear protectors and trophy hunters: "Other experts see a healthier population. They note that there are more than 20,000 polar bears roaming the Arctic, compared to as few as 5,000 40 years ago." But he couldn't recall his source. He just said that number is widley accepted. As we all know, Argumentum Ad Populum is a logical fallacy. 

No, assuming you mean Central Bank rather than specifically Federal Reserve. Lincoln and JFK actually had very little in the way of removing or even reducing the power of a Central Banking System. Let's examine Presidents (and one Founding Father) that had something to do with a Central/Federal Reserve Bank. 

Anyways, coming to the question. A research question would not try to assess whether blood donation boosts/improves specifically immune system of blood donors as blood donation from the donors behalf isn't a therapeutic modality for them, although it may be for recipients. In 1992 Lewis et al reported in their article "Investigation of the effect of long-term whole blood donation on immunologic parameters" published in Transfusion. It was done on blood samples were obtained from 27 whole blood donors who had been donating on a regular basis for at least 4 years and from 21 nondonor controls. 1 

The last paper also made some strong observations that this practice of cervical self manipulation should be strongly discouraged and neck manipulation (self maipulation) should be considered a cause of stroke. Another observation one can make from all these three cases is that apart from being young, all three went for chiropractic neck manipulation in their past. In the first two cases although it all appears experimental self manipulation gone wrong, in the last case the chiropractor had actually instructed how to self manipulate, making the whole exercise more hazardous. 

There is one serial killer that did murder policemen - but there is no account of her playing 'cat and mouse': 

Pliable Wood + Elongated Shaft = Easily Bendable/Breakable Spear This video demonstrates step by step on how a Shaolin Monk breaks a spear. Look at how easily the shaft bends as he applies his weight to it. This is misleading as a deadly weapon, because if a spear did this during combat, it would be rendered useless very quickly. Listen closely to the 'hollow' sound of the wood hitting the ground in the video upon breakage. Dense wood, such as that of a real spear, does not sound this way. It doesn't stop with mere bendable spears. This video demonstrates a Shaolin Monk bending rebar with his neck as well. One key thing to realize isn't his many years of perfecting his mind and body in a temple - rather his hopping up and down to create a bending point for the rebar. Penn & Teller: Bullsh!t (Episode 109 / Self-Helpless) actually show quite well the breaking of an arrow, the bending of rebar, and even walking on hot coals - and how the average person can achieve this without needing to practice within a Shaolin Temple. The word of the day is Buckling.