On another note, this discussion says a lot about the value of philosophy. Imagine a person who discovers a politician who's a murderer or a school official who's a pedophile. He's trying to summon the courage to speak out, but a friend warns him... 

Trump is speaking the truth and the media are corrupt. The media are speaking the truth, and Trump is lying. Trump and the media are all corrupt and are just playing games with people's minds. 

The answer appears to be righteousness fallacy. However, there are some interesting twists. Broadly interpreted, Dr. Bo describes righteousness fallacy as a person's perceived righteousness making a questionable act look good. But what about the opposite - a righteous act making a questionable person look good? In fact, my question describes a double fallacy - the actor and act are both bad but are made to look good. The role the media play is an obvious example of a conspiracy, and since it can involve both government (or other entities) and the media, it further qualifies as a grand conspiracy. So we're talking about a grand conspiracy embracing a twin fallacy. There's lots of food for thought here. Incidentally, the righteousness fallacy might also be called an appeal to morality. I haven't yet figured out exactly how familiar this fallacy is or what its "official name" is. I wrote a more detailed description in an article titled Phony Philanthropy. 

I up voted Cort Ammon's answer for the link to the Alan Watts video alone. But here's another approach... Your question suggests that religion is a great tool for acquiring "hope," so those who aren't religious have to work a little harder to find hope. But how do you define hope? Belief in a Heaven that may not exist might qualify as hope, but it's a little meaningless if your goal is understanding. Religion is loaded with dogma and is a great tool for propaganda. I haven't explored this topic in detail, but I've read that the Romans embraced Christianity in the belief that poor and oppressed people were more likely to accept their lot if they believed there was a better life after death. If you can learn your mind of "belief systems" (e.g. religious and political dogma), then you may find yourself in a very scary place. But it's also a more rational place than the familiar bubble of mind control most people live in. To be honest, I'm not extremely hopeful or optimistic myself. I think the world is going you-know-where. But I derive satisfaction from at least understanding why we're flushing ourselves down the toilet. At the same time, I do my best to fight back. We should also take a close look at the word "absurd." What's absurd about the world? Was the world absurd before humans evolved, or is absurdity something we brought into the world? The last presidential election was absurd, even more so than previous elections. Propaganda continues to become even more absurd. The world is largely controlled by a relatively small number of powerful, evil people, just as it was once controlled by European colonial powers. Studying political science, psychology and philosophy can help you cut through the BS and see reality, which is less absurd than the world constructed by propagandists. Regarding your second question, how can one person be more "right" than the other? Again, there's a lot of politics/propaganda in life, including the philosophical arena. If two people offer different opinions, you might want to research the people themselves. Do they post on forums under pseudonyms? Are they associated with questionable organizations? I've seen a couple philosophers mentioned on this forum in a positive light who were hard core propagandists. You've already opened your eyes. Just keep opening them wider. 

It is obviously easier to say "Economic System X" is responsible for these terrible things than list any number of people who are manipulating Economic System X - people whose identities you might not even know. So, in terms of simple communication, it's often hard to avoid this mistake. However, as your question implies, the real villains are people. There is another perspective, however. If one can find evidence that one economic system is more efficient than another, or if one economic system is somehow easier for evil people to manipulate, then one might judge one economic system "better" or "more fair" than the other. 

I up voted manbearpig's answer because he included the word relative. I have several problems with this paragraph, in particular... 

Just out of curiosity, is the search for a meaning in life a universal trait? I assume more "primitive" peoples also ask this question, but I'm not sure. However, it's logical to assume that our preoccupation with the meaning of life began somewhere, perhaps a couple thousand years ago or maybe a million years ago. I'm going way out on a limb here, but one might speculate that the search for the meaning of life might be somehow related to our fear of the unknown. If we don't know how big the universe is, and we don't know what the meaning of life is, then we're left with an unfinished equation - and that can be uncomfortable. It would be interesting to know how people felt about the meaning of life before the advent of religion and science. Of course, we could just ask some of the more "primitive" peoples still living in the Amazon, Africa, etc. Does anyone know anything about their beliefs on this matter? 

We might start by focusing on quality of life. A high quality life would generally include good health, a fulfilling career, financial security, a good social life, and a living environment that's clean, attractive and safe. Owning a home, or, better yet, a piece of land, is a standard sign of success. A good education also contributes to quality of life, and philosophers place an even higher value on intelligence and the capacity for rational thought. Yes, children have traditionally been regarded as a sign of success - in fact, they're considered a virtual necessity in some cultures. As others have pointed out, physical attractiveness is primarily an attribute of heredity, not success. On the other hand, physical appearance is correlated with success. At the same time, people can sometimes modify their appearance through exercise, a proper diet, "dressing for success," etc. But population growth and ever advancing technology have changed the dynamics. Some people don't consider big families politically correct. One could argue that a big family can make an individual more successful at the expense of other families who are ultimately competing for resources.