The government says that's what happened. From ABS officials, to MP's and ministers, to the prime minister himself, they've all been relatively consistent in blaming the outage on a malicious DoS. There's been plenty of quibbling and waffling about whether the event was an "attack" or just an "obstruction"/"frustration", and whether or not it should be called "successful". But they all tend to agree that the outage was caused by a malicious (and most typically, "foreign") actor. Most mainstream news sources (including: Sydney Morning Herald, Australian Financial Review, Sky News, Yahoo News, and others) are not challenging the government's version of events. One expects them to do due-diligence and not report something that the government says is fact unless they've independently confirmed it. That's the point of journalism, after all, and the mainstream journalists say it was what the government says. 

In this diagram, the blue line is the ideal, and each of the other lines refers to a machine they tried. Anything to the left of the blue line is the machine underestimating. Anything to the right is an overestimate. In a 2014 experiment, TESTING THE ACCURACY OF THE CALORIE TRACKER ON ELLIPTICALS, the experimenters only looked at one machine, and concluded "the calorie tracker on the Nautilus ellipticals are not an accurate form of calorie tracking for workouts." Reading between the lines, the elliptical trainer tended to overestimate, but this is not part of their conclusions, so should be treated with caution. In a 2015 experiment, Do Elliptical Trainers Accurately Estimate Energy Expenditure?, undergraduates compared two machines, and found one was 2.7% underestimating and the other was 24.7% overestimating. This 2015 paper, The relationship between body fat percentage and difference in caloric expenditure as measured by indirect calorimetry and estimated by an elliptical trainer is interesting further reading. It describes an experiment that failed to confirm some of the hypotheses, but its introduction covers a lot of interesting aspects the problem - that elliptical machines may be good for weight loss regimes, that their perceived exertion is lower than than might be expected. That the calorie readings are generally considered overestimates. That BMI levels may be important in getting accurate readings. 

Oddly, and quite contradictory, the very same article credits Australian Privacy Commissioner Timothy Pilgrim with stating: 

The same article notes former Australian Bureau of Statistics chief Bill McLennan pointing out that even the ABS system designed to handle requests for paper forms was basically crippled by the amount of legitimate requests it was receiving (emphasis mine): 

It's not clear at the moment, because there is no public evidence that a DDoS of any description occurred in Australia on census night. And the people in a position to possess any nonpublic evidence that might exist (ABS/IBM/other authorized operators of the census equipment) have not deemed it necessary to produce it for public scrutiny. The best we can do is look at the explanation that's being officially put forward, and weigh it against the available circumstantial evidence for plausibility. Arguments/evidence in favor of a malicious DoS/DDoS 

It ascribes the theory to Sigmund and Anna Freud. My limited understanding of the field is that Sigmund Freud was both the father of psychotherapy with many genius ideas and also a poor scientist who did not robustly test his own hypotheses. So my question is: Is psychological projection a hypothesis that is accepted in modern psychology, presumably as part of a model that makes testable predictions? Or is it an old pseudo-scientific idea that is no longer accepted by scientists? Or has it a different status again. (Wikipedia provides references, but to papers written by (for example) Freud and Jung, many of them dated around 30-70 years ago. The more modern references (such as this one) didn't seem to have much empirical evidence.) 

This suggests "We don't know yet whether this works." I am wondering if the science is actually further progressed than the company is admitting. Should this read "Large-scale experiments have shown throat lozenges are no better than placebo. We know they don't make any noticeable difference." instead? 

As time goes on, there seems to be a gradual backing away from claims of a significant attack. On the afternoon of the 11th the Sydney Morning Herald declared the attack(s) "small scale", "not particularly formidable", and "low level" (and if you watch the video accompanying the article, you'll also hear "That raises a couple of possibilities, one is that there were no DoS attacks. The government's maintaining that there are, we have to take them at their word on that."). And on the morning of the 12th, Sky News is describing the event as a "disruption" that came "from within Australia" and discarding previous suggestions that an overseas DDoS attack occurred. Also on the 12th, News.com.au published an article criticizing the system for underestimating the anticipated level of demand, and also pointing out that in previous online censuses (censii?) legitimate traffic was misinterpreted as a DDoS attack by a number of ISPs. A subsequent Sydney Morning Herald article notes IT analyst Kevin Noonan casting doubt on the idea of a malicious DoS occurring or succeeding: 

These claims are all pseudo-scientific. There is no good evidence of the birds' nests having medical value. (It is not even clear that the claim of "stimulating the regeneration of cells" is necessarily a beneficial thing.) A paper reviewing the evidence was written in 2012, *Sketch of the edible bird's nest and its important bioactivities. Despite the authors being very optimistic about the (undemonstrated) potential benefits of the food, they were forced to conclude: 

The Sensodyne marketing includes an explanation, some of which includes a reference. They claim that the products containing Potassium Nitrate work because the potassium stops the nerves from firing, citing Nagata, T. et al, Clinical evaluation of a potassium nitrate dentrific for the treatment of dentinal hypersensitivity, J Clin Periodontal. 1994;21:217-221. They claim the products containing Strontium Chloride work by blocking the exposed tubules within the dentinal tissue, that stops fluid flow that triggers pain. They do not provide references on their web-site to support that claim. 

Conclusion My conclusion is that there was no malicious DoS attack on the census. #6 is the real clincher for me. We know there were problems accessing the census prior to when the ABS says they took the system offline. There's approximately an hour and a half of downtime unaccounted for, with the most likely explanations being a malicious DoS attack or too much legitimate load on the system. If we take Turnbull's #4 statement that "the site was not crashed by denial of service" at face value, the only remaining option is that it was crashed by legitimate traffic. So there was, in technical terms, a denial-of-service that occurred. But that was more likely the result of millions of Australians all trying to complete the census at around the same time(s) and the census IT systems being underprovisioned (or poorly implemented and managed). There's no actual evidence at this point of any malicious actions being taken by domestic or foreign actors against the Australian census. Such claims appear to be based purely upon government say-so, with zero independent verification taking place and observable facts which contradict the government's story. And those claims have been gradually tempering in a way that downplays the role and size of any alleged malicious DDoS attack. Parting Thoughts If we were to further examine the less tangible aspects of the issue, we would also find that this incident presents the government and the ABS with significant motivation for dishonesty while not really providing a malicious actor with much motivation for attacking the census (not with a DDoS at least). We'd also see that the timing of the 4 alleged DDoS attacks tended to strongly coincide with times when large numbers of Australians would be attempting to complete the census, and the possible use of an obfuscating scapegoat in claims that geoblocking failed as a DDoS mitigation strategy (which it just plain isn't). There's also some keen irony in the demands for honesty levelled upon the Australian population by the ABS, and the blatant and brazen manner in which they appear to have lied to the entire population of Australia about what happened. 

Fourteen men were offered 15째C water, 40째C water, 15째C flavored water, and 40째C flavored water while doing six hours (on-and-off) of treadmill exercise. The men were divided into two based on whether they tended to replenish the weight lost through sweat ("Drinkers" or D) or not ("Reluctant Drinkers" or RD). Both groups drank significantly more water when it was cold. 

Nancy Beckham explains in Trees: finding their true value about how the valuation was done. It was published in Indian Biologist, Vol XI, No. 1-2, 1979, by T.M. Das, a journal which is edited by... T.M. Das. 

Have there been any deliberate backdoors? Yes, there have been plenty of instances of deliberate backdoors discovered. Here are a few examples: 

Note: Your friend's claim and the book reviewer's claims contradict. Your friend claims no-one is allowed to inspect. The book reviewer cites that inspections are "rare", and that the author of a hostile book was not granted access to the factory, which is very different to refusing access to inspectors. 

Public activity logs show no evidence of a DDoS attack occurring at the time: There's some further discussion and analysis of this here. Smaller and/or more tech-savvy news outlets (LifeHacker, The Conversation, News.com.au) have published articles questioning the claims about a malicious DoS, and generally concluding that it's at least equally likely that no attack occurred and that the system simply fell over under the weight of legitimate users trying to complete the census. Load testing done prior to the census going live appears to have underestimated actual demand. According to ABS statements, they planned for 0.5 million submissions per hour, and load-tested to somewhere between 1 million and 1.5 million submissions per hour. There are somewhere north of 12 million households in Australia, about half of which are located on the Eastern third of the continent. And with the census held on a weeknight, most people would be waiting until sometime after 5:00pm AEST to submit it. On that basis, it's easy to see how actual, legitimate demand could have exceeded what was expected and planned for. A recent ZDNet article, while characterizing the event as a "denial of service incident", attributes the following statement to the PM (albeit without citing where/when the statement was made): 

I checked the abstract of the cited 2008 paper and it concurred, on an even broader scale - all CT and MRI imaging: 

Yes. The count of the number of people participating in the the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) checks out from the Department of Agriculture figures. At the time of writing, the original web-site is down, but Google cache covers it: 

There may be a difference, depending on whether you are talking about internal or skin temperatures. This study compared 9 Japanese men to the results of a similar study done in Ohio with Caucasian men: 

Yes, there is a strong association between drinking coffee and reduced Alzheimer's risk. A quantitative review of the data was published in 2007 that looked at the pooled data from four studies, published between 1990 and 2002. 

As the official story continues to evolve, it's worth keeping the timeline of events in mind. The ABS says they took the census offline at 7:30 PM on the 9th. However twitter indicates sporadic reports of outages from as early as 9:41 AM on the 9th, with a significant uptick from about 6:00 PM on the 9th (see also: 1, 2, 3). I personally tried to access the census several times between 6:30 and 7:00 PM AEST on the 9th, and could not (I'm on NBN fibre, so the problem wouldn't have been at my end). Nobody has claimed that the DoS attack continued past 7:30 PM, however it took nearly a full 48 hours before the census was brought back online. A malicious DoS attack is something that should be quickly addressable (particularly given the more recent reports downplaying the size and impact of the DoS). An ITWire article on Sunday notes that reports of problems accessing the census have continued since it was restarted, despite geoblocking now being enabled (the site reports as down because downforeveryoneorjustme.com is hosted in the U.S.) and a relatively lower volume of forms being submitted since it came back online (2.33 million forms were submitted on census night before the server went offline at 7:30 PM, versus 405,000 in the first 18 hours after it came back online) and no claims involving new DDoS attacks: