In other words, that Jews act in concert to deceive "goyim", gain sympathy, make money and rule the planet. Holocaust deniers tend to assert Jewish control over major media outlets and financial conglomerates, and argue that they control (in some sense) the halls of power. They argue that laws against Holocaust denial prove that there is a conspiracy of intimidation, and that such laws are designed to serve the interests of Jews. Rebuttal: If laws against Holocaust denial service Jews, and if Jews "control" the United States, why are there no laws prohibiting denial in North America? In actual fact, countries with laws against Holocaust denial also have laws that forbid other types of hate speech, and while those laws might be controversial they are based on the very real fear that denial is a form of endorsement. 

"In several videos and photos you see people getting round[ed] up... Why does nobody try to run away?" It's not that nobody ran away, it's that nobody ever took a video of people running away. People ran away all the time. They ran, they hid, they begged and they fought. The individuals who survived were for the most part of an age and background that were capable of running and of hiding. But when people got caught, turned in or trapped, a very human response at the end of all things is to do pretty much nothing. Friedrich Jeckeln was an Obergruppenführer in the SS, who was highly decorated for his role in standardising the procedure of pit shootings. One of the things that he noted (although it was not put into practice in the picture above) is that there were fewer attempts at flight if you made people undress before approaching the pit. His implementation of this idea also speaks to the fact that, fully dressed, many people did attempt to flee at the last minute. Such flights were all the more common in circumstances in which the shootings were conducted in an erratic manner. Where they were organised and streamlined, resistance was minimal. Again, this is a very human (lack of) response. 

Answering this question depends on what you mean by "ancient Israel". If you are referring to the so-called Biblical period, the biblical literature presents us with what appears to be a three-fold stratification: Priests (kohanim), other levites, then regular Israelites. Priests, who comprise a subset of all levites, face various restrictions as regards whom they are allowed to marry and are recipients of special taxes. Levites face no such restrictions, but are entitled to certain charities. This is resultant of the theoretical prohibition on their owning land outside of the six levitical cities. In addition, ancient Israel was a society in which slavery was not uncommon, and you could consider slaves therefore to denote a distinct caste as well. The Bible differentiates between Israelite slaves and non-Israelite slaves, the latter of which is human property: they are inherited after the deaths of their owners along with all other assets, and only go free if actively given their freedom. Their condition is hereditary. If, however, you are referring to the period best represented by the Mishna (a period that comprises the latter years of the second temple, through to approximately 220 CE), then the presence of distinct castes is quite pronounced. The Mishna (Qiddushin 4:1) itself mentions no fewer than ten: 

This is a tricky question to answer! Based solely on textual evidence, the core component of the Passover seder - the haggadah - is not written out in full until the siddur of Rav Saadiah Gaon in the 10th century, and it certainly undergoes some modification since then. Other ancient versions of the haggadah can be found in the Machzor Vitry (11th century, Rhineland) and Maimonides' Mishne Torah (12th century, Egypt), amongst other places. These haggadot are based upon the written traditions recorded in the Talmud, but are also indicative of evolving practical customs - such customs being impossible to date. The printed Talmudic material is all found in Tractate Pesachim, and comprises a commentary on that tractate in the Mishna. (The Mishnaic material achieved its final form at the beginning of the 3rd century.) If you are interested, the relevant material is found in the tenth chapter of Pesachim in the Mishna. I have not checked the following translation, so cannot vouch for it, but here is that entire chapter as a PDF. If you would like to see this material as codified by Maimonides, it can be found in his Laws of Leavened and Unleavened Bread (Hilkhot Chametz uMatzah), chapter 8. This is a reliable translation. The following chapter, chapter 9, contains his version of the haggadah. You might notice that I still haven't actually answered your question! Some time between the compilation of the Mishna and the formation of Rav Saadiah Gaon's siddur, we have the composition of the haggadah as we know it. It is comprised of a patchwork of different rabbinic sources - a type of midrash, in its genre. So far as the rest of the ritual is concerned, some of that is clearly pre-mishnaic (since it is recorded in the Mishna), while some of it is Talmudic. Some parts of the seder - such as the singing of certain songs - are later still. (The Aramaic song, Chad Gadya, is actually based on a German folk song, for example, and is clearly written at such a time as Aramaic was not spoken.) If you would like to read more, I would recommend the introduction to Yosef Hayim Yerushalmi's Haggadah and History. 

Theoretically, yes they were. The first law against Holocaust denial in Germany was passed in 1960, some time after the Nuremberg trials had taken place. As tall an order as it may have been for people to pretend that they hadn't known about something that even many civilians watching the trials knew about, to pretend that it hadn't happened at all would have been absurd. Even after 1960, it wasn't a piece of legislation that prevented perpetrators from telling this lie. In the famous trials of those who worked in the Operation Reinhard death camps, for example, the amount of evidence that concerned what the camps were for was insuperable. What remained was for them to claim that they were not there at that time, that they actively shirked their responsibilities or that they acted out of fear for their own lives. These claims were also thrown out of court, but the nature of the West German judicial system was such that the "real perpetrators" were people like Hitler and Goebbels, and Himmler, etc. The most these people could expect to receive was a few years for aiding and abetting. (Josef Oberhauser, for example, was found guilty for the murder of over 100,000 people and received 4.5 years in prison). The reason for this is that a substantial portion of the German judiciary (and constabulary as well, for that matter) were suspect, and needed to be immune from prosecution. Somebody, after all, had to run the country. It might be one thing to suppose that a defendant could have told such a whopping lie to a journalist, but to tell judges, prosecutors and witnesses something that flies in the face of their own lived experience would have been unheard of. No easier, in other words, than to say that there had never been a war in the first place. For more information see Michael Bryant, Eyewitness to Genocide: The Operation Reinhard Death Camp Trials, 1955-1966 

Our understanding of the composition and redaction of biblical texts has developed enormously over the course of the 20th century alone - let alone since the days in which Isaac Newton published his Observations! The ascription to Ezra of the editing process (while not an invention of Newton's) reflects on a general tendency to ascribe authorship to characters within the corpus. The popular perception that the book of Isaiah was written by a person named Isaiah owes its origin to this same tendency. So who did write Isaiah? And when did the author live? (I know that your question only uses Isaiah as an example, but it's a paradigmatic one, so I'm going to stick with it.) A careful reading - in fact, even a not very careful reading - is sufficient to tell us that there are at least two different books called Isaiah. Chapters 1-39 are all clearly set in the 8th century BCE. They make reference to 8th century BCE kings and empires, and indicate them by name. When Isaiah rails against Sennacherib in chapters 36 and 37, he is clearly speaking about somebody at least reasonably contemporary. The climax, in chapters 38-39, tells of the healing of Hezekiah and the securing of peace. Chapters 40-66, on the other hand, are very obviously written some two hundred years later, in the 6th century BCE. Not only do they make reference to 6th century BCE kings (to the exclusion of 8th century BCE kings, who are never mentioned after chapter 39), but they name them. This section of the text also presupposes an awareness of the Babylonian captivity, which commenced after Babylon's invasion of Judea in c.598 BCE. The disparity between these two sections has long been known; anybody who reads the text and knows a smattering of history will notice it. The Talmud, for example, goes to very creative lengths to demonstrate that Isaiah (who was, after all, a prophet) foresaw Cyrus the Great and included him in his text, and that Cyrus was so flattered by his having been prophesied that he saw fit to fulfil the prophecies that were spoken of him. Contemporary scholars would argue, on the other hand, that there is more than one "Isaiah". Once we recognise this, we can then realise that Isaiah is also more genre than individual. Different people can write Isaianic oracles, and the book so known is but an amalgamation of the work of a school. The same thing could be said for Jeremiah and Ezekiel, and certainly for Daniel. (The Greek translation of Daniel features an additional two stories that are not found in the Hebrew). There is plenty of evidence from within the Bible that prophets belonged to guilds and that they took students. These students were known as "the sons of prophets" - hence the declaration that a certain widow's late husband was one of the sons of the prophets (2 Kings 4:1), or Amos' statement to the effect that he is neither a prophet nor the son of one (Amos 7:14). [Note: this is an example of biblical parallelism: being a prophet and being "the son of a prophet" are both the same thing.] So if the prophets comprised schools, and if their oracles, while associated with a particular individual's ministry, were not necessarily written by the individual so named, then what was the function of this literature? As oracles, their purpose was instructional. The heavy emphasis on social justice found throughout these texts, coupled with the fact that they all spoke truth to power and that several of them suffered as a result, would seem to suggest a hortatory purpose - like wandering preachers. Some of them, like Jeremiah, may have had their own scribes, but the works attributed to them are too finely crafted to be a faithful reflection of what was said in the moment. As literature, so compiled and edited together, these books served a similar purpose to the other books within the corpus and were transmitted in the same ways: pieces of writing, circulating amongst elite scribal groups that saw fit to preserve text, later to be edited into a corpus that would include by association various other texts, all deemed scripturally authoritative in some fashion. In later years, sections from the prophets would be read weekly in synagogues, together with passages from the Pentateuch. While the texts of the Bible are all different from one another, they all have in common the idea that human history has divine authorship: there is a plan for God's people, and that all will go well for them if they uphold their side of the bargain. Since there is not a single text within the Bible that was written with the intention that it would become part of a bible, by grouping these books together we create a false consensus. As such, it is hard to read Isaiah (for example) and not do so in light of, for example, Leviticus. In a text like that one, maintaining "our" side of God's bargain is done through the careful observation of law. But for the prophets, we maintain our contract with God by supporting the poor and the indigent. A society shows its true colours, they would argue, by how it responds to its most vulnerable members. Such was the purpose of their prophecy, and such was no doubt also the purpose of preserving it.