Good epoxy is known to bond metals, especially aluminum very well. Make sure the surfaces are clean and slightly rough for a better bond. I use the same two part epoxy hobbyist aircraft builders use for fixing pretty much anything, including broken ceramic mugs, small broken metal things and even as an insulator on the bottom of PCBs to prevent any shorts. When looking for replacement cable stops try to get something with a solid base and not hollow so you can glue the whole thing down. From the looks of it the original was only glues around the edge which is probably why it came of. Another solution could be solder. It will be stronger but look a little asymmetrical, but as long as you do it to the other cable stop too it should look fine. It melts at a low enough temperature for nothing to happen to the heat treatment of the aluminum. I take no responsibility for the frame if you do this however, it's only my guess, and is completely untested. Would like some input by someone who knows a little more about solder and hest treated aluminum about this solution, it seems workable 

Presta Valves, or any valve for that matter do not leak after you have taken the pump head off. The valve should automatically close even without you having to screw down the valve. Doing that only applies pressure on the valve to reduce leakage over time even further. If the valve keeps leaking till you screw it down means that there is some damage in the rubber of the tube valve. Where I live we can actually buy just the tube valve, disassemble the presta valve and replace the tube which might be damaged. However, that requires some experience and a tube valve which you are unlikely to find. Your best bet is to just buy a new tube. Sidenote: Even on a new/fixed tube you will always have some very small leakage when you pull the pump head off. This is because that little pin that gets pressed down(that's what opens the valve and allows air in) when you put the head on has to come back up and that only happens as fast as you can take the head off. So don't be alarmed if you hear a short hiss when you pull the head off. To reduce it, try pulling the head in one clean jerk but it really wouldn't change much compared to the total volume of the tire 

Any welded tubes are going to have holes in their ends in order to let the hot gases escape. So, yes, there is virtually always going to be a hole connecting the interior of the top tube and the head tube (along with every other tube on the bike). 

Experienced riders hold their hand behind their back to indicate that they will be slowing down or stopping. Saying "slowing" or "stopping" is also used as a secondary indicator, especially if you have to react quickly and can't afford to take a hand off the bars. For road debris or obstacles, you should hold your arm out to the side and point down at the road to where the debris will be relative to your bicycle. 

Right now, I've got a SRAM 11/26 cassette. I just moved to San Francisco, and some of the climbs out here (e.g., Mt. Tamalpais) are pretty brutal with over an hour of climbing. My cadence over some of the steeper sections towards the top tends to hover around 70, when I'd much rather be up at 80 or 90. I've been considering switching to an 11/28. The thing stopping me from doing so is wondering if it would be better, training-wise, to grind it out for now until my power and endurance improve, bringing my ability up into the range where a 26t climbing gear is appropriate. I'm afraid if I switch to a 28t, I'll use it as a crutch. Should I stick it out with the 26t until I get stronger? 

I had a similar problem with a recently serviced relatively old trek. When I applied brakes or did a bunny hop, I could feel the handle move around. This may not apply to you since your bike is no where near as old as mine was but this was the problem with mine. The bearings in the tube had worn out significantly and dirt and grime had taken the place of metal. When I rebuilt it and removed all the dirt after it was sitting in my garage for nearly 3years unused, the gap became more noticeable. My only choice was to replace the bearing. This might be your problem if you've not used it for a long time and you recently cleaned up the inside of it. Note: the compression bolt mentioned above did nothing to remedy the solution. So if it doesn't in your case too, the bearing might just have worn out from use and grime stuck inside prevented you from noticing it 

This happens everytime one replaces a component of the drivetrain since the original cable position is rarely restored. He needs to do something called indexing the gears. It is a common procedure and there are many good tutorials online explaining how to do it much better than I could. Here is one I'd trust- 

Bangalore, India Regular buses do not allow cycles, especially since the door is too small to take it through. Ac-buses are supposed to allow you to take your cycle. You will be charged an extra 'luggage' fee which keeps changing so I shan't bother mentioning it. However, during peak times conductors will often disallow you due to lack of space. If you want to travel by bus, try doing so in the early morning or early afternoon. Metros do allow cycles 

Besides the information others have replied with, the numbers provided show a sustained 0.4% growth rate over 109 years. Over the last ten years, we should expect a 5% expected growth in output. 5% isn't actually that large a jump; especially when you consider the variability of the data. It's not out of the realm of possibility that unrelated external factors have kept speeds from increasing. In fact, you'll notice on that graph that from the mid 1950s to the early 1980s (around a 25 year span) growth was flat as well. One of those external factors is likely stricter controls on doping. Given that there's been a significant crackdown in the past decade, it's actually quite astonishing that we've managed to break even. A simplistic way of looking at it is that availing yourself of the last decade's worth of advances in technology and nutrition confers upon you the same advantages that (some significant amount of) doping would have given you ten years ago. 

Linking the two brakes would have a detrimental effect on braking power. Your front brake will bring your bike to a halt far quicker than your rear brake will, and should be used almost exclusively. When braking with the rear brake, your back tire won't have much weight on it, and will skid along the ground. This results in a dramatic reduction of braking power. On the other hand, when you compress your front brake, the forward momentum of the bike will be partially converted to downwards force, sticking the tire hard against the road surface and maintaining maximum traction. In a real-life scenario, this can easily be the difference between slamming into a car that suddenly brakes in front of you versus screeching to a halt with an inch to spare. Of course, if you squeeze the front brake too hard at too great a speed, you can flip over the handlebars. However, if you primarily use your front brake, you will quickly learn exactly how quickly you can safely stop the bicycle. Being low in the drops helps with this immensely. The few scenarios in which you should be using your rear brake are during fast downhill descents, where even a little braking on the front at fast speeds can cause your center of gravity to go over the front of the bike, or on any surface where your front wheel might lose contact with the ground. In this situation, the front brake could bring your front wheel to a complete stop just before it connects with the ground again, causing you to lose control. 

I don't know about the pros/cons of using steel wire, brass wire or emery paper. I suspect that emery paper maybe wears down the material and not just the rust, and moreso than brass and steel wire. So maybe using a brass or steel wire wheel is still a better solution, but I actually don't know. The only right-sized wire wheel I ever found, which could also be mounted on an extension for the power drill, was this one: link. It's a 25mm brass wire wheel, for 1.6 GBP incl shipping. But it will take a month before I get it from China. I would then use it with an extension like this one (link). 

I found this video, and decided to do like him. He puts some kind of extension on his power drill, and on the end he puts a tiny 1 inch steel wire wheel. He drives the wheel up and down in the seat tube for some time until the rust is gone. I tried hard but never found a wirewheel this small in my country, at least not one that would fit on an extension. So I improvised. I bought a piece of 12mm round timber. In the end I cut a 5cm slit, using a hacksaw to make the slit as thin as possible. I cut a 5cm wide strip of the most coarse emery paper I could find, inserted it into the slit and wound it around the pole. The paper was sort of flapping, since when rolled compact together, the diameter was not as big as the inside of the tube. I thought this flapping was good enough, but after some time very little had happened. So I putting pieces of toilet paper in between the layers/windings of emery paper to increase the diameter. In the end I had a perfect diameter that I was able to fit into the tube, while it was still pressing on the sides. It took a few minutes to remove all the rust. The diameter of the pole was too great for my power drill, so I cut it thinner with a knife. But it was very difficult to cut in such a way that this thinner part was parrallel to the rest, and therefore the pole was hitting/hammering when rotating. It would have been much better to have bought a 10mm pole. 

Measure the rim in a more accurate way for starters. Even 0.1mm can cause a change in the braking power. Also, with the bike resting on its handles and seat, flipped over, ask someone to lightly hold down the front brake while you slowly turn the wheel and figure out exactly where the trouble spot is and how big it is. If there is no visible difference, and you don't have the means to measure the rim more accurately, then it probably is the width of the rim being uneven. On the other hand if you find that it does not occur at the same spot every time, maybe the problem is elsewhere. If you can, see if the width of the rim changes radially, fatter near the tire and thinner near the spokes. If the difference in this width isn't constant, it could be causing the problem 

Get a new seat and seat post. Ride the bike and see if anything sounds or feels amiss. Places to look out for are the moving arts like headset(handle), the drive train and the brakes. The drive train seems to be in prime condition except for rust. Spray some WD-40 or equivalent rust remover on anything thats rusty and make sure you wipe off the extra cleanly. Then lube the whole drive train. Your brakes will need replacing for sure, best not to take risks with safety. 

You should not be getting multiple flat tires in such a short timespan. I commute on poorly-maintained roads in Atlanta, and have not had a flat tire in 4,000 miles. In order of estimated likelihood, either: 

My recommendation is to buy a used bike on Craigslist or eBay first. Many people will vehemently disagree on the best manufacturer, component group, frame material, etc., but the best advice I can give is to buy a cheaper bike that you can use until you decide upon what you actually want. This is doubly important because the things you think are important to you in a bike right now will likely change within a month or two of actually riding. With that said, my advice is to ignore the manufacturer. Go with a Shimano 105-level or equivalent groupset. SRAM Rival/Apex or Campagnolo Veloce are similar. Campagnolo parts are harder to find (in the U.S. at least), so I'd lean slightly more towards SRAM or Shimano. Try both systems out, and decide which you prefer. Regardless, go with an entry-level groupset. There's little advantage to an expensive one for a novice rider. Ignore the wheels. Whatever wheels come on the bike will be good enough to get you started and they can always be upgraded later. And don't get caught up on carbon versus aluminum versus steel. Whichever happens to be on the bike you like best that's in your price range will suit you fine. You're just starting out; buy expensive things only after you've been on the bike awhile. Chasing performance with expensive parts is a fool's game. The engine matters much more than the bike does. Last, get fitted and make sure you're buying a bike that's well suited towards your body. A bike that doesn't fit will make you uncomfortable and hurt your performance. And don't feel like you need to spend the full $3,000 right out of the gate. $1,500 now leaves $1,500 left over when you decide cycling isn't for you. Or $1,500 for upgrades when you decide you'd rather do nothing but ride and know exactly what you want. The difference between a $1,500 bike and a $3,000 one is probably less than you think. Again, the engine is what matters.