This is definitely possible...but very unlikely. When you have two massive objects orbiting each other, like your stars (let's call them Alpha and Beta), there are five points where a much smaller object (such as a planet) can remain perfectly balanced. These are called the Lagrange points, or the libration points, or just the L-points for short. 

It's possible, with some changes to history. The biggest obstacle in making a compound bow is the cam system. Simply put, there are a lot of things that can go wrong with it. It took until 2005 for someone to design a twin-cam system that wouldn't need frequent tuning, for instance. There was nothing in this design which couldn't have been invented by Leonardo da Vinci; there just wasn't much of any experimentation with pulley-based bow systems until the 20th century. However, in a world where clockwork was used significantly earlier, leading to the development of more mechanical weapons, it's not inconceivable that the idea could have arisen around the Renaissance. (Consider the Antikythera mechanism: a clockwork device with differential gears, from the second or third century BC. If that sort of technology had been more widespread, clockwork might have become prominent significantly before Renaissance times.) Without the cam system, there's not really a point in having detachable limbs. The strength of a non-compound bow comes from the bow itself acting as a spring; finding a way to make the limbs detachable, while keeping the entire bow sufficiently springy and not breaking under stress, is not trivial. If your dwarves are able to work aluminum, which is a notoriously difficult metal, the materials themselves are less of an issue. You may not be able to make wood as strong and light as fiberglass, but it can certainly be stronger and stiffer than is conventional for a longbow. Or even hollow metal components might be used as a substitute. 

Through time humans have looked at the nature for inspiration for developing tools and transportation. And i think a possible solution here would be like that. 

And here it is unfolded. It has roof, heat, kitchen, easy to transport and you can load stuff on it, Even if you are tired of walking your companions can drag a tired person on it or even injured. Add all the other amazing suggestions, 2 car batteries and a lot of solar cells. And you are off for a good start. 

That question would be similar to, what when we cannot place any more gears to the crank? How would we compute stuff? Or this building will not fit anymore radio tubes or this board cannot hold any more transistors or this board cannot hold any more IC's - By now you should know where i'm going. If you take a quick look at the following image you will discover the lack of a CPU, central processing unit. This is an IBM computer from 81, it is carrying a lot of IC chips but not the architecture a person from the 90's is used to. Just because more's law is about to fail does not mean the technological development is about to slow down. Right now we are looking at 2 huge prospects in the technological terms. 

Oxytocin analogues Oxytocin is a complicated hormone, and we still don't fully understand how it works. It's commonly called the "love hormone" because of its role in bonding, but it has many other functions as well; its scientific name, for instance, comes from its role in childbirth, and it's been found to affect everything from dishonesty to drug addiction. But it does have one function which is fairly well understood. After using a nasal spray including oxytocin, subjects showed significantly less amygdala activity when shown frightening images. The amygdala tend to be involved in fear responses; if they're damaged, people tend to show no fear whatsoever. So inhaling airborne oxytocin can certainly reduce fear responses. Almost all vertebrates have oxytocin, or a hormone very similar to it. So if your predator hunts vertebrates, releasing large amounts of oxytocin into the air (or water, depending on habitat) would help prevent immediate panic. 

The Gods Themselves by Isaac Asimov This is one of the most complete examples of "different physical laws" I've seen. In the book's parallel universe, the strong force is significantly more powerful than in ours; this means that solid matter can interpenetrate, and life has evolved to take advantage of this. Stars are also smaller and shorter-lived, which is what drives the main plot of the book: the inhabitants of the parallel universe are seeking an alternate source of energy for when their star dies. They end up trading matter back and forth with our own universe, using the difference in the laws to gain energy on both sides: stable isotopes in our universe are radioactive in theirs, and vice-versa, so they can be made to decay back and forth. 

In Victorian steam-punk the thought of going to space for various reasons have been discussed. The most interesting technology is the Verne Gun, a large gun on the ground using mostly gunpowder but also other technologies to send materials into space. Even though this makes problems like air resistance and the fact that the object cannot make orbit. Real life attempts such as the HARP project, was initiated, mostly as a way to cheaply transport cargo into space. But mostly unsuccessful (400kg was effectively send out 180km with 33% escape velocity). The upside of the Verne gun is that it does not have to have a mass pushed away such as normal rockets, but instead propels the mass using either coil/rail technology or gunpowder. Source: $URL$ 

Depending on your definition of screens it would be possible to make a wearable (electronic cloth piece). With tiny components weaved in to it to make a diode, this diode can be made of materials that makes it glow (Light emitting diode) and then very small, like millions beside each other - this is possible with today's technology. The problems here is that someone decided to make screens the same way, many of you are properly watching this page on an LED screen. Either on the phone or a computer. So depending on your definition, this is a viable option, the problem here is the size of the GPRS network and GPS antenna tends to be quite large. And batteries also seems to take a bit of space, but a li-ion pack can be made thin and the size of a paper, and also li-ion is foldable. 

It might never happen again. The problem with starting from scratch is, we've already used up all the easy-to-get resources. The Bronze Age and later the Iron Age started because early humans found those metals effectively lying out in the open. That's not going to happen again: all the deposits that close to the surface have been emptied, and the deeper ones require more technology to get access to. Now, the fact that some implements of modern life stick around does help things. No need to make a crude bronze axe when you have a nice steel one sitting in the shed. But those won't last forever, and getting coal out of the ground with no mechanical assistance whatsoever is a much more difficult task now than it was during the first Industrial Revolution. This doesn't mean that nothing can be accomplished: agriculture, for example, is entirely feasible (…as long as you're feeding a very reduced population), and wouldn't need to develop from scratch. I'm assuming all our domesticated and carefully cultivated crops would be untouched, since they're living organisms. But I doubt they'd ever reach the level of computers and internet. 

I might be late for the party but, how about human intuition and "gut feeling" ? An AI no matter how advanced could be broken down to "IF .... THEN", but in situations where there is no predefined situation to fill the space after "THEN", the AI would have to figure out what to do, where as the human could follow intuition, and gut-feelings over a statistically calculated qualified guess. It is the same with computer chess engines, if you play a certain computer chess engine too many times you can win over it because it becomes predictable, even though you can make a computer chess engine that is better at chess than a human. The same would happen with the AI pilots, where as humans is more unpredictable and that is an advantage in warfare as the quote states 

Is it possible to have a planet where the atmosphere is mostly water vapor instead of mostly N + O2 with solid ground, so not a gas giant? In the sense - how close to the center star(s) should it be for water not to exist in greater bodies of liquid water or in any solid state as a result of water freezing below 0 degrees? What effect would that have on the other parts of the planet ? The planet is thought of as earth sized +/- 10% (not set in stone). Where the people lives in domes and have humidity extractors to produce water for fields and oxygen to breathe Could it be possible for people to exit the dome and survive just for lets say 20-60 seconds (beyond the time you can hold your breath) or maybe even longer? If so what would the effects be (such as water in the lungs?) This is for a space-goth roleplaygame, roguetrader. So any mechanics or inventions can be advanced but should be kept in range of the universe as much as possible 

Prepare for a lot of collateral damage While it might seem like it's easy to aim your eyes, it's actually very difficult to keep them perfectly still. Only a small amount of the retina gets a clear and perfectly focused image, so your eyes are constantly flicking around to take in the details of a scene. These flicks are called "saccades", French for "jerks". Even when you're staring at something, your eye position isn't continuously controlled by the brain. Rather, your brain notices when the eye has started to drift off target, and jerks it back into correct position. This process isn't consciously controlled, or even noticed, because your brain processes them out to give a steady and continuous image. But if you're firing a laser at any significant range, a flicker of just a few degrees would be a real problem. 

This line is the real problem. The humans can never keep a secret from the computer. They can't have passwords or cryptographic keys. They can't even discuss means of encryption without the AI finding out about them. All current cryptography works by assuming that some information can be kept secret from an attacker. It might be the details of how the algorithm works, or a very large prime number, or a one-time pad, or a seed for a pseudo-random number generator. But there has to be a secret of some sort, so that a person with the secret can open the message, and a person without the secret can't. So, what's a secret that the AI wouldn't know? Try something video surveillance can't pick up on. This will depend on what technology the humans have available, but for the sake of argument I'm assuming they have advanced (though not AI-level) equipment. Suppose they each take a hair from one particular person, and encrypt it with this algorithm: sequence three particular genes from that sample, interpret the nucleotide sequence as a base-4 number, convert to binary, and XOR with your message. The AI might know that you're doing this, and the exact details of the algorithm. But video surveillance can't see someone's genes. (Keeping the message secret once it's decrypted is a different matter.) 

Why would a space faring nation fly at lower than max-cruise speed It is often seen in sci-fi that captains, order speeds lower than max-cruise speed when flying. Not considered propulsion engines that could be used to leave orbit, planetary systems or other obstacles but Warp, FTL engines that could move the ship safe from A to B. Would there be any logical reasons for flying slower than capacity except from the obvious "we have to arrive in 5 days and the travel takes 3"? 

In most stories, the path traveled is often associated with the nether regions, hell, or some other terrible place. In Event Horizon the ship goes through a terrible place that affects the peoples mind. And in games like Warhammer 40k the warp is a place of chaos, that can contaminate people even if shielded. The question Is there any documented, either religion based, scientific or theoretic description of what would happen if you goes below sub-space plane to a deeper plane. In an attempt to make the travels even shorter as a shortcut (or to travel greater distances). Or would it mathematically be so close to the point that there in theory would be no space left? 

First, a physics note. If you compress or expand something in this way, its linear momentum and kinetic energy won't change (as you've rightly gathered). But the moment of inertia depends on how spread out the mass is. So if a spinning object is expanded, it will spin slower; if it's compressed, it will spin faster. The classic demo of this is a twirling figure-skater, who speeds up when she pulls her arms close to her body. This could violate conservation of energy depending on how much energy it takes to compress things; if spinning objects "resist" being compressed (and thus take more energy), conservation won't be a problem. For non-combat uses, the scientific potential is tremendous. Forget microscopes: just scale up your samples until you can see the details you want. Want a more powerful phone? Take a high-end processor and scale it down. Depending how far this expansion and compression can go, the possibilities are endless! But of course, the military would probably get their hands on it first. As far as combat usage, your metal slab could be enormously effective, but also enormously difficult to use. Let's say the slab is one centimeter thick. Wolfram|Alpha says that steel alloy is about 7.859 g/cm³; your 19x5x0.01 slab would weigh almost 7.5 metric tons. The heaviest .50 BMG bullet I can find is only 52 grams. So your railgun will need quite a lot of power to even push it out the barrel. It would probably be more effective to fire a larger object at the beginning: a cannonball, for instance. Use a proper artillery cannon to get it moving. Then compress it into a bullet in midair. It'll still have all the kinetic energy of a flying cannonball, but now that energy is focused on an area smaller than a quarter; that will tear through pretty much anything. If your enemies return fire, you'll want to do the opposite. Bullets hurt because they're so small, so their force is focused onto a small area. Scale them up a few orders of magnitude, and you're effectively being hit with a styrofoam ball; it might leave a bruise if it's moving fast enough, but it won't kill you. (Plus, as John pointed out, air resistance will stop it dead fairly quickly.) Confirming this experimentally is left as an exercise for the reader. 

Blackdamp is the condition where the breathable oxygen is removed from the air underground. Causing asphyxiation in humans and humanoids. Normally seen in modern day mines. The base area of the dwarven fortress is almost mined out and the dwarves are looking to other places to expand their empire, the idea is to go down, but they started to struggle with breathing so the dwarves goes to the drawing board. 

This makes me believe that the moon is moving away from the plane, like ours does, but in a much greater speed. It also makes me believe that the moon in in an elliptical orbit around the planet. How would the orbit look like for such a moon? Can it be calculated how it would look like in the future, i'm fishing after maybe a predictable date (year) where the moon would only have it's magical power in range for a short period of time. Like some comets. There is no specifications as to the size or mass of the world nor the moon, but lets assume that Monte Cook used our earth and moon as inspiration. I would like to have it tagged as hard science, but it is a magical moon. 

There are two important but distinct concepts here: conservation of momentum and conservation of energy. When you talk about absorbing the return force, you're referring to momentum (force is a change in momentum over time). The momentum of a moving object is $\vec{p} = m \vec{v}$, that is, momentum is mass multiplied by velocity. The arrow over velocity means the direction is important here; "momentum going east" is different from "momentum going west". Conservation of momentum means that the total momentum of a closed system should remain constant. If one object loses momentum, another should gain it. This leads to Newton's third law: if I apply a change in momentum to something, it applies an equal and opposite change in momentum to me. Add $+p$ to one thing, add $-p$ to another, and the sum stays the same. Kinetic energy, on the other hand, doesn't have a direction. $E_k = mv^2$. No matter which direction I'm moving, so long as I'm moving, I have positive kinetic energy. Energy is also conserved, but it's much easier to lose it. In fact, the Second Law of Thermodynamics says you have to lose it. Energy can't be destroyed, but it can be turned into a form that's useless to you, and there's no practical way to prevent this from happening. (Though your magic very well could.) For an example: suppose I have two metal balls, each weighing 1 kg. I put them on a straight track, then roll one of them east at 1 m/s, and the other one west at 1 m/s. The total momentum is $p = 1 kgm/s + (-1) kgm/s = 0$. The total energy is $E_k = 1 kg mm/ss + 1 kgmm/ss = 2$. Now the balls collide with each other, and stick together (a fully inelastic collision). So their velocities are both zero. The total momentum afterward is $p = 0 + 0 = 0$, same as before. The total energy is $E_k = 0 + 0 = 0$. Where did all that energy go? It still exists, but it went out into the environment: some of it caused the air to vibrate, for example, making sound. Now, for your magic box. Let's assume the magic box is already charged up with some amount of energy. You take one of my 1kg metal balls, and set it in front of the box. $p = 0$ and $E_k = 0$ since nothing is moving. The box does its magic, and now the ball is flying east at 1 m/s. It's gained momentum of 1 kg meter per second east. But we know the total has to be zero, so something else needs to gain momentum of 1 kg meter per second west. The easiest solution is to give that momentum to the Earth, where it has no measurable effect because the Earth is so heavy. This is what happens to the equal-and-opposite momentum when you walk. But the ball has also gained energy. It now has 1 kg meter-squared per second-squared of kinetic energy. Where did this come from? The obvious answer is: the box. But since this energy doesn't have a direction, the box can't "gain" anything in response. It now has a little bit less magic energy in it than before. So you've expended some stored energy to move an object; in other words, you have a magic gun. A converter of kinetic energy is a wonderful idea, but alas, there is no energy to be regained from recoil. The most you can get is momentum.