In my company we still use Skype for internal purposes. One client can have many projects and each of them can have one or more chats (sometimes my list can easily contain dozens of them). Even if you turn off notifications, those chats are always going up and down, blinking, making it harder to look for current projects info (another dozens of chats). Usually when you are being assigned to another client, a manager of former project excludes you from chats of their responsibility. The last time I switched projects one of the managers didn't exclude me from his group chats and recently one of those became so annoying I left it and others by myself. A few moments later a manager of one of the most annoying project's chat said that I was rude and said to just turn off the sound and never leave the conversations. I left that project 2 months ago and will never ever come back to it. The manager was one of the many and not a senior one. We have no internal regulations on this regard and I never had such problems before. But now it bothers me if he really was right. Are there any rules of etiquette that apply in my situation? 

What is the impact on your job if you do so? Think of your reputation at colleagues, think what happens if your boss can stay - then you are no longer the faithful employee but the next one to leave. The first step is to talk to this boss, ask him why you got the raise, explain you don't feel good about it if it's to keep you silent. Obviously you have a good relation to him to talk about those things, as he told you about his addiction. Then suggest him to find some help with his addiction. Tell him you don't want him to get into trouble because of this game if somebody else finds out (if you really don't want that) and you don't want another boss. Make clear it's not YOU who tells someone but you caught him playing and this could and will happen again with anybody else at any time including boss's boss. Depending on his level of addiction it could help to simply remove the game from his computer. Another thing to make clear is, could it be suspicious to get a raise in this amount at this time? If bosses notice it, what would they do? Use this as a second argument. Maybe you can agree to some lower raise at appropriate time? 

Office manager saw my hair in basin in WC. It accidentally felt inside and has been partly washed away while I was washing my hands. She contacted me by Skype and asked to clean it in the future. Now I'm confused what to tell her. Circumstances: our company has started to rent an entire floor, so all the WCs there are in their responsibility now. They didn't hire a cleaning company or person and don't plan to. Only office kitchen gets cleaned once a several months. Other office rooms hasn't been cleaned for a year so far. Although I agree we should keep office clean, I feel strong revulsion at being forced to dig into the basins each time I wash hands. There is no equipment or disinfectant liquids to perform such manipulations, not even spare paper (company bought electronic hand drier to save money on that and everything else). I can't stop my hair falling even though I comb it regularly. My responsibility, which is written in office regulations and I agree with, is to keep my desk clean. I don't mind because I'm the only one using it. I'm usually not conflicting person, but this goes overboard in my opinion. I'm planning to disagree with her. The problem is I'm a bit socially awkward, our Office manager tends to be unprofessional with the stuff. She is often rude and talkative while I'm shy and can't find proper words to answer on time. So I haven't been able to come up with some lines besides "Should I clean the carpets too? My hair is also falling while I'm walking, I bring soil from the outside as well". We are somehow on good terms (but not so good to blatantly tell her this). Other women' hair also occurs there (we are just 5 females in IT company beside this manager), they leave coffee/tea and other lumps in basins. But I can't simply approach and ask them "What would you tell her in my situation?", because other employees are arguing aggresively and openly (I can't choose this option) with her or ignoring completely. Am I right thinking like that? What other people do with their falling hair? How to tell her I won't clean the basins in a most professional way? Update. 

Well ... probably not usefully. As example I guess the portion of work that someone does in half of the time, say 4 hours instead of 8, is more than half the work he/she does in full time. But you can't split work so that everyone only works a little time on it. You should not ignore that lots of breaks mean a lot of time to get into work again. You don't just go on where you left, you have to think about what you did, how to continue, what you had in mind before and so on. So I think you shouldn't break work scheduled by the time but by the topics you are working on. 

To evaluate that you need a lot more than "only" the salary. Does your boss now really underpay or are "surprises" in the new job that could explain the higher salary? More worktime? A company that expects 1 h per day overtime of course can pay more than anotherone. What do you know about the new job? Conditions, expectations...? Will you like it as you like the current job? What about the team, the company culture in general? Calculate what is left from the other salary, after taxes and eventually more commuting and all the rest. Then confront the pros and cons. 

It always pays to be polite to folks who are/were senior to you. Notice you can rather turn it around and "thank" boss for suggesting it. 

What would you say? Would you hire them? No, it would be so funny you wouldn't even reply - you'd assume it was a joke. Here's another imaginary candidate: 

It could be, the solution you are looking for: It is completely admirable you want to work away from the family firm, for some time, to develop yourself. Fantastic. However, the idea of doing that at a competitor is nonsensical. The excellent, and indeed better, course of action in your situation is to work simply in another field (maybe a related field - sure - but not a competitor, not the same field). This is the typical thing in admirable dynasties, and is what you should do. It ultimately makes your company stronger and makes your position in it appear stronger. (Examples abound - for instance the "beer families" in the US, the youth do not go work at the other competing beer to gain improvement; they work in a related but different field (say, food processing, distribution, etc).) The only other option that working in a different field: (as with the fictional Francisco d'Anconia), just start your own small company in your field, and run it as this "learning exercise." That's the badass move. Good luck to you and the enterprise ! 

People should not compete? Then (wow I really have to say that?) don't force them to compete! Rishi Goel says it, hire the right at the top. Someone who doesn't 

Since WANTING to do that is important to keep everybody happy, you shouldn't select those people by rank. 

First of all I am not sure if I got the question right. Correct me if not. This kind of working can be ok at home, if you are the person who really can do that and wants to do that. You really don't know how office working looks like? If I calculate that, 6 times 1.5 hours of coding and 5 times 1.5 hours break in between, this is 16.5 hours a day. How could a person be this time at the office each day? What recreation effect is in leisure time that you spend at the office, if it's only small portions and you absolutely don't know what to do there and always have the rest of your work in mind? This is pure stress, not recreation. So the answer is