A Deal With the Devil This question sounds a lot like a utilitarian thought experiment. Perhaps there isn't anything really special about the planet itself, it is just that the entire civilization is built around a few suffering to benefit the many. There are various reasons it could arise. Just sign here... Perhaps a literal deal with the devil. Perhaps a pact with some pandimensional entity with Orange and Blue morality allows the remainder of the galactic civilization to be a utopia, all for the low price of letting one tiny blue planet be the hell on Earth. Bread and Circuses Humans really like reality TV. The entire galaxy enjoys the real life drama shows. Without them the great democratic civilization would collapse. RealTV Limited only needs one planet. Everyone agrees that it is worth a few criminals and wannabe stars suffering. Well everyone except people on one particular planet. Technically they can still vote, but one planet isn't enough to get even on seat of the senate. Unobtiani-sufferanium. Perhaps the civilization is powered by emotion. Perhaps the suffering is packaged up and shipped out. Perhaps a single planet suffering punches a whole in the warp and creates an objective anchor that can be used to break the law of relativity allowing telekinetic psions to push ships faster than light. In any case the suffering itself is the resource that allows the rest of the civilization to be the utopia it is. 

Biotechnology In some science fiction there are races that use biotechnology for everything, doing most of the things we do but using biological processes. They could potentially have huge living nuclear reactors that transform metals into other elements. Why they would do this is less clear. They could have used up the uranium this way, but transforming iron into other things tends to require energy. Nanites/Transformers/Metallic Dragons You could have some metal based lifeforms. All metal has been converted into these. Attempting to convert these armor-plated killing machines back into raw metal is... brave. Hidden Metals If the metal remains metal, perhaps the lifeforms hide it. Even if the dragons aren't metal themselves, retrieving metal from their lair would still easier said than done. Alternatively, perhaps some form of underground lifeform has eaten the metallic ores and distributed the metal evenly through the earths crust. Without concentrated ores, trying to extract metal out of dirt wouldn't be easy. Some bird's mating ritual could involve dropping shiny things into the deepest parts of the ocean, where some other lifeform buries them. Virulent Rusting Organisms Perhaps you can smelt the rusted metal back into metal; however, if they rust again within a few days, there isn't much point. If the only metal you can actually use is (say) titanium that would reduce the amount of metal easily available. 

Nerve Stapling Many other answers assume Jimmy tries to limit itself to 21st century technologies and ethics. However, eldritch horrors have little need or want to limit their behaviour this way. For eldritch horrors Death is just that dude who lives down the hall, and even the 22nd century envisioned by Sid Meier's "Alpha Century" provides a more direct solution for undesirable behaviour. 

Cryogenics Escape pods are too small to have big engines or carry much oxygen. Good news is that is that in the cold of space you won't need to breathe for long. Better news is that interstellar age medical technology can usually get you breathing again. Even if the passenger understood interstellar navigation before they entered the escape pod, you wouldn't want them fiddling with anything too important while they are suffering from Cerebral Hypoxia and their lungs are filling with cryogenic fluid. Once they are frozen, manual controls would be safe but also useless. 

From the dwarves point of view the humans are basically vermin. I mean you can't trust an elf. Elves arrogance leads them to mess with things that shouldn't be messed with. The elves messed the world up when they, in their hubris, picked a fight with the Gods. Then they withdrew from the world for 10,000 years of uninterrupted pursuit of pleasure and accidentally created a new and rather Evil god. But even Elves don't make the same mistake twice. Humans on the other hand -- it doesn't matter how much they protest they are a "Good King" and would never mess with forces of pure elemental Evil. You turn your back on them, even just for a few hundred years, and suddenly... demons. Again. And again. And again. Humans are basically just the early stages of yet another daemonic infestation. 

Angering the Gods is a Bad Idea In a fantasy world, angering the gods tends to be a bad idea. The gods don't necessarily agree; in Greek myths you might survive angering one god if another has your back. In fantasy settings there may be some form of balance between the gods. For the sake of this answer I assume a balance between life and death The good guys might not always win easily. The gods of life might support them, but the the gods of death are open minded on the whole "murder" thing, and are willing to hear the prayers of the villains. Unless those villains are uppity wizards who regularly steal souls from the halls of the dead to murder the living. In that case their actions would not be blessed by any of the gods. If the very evil mage doesn't catch a hint, they might assume that their initial loss is because the zombies are less nimble, or less independent. He may come up with some clever stratagem around this weakness, but when the gods are unanimous in their displeasure, in one way or another the mage will find his comeuppance sooner rather than later. Depending on the fantasy world, gods may not be an issue for necromancers. In general if you break the laws of magic you often have bigger problems than mortal authorities. Angry spirits, magic residue, druids, nature spirits, plagues of carrion feeders and magically enforced anti-necromancy treaties could all give necromancers a bad day. 

Note that FTL communication breaks the theory of relativity since FTL is equivalent to time travel (under some frames). Thus the best scientific knowledge is that tachyons, quantum entanglement and so on cannot carry information faster than the speed of light. Since scientific theories such as the Theory of Relativity are not mathematically proven it is "plausible" that they will be disproven. However, given the many answers that assume that relativity is wrong, it is interesting to note that the existence of pseudo-telepathy is a known scientific fact and not limited to the speed of light. The standard example is two space captains (Alice and Bob) who want to meet only if they both agree. They have the option of travelling to star system A or B. They say they want to meet, and they both receive a message saying to travel to system A. They arrive at system A, and meet. Now they have received something information-like, because they were able to agree to meet, not limited by the speed of light. However, this doesn't break causality. They each have a 50% chance of receiving "A" regardless of what the the other captain responds, so there receiving "A" by itself gives no information about the other space captain. No information is exchanged until the captains meet, which happens slower than the speed of light. Quantum mechanics doesn't allow the captain problem to be solved with 100% accuracy, but still much better than random chance. Depending on the feel of your universe pseudo-telepathy might work better than actual communication. Imagine oracles spread across the galaxy with some from of pseudo-telepathy device wired into their brain. It gives a 100% scientific reason to have oracles that give cryptic statements that tell you what you need to know (but you don't know why until after), if that's your thing. There are limits to the what can be achieved by pseudo-telepathy, but the oracles may not even really know when they are just guessing. The main characters don't necessarily know the exact details, they consult the oracle and it works out (or not) as required by the plot. 

The Prime Directive In Star Trek, there are aliens that are unbeatable, but they tend not to conquer less advanced civilisations. From the point-of-view of a prewarp civilisation, the Federation would be unbeatable. The prime directive prohibits the federation from interfering with prewarp civilisations however. The Q-continuum, but they have something similar to the prime directive, so they mostly don't mess around with the Federation. I brought up the prime directive since the question mentioned Star Trek. Higher powered beings may avoid conflict for other reasons, such as simply not caring about insignificant beings, or maintaining a nature reserve. Of course, high powered aliens might care about lesser beings, perhaps seeing them as vermin to eradicate. However, the most interesting tales may simply be set in areas of space where human-like intelligences are permitted to exist. This may involve species settling into quanta of power, where they do not interfere with other quanta