With the question of action, the issue is that consciously not doing anything (e.g. not voting for either candidate) is an action anyway. You point this out in the bystander case. Any basic ethics would put responsibility on the person who is aware of a specific evil and does nothing to stop it. Thus, let's apply voting for the president to this scenario. It is fair to state that voting ought to express our political beliefs and we ought to not vote for someone we don't agree with. If we consider that both Trump and Clinton are not good candidates, then we ought to vote for a third party candidate since we won't vote for either Trump nor Hillary. This is not the same as not voting since we ultimately still acted in a sense of civic duty and expressed an ethical political opinion. If we do not vote and have not had our voting prevented, then we have failed to try to stop them and acted unethically. Altogether, it can be said that it is unethical to be conscious of some evil and not do anything about it. A lack of action would, therefore, imply a lack of knowledge. If we did not know something was wrong, how could we act against it? We wouldn't be able to consciously do so, thus measuring the practical ethics of that situation is absurd. As it stands for philosophers, I would direct you towards a man named Thomas W. Smith who writes Revaluing Ethics: Aristotle's Dialectical Pedagogy and towards Aristotle in general. Also, Jean-Paul Sartre may have an answer for you in Being and Nothingness. More specifically, David Banach's commentary of it would be good to read over ($URL$ 

Recently, I have been getting in conversations with people who are politically active. The main discussion point I find myself struggling to be able to answer is the ethics of single-payer health care systems. He claimed that everyone would be able to get health care from anywhere. My response was the government can limit the services someone is allowed to have. His response was that not everyone is deserving of a service they ask for. For some background on single-payer health care systems: 

There probably is a prespective from Hobbes, Freud, Rousseau, etc. that could be looked at as it relates to their specific philosophy/rhetoric, but I believe this covers a broad look at several approaches that can be taken. Overall, I find the Aristotle definition to be the most practical and psychologically real of all of them. 

The problem I ran into it in formulating a response exists in practical ethics. The principle of beneficence/non-maleficence would say that the patient absolutely is deserving of the procdure/treatment if it is beneficial to them and prevents them from being injured. Justice would say that whoever is most deserving of a procedure/treatment should receive it. The principle of autonomy would state that only the patient has the right to deny or accept a treatment/procdure. With all of these disagreements amongst some of the basic prinicples of health care ethics, I found a base question that must be answered for a response can be properly formulated. Therefore, whether it be for any reason, can we be in the ethical and still deny someone a health procedure to treatment, even if that procedure or treatment is necessary? 

Overall, it is obvious that Adorno did not use "authenticity" in any of his own arguements. However, he did use it as a mode to prove that human reason has been something that is hugely subjective to our culture, rather than objective. So one could argue that within this piece, "authenticity" has been used by Adorno to validate something. Otherwise, he seems to dismiss the idea of "authenticity" entirely. 

The dictionary definition of philosophy is, "the study of the fundamental nature of knowledge, reality, and existence, especially when considered as an academic discipline." To answer, philosophy is not entirely about living, but answers about life in general are sought out within philosophy. Of course, the answers to questions about knowledge, reality, and existence may effect how we live, but it is not to say that philosophy is purely about living. Involving the restriction of thought, it's self-evident that we damage our ability to explore other forms of wisdom. This is a worry of mine as I see more people in society either narrowing their view extremely and calling themselves "open minded" or, instead, choosing to not think at all. 

This clearly has a basis in religion, which, according to Adorno, is subjective in nature and cannot be valid in reason. Thus, it is not compatable. Submission to the culture industry is already considered as not a good option, according to Adorno. So, if we apply the same principles to fascism, it is evident seen that Adorno would be against fascism. This means that "authenticity" cannot be compatable. Without the idea of the speaking self, number 4 is led to, which provides us with our answer to Adorno's position on this as well. In being a walking advertisement for whatever the time's views may be, we are not subjects of our own reason, but subjects to mythical and religious undertones, thus is not compatable Adding up to your mere social functions means that you have also become a person who is passive and not critical of your own social condition, which is falling into the "culture industry". Thus, Adorno cannot approve of "authenticity" on these grounds as well. In only being subjective to oneself, we follow society's views instead of truly objective reason, which creates a relativistic standpoint. This is already noteably disapproved of by Adorno, thus his views are not compatable with "authneticity" whatsoever here as well. 

I would almost have to think that it is instead a priori. That which is a priori can be derived by reason alone. If you read Descartes' meditation on this topic, he uses only logic, but in the form of doubt. Since he uses only logic, the analytic cogito ergo sum can be only known through reason and, therefore, must be a priori The other question to ask is why it's not a posteriori. A posteriori statements are unknown to reason alone. It prevents a clear answer that the analytic cannot fathomably be a posteriori because Descartes doubts anything but reason throughout the entirety of that meditation. 

Aristotle- as stated above, virtues are found in the middle. Thus, what's between selfishness and selflessness is what Erich Fromm describes as self-love, which is being able to love others as long as you can respect/"love" oneself. Ayn Rand- her belief is that we must be selfish to be ethical. This creates development in the society. Idealy, this would be absolutely great for true capitalist market. However, to see this failing when put into action, see the deregulation of different industries in houndorus and the U.S. during the industrial revolution. Utilitarian- if the selfishness helps the common good, then it's good. However, selfishness and utilitarian ethics are incompatible in a general sense because you must always be following the common good. That following cannot always occur in selfishness (this could be a question by itself). Categorical Imperitive (Kant)- imagine if everyone was selfish. We all would always try for what we want and not necessarily what society needs. With this, the society would not be able to surviving long term. Assuming we were still selfish after that, everyone would probably be trying to kill everyone all the time, which would cause the human race to end. Thus, selfishness could be no more. Selfishness leading to its own end creates a contradiction. Thus, selfishness is unethical. Hedonistic altruism- we're all selfish, but it can be used practically towards a good and moral end. 

"The Categorical Imperative is supposed to provide a way for us to evaluate moral actions and to make moral judgments. It is not a command to perform specific actions -- it does not say, "follow the 10 commandments", or "respect your elders". It is essentially "empty" -- it is simply formal procedure by which to evaluate any action about which might be morally relevant." "Since by nature (according to Kant) the moral law is universal and impartial and rational, the categorical [imperative] is a way of formulating the criteria by which any action can pass the test of universality, impartiality, and rationality. That is its only function." 

A similar problem regarding cost control and refusing to pay for services can be found in traditional models of private insurance. However, the outcome is still the same; someone is denied a healthcare service. 

Kant would agree that since morals can exists a priori, and can be discovered by following these four laws: The Formula of the Law of Nature: "Act as if the maxim of your action were to become through your will a universal law of nature." The Formula of the End Itself: "Act in such a way that you always treat humanity, whether in your own person or in the person of any other, never simply as a means, but always at the same time as an end." The Formula of Autonomy: "So act that your will can regard itself at the same time as making universal law through its maxims." The Formula of the Kingdom of Ends: "So act as if you were through your maxims a law-making member of a kingdom of ends." None of these include the necessity of following a religion within them, but always allow us to discover, and thus do, the universally moral and ethical action. The categorical imperative also seems to point out that a moral system provided by a religion may not provide universal morals and, therefore, not create universally ethical and moral action (i.e. human sacrifice, mass murder, execution, and fully shunning individuals). Altogether, we can know a moral system and, thus, act it out in our lives through the categorical imperative without following a specific religion. This allows atheists, and those who are religious, to be moral people as long as the universally moral and ethical action is lived out. Finding a much more pratical answer, someone being religious absolutely does not equate to morality. Let's look at a recent case with a mega-reverend, Ted Haggard. He was head pastor of a church in Colorado for years and preached a very conservative message. However, it was discovered that he had had a relationship with a male prostitute and was using crystal methamphetamine. for three years while continuing his ministry. This, and many other cases with religious figures, shows that having religion does not equate morality ("Even so faith, if it has no works, is dead, being by itself," James 2:17 NAV). One can live out religion and keep with good moral practice (i.e. love you neighbor, do not kill, do not steal), but, also, it is self-evident that one can have no religion and still keep these good moral practices. 

"Authenticity" is a spirituality that follows no doctrine. This way a way for someone, suggestive of heidegger, to prevent him from falling back into religion. This creates an environment prone to fascism and totalitarianism since the "Jargon" following the "authenticity" has a need for submission to an object, a void which a totalitarian regime would fill. Furthermore, "autheniticity" creates a lack of individuality amongst those accepting the doctrine because the words employed do not have any specific content to them, which dismantles the entire idea of the speaking self. The "Jargon", in following "autheniticity", gain authority based upon saying what people already thinking because they do not have a specific self. Thus, basically becoming a walking advertisement for the current thought of the world. The "authentic" person would feel powerless and nothingness within their character because they would have religious traits, but nothing to make themselves humble before. This only allows the individual to become nothing but what their social functions add up to. "In Heidegger, the subject is authentic to itself, the very definition of authenticity, so one’s own subjectivity is the judge of what is authentic. Reason is discarded as a judge at this point," (126). 

Deriving a more absolute answer, the first and foremost way to provide a rebuttal is via Kant and the categorical imperative. There a two quotes I can find that describe this well from a summary from the City University of New York: 

I think I have an idea about what you're asking, but please correct me if I am wrong. I feel as if you are asking a question about subjectivity related to a final state of being, which in this case is death. Let me list off some questions I think you may be asking or need to ask. -Can someone rationalize ending their life via physician assisted suicide, assuming that the person knows everything about their pain and that pain is absolutely subjective? If this is your question, then the answer must be looked at in the first way which Aristotle views suicide. Since it would end human life before its natural end was reached, then you cannot rationalize engaging in physician-assisted suicide. However, you must also ask another question. -If someone cannot positively contribute to society, can they then rationalize going through physician assisted suicide? This question is based in relativism. That is, what positively contributing to society is different across cultures without many absolute specifics that certain philosophers (i.e. the utilitarians) have attempted to define, but even have holes there. Just because something is for the common good does not mean that it is good for everyone. We must then look for another way to define the worth of life. This question leads us into another question then: -Does human life have inherent value to it? This question is heavily debated, but let us take a view at it via Aristotle. Aristotle believed that the goal of life is happiness. From this point of perspective, we must also take into account the fact that we cannot experience happiness in death. Because we cannot experience happiness in death and only in life, we should not die when we can avoid death so that we can continue to experience happiness, which is our overall goal. Therefore, we should not go through physican assisted suicide so that happiness can still be felt. -A question I ignored from above- Is pain subjective? Yes, as you've almost explained above. Since pain cannot be shared with others, it is a feeling that is purely internal. Thus, pain is subjective? -How can we master something that is subjective, like pain? It is clear to me that if something that is not objective, we cannot develop a mastery of, since we cannot be sure of the extremity of our pain. I could stub my toe and not cry, and let's also say that this is the worst pain I've felt. Then, I can say that I have mastered my pain to the best of my degree when it is clear that there are so many other things so much more painful that I could experience. Since we cannot experience objective value in pain, we cannot master it because there is no true way to comparing our ability to master our pain compared to someone else's. Without the certainty of the mastery of our pain, we cannot rationalize ending our life over a given amount of pain. Your other option is to view this question through the base questions of medical ethics (i.e. autonomy, beneficence, non-maleficence, justice, etc.), which may give you more of an answer you are looking for.