Suetonius mentions the two only anecdotally and they are never referred to elsewhere. Roman emperors, like most dictators, faced literally a constant array of plots. If history recorded every plot and conspiracy, books would have nothing but conspiracies in them. When you read of something like "two patricians having ambitions on the throne" or whatever, that would be one out of a hundred similar incidents. That there is no other mention of the men is not surprising. 

The wikipedia article on ARPANET explains the earliest architecture. Communication was over leased telephone lines using acoustic modems. Each node was run by a small, specialized computer that did routing. Communication between the routers and the local computers was through a serial port. To read the packets off the serial port, the local machine would have to have some kind of software installed (what we would call today a "tcp/ip stack"). 

Where Chabolo is taken to mean Kafr Yasif, however, this may not be the case, because at the time there were a lot of villages in the area. Personally, I would strongly doubt any definite biblical connections. First of all, Kafr Yasif, or "Kefr Yasif" as it was formerly known during the Mandate, was originally a very small village just southwest of Abu Sinan. This village originally had nothing in it, except the ruins of an old and small church. The entire area was heavily altered during the crusader period. Also, there are many larger, more ruined towns and tells all around, like Abu Sinan itself for starters. So, it is unlikely that Kafr Yasif has any significant antiquity. 

War increases sexual activity. During WW2 the US (and othe countries) had to sponsor huge campaigns to fight venereal disease, particularly gonorrhea, which was a significant cause of casualties. In the US the notion arose that having unmarried sex with soldiers was acceptable. Large numbers of "dance halls" sprang up, where soldiers could purchase a "dance" for ten cents. This frequently equated to having sex with the woman. The women that frequented dance halls and bus stops were called "victory girls". There was no stigma attached to being one. There are lots of books on the subject. One recent book is " Victory Girls, Khaki-Wackies, and Patriotutes" by Marilyn E. Hegarty (2007). 

I have to admit I prefer books containing facts, rather than theories, because I am a good theorist, so I swiftly lose interest in authors who propose a lot of half-baked ideas. This Diamond guy is not a historian or even anthropologist, just a biologist with a very scattershot knowledge of human history. Nevertheless, a very smart person can make good theories from a small number of facts, if they are knowledgeable enough. The question is whether Diamond falls into that category. Methodology Having read some of this guy's theories and essays, I find that his method is not particularly scientific. He makes no effort to find or explain counter examples, nor does he make any effort to be comprehensive--an especially important factor for sweeping theories like this. When somebody formulates global theories based on anecdotes, it is a virtual certainty that the theory is incorrect. Geography For example, the vikings succeeded despite coming from longitudinal areas with sparse agriculture and lots of climate variability. So did the Japanese. Also, I see no trend. During the course of civilization you have one group sweeping around and destroying, then another. It's not like there are repeated successes from certain particular places that would indicate a pattern. Sometimes you have areas that are complete failures in one milennium, succeeding greatly in the next, or vice versa. Animals The idea that draft animals and wheat made the Eastern Hemisphere succeed seems naive and simplistic to me. The Eastern Hemisphere is more than twice the size of the Western. That alone gives it a big advantage. Disease Diamond's focus on disease is understandable, given his training, but as far as civilization is concerned, disease is not a big factor. Disease tends to kill off the weak. If anything, my experience and knowledge suggests that disease epidemics make civilizations stronger, not weaker. You can see this in herd animals. Predators kill off the weak and the herd becomes smaller, but stronger. Nietzche wrote, "What does not kill me, makes me stronger." (Twilight of the Idols) There is an element of truth to that basic idea. Summary Diamond's book has enough detail and interesting ideas to fascinate the average American, but I do not consider it to be a significant contribution to a new understanding about civilization, and for historical experts I would consider the book to be entirely superfluous, especially because its method and use of evidence is poor by scientific standards. The advantages of the book are that it is entertaining and for a person without much knowledge of history it may be interesting and educational as a collection of small historical essays. For a person who wants to understand the development of civilization I think there are many books that are far more systematic, information rich, and have higher quality theories. That would include Gibbon, the Durants, Toynbee and even Spengler. These four authors all have a knowledge of history that simply dwarfs Diamond and it shows in the quality of their work. You would be far better off reading their books than this book by Diamond. 

photo taken from this forum So my question is, when was the Mosque inside the parthenon actually demolished? Do we have a date for it? Also a bonus question, do we know if the original photo taken by Pierre-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière in October, 1839 still exists? or has that since been lost? 

Many surviving classical temples and palaces in the Levant and Asia appear to have been built by the Romans. Are there any notable ones that still survive today that where built specifically during the reign of the Seleucid kings (312 BC- 63BC)? 

Any medieval sources that mention "Macedonians" or a "Macedonian people" are doing so in a geographic context. You could have people who spoke Slavic, Vlach, Albanian or Greek in Byzantine Macedonia that could have been described as "Macedonian". 

You can see by the actions of Demosthenes how much of a hindrance one man under the influence of Persian gold could be. He had convinced the Athenian assembly to send an army with allied Thebans and Boeotians to meet the Macedonians at Chaeronea and be decisively beaten. This resulted in the destruction of the city of Thebes and the end to the conflict which brought most of Greece under Phillip's control. 

To add to the first answer, there is no single registry of athletes who performed in the Olympic or various other pan-Hellenic games. I am sure though that there have been attempts by modern researchers to compile such a list. In Sparta today you can see on the main street a monument dedicated to all the past Spartan Olympic victors to the present day. I took a photo of it when i went there in 2016. Name of Athlete - Contest - Year (π.Χ is BC and μ.Χ is AD ) 

Engraving of the first photograph of the Parthenon. Daguerreotype photograph taken by Pierre-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière in October, 1839. Engraved by Frédéric Martens. Published in Excursions daguerriennes by Noël Paymal Lerebours in 1841. 1848 - the Mosque now does not appear: 

With the alliance in place, the Romans would have to further stretch their forces and resources to the east so as to counteract any possible Macedonian offensive. The Macedonians had numerous things to gain from the defeat of Rome: 

So it was Demetrius and Phillip's threat to Roman occupied Illyria and also to Italy itself which prompted the Romans to intervene militarily. 

I recently came across an article about the Byzantine historian Theophylact Simocattis and learned that he wrote about the reunification of China by Emperor Wen. I also know that Cosmas Indicopleustes wrote somewhat about China 60-90 years earlier than Simocattis. Were their any historians in the Greco-Roman world that preceded the two above that gave anything more than a mere mention to the societies of China? 

Warren Treadgold, one of the most eminent scholars on the Byzantine Empire puts it simply as follows: 

So as for sources "testifying the existence of Macedonia" Yes there are plenty of sources mentioning a "Macedonia" but bear in mind that between the 7th -19th centuries, the definition of "Macedonia" had changed significantly. From a Roman province, to Byzantine Theme, to Bulgarian region, to Latin region, to Serbian region and so on.. As for sources "testifying the existence of ... Macedonian people" The best you'll get are minor references to people from the region regardless of their language or ethnicity. 

Source While Alexander is known for kick-starting Hellenization in Asia, he did not live long enough to have a significant effect. It was in fact, the people who succeeded him (Greek migrants, Intellectuals, successor kings) who were the ones that continued the process and gave a lasting effect. Migrants who came from the Greek states and settled in Asian settlements brought with them their culture and religion. Natives often assimilated into this Greek culture and often opposed it. The Greeks who came to Asia did not however stamp out the religions and cultures of the natives. In some cases they actually adopted foreign elements into their own religion. There are several examples of Greek deities who have mixed Greek/barbarian origins such as Serapis. 

- Diplomacy and Displacement: Reconsidering the Turco-Greek Exchange of populations, 1922-1934 (Onur Yildirim, pg 249) If your identification papers read that you where Orthodox and not Muslim, you where exempt from the population exchange. Furthermore, marriage in the Orthodox church requires that both husband and wife must profess the Christian faith. Therefore those Muslim men and women who married into Orthodox families had to convert as a pre-requisite to their marriage. 

Here is a byzantine mosaic map. The city at the bottom (ΙΕΡΙΧW) is Jericho and the Sea on the right is the Dead Sea. I wasnt able to find a source of this map.