It is a good question you ask but there is a certain sector that might Blur the line between spiritual experience and a disorder. Here is an ancient story of a real monk... Once there was a monk in srilanka (about 2000 years ago) he used to practice "Attika Sanna". It is a form of meditation that focus on the bone structure of a being.He was on his way from "Anuradhapura" ancient city where he met with a beautiful woman. She was actually going to her parents place after a fight with her husband. She saw the monk and smiled. But the monk did not saw her as a person, He only saw her skeleton. Her husband was coming to take her back home but he was far behind. The monk went on his way and met the husband on the way, He asked "did you saw a woman going this way?". The monk replied "I didn't saw any woman but i saw a skeleton walking that way.". 

If you are asking about a white lie this is the method.As to Buddhism you can't lie but you can divert attention.In your scenario if the murderer asks your reply can be not in my house!yes it looks like a lie but if you say with mindfulness that there's nothing yours in the deep sense of Buddhism,you are not lying If you remember what Lord Buddha said to "Angulimaala" the finger collecting murderer.Buddha said "I have stopped,Now you should stop".while saying this Lord Buddha was still slowly moving from him.What Lord Buddha meant was that Lord Buddha is no longer bound to anything,that Lord Buddha has reached enlightenment.You see what apparently a lie can still be true.It's all in the mind of the one saying the statement! 

If you feel discomfort while meditating it is better to temporarily meditate "Meththa - The loving kindness meditation". 

This is how it happened. I should remind you that if one chooses to put away the tipitaka he or she ends up with nothing else but his or her own version of things that his or her mind construct to benefit. Without the tipitaka there is no Buddhism left to follow. I must say that one thing you said is wrong. It is not a Buddhist thing to make our own version. I agree that we all interpret the teaching in our own way, but one should not make personal beliefs. But the teaching is open to different interpretations as we all are with different wisdom and intelligence. Namo Buddhaya! 

Breathing meditation - Has a set of rules/guidelines that you must follow (Like sitting down being essential for that particular meditation) Vipassana meditation - Has no structure and you can use it in any form or method after you learn the core of it. 

If someone is really depressed and having self destructive thoughts and behavior what can i do to help such a person? Is there a good meditation for such a one? What kind of advice will it be best for a such a one? 

Clearly there is no possible perspective in which addictions like smocking or any other addiction can be justified. If you smoke take time but come out of it never to return. May triple gems bless you! 

Let me tell you a story from Lord Buddha's time.... One day a maid who was a follower of Lord Buddha went early in the morning to the nearby river to bring water. She saw a sage in the river taking an early bath, knowing the temperature of the water in the morning she asked him a question. 

First of all here is a place for you to go and learn Buddhism. You will find good friends there. This is the monastery where i learned from and that's why i mentioned it so as it might be a bit far away use the Web Site mentioned and it will help you immensely.(I learned most of what i know from the site too, so i'm sure you will learn a lot of things.) 

After thinking this i felt that i should focus on what is the true source of attachment, is it taste of chocolate or the fact i once loved the taste of chocolate? which one am i truly attached to, is it a moment that i had which i want to live again and again or is it just plain taste? 

I can't help but think that no mater what no one will spend a human lifetime's length to have a walk in a park. Perhaps this is a time lapse that is here? I know this is not a place to play with science and buddhism. but i'm asking this to get an explanation as i've seen many people listen to this and delay their efforts limiting themselves to hording only good karma but no other efforts on much arduous sections of the path. 

A Buddhist is a one who had accepted Triple gems as his only path and refuge. He has absolute confidence in Lord Buddha's words.But this confidence is not a blind one,He has learnt and applied the teachings to his personal life and understood the truthfulness of them by himself.He follows every word of Lord Buddha because he has seen it by himself that thee is no other path.He understand that his ability to fathom something is far less from a lord Buddha so when he find some things that he has never even dreamed of in "Dhamma" he believes it because of the proofs he had previously about the practicality of Lord Buddha's teachings.He is sure of those things because even if he did not see those amazing things by himself he has his trust in Lord Buddha. So what makes a real Buddhist? Lord Buddha said this about it..... 

Pardon me my direct knowledge is not that clear on the issue so let me forward you to the very teachings themselves..... 

I have some understanding about the "Four great elements" But i have these questions... My chair is solid wood, So i understand the "Solidity element (Patavi)" but how do i understand the rest of the elements in it Expansion My chair is solid Iron, So i understand the "Solidity element (Patavi)" but how do i understand the rest of the elements in it 

Can thoughts of doing good alone Create Karma? Yes, If you want a good Example look at the very famous "Meththa Meditation" (also known as - Loving Kindness Meditation). Even the thoughts of doing a good thing create good Karma. And one must be aware that this is a two way street, meaning thinking of bad creates bad karma too. This is a very important concept only found in Buddhism. Even though there are few other religions that use the word Karma they do not have a full definition on how exactly karma should be defined. So my friend you should know.... The minute you start thinking or planing some good deed it create good karma. The minute you plan bad it creates bad karma. 

Yes it is possible and Lord Buddha had to show some supernatural powers in certain incidents. But Lord Buddha's perspective was a bit different from what you might expect.... 

So death is to be understood and in your understanding you become a one who is prepared to continue the path. 

Now lets see how to fix the issue.... Anger has a way of becoming a big cloud that shadows a persons judgement. Before you know it the anger that you had for something or for someone turns into hating yourself and sooner it turns into an anger towards the world. This turns a person into a dull angry one and ironically that very person start to get attached to that anger even though he knows it makes him miserable. This happens because of his mind actually reacting to aggression time and time again and eventually getting attached to feeling aggressive. 

I request you all to take your time and read this answer fully with all the links given,and i guarantee you when you stand up from that chair after reading this you will be a different man forever. May triple gems bless you all! Namo Buddhaya! 

Path does not make you a boring person. You have realized the true nature of the world and you are no longer driven by the lust of lavish things. This is why it does not feel the same. But you still have attachments to live like there is no tomorrow. Party & get high not to mention the ladies. But your mind is giving you mixed signals here. There is a reason why... this happens because of you not deciding a life between these two. So your mind goes back and forth.