When you take out the cyclic part, and talk about ketosis by itself, it can help understand what's going on. Ketosis happens in stages: 

Short answer: no. Longer answer has to do with a bunch of factors. First, after drinking a liter of beer, you are drunk--if not tipsy. You don't have full motor control, which means you can end up hurting yourself or others without intending to. There's a good chance you'll get kicked out of the gym (unless you own it). Second, alcohol dehydrates you, and to exercise properly you need to be properly hydrated. Dehydration is made worse when you are sweating out what little hydration you have left--there's a good chance you will vomit. Third, alcohol numbs you to pain. That means if you do something to injure yourself, you won't know it until you really make things worse--or possibly after you are sober again. Lastly, your friends sound like they just want to laugh at the drunk guy at the gym. Not really a good thing. Just don't be stupid. 

This article on prepping for the overhead press also has some good mobility/stretching exercises that will help you. So yes, there's a lot you can do, and flexibility is important to having good form. Just a note on hand position on the bar for squats: you want them wide enough not to put stress on your arms/elbows, but narrow enough to keep a tight upper back. There is some leeway on proper hand position. I suggest finding a spot that is comfortable yet keeps your back tight. The one stretch that will help improve the flexibility you need for snatches the most will be the shoulder dislocations. 

A beginner to intermediate lifter can follow this approach with a week long training cycle and training 3x a week. That will keep them busy for quite some time. I started my daughter on a program like that focused on power lifting. The set rep scheme was 6x4 at about 85% of a training max. That training max increased by 5 lbs every week. She happened to set some federation records when she competed a few months later. 

While your abilities are still below lifting 160kg on any given weight, and you are performing the major powerlifting movements (squats, deadlifts, bench press, overhead press) then there isn't a major advantage one over the other. However, there are reasons why you would opt for Olympic plates: 

The short answer is: yes. The longer answer has to do with the specific adaptations your body is going through in response to the training. Ignoring all cardiovascular changes (and there are many in this category), the primary difference from a body composition standpoint is: 

It would have to be a multi-pronged approach, but to cut to the chase the answer is "neither". I'll get in to why in a bit. First, you'll need to attack the problem from multiple areas: 

The goal here isn't making an athlete, but helping him move more and move better. We also don't know how well he is going to adapt to exercise, or if he has any heart problems lingering. The way I'd have him progress would be: 

Assuming the balance of protein/carbs/fats are the same, the only thing left is the net between calories burned and calories consumed. But in your example they are the same. In theory the amount of fat loss and hunger levels will be the same. In practice, there are so many variables that someone can't just give a blanket answer. For example, there is a minimum amount of Calories you need before the body goes into starvation mode. In starvation mode, the body tries desperately to hold on to the fat while it gladly sacrifices your muscles. Another example is someone who has trouble absorbing nutrients from certain foods. Even if the macro ratios are the same, that person may have diminishing returns on the food they eat--meaning that they have fewer usable calories in the second scenario. The best thing to do is perform sane dietary experiments on yourself to see if it plays out for you. I would be able to give an answer for my body, but my experience may not apply to you and your circumstances. 

Essentially, you'll have a minimum of 3 sets. You may decide after your second set that you might want another set or so in between. For example, if you feel like 337.5 is pushing yourself to your limits, you might try a small increase of 2.5lb and see if you can do 340. The bottom line is you keep going until you just can't anymore. 

You do have the right basic concept that low weight exercises can help build smaller muscles. However, it does require a better understanding of kinesiology (exercise science) to know which small muscles need help, how often, and when. For example, lifters who focus on bench press and rows will have the major muscle groups exercised. However, the rotator cuff can go unused because all the surrounding muscles are compensating. The more you keep lifting heavy, the worse the problem gets. Eventually you can get a rotator cuff injury which will keep you off the bench for a while. The guys over at DeiselCrew.com have a great video for a week of shoulder rehab you can do to strengthen the smaller muscles. However, there are other complementary main exercises a lifter can do to keep healthy rotator cuffs, and other stabilizer muscles. For example, the standing overhead press does a good job of maintaining shoulder health. You can't do it for as much weight as the bench, and it exercises the shoulders on a different plane of loading that is more ideal for the way our body is built. Some small exercises are superfluous when combined with other compound lifts. For example, forearm curls make no sense when you do heavy deadlifts and/or pullups/chinups. The reason being that your forearms get more than enough stimulus holding on to the bar. Here's the bottom line: 

You mention that you do push ups, but do you do any pull-ups or inverse rows? Typically, it's not uncommon to have Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness (DOMS) due to changing the intensity (weight) or volume (sets * reps). At first glance it sounded like this may be your problem. The DOMS can be quite intense and last for a few days if you really worked things harder than usual. Your back muscles are involved in push ups, but not to the degree that a proper back exercise uses them. As a result, you might be hitting the rhomboids to a greater degree than the surrounding back muscles so they aren't actively helping out in the process. The way to even things out is to introduce a back exercise. 

What to do about rest: Since you really don't have rest days in your plan, you can either modify it so that you add a rest days built in; or you can use an active rest protocol. One example of programming with rest days would be: 

All this work is to strengthen your upper back and lats so that you can better support the weight of the bar when you get back to bigger squats without the upper body collapsing forward under the weight of the bar. When the 4 weeks is up, start with a weight that does not cause any pain whatsoever. If you feel even the slightest twinge of pain, take weight off the bar. For when the injury heals, I highly recommend you get the help of a coach near you. You can look for Starting Strength certified coaches, or gyms with a power lifting team. There are usually one or two just about anywhere you live--you may have to drive a bit though. Have them look at what's going on and prescribe the remedies to your squat. It might be as simple as not having proper breath control under the bar (in fact, I would not be surprised if this was not at least a part of your problems). There are likely other form issues that I can't diagnose from text alone. 

The problem with NikeFuel is that it isn't truly a direct measure of your activity. In other words, it's an approximation based on oxygen use as per Mashable: 

I highly recommend reading an account of someone who actually did the protocol for the good, bad, and the ugly. The article you cited really talked about the emotional side of things and didn't really go into any true negative side effects from a health perspective. The key components of GOMAD are: 

Essentially you do the active rest protocol when you start feeling ground down, and keep it up for 1-2 weeks, or until you start perking back up. If you ignore the over-reaching feeling and allow yourself to go completely over-trained I would take time off for a mental and physical break until you really feel the desire to get back to it. 

It's much more useful to use a mirror to determine if you need to loose weight or gain muscle. If you have a small frame and you lack definition, you probably should focus on gaining strength before losing weight. If you have a normal frame and your shape is round and lacks definition, you can probably stand to lose some fat. If you have plenty of definition, don't worry about the scale or BMI. 

There's even more than that, including events like the highland games and certain track and field events. The four listed above can be cross trained, and many athletes do so. Think of these disciplines as something you grow in to over time. Even if you don't fancy competing just yet, training as if you were going to compete is very motivating and helps focus your efforts. Most people start out without any end goal in mind, all they know is that they want to get stronger/faster/jump higher/look better, etc. The disciplines above can help you focus your efforts and give shape to that nebulous goal. Anyone who has been consistently training for a long time has cross trained in one sport or another. For example, there are a number of strongmen who also compete in powerlifting, one example being Chad Wesley Smith. There are a number of powerlifters who train like bodybuilders in their off season such as Frank Zane and Dan Green. Some bodybuilders cross train for powerlifting, such as Arnold Schwarzenegger (who trained with Frank Zane). Each of these disciplines have something to lend to make you a much better athlete. Jim Wendler advocates bodybuilding your assistance work, even though he primarily focuses on powerlifting. Brandon Lilly suggests eating like a body builder, training like a strongman, mobilizing like a weightlifter, and thinking like a powerlifter. The lowest barrier of entry, requiring the least amount of technical skill would be bodybuilding. I do think, at least in the beginning you should focus on getting stronger first, and worry about the size/shape later. Starting with powerlifting movements like in Starting Strength is a good way to build that base of strength relatively quickly. It by no means requires that you pick a discipline and stay with it for the rest of your life. 

You will likely have to make adjustments to your diet to see the types of results you want to see. Higher protein, lower carb, and moderate fat. In essence if you split your calories in a day evenly between those macro nutrients you'll probably be doing much better in that department. Now you said you didn't like Strong Lifts 5x5, but did you look at Starting Strength? Here's the benefits of a strength based program (either SL5x5 or SS) as far as your goals are concerned: 

If you are not experiencing any of these symptoms, then the training volume is something you can adequately recover from. The truth of the matter is that whether your goal is strength or size, over time you need to keep increasing the volume of work you are doing. There's several strategies to doing this, and that's where the concept of training splits come in. A training split can be concentrated around muscle groups (bodybuilding emphasis) or specific primary compound movements (strength emphasis). There are several training tools that you can use when your current plan starts to no longer work. However, it's a good idea to keep doing something that's working as long as possible. A few things to consider for your training: 

The low bar position is better suited to bearing larger loads, and once you get used to it is more comfortable than the high bar position. Now, to answer your question, Mark Rippetoe has some good observations whether you agree with his conclusions or not: 

An occasional break here and there is good--for example going on vacation. Enjoy the vacation instead of obsessing over where to find an adequate gym. However, too many breaks can force you into the cycle you found yourself in. Recovery requires two things: food and sleep. You really need 8 hours of sleep a day, as your body takes that time to rebuild muscles and perform its recovery activities. You also need the protein that your body requires to build the new muscle--as well as calories to burn as muscle building takes a lot of energy. 

The dumbbell work would be every time, and alternate the back extensions and rows. After that, squats and deadlifts will be awesome to build general strength and keep everything good. Finger inflammation The most common cause for a joint becomes inflamed is when you keep using it one way, and don't balance that work going the other way. For example, bench pressers who don't do any curls or pull ups tend to have inflammation in the elbows. Cyclists and runners who don't do anything for their hamstrings or posterior chain can have problems with their knees. The same goes for gripping small crevasses to support your whole body weight. The good news is you don't have to balance the intensity of the work to get good results. You just need to get blood flowing through the joint with very high rep work (5x20, or any variation of 100 reps total). To address the finger inflammation, use a rubber band around your fingers and open your hand enough to work against the resistance, but not so much that the rubber band rolls up on your hand.