In Jewish tradition, the Lost Tribes are not "lost" in the sense that your car keys might get lost. They are "lost" in the sense that a dead friend is "lost". What happened was that after Israel split into two countries, the Assyrians invaded the northern one in 740 BC and carted off the balance of the population (after the war) to Assyria as slaves. This population was never allowed to return, and after several generations became completely assimilated into the population and culture of Assyria. As far as the Jews are concerned, those people are totally lost to them. However, there is another story. According the the Samaratans themselves, not everyone was carried off, and they are those folk's descendents. Genetic Studies don't refute the Samaratan's story. The Assyrian accounting of things was that they deported the entire population, and repopulated the land with other people. This essentially matches the Jewish account. Linguistically, the Samaratans definitely spoke a very closely related language to Hebrew. There doesn't seem to be much research looking into when the two diverged (I'm a great believer in language as a marker of culture, so for me this would be decisive). 

A failed Missouri habidasher a few years later was the man who led the US in the nuclear obliteration of two major Japanese cities. Or consider a man who had finished near the bottom of his class at West Point and was forced out of the Army for drunkenness, left scraping together a living as destitute saddle salesclerk. Four years later he went on to defeat first the Confederate armies guarding the Mississippi in the west, then their armies guarding the capitol in the East, effectively winning the bloodiest war in American history. So I wouldn't be so quick to use cold biographical facts to dismiss the leadership qualities of someone you've never met. In the right situation, some otherwise very flawed people are the perfect leader for the moment. In a big enough group, such people will naturally rise to the top. And yes, it is a recorded fact that, even in less enlightened ages, men would follow a female, if she had good enough leadership abilities, and was leading a direction they felt was the right one. For examples, look at the lives of Boudica and Ching Shih. 

In the USA (which does not use the parlimentary system), the Supreme Court's rulings are pretty much final. However, if the ruling requires enforcement by one of the other two branches of government (eg: it isn't purely about court issues), sometimes they will refuse to enforce it, making the ruling pretty much moot. The most famous example of this was what happened with the Worcester v. Georgia ruling during president Andrew Jackson's term. The court ruled that state laws dealing with Indian tribes (or any other soveriegn nation) were invalid. Andrew Jackson's response was supposedly "John Marshall has made his decision; now let him enforce it!" 

As far as modern fame goes, in the English-speaking world it would be tough to surpass Beowulf. As far as conquest goes, Ragnar appears to have been known mostly for raiding. Cnut the Great however, made himself king of a not inconsiderable empire covering Denmark, England, Norway, and southern Sweden. 

It would have been somewhere between 1917 and 1923, and thus the amount on that check would be the rough equivalent of getting a check for $150k-$200k today. Assuming the story is true at all, of course. The best source we have for this story (which may well still be an Urban Myth) seems to be a letter to the Editor of LIFE magazine by a Jack B. Scott, printed in May of 1965*. 

* - Yes, the learned knew the world was round, but that doesn't mean that the landmass to the south of them wasn't connected to the landmass to the northeast, wrapped around the earth 

One thing that really struck me researching this was the resemblance to the Coat of Arms for Moldavia during the Soviet Era. Here they are side-by-side. 

Most likely because it was carried out by the USSR in Soviet-controlled eastern Europe while Hitler was busy distracting everyone else by trying to take over the rest of Europe. The USSR certainly had nothing to benefit by publicising the matter. The Poles were under subjigation, and thus would not have been allowed to. For the West, angering Stalin while they were in a death struggle with Germany would hardly have been productive for them either. The meer mention of such a thing to the Red Cross apparently caused Stalin to sever all ties with it. Any investigation into the matter would have to be carried out with the permission of the USSR (the culprits). For that reason, no investigation was in fact carried out until 1991, while the USSR was in the act of falling. All evidence in the intervening 50 years had been effectively in the hands of the perpetrators. So one shouldn't be suprised that little of it was left. 

There isn't going to be just one number. It depends a lot on the environment they find themselves in. For example, obviously the Tuareg in their desert envionrment require a lot of territory for every tribe to support itself. On the other extreme, I understand that the pre-columbian Native Americans in the pacific northwest were living in such a productive environment that their population densities rivaled a lot of farming communities. Note that this environment was not savannah, but cedar forrest (with lots of rivers full of salmon). 

Rosa Parks wasn't even the first woman (or second, or third, or fourth ...) to get arrested for being black and refusing to give up her seat on a bus. She wasn't even the first woman arrested in Alabama for this. There was even a supreme court case over some of those previous arrests (which the NAACP ultimately won) in 1956. Fighting that particular law was an ongoing thing. In fact, fighting every Jim Crow law was an ongoing thing, going clear back to the establishment of the laws in question. As for interstate mass transit, not only were there previous incidents on busses to the Freedom Rides, but prior to that when such transit was carried out mostly on trains, they were a primary venue for social action. The Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Pullmen was a prime mover in the Civil Rights fight from their founding in 1925 until the decline of train passenger traffic in the 1950's. They were instrumental in getting racial discrimination banned in defense contracting and the military in the 1940's. It was a BSCP official who went to India to learn the mechanics of nonviolent resistance from Gandhi, and 7 years later helped teach them Martin Luther King for use in Alabama. 

As backup for Noldorin's point, note that the (French-speaking) Normans conqured England in 1066 and made French the country's official language for centuries. This didn't really change the fact that the vast majority of Englishmen spoke only English, and still do (although with a lot of French loan-words for things mostly of concern to the upper-classes). In later years, England was ruled by several monarchs who did not speak English. Altaic speakers (Mongols, Jurchen) conquered China multiple times, and established ruling dynasties (eg: Yuan, Qing). That didn't even come close to changing the native language(s) of the country. The rulers were eventually absorbed into the culture, not the other way around. Don't confuse the rulers with the people. 

Backing up Jon's answer a bit here... The surrounding events place Daniel's life at around the seventh and sixth century BC. Daniel however is a rather unique book in the Hebrew scriptures, in that it was actually not written in Hebrew. Instead, it appears to be a work of Aramaic. Why the difference? Well the most logical reason would be that it was written much later than the rest of the Old Testament. At around about the third century BC, Hebrew had become a "Dead language" (much like we use Latin today), and the common folk wrote and spoke Aramaic. In fact, there are now several theories among scholars about when Daniel was written, but all agree that it was probably written in the fourth to second centuries BC (the vast majority the second). The most widely accepted theory seems to be the following: 

Union propaganda sized upon this, turning it into something close to a modern meme (picture it getting tens of thousands of retweets with this video attached). For example, it was said that "Unconditional Surrender" was actually what Grant's first two initials stood for. The meme had so much staying power, that Roosevelt pushed for it as the official position of the allies at the Casablanca Conference. Stalin likely didn't care as much about the US press reaction as Roosevelt, but he wasn't exactly a soft man himself, so he didn't have any objections to it. Churchill would likely have found himself outvoted, if he'd cared to press the issue. He didn't. 

The same as any other animal does; by nibbling at it a bit and seeing what happens. This kind of question is the subject of Chapter 7 (How to make an almond) of Jared Diamond's Guns, Germs, & Steel. Almonds are held out as a particularly interesting case, because raw wild almonds typically contain enough cyanide to kill a person. However, there are occasional mutants that are edible, and hungry animals (including people) always found those. Since the cyanide is the plant's protection from having its seeds eaten, this would normally be enough to kill off any of those mutants from the gene pool. However, humans brought something new to the equation. As hunter-gatherers with large ranges, at first humans who ate them accidentally spread the mutant almond trees around via their refuse dumps. Once they started planting their favorite food trees, obviously only the good mutant almond trees got planted. Getting back to the oddity of someone trying a new plant, Diamond tells us for hunter-gatherers its not that odd at all: 

I believe the main difference is in how communications worked in the various societies. The Roman Empire was primarily built around the Mediterranean, and its trade routes were primarily via the sea. So what you see with the spread of Christianity is that it first popped up in the large port cities of the Empire. Particularly those that already had a Jewish community (the video even mentions the Diaspora). In the early Arab world, communications was primarily overland. So the religion had to spread from a nearby land neighbor who already were followers. It should also be mentioned that Arab armies under the early Caliphs were active (and very effective) instruments in this. There are also some quibbles I have with that video's presentation. The areas shown for Christianity appear to be depicting actual majority support in that area. That would be fine if they stuck with that scheme. However, their depiction of the spread of Islam entirely follows political control by Islamic rulers. If that scheme were used on the Christian maps, the entire Roman Empire should have been colored purple from roughly the 4th century on. Also, notice that at the end there's this odd bit of red (Hindu) in South America. I was unfamiliar with any Hindu state in South America, so I went and looked it up. There are in fact a fair bit of Hindu adherents in the depicted area. However, even in the most heavily Hindu country in South America, where they can claim around 30% of the population, the majority of the country is Christian. And of course political control there has been by Christians since the colonial era. So it still should be colored purple in just about any objective scheme I can think up. 

Continental Germany in fact converted to Christianity about the same time as the Anglo-Saxon peoples in England. It was only the Nordic countries, and some Eastern European ones, that came to Christianity significanly later. So any residual paganisim is just as likely to exist in the (English-speaking) author's own culture, if not moreso. Generally, I think the entire quoted passage is an attempt to distance the more repellent actions of wartime Germany from the author's own culture. It's all about the author's own insecurities, and has nothing to do with actual German culture. The thought of a person much like oneself commiting atrocities is something a lot of people can't handle, so they have to find ways to make the perpetrator different somehow. The truth is there is nothing particularly special about Germans that makes them more likely to commit atrocities than your typical middle-american, African, Asian, Southeast Asian, or anybody else. We are all the same species, and we all have it in us. 

Note that Bavaria is that large unconquered state in the South East. So for a Bavarian, talking about Prussians would also be a way of separating themselves from the northern Germans who were running things. I believe Bavarians like to view themselves as more laid-back than other Germans, and are mostly renowned for their food and beer. 

So as far as the "optimization" of our bodies for our diet goes, you will probably need to look at our diet further back than 10,000 years ago. As recently as 2 million years ago, people (Genus Homo) were clearly the hominid species designed to be flexible omnivores. 

As for what happened to the Romans, again they didn't have a huge population in the area. In Noricum they had 8 known colonies, all in modern-day Austria or Slovenia. It appears that the largest was the Roman capitol Virunum (in modern South-Central Austria), which lasted until about 610. In the territory that was Raetia, there is in fact one population still speaking a Romance language left over from Roman times: the Romansh of SW Switzerland. 

I wasn't able to find an actual location-of-origin census, which would be definitive. What I did find was two major drivers for German immigration to Texas. The first was Adelsverin, which was an organized attempt to form a "New Germany" in the Republic of Texas, starting in 1842. The founders of the society seem to be from all over Germany. The most famous product of this is probably Fleet Admiral Nimitz, whose grandfather came over from Bremen in north Germany. The second was the 48'ers. These were Europeans (largely but not universally German) who were supporters of the liberal revolutions of 1848 which failed. German speaking liberals from all over Europe ended up exiled. The interesting thing about the 48'ers isn't which part of Germany they were from, but the politics they brought with them. German immigrants tended to be Liberal (in the original pro-voting, anti-authoritarian sense), pro-Immigration and staunchly anti-slavery. 

The University of Marquette seems to have a lot of McCarthy material digitized and online. I believe they have even more material that isn't (yet?) digitized. 

I was rereading Winston Churchill's "Their Finest Hour" speech, and came across this passage in reference to the threat from bombing attacks: