Always use freestyle (the crawl) for the first rep in the warmup set, and after that you can mix strokes for the remaining reps of the warmup set if you want. I find this works extremely well for me. After the warm up set, on days when I'm up for it I will throw in plenty of short burst, short distance HIIT (high intensity interval training) reps using my favorite strokes. You can do the same. By doing this, it's possible to get cardio to a comfortable zone all around and eventually swim miles nonstop. Just remember that muscle recovery and eating well is just as important, and you'll do great with cardio. 

Megasaur has the perfect answer to your question about what it means to "condition the body". My answer below is meant to be supplementary. Regarding your question on the application of treading water, I can answer that since my water polo practices in high school required treading water as an exercise in itself. Have you ever tried to tread water for 5-10 minutes without stopping? It can tire the legs very fast. It has a similar effect as doing leg squats. Your legs will feel numb after several minutes if you're not used to it. Because of this, treading water is often accompanied by sculling water with the arms to make it easier on the legs; this works as a full body workout (the application in this context of treading water). That's what those divers likely do at the ocean surface level while chatting with their friends. Treading can be done in other ways too. My high school water polo practices had everyone tread water with arms raised above water for several minutes, to maximize conditioning benefits. Even if arms are kept down and not used to scull water, it is still a great workout for the entire body. Your upper body gets respiratory benefits, plus the upper chest muscles and abs muscles are used too. Kick-wise, treading water can be done using a flutter kick or by kicking like a frog one leg after another. Divers regularly use flutter kick to navigate through the depths... so treading water using flutter kick shouldn't be hard for them, although most people probably find the frog version of the tread kick easier. However, each type of kick also targets different leg muscles for conditioning so both can be alternated if one type of kick wears out your legs. As indicated by the article, treading water is great for conditioning the entire body. 

The long answer Burning calories is very individual and one's metabolism can't be guessed by those sites. Heart-rate does give a somewhat good indication of how hard you're working out, but it still doesn't tell us how your metabolism actually work. Why GPS and Maps may be bad First and foremost; GPS is not very accurate and thus the route can be very different from what you actually run (the more expensive the GPS the more accurate the result) and the GPS doesn't know if you're running on a flat, inclined or declined surface. You could run up a mountain and the GPS wouldn't know. Maps may also be the same as the GPS on the point that it may not account for the hills, and the distance can thus also be distorted, though it is my opinion that maps are more accurate than GPS. Why heart-rate monitoring is good You could run X km in XX time, but depending on your level of fitness, you will work differently hard and burn differently many calories. Tracking your heart-rate as far as I know the best way of measuring how much you're burning since it measures how intensely you're working out. You can then make an assumption based on the average person and perhaps modify the calorie count according to your metabolism. If you have a fast one you may wanna add a few calories and subtract a few from the norm if your metabolism is slow. 

The short answer Neither site is very reliable for how many calories you actually burned since none tracks your heart rate and their methods of measuring distance are not necessarily reliable. You will have to guess based on how hard you felt you worked out. It's probably closer to what runkeeper gave you, if I were to guess without knowing your level of fitness. 

My suggestion is to pick up a copy of the book Total Immersion, it specializes in teaching about good form with some interesting concepts thrown in. One thing I think I recall reading from it is that when you feel your form falter during a rep, stop! Or the bad form becomes habitual. Swim only when the form is good, and build up distance and speed at the same time as long as form remains good. Swimming only when form is good makes a habit out of good form and trains your body to remain consistent in good form even if you get tired and have a hard time keeping good form. Go slow at first while you work on form. The surest sign of weak form is if you can't do it correctly when you go slow. It's like a balancing act, unlike when you go fast and bad form doesn't throw you off balance as easily. After that, you can do some High Interval Intensity Training (HIIT) from time to time and for only as long as form stays good, with 80-100% effort. That will boost your endurance for short distance sprints and you'll eventually increase the distance you can sprint using good form. 

As someone who's been a competitive swimmer for many years, my input is this: You state that you're doing 3x martial arts and 1x gym workouts per week, which can be plenty or not enough depending on your physical fitness level. It's up to you how much swimming you want to incorporate into your busy schedule, but one way to approach your situation (to avoid further knee problems for now, at least) is to make swimming a bigger priority than the other two. This means swimming 3-4 times/week, starting each following day with a warm-up of 100 extra yards and working down a ladder at a slow to medium pace, before getting to the high intensity part of the workout. For example... if you swim on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday... slow to medium pace warm-up would be like: 

Starvation may seem to work since you lose weight fast, but as you've also begun to realize, it does damage to your body. Not only will you eat the fats under your skin; you will eat the fats in your brain. It makes you malnourished as there are a lot of nutrients we can't store and need to consume daily, and when you finally do start eating, your body will store everything it can to not die when that starvation happens again. (Your body is assuming it will). 

My dear friend, it sounds like you are suffering from bulimia. Even if you are not, you will need to steer up your mind. Breaking habits require a lot of self discipline, which will be near impossible when you're already weak from your other psychological issues. This is not criticism, it's just how things are, and when the mind isn't well, neither is the body, and a body that isn't well won't function as it should. You should look into a dieting program that involves mental training; where they help you build yourself and deal with why you're so weak to food. There are a lot of small tips to treat hunger or "hunger" as it isn't actual hunger you feel when you've already eaten yet still crave more, but they will be useless if you don't have the mental strength, which is why I recommend one of those dieting programs with mental training. 

Malnutrition happen even if your calorie count is right if you don't eat all the things you need, and malnutrition will not only make you prone to storing more fat, it'll make you ill. 

Don't buy things to binge, shop for your daily needs every day if you must. Pointers on coming back to eating from heavy starvation Setting your psychological issues aside, when you have been starving yourself it is a natural reaction to binge and "fill up the reserves". Even if you eat normally for a +-0 effect on your weight, you will still gain weight. You have to accept that fact and wait it out. After about a month you can on top of eating normally begin to do some kind of exercise for at least 30 min/day. You need to increase the exercise, not decrease the food intake if you eat normally. Taking your psychological issues into account, you have to remember that it's not the end of the world when you have an episode. Just keep at your dietary plan and exercise routine and remember to praise yourself whenever you resist temptation or just for being strong enough to have gone another day without binging. You can't make excuses for yourself, but you can praise yourself for what you do well. General tips to conquer the "huger"