The Hindsight glasses include fresnel lenses that widen the peripheral field, at the cost of increased distortion. As stated in the article, this is a design concept, so there's no guarantee it will ever make it to market. And although it's a neat idea, it would take a lot of testing to determine whether the tradeoffs are worth it for enough people. This isn't the only example of fresnel glasses being used in eyewear. Peripheral prism glasses have been used in research for how to improve the vision of patients with hemianopia (blindness in half of the visual field), but although this is a related concept, it requires a completely different design. In summary, no, fresnel lenses to extend peripheral vision are not readily available in cycling glasses. 

This morning I noticed that my wheel was suddenly out of true and rubbing against the brake pad at one point. My first guess was that I had broken a spoke, but all of them seem to be intact. A few spokes seem less taut than the others, but none of them are loose. I don't recall hitting any major potholes. Is it possible for an obstacle to bend the rim without being a big enough obstacle for me to notice? Should I just true the wheel and move on with my life, or is there anything else I should be careful about? Other than a broken spoke, what would cause a wheel to suddenly go out of true? 

The best solution to this extraordinarily irritating problem is to use a can or jar of vulcanizing rubber cement for most repairs and to reserve the single-use tube of cement for emergencies. Specifically: 

Innertube failure can be caused by a variety of factors, and it is usually possible to determine the cause by examining the failed innertube. You mentioned: "In the last week, two innertubes on two different bikes exploded". If it literally exploded into many small pieces, then you were probably the target of a saboteur. :) More likely, the innertube has a single tear or puncture, and its size and location will help you track down the problem: 

Qualifying offenses for the sex offender registry can include public urination. Though the chance may be small, the potential consequences are severe. Unfortunately, bladders are apparently designed in ignorance of these laws. A few obvious solutions, such as intentionally becoming dehydrated or only riding in urban settings, are impractical. How can cyclists avoid becoming sex offenders when nature calls on long rides? 

To get higher gearing, you'll need either a chainring (front gear) with more teeth or a sprocket with fewer teeth. Mountain bikes usually have smaller chainrings because off-road speeds are generally slower. For example, a mountain bike with a triple crankset with 24, 34, and 42-teeth chainrings would be limited in its top speed by the largest (42-teeth) chainring. In constrast, the largest chainring on a road bike may have 50 or 53 teeth, giving 19% or 26% higher gearing respectively. Unfortunately, upgrading probably won't be as cheap or easy as you hope. You can't just replace a single chainring, so you would need to get a whole new crankset (the crank arm plus chainrings) and also a new front derailleur. Depending on how much your bike is worth, it may be better to get a new bike. 

If you're not scared of doing your own repairs, try adjusting the derailleur yourself. There are plenty of tutorials out there, but the gist is that you turn the cable tension "knob" a quarter turn at a time, until the gears change easily both up and down. If no adjustment works both for shifting up and shifting down, then a more serious repair may be necessary. 

Your chainring and front derailleur should work just fine with a 10 speed chain and cassette. The primary concern with your upgrade will not be the chainring and front derailleur, but rather the rear shifter and derailleur. A 7 speed shifter or derailleur will not work with an 8 or 9 speed cassette, so you will need to buy new ones. But at least your upgrades will be limited to the rear components. EDIT: After seeing user973810's answer, I prefer it to mine. However, since my answer was accepted, it looks like I can't delete it. 

FSR is the name of a suspension design from Specialized. According to a FAQ, it originally stood for "Future Shock Rear". The Specialized website contains an FSR Suspension page with marketing information about the system. 

If you truly only care about durability and don't care about either weight or smoothness of operation, then you will probably find that mid-range components are a better value for you than high-end components. Even if high-end components (e.g., Dura Ace) turn out to be more durable than mid-range components (e.g., Ultegra, 105, maybe Tiagra), this would probably not justify the more-than-double cost if the only thing you care about is durability. If you had to replace every part, you would still come out ahead in terms of dollars spent. Mid-range components (e.g., 105, Tiagra) are far more durable than low-end components (e.g., Sora, non-series). Any but the most undedicated rider can appreciate the benefits of mid-range over low-end components. I personally bought a used bike with Ultegra that cost about the same as a new bike with Sora, and I feel like I would be wasting my money to get a bike with Sora. From how you describe your riding, it sounds like you would probably find the best value from mid-low to mid-range components, but this completely depends on the degree to which you are constrained by cost. Because more expensive components can sometimes be less durable than cheaper components, it is too easy to be dismissive and assume that the high-end components are Veblen goods (see The Online Photographer for a discussion related to photography equipment, a similar market). One person can't say whether a product's price is "worth it" to someone with a completely different income and lifestyle. I once talked to someone who owned "Lance Armstrong's bike" (after I asked, it turns out it was the same model, not a collector's item), which was an example of the 'high status of allegedly "pro" products among amateurs'. But this person was happy with his bike and seemed to be at least somewhat appreciative of its benefits over a low-end bicycle. Few cycling products qualify as Veblen goods: 

The REGALe Carbon FX information page has an "i" button, that when clicked, loads a list of features. This includes "COREZONE", which is the feature referred to in the review you linked to. On the Concor Carbon FX information page, I clicked on the "i" button but did not see "COREZONE" listed for any of them. If the feature isn't specifically listed, I think it's safe to assume that the relief zone is not there. I checked a few different Concor models and didn't see "COREZONE" listed for any of them, but I didn't go through the entire list. If you're interested in a specific model, click the "i" button on its specific page to see if it's included. 

For the last two worn-out road tires I replaced, I've noticed a pattern in wear that seems to be fairly consistent. This isn't a large sample size, but the tires were from different brands, and the wear seemed consistent with various comments I've seen from others. Based on your own tradeoff between cost- and safety-consciousness, you have to decide at which stage in the wear process you need to replace the tire. 

A seat post pump would offer a type of convenience that may not be applicable to a wide range of riders. 

I use all of the first 3 options depending on the amount of traffic and the layout of the road and intersection. For example options 2 and 3 work pretty well when a bike lane opens up through the intersection, though they may not be legal in all jurisdictions. Look at local laws and pay attention to what other cyclists do. It's important to be visible and predictable. 

In the end, a seat post pump probably has the most appeal for commuters, but they might be more interested in buying a cheaper pump than one that saves a bit of weight by being combined with a seat post. There's probably not a fatal flaw with this type of design, but there are reasons that it isn't as common as the basic frame pump. 

The terms "performance bike" and "endurance bike" aren't very well defined. To many people, the term "endurance bike" describes touring bicycles, which are used for long-distance self-supported rides where you're carrying a lot of equipment and supplies. However, Fuji (which you referred to), uses the term "endurance bike" to mean a road bike with a more relaxed geometry and "competition bike" to mean a road bike with more aggressive geometry. Trek (the other manufacturer you referred to), seems to use "sport bike" to refer to the relaxed geometry bikes, and "race performance bike" to refer to the aggressive geometry bikes. The "endurance" and "competition" bikes are both high-performance road bikes, it's just that the "competition" bikes sacrifice a bit more comfort to eke out the highest possible performance (in theory, anyway). Most bike manufacturers have multiple product lines that cover both categories, so the general category of geometry doesn't necessarily dictate a decision between manufacturers. I suspect that for the length of ride you're considering, you'll feel more comfortable on an relaxed geometry bike (e.g., "endurance" at Fuji or "sport" at Trek). But in the end, it's all about how you feel on the bike, so you should really test ride a few different bikes and see what you like best. No list of specifications, however long and detailed, can remove the need to try a bike and find out for yourself whether it works for you.