Green tea doesn't have a lot of caffeine (compared to say coffee or black tea) but I suppose if you're drinking a lot you could get your heart rate up. There are definitely positive effects on health: 

Here's one of the best videos out there on pushups. Follow the form and the progression. More than likely, you're just weak and your body is getting used to it. Obviously, see a doctor or physical therapist to diagnose any pain but more than likely it's form along with the usual beginners' issues. You just started out, your body's not used to it and it's going to take time to catch up. If you're working a desk job without much activity, you probably have rounded shoulders and a host of other issues as well. Look into Kelly Starrett's Becoming a Supple Leapoard. Follow the video's progression I linked and build yourself up to doing more full form push ups. Pavel Tsatsouline has a thing called 'greasing the groove' where basically throughout the day you practice something like a pull up. You don't go to exhaustion but the idea is by doing it throughout the day with good form you're priming your nervous system to getting used to doing that. Good luck on your push up and hopefully even further physical development journey. 

A lot of times it's because you're using more weight than you are capable of handling and those other muscles are taking over to compensate for weaknesses in your back musculature. If you're starting out, it's going to get some taking used to and developing the cues you need to hit those desired muscle groups properly. One big cue for rows is to pull with your elbows. Imagine a hook at your elbow joint pulling the weight. Back straight and chest out because if you're hunched over your arms and rear delts will definitely get involved. For each of those exercises, look up proper form videos on youtube (I would recommend John Meadows, Athelean-X, Alan Thrall and Omar Isuf). Go light till you get the form down and can feel the right muscle groups going. In the meanwhile, I would suggest you get a feel for what your lats and traps firing feel like by doing pull ups on the assisted pull up machine for lats with your core braced and chest puffed up and out. Go slow and feel the lat contractions. Also look up lat pull downs for further lat activation. When you get those down, try yates rows where there definitely is an element of cheating but worth it. For traps, do shrugs, farmer carries. Josh Bryant has great vids on trap workouts that I would suggest you look up on youtube. 

I would say it is almost impossible to exactly mantain body size. I would recommend to alternate low workout periods with higher ones (say, 1 month of aerobic and low intensity and low volume weight training and 1 month of higher weight training). In this way, you would lose a bit of muscle while reducing body fat and re-taking previous muscular condition at the next month. This is just an example and many routine periodization might be valid. The target of altering training method is to avoid the body to get used to a routine and reducing the results obtained, what would happen if you just train less than usual but always the same way. The point of my idea is not to keep the goals obtained but be arround them, slightly bigger and slightly smaller. 

If you can not eat enough, if you try going to a nutricionist explaining your problem and he can't give you a solution junt by eating normal food, he might tell you to take carb-shakes. They have a high ratio between calories and volume. I'm not telling you just to drink gainers all day long. Just try to combine it with a healthy high caloric diet. If you can't eat enough, any execice you do would burn more fat and muscle down. However, if you achieve eating more you might try to reduce cardiovascular exercise and focus on weights just to minimize catabolism. 

For natural training, it's usual to make 3 to 5 anaerobic sessions per week, but it's hard to know if someone is overtraining just by knowing it's training schedule, basically because everybody is different. I would say as long as your cardio is not very intense, keep training sessions under 1h and eat properly in order to recover, you are ok. A first check to know if you are overtraining is when you feel a little bit tired all day long. 

I'm not a nutricionist so I can't answer with security question 1. Question 2, however, is a little easier for my knowledge. In theory, in hot weather you consume less calories because your body doesn't need to keep warm so hard. You know, temperature is an expression of heat, Energy = mass * (calorific constant of your body) * (temperature increase) or more in line on what happens to your body temperature: Energy = (area of your skin) * (global heat transmission coefficient) * (temperature difference between your body and exterior) So, if you are in a hot place, temperature difference is smaller, so energy spent on heating your body is also smaller. Tips to burn more calories in hot weather: - Drink water as cold as you can. It's the best way to down you body temperature. Water is better than juice, sodas, cola... - Air condition. Anyway, I don't thing there might be a huge difference, so don't get obsessed with it. You are probably getting tired because hot air is less dense and more humid than cold air, so you're taking less oxygen at each breath. ADD EDIT 1: There is practically no energy consumption by sweating. ADD EDIT 2: I'd say the calories you burn because of moving isn't dependent on the temperature. You might burn less calories in warmer situation because you get exhausted faster, so you don't exercise as much than in a colder situation. To sum up: 

Standing desks if you can. Otherwise, every fifteen minutes (or a gap of time under 30-45 min), get up, walk around (if you want), then flex your glutes, brace your core and straighten your back. Then sit down. Keep your monitor in a position where you aren't bending your neck down that much and it's at a neutral position. 

For hypertrophy go for higher number of reps. Low reps high weight definitely build strength and some size, but if you're aiming for size, you'll want to lower the weight a bit, and hit higher reps. Also, are you doing anything else for legs? Romanian deadlifts (absolutely killer for hamstrings), deadlifts, leg press, extensions, reverse hypers etc. All those stimulate different muscles and adjusting rep ranges towards 8+ will definitely result in size. For measurements, you'll want to measure every week or two, in the same areas around the same time. Water intake, time of the day etc. can all affect measurements. Either way, if you're gaining strength, keep at it. It's not like you'll see a lot of progress in one week. It's a marathon. Experiment with the rep ranges and have fun. It's like experimenting on your own body! 

Dark Hippo has a great answer! It's awesome you are up for some intense training over your 10 day vacation period. Here's how I would approach this 10 day period that you have coming up. 

It's a fallacy to think that bad form results in no muscle development in ALL cases. I'm not saying put on 3 plates on your squat and quarter rep it or try curling 135 lbs by thrusting your pelvic in and jerk the bar into your chest but you should no you have to lift heavy (or progressively so) to further scar muscle tissue and hypertrophy. That being said, people who've been doing it a while probably know the drill on doing it with perfect form but probably start off their workout with something like a cross body curl with heavy weight to get some cheat curls, and stimulate lots of different fibers. When you cross curl vs regular hammer curl you're hitting different parts of your body (try it out, it's harder in some cases because it's like a standing concentration curl). Experiment on yourself to see how it feels. Try combining cheat curling and strict form curls. Try both hammer and cross body. 

My own thoughts: I would integrate both but 10x10 seems like a lot. So probably 5 or 6 sets.Those various exercises target different parts of the body so if my goal was bodybuilding for an aesthetically pleasing wide back, I would definitely hit at least 3 sets of a lot of those exercises (my favorites would be the pull over, face pull and dumbbell row). A lot of the exercises on your list also work stabilizers which are important for a healthy back. If you're relatively new to lifting, whatever you do, assuming progressive overload, you'll gain size. I personally think if we just focus on that question of yours alone (I don't like it because there's too many variables like experience, caloric intake, how heavy, form etc.), those 10 exercises with a solid 10 reps for one set each would give you more size (again, assuming progressive overload). Everyone has a different body. Try both and see what works for you. The pleasure in life is experimenting and seeing the fruits of those experiments.