Yes, but this was a lot more complicated than in the Netherlands. During the war, the Dutch colonial government-in-exile in Australia founded the Temporal court-martials, who were tasked with persecuting war criminals and collaborators. The courts started their work as soon as the Dutch regained control over Indonesia and worked until the end of 1949. The temporal court-marials were mainly concerned with the prosecution of Japanese war criminals. 1038 Japanese were tried, 983 where convicted, 236 were sentenced to death. Many other Japanese war criminals were sent to Japan to be tried by the International military tribunal for the Far East. Most of the convicted Japanese were members of the Kempeitai. (De Jong 12 p. 887) Dutch collaborators Prosecution of Dutch collaborators and collaborators of mixed descent who worked for the colonial government was limited. They were interned in camps during the war and worked for the Japanese as forced labourers, usually under appalling conditions. An amnesty was declared for people who worked for the Japanese in this manner. (De Jong 11b p. 659) There were exceptions to this amnesty however. There is the case of the people who worked for the Japanese propaganda station ‘Radio Batavia’. The radio station sent out broadcasts targeted at Australians and Americans in an attempt to undermine morale. Material for the broadcasts was written by some Dutch journalists and some Australian and British prisoners of war. (De Jong 11b 652) There was reason to assume that some of these people were disgruntled about the pre-war colonial government and the quick military collapse during the Japanese invasion and worked for the Japanese out of their own free will. I stumbled on some reports on this case in the Dutch national archives during research on a related subject. This was not considered a major case because collaboration was not obvious and the propaganda work was really ineffective. There is also an isolated case of police commissioner Maseland (I don’t know if he was Dutch or Dutch-Indonesian) who was guilty of betraying one of the very few resistance groups. He was sentenced to death for treason. (De Jong 11b p. 467) Indonesian collaborators The case of Indonesian collaborators was a difficult and divisive subject. Dutch hard-liners considered Sukarno himself and his entire government as collaborators and used that as an argument to defeat the republic in war and re-establish colonial control. This was also the majority view in the Netherlands for a long time. However, there was a debate about whether Sukarno really was a Japanese puppet or if he made use of his position to further his own nationalist agenda. (De Jong 11b 1046) Most of the civil government had been run by Indonesians in pre-war times. Dutch administrators only held the top positions. During the Japanese occupation, these top positions where manned partly by Japanese and partly by Indonesians. Participation in the government was not considered collaboration in itself. In fact, the colonial government had called upon Dutch as well as Indonesian civil servants to remain at their posts after the defeat of the Allies, just as had happened in the Netherlands in 1940. (De Jong 11c p. 362) Only Indonesians who had worked for the Japanese out of conviction were considered guilty. Not much happened in the way of persecuting Indonesian collaborators for several reasons. The post-war colonial government had no control over many parts of the country. It was hard to determine the difference between Indonesian nationalists and collaborators. It was hard to find witnesses (in contrast with finding witnesses willing to testify against Japanese). Dutch manpower and resources were strained, and were mostly allocated to the war against the republic. There were many investigations into collaboration of Indonesians, but very few of those (if any) led to prosecution and conviction. The national archives contain many reports of these investigations, which where conducted by the intelligence agency NEFIS. These are some of the titles listed in the archives: ‘Investigation into the loyalty of civil servants, especially the NEFIS’, ‘Lists of names of women who held close relations to Japanese’, ‘Treatment of members of the NSB (The Dutch Nazi Party) living in Indonesia’, ‘About Chinese collaborators in the society Kipas Hitam’. During the Indonesian war of independence, there have been many revenge killings of Indonesians and Chinese suspected of collaboration with the Japanese, perpetrated by Dutch, Chinese as well as Indonesians. Revenge killings against Japanese where also common. I’ve read of a case of a Japanese officer being eaten by ants. Unfortunately all of my source material is Dutch. There may be an English translation of Lou de Jong’s monumental work ‘Het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden in de Tweede Wereldoorlog’ (The Kingdom of the Netherlands during World War 2). It’s a bit dated, and there has been a lot of criticism, but it’s still a good reference for the critical reader. Parts 11b and 12 contain the most information about this subject. There is an interesting chapter on the prosecution of Japanese war criminals. Even in Dutch, there’s not much research into this topic. This would make quite a good subject for a new study. Sources: Several Documents in the National Archive in The Hague (examples from $URL$ ) Lou de Jong, Het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden in de Tweede Wereldoorlog 11b, 11c, 12 $URL$ Esther Zwinkels, Het Overakker-complot 

It appears that was killed in a napalm strike by U.S. forces, although there is at least a slight possibility that the responsible aircrafts was South African. 

Obviously, Jesus never makes any kind of claims about his divinity or messianic status, but we see something close to it - a Jewish writer making reference to the fact that Jesus "was called Christ". The specific use of the word "called" implies that Josephus doesn't necessarily share this assessment, but it does make it clear that he was aware that other people had called Jesus "Christ". 

Warning: the photograph below is very graphic and may disturb some viewers, hence the spoiler tag. Click at your own risk. 

It began near the nexus of 3 continents: Europe, Asia, and Africa. It began during the Roman Empire, while the Empire was still relatively strong and robust, and controlled much of Europe and the Mediterranean, including North Africa. It had access to an extensive network of roads, and it had never been so easy to travel great distances. In Paul's letter to the Romans, he says he is planning a trip to Spain. He traveled throughout Asia Minor, Palestine, Greece, Macedonia, etc. By our modern standards, this wouldn't be very impressive, but this was happening 2,000 years ago, when the closest thing to an airplane was a horse, After the message was altered to make it less Jewish in nature, it became fairly inclusive. It was relatively unique in that it was a religion of belief rather than mere observance. It was also relatively unique in that it made promises of eternal rewards for the people who had been denied rewards in life. It was evangelical, and some of the apostles were brilliant PR men. Shortly after Jesus died, the new movement began to alter his message. This process has continued to this day, although at a much less drastic rate after the first couple of centuries. This is a huge benefit because it allowed the early church to become whatever its congregants needed it to be. 

So I think these kinds of questions are problematic since they rely on a very specific definition that seems to exclude other traditions. As an easterner I find such claims in Wikipedia that the University is a "European institution par excellence" myopic and rooted in a misguided tradition of them v.s us, rather than seeing world history as one common thread. Consider for example the Academy of Gondishapur, of which the medical school had exams, required doctors to study and train in hospitals, and conferred degrees that qualified doctors to practice medicine. This university existed from around 500 CE till just around 900 CE. In addition it had centers for study of mathematics, astronomy, theology, dentistry, philosophy, military commandership, architecture, craftsmanship, agriculture and irrigation, and geometry. It's methods were widely emulated in Islamic universities, including those in Spain and Sicily that almost definitely influenced European schools. Note, for example, that Avicenna's treatise on medicine (~900CE) which, was the main canon of medicine in Europe and the Islamic world until 1700, was likely heavily influenced from the knowledge and learning bequeathed by Gondishapur. Yet, I would hesitate to name Gondishapur as the first since this institution had Greek, Indian, Jewish, Chinese, as well as Persian scholars who perhaps had come from institutions of their own. So I think a more constructive approach to these subjects, is rather than claim who is first, which at best is extremely hard to define, to consider how an institution has evolved. 

Conclusion: The simple answer to your question is that censuses didn't work the way Luke seems to think they did. 

1 In the beginning, people who followed Jesus weren't called Christians. In fact, we don't know if they were called anything in particular. During Jesus' lifetime, he and his followers were simply Jews. This was still the case for all of his followers for another couple of decades at the least, and most of them probably consider themselves exclusively Jewish as long as they lived. It was only in the second and third generations of Jesus followers that the slow but steady drift away from Judaism began. Some small sects of Jewish Jesus followers remained active until perhaps the fifth century or later. This situation cause problems for scholars, who like to have specific names for things. Therefore, the most popular term for the first followers of Jesus are now known as "The Jesus Movement". It bears repeating that these people were completely Jewish in belief, practice, and self identification. Furthermore, non-Jews also considered these people to be Jewish. It isn't clear when the Roman government began to notice the difference between regular Jews and Jesus Jews, but it is known that they had begun to single out Christians (who were by this time really Christians) by about a hundred years after Jesus died. 2 As far as modern scholarship has been able to determine, there is probably no reason to believe that the authors of the gospels were named Matthew, Mark, or Luke. There is a possibility that the author of some sections of John was actually named John, but the traditional claim that this was John the Beloved Disciple is not taken seriously by most impartial scholars. The earliest manuscripts of the gospels don't have any names attached, and there is no evidence that they were called by the names we know until a century or more after they were written. These names were attributed to them by the early leaders of the church, and some records remain of some of these leaders expressing their doubts about the issue of authorship. 3 Interestingly, the Mormon church has grown at a rate of 43% per decade for the last century. 

I think it is important to consider an arc of development for Gengis Khan and not to consider his actions in isolation. First would be the early childhood and youth phase where Genghis Khan, who was only known as Temujin struggled to survive in a tough political climate of Mongolia, surrounded by constant warfare, raids, blood revenge, and dire poverty. To this must be added constant interference from outside interests, such as China, who would manipulate one tribe against another, causing constant instability. Next is the period during which he united the Mongol tribes. This was done in two ways. His closest friends and allies were promoted in a form of meritocracy and rewarded for their loyalty. Others were recruited as allies and yet others were tricked or manipulated. The end result, however, was an unprecedented unification of Mongolia that hugely benefitted the Mongolian people. You have to realize that at that time, with tribal thinking dominating all forms of organization in Mongolia, this was a huge and difficult feat. Next came the period of conquest and this needs itself to be divided into two phases. In the first phase, Genghis Khan invaded China, and though not conquering the whole of China, laid the foundations for the future Yuan dynasty that his successors created. Perhaps the results here though positive from a Mongolian perspective were mixed from a Chinese perspective, with a loss of pride and control of China by the Chinese. The second phase consisted of the invasion of Persia and all the lands to the west of Persia. This period started with Genghis khan trying to deal with the Shah of Persia, but when his ambassadors were rebuffed (or killed), Genghis Khan descended on the continent, obliterated cities, took men and boys as soldiers and pressed the remaining population into slavery. The histories of the Persians therefore view Genghis Khan as a bloodthirsty tyrant, and in fact the term Genghis is derived from the persian word Changiz, which means the claw of the tiger, referring to how a tiger will rip apart its prey. However, you have to note that from Changiz Khan's perspective, brutality was an effective strategy as many cities simply capitulated at the first sight of his army. All in all though, Genghis Khan, like many emperors before or after him started off faced with the central problem of how to create a united land that can guarantee the security of his people; like so many other emperors, the expedient answer was war and invasion, which perhaps for the time was the only method. And like so many emperors, once he started invading and had success, the question of security morphed into something more, perhaps seeking glory and a grand place in history, especially given that the people of the region were well aware of Alexander the Great's conquests and measured greatness against what Alexander had conquered. 

On a more fundamental level, making people travel away from home in order to conduct a census for the purpose of tax assessment is illogical and counterproductive. The whole idea of such a census is to evaluate how much property each person owns, and for the vast majority of people in the Roman Empire, the only property they owned was their home, the land on which the home was located, and the livestock they tended for sustenance. The last, but perhaps the most striking, problem with Luke's account is that he claims Joseph had to go to Bethlehem because of his ancestral connection to David. According to the genealogies of Jesus provided by Matthew and Luke, Joseph and David were separated by something like 42 generations, and about 1,000 years of history. The notion that someone(especially someone who who was almost certainly illiterate and uneducated) would have to trace their ancestry back 42 generations and 1,000 years is simply absurd. The vast majority of people today couldn't do this, despite being literate and having access to centuries worth of government records, much of which are available online. I myself have struggled to find my ancestral roots further back than a few generations. Thus, if you wanted to determine how much each person should be taxed, the last thing you'd want to do is make them leave their homes. Everything you need to assess is in and around the home. How Censuses Were Actually Conducted: This part of the story is the easiest to explain. A census was carried out by census takers traveling from town to town, stopping at each house, recording the relevant data (e.g., the name of the head of household, extent of landholdings, number of livestock, acreage of crop land and yields, number of dependents, and perhaps some other information). The whole point of the undertaking was to determine how much each household owed in taxes.