Groundwater is stored in the porosity of rocks, that is space between clasts or cracks. Larger cavities, e.g. karsts, is usually only a minor contribution to ground water reservoirs and are only common in limestone. The Great Artesian Basin aquifer is made up of Mesozoic sandstone. It is covered by impermeable rocks that allow pressure to build up within the aquifer so that as rainwater enters at high elevation it will keep the hydrostatic pressure, even when the topography is lower. The only way to see the rocks at great depths is by drilling and, if the budget allows, also keep core sample to be able to analyze it. Important information also comes from borehole logging when geophysical instruments are lowered into the borehole to measure e.g. porosity and density of the rocks. One can also see the continuation of the formation on the surface and study the rocks to understand how they look at great depths. This informative document explains some of the features of The Great Artesian Basin rather well, but don't be mislead to think about the aquifers as caves, it is only water soaked rocks. 

A show is a visual indication of hydrocarbons, in the jargon of petroleum exploration, it is typically used to describe a drilling. It could be e.g. a Gas show in the drilling fluid. Show evaluation is an important tool to understand a reservoir. When hydrocarbons reach the surface naturally, we call it a petrolium seep. Technically, I guess, a seep could be a show if it's used to map a play but I never heard the term used in that context. 

Because of post glacial rebound. The asthenosphere was pressed down under Laurentide ice sheet during last ice age and is now finding a new balance, without the weight of the ice. Note that around the ice sheet, the land is actually sinking today, like when ones partner gets up from a waterbed mattress. 

So, to answer your question. It depends on the local geology, but ground water will always flow from the precipitation area to the oceans (or a lower point where it can evaporate or being pumped up). Ground water exists everywhere and the gradient of the hydrostatic pressure controls the direction of the flow. As viable rivers shows the ground water table, it is usually rather safe to assume that the ground water under the dry river flows more or less the same direction. However, ground water flow can be changed by e.g. pumping from irrigation wells. Imagine a flat lying river bed with a well upstream. When enough water is removed from the well and eventually evaporated, ground water will flow towards the well. The water don't 'remember', but follows the law of gravity. 

The Himalayas and the Tibetan Plateau have high elevation and temperature drops with altitude up until the tropopause. The temperature on the map is measured and modeled on the land surface, regardless of elevation. You can also see that the temperatures in e.g. Ethiopia and the Caucasus Mountains are lower than surrounding lowlands. At latitudes around 30 degrees (north and south), the air is dry and hot due to global circulation pattern. The weather patterns are also controlled by the topography, humid air can't pass the mountain range as it's forced to an altitude where the temperature force it to condensate. That is why the Gobi desert is hot and warm in the summer. I hope this answers your question. 

Sugiura and Kamei, IAGA Bulletin No 40 (1991) Measures are presented as the deviation from the average magnetic field strength, measured in the SI unit Tesla $T$ at time $t$. In this context, the magnetic field is very weak, so the nano prefix $n$ is usually used. Magnetic field strength can be derived from weight (in $kg$), electric charge (in Coulomb $C$) and time in second ($s$) as: $T =\frac{kg}{C \times s}$ if you integrate with time (in seconds, $s$) you'll get for each unit: $T \times s =\frac{kg}{C}$. The relation of electric charge and weight is used as a measure of Radiation exposure, often given in röntgen ($R$) and related as: $1 \frac{C}{kg} = 3876 R$ Technically, your integral will, therefore, be a measure of increased radiation exposure, kinetic energy released per unit mass, for the time you integrate over. You could convert it to röntgen ($2.58×10^{−4} C/kg = R$) but note that the calculated product describes the deviation, not the absolute ionization. 

Mercator (1595) map of the North Pole and surrounding continent. Some practical canals are suggested to facilitate the short cut from Atlantic to Pacific There have never been any human population on Antarctica prior to western explorers but Maori navigators, had experienced the cold waters for centuries. From the 18th century, famous explorers as James Cook and Bellingshausen came close and made sightings that pushed the limits of whaling and hunting, but there was little interest or possibility to actually land and map the area. Cook's circumnavigation rather limited the expected extent of a much larger Terra Australis. Landings and activities were focused on the sub-antarctic islands and to a minor extent, the peninsula. There was little reason for anyone to cross the dangerous roaring fourties, furious fifties and screaming sixties to get to icy waters with little prospect of economic profit or even survival. Stories about early explorers have been questioned and proved wrong multiple times. 

The advantage of SEGY is also it's main problem; It's been around for very long. I've been struggling to open a decade old word document correctly, whiles one can actually still access a SEGY from the 70's or 80's. It's also an advantage that all program packages can, somehow, import and export the files. I agree with David, that the headers doesn't need to be in the same file as the data. I'd prefer to have the trace headers readable as ASCII files whiles the data can be binary, but preferable standardized or at least defined in the header. ASCII trace headers are also easy to import for GIS applications, SQL or spreadsheets. The rsf format (developed from SEPlib), could have been exactly what I was looking for, but trace headers are not written to the header file, but instead placed in separate files. This is not bad for the processing workflow, but it makes it difficult to export files. The perfect solution, from my limited experience, would be something like a rsf file, with file header and trace headers in the same .rsf. I've been suggesting it to some fellow Madagascar users, and the argument against it is that in large projects the header file would be very (too) large. However, I don't see that as a problem, rather another argument to have the trace headers in an easy searchable and as far as I know there are no limitations of ascii files size. 

Update: I think that GIS would be the first approach, but as you asked for some Python commands, here is a sloppy example of how to use Python, basemap and scipy for your application. It can be greatly improved by creating a mask from a shapefile and, as mentioned, a sensitive use of interpolation method. 

If you are looking for professional projects, I'd contact local engineering companies that work with infrastructure or similar and check if the need extra crew for fieldwork. There are sometimes casual workers needed for geophysical surveying or sampling. Depending on where you live, groundwater could be another option, contact local drilling companies, learn how to handle a rig and learn some hydro-geology. With a detailed geological map of an area, groundwater modellers can make better decisions - maybe even paying something for the data.