Most philosophy does not delve into how the universe as a whole, (or this planet in particular as an object), came into being. Philosophy is mostly engaged with how we relate and perceive our existence and the connections that those perceptions may create. That is the 'being' part of philosophy. Functionally, we are creatures of magnificent adaptation. Human beings have learned not only live, but to thrive, on almost every natural environment on the planet. So, "How does being come into being?" As soon as there is consciousness of being, there is being. Aristotle created the initial metaphysical idea in Being Qua Being (Being On Being), Ontology. I prefer to consider it in modern terms as Qua Being Qua (On Being On). The difference is that, after many centuries, we are well trained from an early age focus on who we are in the world. The 'Qua' essence is what philosophies are now formulating as the abstract principals we bring 'into being'. People 'know' each other by 'how they be. Short version; Philosophy will not be able to help you answer the questions of creation. It will assist you to look at what it means to be made from the dust of stars, and create your own poetry (and value) for that. 

Freedom as a action, is distinguished by the ability to cause/create/respond/react, and not a lack of consequences that may follow those actions. While the examples you use limit the distinction to the subjective, psychopathic, moral and ethical notions of Freedom, as cited in your question, what Freedom signifies in an individual and society is much broader in definition. 

We only have subjective distinctions of our feelings to communicate them to ourselves and others. The feelings, and the words we use to describe what we are sensing, could be altered by our ability to think and speak of them. But, the question you are struggling to find reveals the core philosophical problem directly related to the Cartesean dualistic dilemma. Descartes methodology begins with doubt of what we know to be 'facts'. Which is great for deconstruction /construction from what we believe, to what we can prove. The downside of that is that it fractured the solid identity formulation the Greeks provide us with from ‘Psyche’. Psyche was/is the integrity of the individual; “The totality of the human mind, conscious and unconscious.” Imagination is a wonderful, and often untethered, human characteristic. As a dean of my Art School once said, “I am always leery of spontaneous ideas, because there are so many of them running around loose.” 

There are many philosophic roots for freedom that extend into the social and political connections and become centered on the idea of autonomy. 

Your question would seem to ask, “Why aren’t animal considered inherently evil?” Based on: If killing is ‘evil’ and a lion kills (instinctively for food and protection) that should make them ‘evil’. Only, over 80% of life on Earth consume other life forms. Would that make all of these life forms ‘evil’? The first, and most prominent source for the distinction of what ‘evil’ is, comes from Genesis. Evil showed up out of envy. Satan’s envy of humans, Adam and Eve, made him deceive them into doing what they were told not to. From then on, evil was part of our human values, but not animals. In the case of the lion, it is a lazy animal. Its life consists mostly of playing, napping, mating, and every so often, it kills for food. Taken out of its normal environment, it may kill since it is territorial and likes to maintain dominance. If lions were evil, we would have been in big trouble a long time ago. Evil (in the simplest distinction I’ve noted based on envy) would have lions invading and ravaging human villages, dragging out young children, and then leaving them to die, because humans consume meat, just like they do. Condensed Summation: Evil is an intentional act, to subjugate or eradicate, other life forms based on an errant idea of attaining or retaining dominance. Thanks for the exercise. 

To say that "the big bang", which as I interpret it's use in the question is a reference to the big bang singularity, is scientific and supported by evidence is not an accurate reflection of the state of the science. Basically, the sensible epistemic position about the big bang singularity is "I don't know". 

First off, I'm not sure that Dirac was wedded to logical positivism, so his writing need not be consistent with this view of physics. A good example framework for getting your head around this is by considering iterated Stern-Gerlach experiments. A Stern-Gerlach experiment uses spatially varying magnetic fields to separate beams of particles on the basis of their (discrete) magnetic moment. I.e. one beam comes in, and the apparatus splits the beam into two (spin-1/2 e.g. silver/sodium atoms) or three (spin-1 particles as in the linked discussion) beam, each with proportionately lower intensity. The first point is that it is an empirical fact that in this type of experiment taking one of the split beams, e.g. the beam, and running it through an identically oriented apparatus doesn't further split the beam; this is an empirical example of physical continuity. In principle (I'm not sure how far experiments have actually gone down this route) you can chain various combinations of apparatuses in differing orientations and see what comes out to probe what happens when you perturb the beams. All of this is measurable (in principle). The second point is that now we need to construct an appropriate language to describe these results. So we start labeling the filtered beams, `+S,0S,-S' etc., and define a mathematical framework that connects them together with the observable outcomes of various experiments. (which ends up showing that these labels are identical to eigenvalues and the representation of the states themselves correspond to the eigenvectors) and so on. At the end of this, you end up with a mathematical formalism that can be used to calculate the statistical outcome of any arrangement of iterated Stern-Gerlach apparatuses, i.e. to describe describe what would happen if a measurement were made even if it is not. To address each bolded statement in turn: 

(too long for a comment) The logic in your second paragraph misses the point. Assume "I believe that ripe bananas are yellow". It is a properly basic belief that "I hold that 'I believe that ripe bananas are yellow'". Note the second level of indirection. The sensation of believing something just comes to oneself as a subjective experience. Since this "sensation of believing" is a subjective, internal experience, it is (or at least appears to be) on the same kind of footing as having as other internal, subjective experiences, e.g. perceptual ones. Whether or not there are bananas out there in the world that aren't yellow when ripe doesn't change the fact that, in my current mental state, it is true that "I believe that ripe bananas are yellow". 

This is "global skepticism" or, sometimes, the "skeptical hypothesis". If the assertion "all of your beliefs are untrue" is accepted, then, yes, under a JTB based definition of knowledge you'd have no knowledge. Note that the if the assertion is "It is possible that all of your beliefs are untrue", then there is no firm conclusion that you can draw about which of your beliefs are true or not. (If you take a more Popperian definition of knowledge then issues of truth dissolve and are replaced with considerations of usefulness.) In the cases that I've seen this brought up, the person invoking the skeptical hypothesis is equivocating between knowledge and certainty. 

One simple kind of question that science cannot answer because of the methodologies involved (in sciences) but yet can be known certainly by at least the subject, is the content of the mind. Science is not capable of analyzing ideas. I.e. it works by using ideas, but cannot empirically or objectively analyze certain ideas and or thoughts. For example, does the idea of redness appeal to this man? One can only indirectly try to ascertain this, for example by asking the person and looking at his physiological responses, however this is still not a direct observation of the content of the mind. So in general science can only study that which is observable to anyone in some way. 1+1=2 is observable by the definitions that are available to everyone. There exist things which are not observable to everyone in principle. 

My question is actually this: What does the question: "what is the purpose of meaning" mean? Questions that may arise in answering this question may include: What kinds of things can have purpose? (and is meaning such a thing). 

First off: What is the definition of a logical possibility? My personal suggestion is this: A logical possibility is a proposition in which multiple terms are connected in such a way that the proposition does not contain a contradiction. (A blue square, or a non-blue square, where blue is a term and is connected to the term square. This proposition does not include a contradiction and thus is a logical possibility. Contrary to square hexagon.) Would this be a correct definition of a logical possibility? (I.e. does it contain too much or eliminate too much?) To say that something is possible in this view would just mean that it is non-contradictory. Secondly: Is it possible that a term does not necessarily exist? For example is it necessary that the idea, which constitutes a term, of a "white house" "is/exists" in some way? Or is the "being/existence" of the idea contingent? Thirdly: If a logical possibility is indeed defined as the connection of terms that does not lead to a contradiction. And there "exists/are" terms which are not necessary but instead contingent. (And not eternal) Would the existence of some logical possibilities then not also be contingent? (And not eternal) 

If you talk about something predicting by inferring from prior causes, in that case free will is incompatible with such predictions. If there exist such a cause such that there will be 1 and only 1 effect and the human will is effected by such causes then the human will is not free, because it is determined by prior causes. If instead there are reasons for acting but none of the causes is necessarily effective then such prediction is not possible with 100% accuracy. Therefore such a thing like la place's demon when applied to human behavior exclude free will. 

What could you be able to know about this cube? Suppose now a sphere is introduced. Is there anything you would learn about the cube (positively), by the introduction of the sphere, that you could not have previously known about the cube? (for example, could you, by the existence of a cube alone learn the concept of an edge, corner, number (amount of edges that a cube has)). Or do you need another object so you would be able to distinguish characteristics and so learn properties of the objects? *( I am not merely talking about negative attributes of a cube, such as: it is not round, but rather things like: it is straight). (perhaps an additional question related, do you need negative attributes in order to be able to assert positive attributes) *The answer given to this question would determine whether or not everything that is knowable about an object depends on other objects, or whether everything about an object can be known be simply studying that object. (This is what I mean by epistemological potential). *The question is about what you COULD know, not necessarily what you would actually know in such a situation.