Ah, perhaps one of the most philosophically challenging aspects of physiology. This is almost a religious test within the strength training community. I'm not sure there is a single factor. Where we can always say "This is the reason for the limit." However, I can give a few factors which may wet your appetite. Surface Area to Volume Ratio Cells are spheres. 

Rather you want that foot flat:                 And you might want to be careful about playing golf, doing this to his ankle: 

However, notice once he opens his knees, he now has more range of motion before his lower back rounds: 

Image source: b-reddy.org This is due to how his hips are built. This gets rather anatomically technical, but you can see more details in the following links: 

I'm not positive about the premise here. There are certainly cases of runners having cyclist like VO2 levels. Also, cyclists are way more testing conscious. The fact of the matter is elite cycling is a heavily technologically based sport, while elite marathoning is not. Lance Armstrong was getting wind tunnel tested back in the day. Meanwhile, the Kenyans -the dominant marathoners- run on tracks like this: 

This way about once a week you're gauging your improvement. (If looking for justification on the rep ranges, 40-70 reps, 60-80% of max, is what works best for strength. Study and discussion, such as how more is not only not better, but can be detrimental.) Elephant In The Room Finally, don't underestimate the importance of being lean. If worried about losing muscle, when in doubt it's better to err on the side of being lighter than heavier. Events revolving around moving one's bodyweight, particularly in an endurance manner, always lend themselves to being lighter. Gymnasts, cyclists, good runners who run more than 400 meters, they're always light. 

For my personal training clients, if they have to see me at 5pm due to work, I'm not going to tell them to take off work early so they can do cardio first. We'll train first, which will be mostly resistance training based, then they can hit the cardio afterwards. Or, we'll simply make the resistance training have a cardio element too e.g. circuit training. If a more intense cardio like running wants to be done, then maybe we'll lighten up the leg work beforehand. And that doesn't necessarily have to be every day. If we train three days per week, but they only run two, then we still have one day we can hit the legs harder weight wise. I've had many clients who will train in the morning, then walk at night, because doing both is too much at once time wise. That's perfectly fine. An alternative would be telling that person they need to wake up earlier. That's miserable for most, and misery isn't a longterm accomplice we want.          Warming-up within weights Let's break it up by upper and lower body. If it's our first upper and lower body lifts of the day, we want to warm-up. For average strength, I work people up to their work sets with 2-3 warm-up sets. (More strength, often more warm-up sets.) If we're in the latter parts of the workout, then the warm-up can be cut down, if not taken away. This is exercise dependent. If after doing some bench pressing, you then go to rope tricep extensions, you probably don't need much of a warm-up for that exercise. If you're going from bench pressing to chin-ups later on, then you want to warm-up as you did for bench pressing. Chin-ups are a much more intense exercise (use more muscle mass), and the muscles involved are not related to bench pressing. Bench pressing gets the triceps warmed up; it doesn't get the biceps.          Flexibility / Mobility I go with filler sets. Example: 

There is a fair amount going on here. First, the notion of a "correct" squat is open to some interpretation. Nobody would say C) is correct, but B) and A) are debatable. For instance, if your goal while squatting is to hit the quads, then A) is more correct than B). Notice how A) has a greater knee bend. The butt is closer to the heels: 

There are two ways I'd attack this. 1) Make the push-ups easier. You're not able to get 34 push-ups on the floor right now, so elevate your body to a point you are. There are two ways to do this. First, elevate the upper body using e.g. a couch, bar, countertop: $URL$ Second, make the push-ups partial reps by placing something under the chest: Source: b-reddy.org push-up progression example. What you can do from there is pick a height where you can get 34 reps. Try to increase that number to 40 reps over a week or two. Alright, now decrease the height ~6 inches where you're back to 34 reps and repeat, until you're on the floor. This way the body gets some work in the rep range you're trying to attain, and you're not always working to failure by being on the floor. That quickly gets arduous. It's best to leave a rep or two in the tank. Note if you're using something like a countertop, you obviously can't decrease the height of it. But you can increase the height of your feet by standing on something. Think of making the body more and more parallel to the floor. If using something under your chest, you could simply start with three books, then work to two, one, floor. 

That is, just by having the arms at 90 degrees abduction a person may already be excessively impinging. In other words, many people have pain at 90 degrees abduction without even doing anything else. Note, superior glide can occur just at rest:           Credit: Example of a postural evaluation. But during abduction and it's more likely, and more likely to cause pain. (People don't typically have pain just holding their arms at their side.) -> Why would someone have superior glide? Maybe they lean on their elbow a lot:           More details. Recapping, 

Again, more a concern for rec people. The more they run, the more likely they are to weigh less, the better performance in longer distance events tends to be. That is, a person could likely do just as well running less with more attention to their eating. In fact, there is really only so many calories a person can burn from exercise. (See: New insights as to why you can't avoid exercising.) The idea someone burns e.g. 10,000 calories is false. Where I wouldn't be surprised if those engaging in more training simply do two things 1) blunt their appetite more 2) have less time to eat. One way to back this up is in many of the above studies you can see anthropometry is not correlated with performance. Well, at the elite level, we know that's not true. Kenyans dominate, and they have a very specific body type. For the majority of people engaging in long distance competitions, the ability to merely do the event is an enormous hurdle. The ability to then run the whole thing is another hurdle. The ability to do that with any level of regularity and not got hurt yet another. Finally, we have speed. You will see average running pace is also correlated with performance in the studies above. Speed of course matters. But for the average person looking to run these distances, it's not a priority. Finishing without having to limp for a month afterwards is. Say you're an everyday person following a common marathon training plan, where there's one long run on the weekend. Your options are: 

For the sake of clarity, I'm going to first address the second question. Here are some numbers of The Biggest Loser contestants 

This ratio of surface area to volume is important when it comes to cell function. The more volume, the more nutrition required. However, as a cell gets bigger there is a disproportionate increase in volume relative to surface area. 

Yes. Let's consider adulthood to be 18 years old. Notice the hip range of motion in basketball players as they age: 

There are a few ways to approach this. I'll go from most basic to most complicated.           Easy The most barebones approach is find the weight of some people you want to look like, then translate your weight to that, accounting for body fat. Let's say you are 72 kg at 10% body fat. Then let's say the body type you want to attain is 90 kg at 10% body fat. 

Furthermore, as we get heavier, it gets harder to have the same body fat percentage. A NFL offensive lineman and wide receiver might work out side by side, but it's going to be impossible for the lineman to have the same body fat percentage. Thus, as athletes get heavier, such as rowers compared to runners, their relative VO2 max goes down. Marathoners are smaller than cyclists. For instance, Chris Froome weighs ~150 lbs while the world record marathon holder, Dennis Kimetto, weighs 120 lbs. Lance was a 175 lbs at his fighting weight. You won't find (elite) marathoners that heavy. ...What we've just done is make a strong case marathoners should have higher VO2 maxes than cyclists! This is where we go back to the intro- cycling's infatuation with tech cannot be untethered from its notorious drug issues. What's one way for a 280 lb guy to still be shredded and have abs? Drugs. (Testosterone.) What's one way to bump your VO2 max irrespective of training? Drugs. (EPO.) Who is currently in the midst of a drug scandal? Chris Froome. Elite runners are no saints, but if we go by history, they have nothing near the level of doping issues cycling has had. The Tour in particular has an insane, albeit entertaining, history. I've heard Lance say guys used to tie fishing wire (hard to see) into a cork, attach it to a motorcycle in front of them, have the cork in their mouth, and get pulled along. Or this, "There are photographs of riders holding ether-soaked handkerchiefs to their mouths, or leaving them knotted under the chin so the fumes would deaden the pain in their legs." 

2) Make the push-ups harder. If you were trying to bench press 100 pounds as many times as possible, you'd prefer to have a 400 pound maximum than only a 150 pound. The 100 pound rep test only occurs at 25% of the 400 pound lifters maximum, whereas the 150 lb lifter has to do a rep test at 66% of their max. There are a variety of ways of doing this. If you have no gym, you can still do push-ups with a backpack on, adding weight in the bag. You could elevate your feet, you could do clap push-ups: $URL$ In the first video linked you can see the push-ups are actually sliding in and out. That's much harder on the chest. Programming With preparing for a bodyweight test people inevitably end up doing the activity every single day. That gives no days for recovery. Three to four days per week, with a day off in between each workout, is a better route. Example week: 

Found in Issues with foam rolling. Unsure of original source. If you don't upwardly rotate the scapula, then the humeral head is more likely to jam into the structures above it (impingement.) Just try to move your arms overhead without moving your shoulder blades. It won't feel great. Furthermore, this is more of an individual concern opposed to general anatomy talk, excessive superior glide is more likely when the humeri are at 90 degrees abduction. Notice this person's humeral head gliding upwards. Red is where it is, gray is what we'd prefer: 

If we view muscle as a rectangular tub, then as the tub increases its dimensions, volume goes up quicker. For example, 

You do what's most important to you first, because that's when you are freshest. Whatever is done first, gets the most attention, as attention is a finite resource. You used the compound lift vs isolation lift example. That's mostly true. Mainly because compound lifts are more intense, thus riskier -a bench press is riskier to your shoulders than lateral raises- so they should be done when a person is least fatigued. However, if you're a bodybuilder looking to build up your triceps and bench pressing isn't hitting them well, you might not care about compound movements being done first. 

Source. What we're seeing here is players lose internal rotation range of motion at the hip much more than controls. At least into early adulthood / ~early 20s. (Granted, early twenties, much less 18 years old, does not guarantee complete growth plate closure, but off the top of my head this is the best way to look at this topic.) The reason for this is they're acquiring more bone at the top-front of the hip. The bone is thickening, in the yellow quadrant:            That's because this area is getting loaded during running and jumping / landing. The pelvis and the top of the femur bang on one another with the hip a bit flexed. That is, that quadrant rotates some when we say, land with our legs somewhat bent:           Because the femoral neck gets bigger, it doesn't have as much room to bend or twist before it hits the acetabulum:                      Animation of internal hip rotation:           Note "Cam." This is a type of impingement at the hip. 

If your goal is to hit the posterior chain (low back, glutes, hamstrings), then B) is more correct. Notice how much more vertical the torso is in A). In a squat, your low back doesn't get much work if it's not moving! 

Similarly, if your goal is to lift the most amount of weight, then you typically want to go with the trunk-more-leaned-forward approach, as it involves more muscle mass = greater lifting ability. This is why people can back squat more than they can front squat. A front squat is more upright, thus more quad dominant and less posterior chain dominant. Furthermore, it's hard to lean forward in a front squat- you'll lose the bar! 

Something to consider in the mean time is everything you're not doing in physio. For example, it's a good idea to examine your footwear. Think of how people often say they rolled their ankle when stepping on something. This could be someone else's foot, or stepping on the side of a curb. 

Here's one I haven't seen bother the neck, the Pallof Press. (Or, because I hate exercises named after names, what I call "Ab Punchouts"): $URL$ It’s crucial to make sure the hips / spine are not moving. If they are, we’re defeating the purpose of the exercise, which is to prevent torso rotation. For instance: $URL$ The abs are often worked as a generator of movement. However, for reasons beyond the scope of this post, it's better to train them as a preventer of movement. What we're doing with Ab Punchouts is using the abdominals to resist the torso from being rotated to the cable. (Hands should punch directly in front of the chest. Not get pulled inward.) Personally, I find the standing version of this exercise hard to get people to do properly. First off, getting people to accept the notion of doing an ab exercise where their abs don’t move is work in itself. Getting them to know when they’re moving is more work, getting them to then understand how to prevent the motion yet even more work. It’s not that it can’t be done, I just think there’s an easier way. I put people on the ground: $URL$ This works wonders. Now all you have to say or think about is, “Don’t let your body come off the ground, at all.” (One often feels one hip being pulled off the ground, to the cable.) Furthermore, people realize how much their lower back moves because of how much concentration it takes them to not move. Once they go to a standing version of this they have more understanding of the goal of the exercise. Lastly, it’s typical for one side to feel harder than the other. This is especially true of those with any type of rotational sport history (tennis, baseball, etc.) or those with lower back issues (imbalance between obliques). Hence, a major purpose of the exercise- to even things out. Weight wise, with a cable stack starting at 10lbs, I don't have many everyday people who go heavier than 20-25 lbs. I have them do 3-4 sets, 15 reps per side. If no cable stack, you could also hook up a resistance band. Credit: Another (better?) Pallof Press variation Tangent: plank variations can take one quite far. Whether that's abdominal strength, or even fending off boredom. The variations are practically endless. Here's one I used with a Canadian professional football player (strong dude), but this was still challenging: $URL$