check your premises about who is intelligent. anyway, the underlying issue is people disagree about stuff. there are lots of ideas out there. many of them conflict. sorting it out is hard. being intelligent and reasonable in no way prevents someone from making a mistake when judging some ideas that disagree. it's hard. a secondary issue is that people have bad methods of judging ideas. they're bad at discussing hard issues to conclusions. they don't really know how and they kinda wing it and mistakes are common. if anyone would like to improve at this, a good place to start is this book $URL$ or this discussion forum $URL$ 

the consequences of rejecting induction are being freed up to learn something better from Karl Popper. all your concerns come from basically taking a typical inductivist epistemology and then rejecting one central part (induction) and keeping the rest. what you need is a thoroughly non-inductivist epistemology which is built from the ground up to make sense without induction. that's what Popper offers. (so far there are no non-Popperians offering this). 

What would be (the closest) logical fallacy when one demands that their proposition be accepted axiomatically and exempts oneself from providing reasonable argument or empirical evidence? E.g. "The simple issue is actually more complicated (so that I can attach my unrelated strings to it) but that's subject of another conversation" 

I've been reading on the holism-reductionism continuum. Reductionism strikes me as compliant with general principles of the scientific approach and method because it seeks to explain complex phenomena by breaking them down into smaller units and building theories bottom up, focusing on specificity and detail. Holism is the opposite and seems to me it could easily serve as a seemingly respectable (who doesn't want to tie it all together in a big "theory of everything"?) curtain for poor, insufficient or downright misleading and sloppy research. This is not to say we shouldn't seek to explain relations among phenomena -- only that it should be preceded by a thorough understanding of individual parts. In modern scientific circles, is holism generally regarded as a conduit for pseudoscience? 

if you have no training, trying to rescue a drowning person with no equipment in deep water is actually dangerous. they aren't thinking straight and may drown you. but let's assume rescuing them is only a tiny risk. then go ahead. life is full of risks. if you ride in a car you could die in a car crash. trying to avoid all risk would be silly. you don't need a big benefit to accept a tiny risk. it's up to you if you want to rescue them. if you value human life, then that's a reason to do it since you want to see the guy healthy. if you like people in general, and you have a way to be a big help to someone at a low cost, then you can do it, go ahead. there's nothing in Objectivism to outlaw this (nor strictly mandate it. but Objectivists respect human life. so if it's a tiny cost, well, can't you afford it? Objectivists ought to be productive and be able to afford tiny costs to promote their values.). it's great to look for opportunities to trade mutual benefit in general. if you had more time maybe you'd ask him to pay you $10 to help. but you're in a hurry. you could ask him afterwards. i bet he'd give you $10 if you really care, or perhaps he'll volunteer some other reward for you. but $10 is so small compared to a life that it's not a big concern here, nor is the $10 of effort and risk this cost you. (it depends on the scenario parameters. if it costs you $5000 of effort and risk, then that could harm your own life, and he might not pay you back after you save him, so you have to consider what you want to do.) 

Is that just a euphemism to shield claims that cannot be established using methods of , which is a scientific standard? 

Not that I have read any of his books but I've watched the documentary and several of his magazine articles and he totally seems like a centrist. On some subjects (like Islam/immigration) maybe even slightly right of center. Why is he considered a Marxist? 

The land has indeed be explored by science and testable and evident theories provided by it have superseded their religious equivalents. TL;DR: (to quote the 1st comment to this answer) 

A knee jerk response from a nonexpert armchair consumer of philosophy is that it's a defense mechanism from the academic ivory tower to protect their status in the community as the select few who can interpret something that in better conditions shouldn't require much interpretation. But I am hoping there is a better explanation that doesn't come off as some anti-intellectual elitism paranoia and in favor of this hierarchy. In short, my question is, what intellectual justification exists to forgive (good?) philosophers for terrible writing skills? Or in other words, convince me that writing skills do not correlate with general intellectual value. I'm very open to change my mind. 

no. individuals face problems like how to live their life and stay alive. this leads to various problems (like getting food and shelter) and solutions. this process of problem solving requires thinking. the thinking should be done in certain ways and not other ways, like it should be non-contradictory. overall what you say doesn't really have much to do with Objectivism's perspective. 

What objective criteria can be used to judge philosophical refutations? Say for example that someone is writing a criticism of Karl Popper. What are ways to reject the criticism without getting into a detailed debate of the sort that this site doesn't allow? 

you should survey some important philosophies and get involved with highly critical philosophy discussion. criticism is necessary to find errors. one of the main problems with philosophy is lots of people have a bunch of bullshit ideas and don't realize all the problems with their ideas. the list of philosophies you take a look at should include Objectivism (Ayn Rand) and Critical Rationalism (Karl Popper) in addition to stuff like artistotle and kant which everyone recommends (i think they're bad, but you decide). the only very good philosophy discussion forum i'm aware of is $URL$ (this is a Q&A site, which is a different structure with advantages and disadvantages. it's fine but it's different than open-ended discussion where people just chat and argue) 

Are axioms nothing but assumptions and, if yes and in accordance to Occam's Razor, should they be minimized? When postulating scientific theorems which, unlike axioms, are subject to the scrutiny of proof but do factor in axioms, are there formal systems which at least attempt to quantify the amount of axioms, or assumptions, that are antecedents to the theorem? Put simply, can we sort theorems based on how much of their input are axiomatically accepted assumptions? 

I am almost sure there is a name for the fallacy whereby its exponent tries to apply a very small sample of observation, usually anecdotal evidence, as representative of the population, of which that sample is part, at large. For example: 

I happen to believe that strong writing and speaking skills are a non-negotiable requirement for any intellectual and philosophers in particular. While I obviously disclaim that as a personal opinion, I don't see it as particularly controversial because how valuable are your ideas if you can't communicate them properly and to as wide an audience as applicable? The applicability scope does matter -- a publication on tardigrade reproductive behavior understandably has a much narrower audience than a philosophical treatise on ethics, which their language should reflect (hint: it's more okay for the former to be arcanely worded as its target audience is more controlled). So when a philosopher who is speculating on matters that affect pretty much every human walking the planet has downright awful writing skills, let's mention Hegel as one of the not so few examples, why do you cut this person slack? Why, if they are so brilliant, do they need an interpretor (e.g. Kojeve) to translate their ideas to the general audience? If they are so brilliant to dispense ethical imperatives that apply to wide audiences, shouldn't they be held in high expectations to themselves make their ideas easily digestible to those audiences? What prompted me ask this rather broad question is that I notice (even on this forum) a level of disdain for any thinker who does offer philosophical insight but is not a formal philosopher and writes in clear, understandable manner. Famously Foucault said that 

there's mysticism here. a simulation of a human is a human. it's the same thing. human minds are software running in a classical computer. that's what you already are – a computer running software. the hardware details don't matter to the computations. no soul or organic molecules required. an intelligence software program has to do certain things. included on the list is create knowledge. the only known knowledge-creating process is evolution. knowledge can be created through replication with variation and selection. (in the case of ideas this would more normally be called brainstorming and critical thinking to eliminate errors). software that does this within various parameters, and does a few other things, would be a thinking person. that's all there is to it. stuff like emotions are emergent properties of software, they aren't tied to souls, hardware made of organic molecules instead of silicon, etc 

the arguments against Objectivism are mostly from people who don't understand Objectivism. but an actual issue with Objectivism is induction. induction has logical problems as explained by Karl Popper and many others. Rand knew that she couldn't explain how induction worked and defend it in detail, but she still mistakenly assumed that it works somehow. 

What fallacy would "pot calling the kettle black" be, or basically discharging criticism at someone who doesn't substantially differ from you, only in a nuance of the same deviation? I can see a form of special pleading for a completely arbitrary line of acceptance drawn in between the critic and the critiqued, which would be a form of hypocrisy. Is there a better fallacy to in which to classify this phrase? CLARIFICATION: I don't mean saying "pot calling the kettle" itself is a fallacy -- I mean what it is being called against 

Many in the Frankfurt School, notably Adorno and Horkheimer, regarded rationality with criticism as, in their view, led to dehumanization and enslavement. But what did they offer as an alternative principle or ethos in guiding personal or social heuristics? I assume not religion/god, as they were mostly Marxist. 

I'm aware of the compatibilist attitude by some philosophers, such as Hegel and Daniel Dennet. I am interested in some philosophers who are firm determinists (deny free will). 

Socialism destroys wealth. That's bad for everyone. See $URL$ and $URL$ and $URL$ Objectivists want to produce wealth for themselves, not take it from richer people. Objectivism values productivity and opposes taking the unearned by force. Socialism is collectivist. Objectivist is individualist. 

government should protect everyone, not just the weak. it should treat everyone equally instead of define a privileged class (e.g. those deemed "weak" by some criterion). the point of government is to protect men from force and keep that defensive force organized and careful instead of just a bunch of chaotic vigilante justice. defense against force (e.g. robbery or enslavement) is an important value for everyone (strong or weak). a hard part is who pays for this defense, and how much from each person? ideally funding would be voluntary. currently that isn't figured out yet. 

Reading Speed it's really really valuable to learn speed reading so you can read more philosophy. reading a lot (and rereading) does matter. if you can't read philosophy at 500 or more words per minute, it will be hard to do as much as those who can. it's also valuable to be able to read using both text and audio so you can read books while going for a walk or driving or at the gym, etc. you can listen to ebooks using text to speech software such as $URL$ (you aren't limited to audio books) the most effective speed reading approach is called Rapid Serial Visual Presentation. here's a free web version to see what it is (it takes a while to learn and get good with it, but you may be able to use it around your normal reading speed immediately. you can do higher speeds with 2 or 3 words at a time instead of just 1, and some people also find 3-4 words at a time is easier initially): $URL$ learning how to skim well, skip around to the important parts of books, look up relevant parts in the index, etc, is also extremely valuable. good skimming can save even more time than speed reading. both speed reading and skimming can have major downsides if done badly. you can lose a lot of comprehension of the material. but if done with enough skill and good judgement, they can work for most material, and you can occasionally slow down as needed. (as you get better at it, you can slow down less often for less kinds of material.) and reading faster allows more rereads. if you can do 2-3 fast reads instead of 1 slow read of a book, that's usually better. or do 1 slow read and 2-3 fast reads instead of 2 slow reads – that's pretty much always better. and getting good at speed reading can improve your minimum reading speed too. Rest Regarding rest, knowledge workers like programmers typically do about 10-20 hours a week of really serious hard work. They spend the rest of the time answering emails, doing meetings, checking reddit, etc. Most people can do more temporarily but would burn out if they kept it up. People also tire from other types of thinking such as playing chess or reading difficult philosophy. Getting tired normal. People also like excuses for not doing much. So be careful! Some people are exceptional. The philosopher Karl Popper had a reputation for working long hours all the time and not doing much else. Try to be honest about how much rest you really need. The more you really like your work, the more it should energize and inspire you! If that isn't happening, maybe something's wrong.