Crocodiles like water so if you stay away from water you will avoid them entirely. However that also rules out many wonderful destinations to hike. If you are around waters with crocs 

That list should do you for cooking most things. That being said, as noted in the comments, a more sophisticated list requires knowing more about your situation. 

To deal with low oxygen environments you need more red blood cells. To get more red blood cells you have very few options. 

The key is to always have a trash bag. Your most reliable backwoods method for clean water is condensation, either through natural action, or via a still of some kind. The primary component of this is having large enough suitable material to make said still. If you are depending on natural action, then surface area is still key. Assuming you left your baggie at home you need to find the largest smooth, flexible, non-absorbent material you can. If the presumption is that you are so back woods and so thoroughly hosed that you have no emergency kit whatsoever then... prayer may be your best option for obtaining large volumes of pest free water. An improvised filter will not provide protection from microbial dangers. You'll get water that looks more clear, but is just as (or more since you can pick up contaminants from your 'filter') dangerous. 

In ultralight or lightweight hiking, "pack weight" is a very common number to discuss. What does pack weight exclude? Is it limited to just what's in your pack, or does it also include clothes, shoes, etc. 

The risk is not so much in the mayonnaise per-se, as in carrying it around in a container that you have to repeatedly open and close in a intrinsically non-sterile setting. Certainly using a squirt bottle would reduce risk of contamination, but individual packets will completely remove the risk. 

It's going to come down to personal choice, but when I'm backpacking weight and water are huge concerns (and water is weight). 

I hike a few trails in the lower Appalachians which are very infrequently traveled. Maintenance when it happens, is performed by hikers. I much prefer to just clear smaller blowdowns as I come to them than to make an entire separate trip. What is the best carry tool for minor trail maintenance on a hike? Axe, machete, folding saw...etc. (By minor, I mean small, less than 4" diameter branches, not log clearing) 

I have to say that "eating with" falls under the same rules as "eating". Don't go out in the woods and put something in your mouth unless you know exactly what you are dealing with. Many woods are toxic. Also remember that "wood" doesn't just come from trees, but all woody plants, which is why some shrubs are also listed here. Specifically avoid the following (If it's listed here it has at least one poisonous variant. Since tree variants are difficult to distinguish, it's best for amateurs to not try these: 

I recommend highly reflective line. Many manufacturer's make this. I have had excellent results with Kelty Triptease. One 50' line cuts down to easily make 4 guylines for a tent. It is highly reflective and even a little light will make it really stand out at night. You may also consider reflective markers like these made by MSR. These will also make the cord stand out more in the day just by making it blend less with the background. 

Seam sealant should do just fine. I use this particular one which has worked well for a number of patch jobs. If the exist tape is dirty or damaged then you will want to trip it off and put on new tape. It will interfere with getting good seal. 

Using some sort of leather conditioner, work the boots with your hands. Flex the toe bend and ankle areas. Using your thumbs apply very firm pressure to the toebox in circles. Flex it back and forth as much as possible. Leather is made supple by use and conditioning. The conditioner will vary based on your boot. Some examples are Lexol, Neatsfoot Oil, and Mink oil. In the really old days this was done by tallow (or other fat) and chewing, followed by tallow and rubbing. Now most leather is machine conditioned at the hide level, and somewhat further at later steps, but the manufacturing and time on a shelf makes it stiffen up more. Time to condition is also affected by how good the fit is to start with, at least to the degree that we're talking about conditioning for comfort. Whenever I buy boots I immediately go out and hike five miles (preferably someplace that won't beat the shoes up). I return the boots if I'm not feeling good with them at the end of that five miles. Walking around in the store is just not enough to verify fit. 

I would say yes. From experience, leaving your lift in the water will cause damage to the lift itself more quickly than leaving it above. Also lifts are not usually made to hold a boat in the water with the frequent wake action you find on lakes. The force of wakes pushing the boat is probably more than your lift is designed to handle on a steady basis. The entire purpose of the lift is to be able to suspend the boat out of water but under cover when not in use. 

It depends on the filter. Many filters use microtubules. If there is water in the filter and the snow freezes that water then you may crack the microtubules. You'll likely have no indication that you just broke your filter, potentially leading to the consumption of contaminated water. 

Also avoid a food mix that is too off balance. You don't want all protein, all carb, 0 fat, etc. You need all three to survive, all the more so when hiking for multiple days with a pack. Generally I go with a ratio of 1/3/1 - protein/carb/fat but that is just what works for me. 

Your local DNR (Department of Natural Resources) website (example) will have the hunting season. I'd like to say all hunters are safe, but there's a reason I don't hunt public land. Also the biggest threat is poachers, who are going to ignore all of the above, as well as season, legality, etc. 

Alcohol can (and does) eat certain types of seals. Do not use alcohol to clean the stove unless you are certain it is safe for alcohol fuel. Similarly, carb cleaner is extremely corrosive and will eat many different types of seals/gaskets. First thing to try is to disassemble and scrub with baking soda, dish soap, and a toothbrush. If that does not work, then move on to harsher cleansers. From the coleman website: 

I think the title speaks for itself. I have done a basic google search and I do not find the references to be sufficient. I'm looking for a short synopsis that would educate a layman such as myself. 

Yes, it is possible. In my experience, the best attractant is food. You want to put the attractant out well in advance, and preferably over a number of days. Anything blood based will work for most bottom feeders (catfish and the like). Rice also works fairly well for catfish, over a period of time. For active predators such as bass, you have a harder job ahead of you. Mostly they hunt based on motion, but there are many reasons (legal and environmental) to not release live bait. That's effectively what this forum is for. Seed the questions and we'll all go find the answers :)