First and foremost, if your boss thinks you have a problem, you have a problem whether you agree with him or not. This is the person who can fire you or promote you or get/deny pay raises. It is important to meet his or her expectations. This doesn't mean that I think you should just be a sheep and do what ever he says. This means that when there is an issue brought up you have to take some action to resolve it (it may be an explantion or an actual action, but it is not resolved until your boss thinks it is resolved). Doing the same thing and expecting different results just doesn't work. If you are not clear on the expectation, then ask. The best time to ask is when you start on a new task not when you deliver it (take written notes) and they are unhappy with the results. You should make it a priority to see to it that they are never unhappy with results by making sure you clearly understand what results are expected before you begin and then checking your work against those expectations before you tell them it is completed. Learn a technique called reflection. When someone tells you what they expect, reflect it back to them in your own words to ensure that what they said and what you interpreted it to mean are the same thing. If you are told that something was not aceptable performance, then you need a road map of specific actions they expect you to take. Not every manager will give you this road map up front inthe discussion. You may need to ask questions. If he says fix XYZ without a list of specific task he wants you to do, then you can make suggestions to ensure that what you do to fix the issue is what he is expecting. So you counter with, If I do ABC and then DEF will that fix the problem? Make sure you leave a meeting where performance is discussed with a specific detailed list of the actual actions you need to take. And then take them. I suspect that the one thing you need to understand is that there is a time and a place for technical disagreement and that is before the final decision is made. Discuss possble alternatives with the boss at the start, but when he says this is the way he wants you to go, then do that even if you don't want to. By genuinely trying to do what is requested, you build more credibility with the boss and when you have given a real effort and if things don't work out (as you pointed out earlier they wouldn't) then your opinion will have more weight the next time. And sometimes you will be surprised to find out that what he wanted worked just fine (bosses aren't always as stupid as we think.) But your boss has to know first that he can rely on you. Next learn to pick your battles. There are some issues you should go to the mat for but make sure they are the important ones. If you go along with the less important things, then when you disagree, it will have more impact. Next you probably need to understand more about the underlying business needs behind what the boss wants. People tend to get so concerned about their own work specialty that they forget to look at the larger picture. If you feel that you need a better understanding of the business end of things, ask the boss if you can spend some time attending meetings with him (as an observer) on those topics. Or go talk to people in other positions and see what their needs are. Getting to know the finance people has always been helpful to me in understanding how our business works. Attitude counts as much or more than technical competence. Make sure you don't come across as arrogant, argumentative, or defensive. 

Yes you are in the wrong. Notice of layoffs should not be sent unofficially to friends. All emails are subject to monitoring as the email system is a company asset, so there is no expectation of privacy ever on anything sent through a company email. Personally I would take this as a clue that you should not be using company email for anything personal at all at this company. When you are in a relationship with someone at work, even someone in a different department, it becomes easy to cross the line and get far more personal than is appropriate at work (people have been fired before for emails with sexual content sent to people they were having a relationship with through a work email system) or to share information that should not be shared. Clearly your company does monitor and you should be aware that having had one warning they will be looking at what you do more closely in all aspects of your performance. Since you said the new was already being discussed in public, you would have a talk with your supervisor and ask for guidance on how you know what is confidential and what is not. You don't want to cross the line accidendtally again. But really start by not gossiping on company email at all until you better understand what is acceptable and what is not at this company. 

I would not expect a junior totally inexperience dev to be good by the end of two months, but I would expect him to be better than the start. From what you describe, he is not. If I were his boss, I would sit him down and explain what you just explained here, the problems, how he is not retaining information and what is actually expected and put him on a performance improvement plan. I would make it clear to him that if I don't see improvement in another month, he will be let go. If you are not his boss, the most you can do is let his boss know exactly how little progress he is making. Specifically write up what you have done, what he has ignored and how you have repeatedly given the same directions and then set up a meeting to talk this out. You are a good dev that your boss wants to keep, make sure that he is aware of how frustrating this is for you. You don't have to threaten to leave, but letting him know that he is creating problems for the more experienced should be enough of a signal to him that this guy needs to go and go soon. 

If there is a skills problem, then identify the missing skills and create a plan for the person to get them. This could be informal mentoring, formal training, or many different things. Make it clear when you present this to the person, that getting the skills is not optional. If they don't get the skills their job is at risk. Discuss the procedure for dealing with an incompetent employee with HR. This doesn't have to be a discussion where you name anyone, just that as a manager, you feel you need to understand the process. This will help keep you from making any mistakes that could cause legal issues. It is normal that one employee may take more time than the rest of them put together. From Wikipedia: 

Discussions are productive, arguments never are. I suspect if you are seeing more tension between you and your boss, then you are having arguments. This needs to be fixed. First you need to rid yourself of this idea that there is only one right way to do things. Just because something is the best technical solution you have doesn't mean it is best when other nontechnical issues are factored in. It is your boss's job to consider those issues as well as the technical points you brought up. The reason why this attitude is a problem is because it will lead you down the path of patronizing people and nobody takes that particularly well let along people above you in the chain of command. So even if you are right, the tone with which you convey your superiority can be grating. It is more grating, in fact, when you are right. You need to help him save face then, not crush him with your superior technical knowledge. Just from the snippet you posted, it seems to me that you are discounting his input. It sounds like whatever he says, you interpret as "he is saying some stupid management BS." That too will lead to resentment and tension in the workplace. Would you like it if he discounted everything you said with an attitude of "Stupid technical person who doesn't get the real world?" That is highly likely to how you are making him feel with your "oh so superior, I am smarter than you" attitude. Yes is is your job to bring up these issues, but there are productive ways to that and unproductive ways. Failing to listen, really listen to the other person is one of the most unproductive. Sometimes it is even helpful to draw him to the right conclusion by asking questions rather than flaunting your knowledge. Sometimes it helps to take some of your idea and bits of his and make something that gives everybody some input. And there are going to be times when the decision isn't going to go your way due to those pesky non-technical reasons. How to you behave then will also determine how your relationship to your boss evolves. If you sulk and keep bring things up over and over again, most managers will come to hate your guts fairly quickly. If you give in gracefully and try hard to make it (whatever it is) work, then he is more likely to listen to you the next time you think something will be a problem. Another thing to be aware of is the importance of the issue. If you agree with him on some of the less important things, you save face for him and then he is going to be less likely to push back when it is really important. You only get so much political capital, don't waste it on the small stuff. 

You do not owe this person an explanation of why he was not selected. And it is almost always a bad move to try to tell them. If he calls though, you do owe him a straight answer on whether he was selected. It would have been kinder to have told him he was not selected rather than pretend a decision has not been made. Keeping someone believing they are in the running for a position when they are not is cruel. This person will most likely continue to call until you tell him. In this case, since you told him someone would contact him later, you owe him the call to tell him that he was not selected. This was your mistake, you need to fix it. Do not delegate this task to someone else. Hinting is an ineffective communication tool in virtually all circumstances. This is something you need to learn not to do. If you are in a position where you are making hiring decisions, you need to be able to give people a firm and clear no. Hiring is a management task and managers are often the people who have to give out bad news. You need to learn to do so. Write down what you want to say to tell a candidate that he has not been selected and then practice it. I would normally say something to the effect of he was not the person chosen to fill the position. And then wish him good luck in his job search. If he asks for feedback on why, tell him that it is the company policy not to give that type of feedback. (Most likely if you check with HR that is the case as very few companies want to get into that particular can of worms.) But write out what you think someone might ask you and the responses and practice. 

He did you a favor by pointing this mistake out to you. Interviews are about much more than technical skills. They are assessing how you will fit in with the team, how you perceive your abilites and if your perception matches theirs (as this is a clue to how good your judgement is) and your attitudes. By undeselling yourself, you show a lack of confidence that is worrisome to interviewers who, after all, don't know you very well. All they have to go on is what you tell them in the interview and what is in your resume. Making a negative impression about your abilities and confidence puts you at a disadvantage right out of the gate. They will be balancing the pluses and minuses from your interview against the pluses and minuses of everyone else they interview. Don't needlessly give tham a minus to put against you. Can showing a small lack of confidence work against you in the decision process? Yes sometimes things come down to only minor differences between two people and only one job. So a minor issue like a small underselling can be the difference. And the less confidence you show, they more emphasis the interviewers will put on it in evaluating you. I can remember one guy we interviewed who, on paper, was one of the most qualified. But through the whole interview, he literally could not say anything good about himself. If you don't think you are good, well, then neither will we. It is their job to evaluate you in the interview, not yours. Your job is to sell them on why you are a good hire and to evaluate whether you want to work at that place for those people. 

Yes this is common and yes there are legal reason in many jurisdictions why this is common. These laws came into effect as a workplace safety issue. And frankly it is bad for productivity (on a statistical basis) to work through lunch. Working without a long break will make you more tired and then you make more mistakes and take longer to do things. So it is not in a company's best interests to allow you to work through lunch. Are they fair, of course they are fair as they apply to all. Are they what you personally may want, maybe not. That doesn't make it unfair. 

If you need (not want) an accommodation, then you will need a medical excuse. This is clearly causing you anxiety. I would talk first to a therapist about the problem and see if you can get him to write a note explaining that this environment is not good for you and that you need an assigned desk. By law (in the US and most probably in much of Europe) they cannot deny you a medical accommodation that is not too disruptive of the workplace. BTW only stupid companies use this type of seating. Personally I would move on to some place that respects the needs of employees to be able to do their jobs in an environment that allows concentration and doesn't treat them as interchangeable parts. 

Companies in generel do not give pay raises becasue taxes increased or health insurance costs increased (something that has affected my pay far more every year for at least the last ten than a 2% increase) or any other deduction from your paycheck. If you have no annual pay raises, then talk to them about a raise but present to them why you are worth a raise. Do not under any circumstances mention the tax increase. That will only weaken your cases for a raise as everyone else is hit with this too and they do not want to set a precent of giving a raise for this reason. In general, you never ask for a raise by saying that you need the raise because you need more money. You have to give the company a reason that is in the company's best interest to pay you more. 

You can't undo what you did, although this should be a harsh lesson to you on why leaving with an angry note about the workplace is a bad idea 100% of the time . Since this person has chosen to retaliate, you have a couple of options. First, change careers. If he or she has notified other call centers that you are unstable, assume you can't find work at those and look elsewhere. If you can, get an education in a new field. Second, try a different physical location. A new city might be just the thing. Use a non-manager at that workplace who you got along with well as your reference. Next option is to take all this to a lawyer. It is possible they would have some advice to help you recover damages from the retaliation. See if you can find one who will give you a free evaluation of whether there is a case to be made. Get treatment for your mental illness (depression is a mental illness). If you have gotten treatment, the counselor can help you with ways to get back into the workplace with a history of mental illness.