A quick online search shares a few tips which echo what I've heard from ice fishermen and experienced myself: 

This list not only applies to what to prepare with beforehand, but also with what you need to put into practice to address the situation. Refer to this checklist in times of peace and challenges, and if you do both you'll probably get out of a disaster painlessly. 

The concentration of iron in ore also varies, and for iron ore to be practical in primitive tool construction, it needs to have a certain amount of iron present. That same Wikipedia article notes: 

This might be a tricky question because it probably depends so much on the river/water source. In this particular case, the stream I'm considering is one that flows well and pretty cold year-round, located in the Adirondack Park of New York. It's not in total wilderness but in a pretty remote area anyway. I and others don't consider it potable without treatment, but I wouldn't expect to die from drinking it and wouldn't be surprised if I was perfectly unharmed by drinking from it for a weekend...though for that matter, I wouldn't be surprised if I was pretty harmed by doing so - yet to do any water quality test on it. 

In climbing, a double fisherman's knot is used to tie together two separate pieces of rope. How would I tie such a knot? 

A stopper knot is often used to prevent rope from unexpectedly going throu some hole, such as a belay device. How would I tie a stopper knot? 

The different types of snowboards are: All-mountain: Versatile snowboards that can be used on all parts of the mountain, including machine-groomed runs, backcountry, and park and pipe. Freestyle: Boards that are light, short, and flexible, and ideal for terrain parks and doing tricks (riding rails, jibbing, etc) Freeride: Boards that are ideal for backcountry riding and going fast on groomed runs. Splitboards: Boards that can split in half for backcountry climbing. Powder: Boards that will spend most of their time in deep powder. They have wide waists, wide noses, and are generally rocker shaped to prevent the edges from catching. Sourced from REI. 

I just bought my first pair of mountaineering boots. I know hiking boots need to be properly broken in before taking them on the trail, but what about plastic mountaineering boots? These are extremely stiff (from the plastic) in order to support crampons, and it doesn't seem like they would get easily molded during wear. 

Related to flith's answer, noise can be a deterrent. The same way fires are prohibited in some areas, making too much noise may also be frowned upon, so this may not be a viable strategy depending on where you are. Wilderness survival expert Les Stroud carries a harmonica as a personnel item and to provide some comfort. He has noted a thought, as I and others have as well, that the harmonica noise can deter animals (while also providing personal comfort before bed). The saying 'they are more scared of you than you are of them' applies here - animals need to exercise caution as a matter of survival, and approaching a strange creature is risky. Approaching a strange creature that appears very large, fierce, fearless, or making disturbing, loud, piercing sounds (like those from a harmonica) may also appear risky and cause more animals to avoid the area accordingly. 

The leaf solution makes the other options more viable too. If you have the time, pack sticks (~1-2in diameter) side-by-side to make a bed, then cover that with leafs to soften it up. This adds extra insulation from the ground. Sometimes it feels nice too, sometimes it doesn't. With the materials you listed, I recommend using the sheet of plastic to gather leafs faster, and make a mattress with more than 2ft of leafs. Lay the sheet on the ground, weigh it down with rocks if needed, then rake leafs onto it with your arms and feet. You can then use the plastic sheet to help separate you from the wet, cold ground. Note that not all leafs are made equal: some evergreen needles would be miserable to sleep on, but the most comfortable bedding I've found in forests happens to be evergreen: white pine needles. If you can gather a bunch of small white-pine branches and stack/weave them to be a mattress (more emphasis on getting 2ft worth than how well put together it is), you will have a very soft bed. If you can add some gear, a wool blanket will go a long way as a mattress or extra insulation in any way whether wet or dry. 

which I used when I am belaying someone who is top roping or leading. However, my rope only goes through one of those slots. What is the purpose of the other one? 

I'm planning a whitewater rafting trip, and I'm worried what I should do if the raft flips over. Is there a standard set of procedures I should go through to get back on the raft? 

As others have mentioned, the best exercise you can get is simply hiking. To train for weight, it's recommended to fill the backpack with water or sand that can be thrown out at the top to prevent knee injuries. If you live in the flatlands like I do, there's not much elevation changes. The closest in the gym is to use an incline treadmill or a stepmill. I've even filled up a bag with weights to use on the stepmill. As for specific weightlifting exercises, hiking requires a lot of lower body strength and endurance. Various squats and deadlifts can help strengthen your quads, hamstrings, glutes, and back. General cardio (running, biking, or swimming) is always helpful since it'll build endurance, and if you can shave some pounds off your body, that's less weight you have to carry. Alpine Ascents has a training program to prepare for Denali, which, while a little bit overboard for hiking, still shares the same concepts. Body Results also has provides some mountaineering training DVDs which also share similar concepts. 

Granted this requires someone of age to do certain math calculations and more known trails, but it can keep people occupied on hikes that don't provide a lot of scenery. Added bonus is that the calculations will change very frequently meaning that this can be repeated several times throughout the hike. With off trail hikes, this can even become a good discussion issue which can keep the group focused and talking. 

Calculating Distance: Some may not consider this a "game" per say, but could be if approached in that manner. However, it is something I continue to use even with adults, to keep minds occupied. If the distance of the hike is known, even relative, ask people for different statistics regarding the distance of the hike. 

A couple of options work for what you're asking, however, depending on location, some may be easier to do than others. I'd successfully hidden in plain sight on many occasions, but only really have success using the "Blend In" method. Central Clue Location: An easy way to be able to observe all the puzzles is pick a central location for all the puzzles which has a position that would allow you to remain hidden. Those circular clothes racks at a shopping mall are good for this, as you can remain hidden and yet still able to see and hear around you. All the puzzle items would need to be in the area, but a well placed clothes rack will allow you to see/hear a great distance. Other options are available, with the key being that you need a hiding location near the final clues. *Side note: this would be better done at non-peak times, as someone hiding in a clothes rack might draw the wrong kind of attention. Crowed Location/Blend In: Now this method will require you practice this at times when you're not together. I'd suggest using a family member, which is something I have done in the past. Pick a busy location and time to play this game with your friend. (Think Black Friday Shopping Center) Bring a light jacket and turn it inside-out and tie it around your waist. Wear a baseball cap, but have it turned around. When the game starts, don the jacket after turning it right side in and turn your baseball cap forwards. You've successfully destroyed your friend's mental image of what you're wearing, but now you'll have to alter how you walk. Personally, I choose to take shorter more meandering strides as I'm a tall person. Hunching over can help with this. Since you're in a location with lots of distractions you'll be able to follow your friend from a slight distance. One thing to keep in mind is never make eye contact/look directly at your friend. A key to this is not to make "sudden" movements. Everything must be slow and deliberate. I've pickpocketed family members and planted notes doing this, even when they've been looking for me. I'm sure there are counter-terrorist tactic books that delve into this more. The focal point of this method is to go with the flow of the crowd. Anything you do that is contrary to the crowd will single you out. If your friend veers off suddenly, don't immediately follow. Wait and move deliberately in his direction, but with a "target" of something different. You'd be surprised how easy it is to blend in with the "masses" and people will overlook you. Constant Distraction: Using the above method of blending in, you can take this one step further and get other people involved to allow you to stay extremely close to your friend. Sequester random strangers to ask your friend questions. A easy example is to tell a sales associate that your friend is wanting to look at a certain item. As your friend is distracted by the sales person, you will be able to observe them closely. A dangerous/risky example would be to tell security at the mall/location you are at, that your friend has been acting strangely. Don't mention that he is your friend. Now this comes with some risks, mainly that if you involve security, you might end up in hot water yourself, but might be worth it, depending on how badly you want to win. Any outside source of distraction to your friend's "search" for you, will allow you to be close by, without being seen. I'd combine this with changing your appearance slightly for best results. Other Considerations: For all these to work well, your best bet is to stay out of his/her line of sight at all times and when/if you're in their line of sight, blend in with your environment. The same can be said if in the woods. However, in nature, one big difference is that there isn't as much movement in the woods. Movement should only be done when your friend isn't looking. Beyond that, remain still and out of line of sight. Avoid bright colors as well. In the city, you need to be moving, as people in public are typically moving at relatively the same speed. 

Since batteries (for cameras, cell phones, etc) will lose charge in cold weather, what can I do to prevent loss of charge, or at least extend the battery life as long as possible? 

If someone falls overboard from a sailboat, it is firstly imperative not to lose sight of the person since finding a man in water, especially when there's waves, can be very difficult. What techniques are there to direct the sailboat to rescue the man? 

When navigating in the backcountry, you'll usually bring a topographic map that shows the terrain so you can tell if there will be steep slopes or cliffs that might make the route difficult. A sample topographic map is: 

Ive heard that climbing Kilimanjaro doesn't require any mountaineering skills and is really just a (very difficult) hike? Is that true? Is there any gear I would need besides traditional hiking equipment? 

There may be an emergency situation where I find myself needing to lower myself but with no or damaged equipment. Assuming I only have a rope, can I lower myself to safe ground? 

As for getting in trouble, generally the signal for emergency is three repeated calls. So, don't do that. If you just call once or twice and wait a reasonably long time before calling again, people who are listening are more likely to say "Oh, they're OK or they'd be SOS'ing or calling out more chaotically in a panic." The FOO sound specifically carries very well but doesn't have the sense of urgency that a high-pitched scream or whistle does, at least in my experience. 

The article Iron Production in the Viking Age on Hurstwic discusses sources of iron available in the wilderness of Scandinavia and Iceland. To my knowledge and experience, similar sources exist in what is now eastern Canada. From that article and other reading I identify two primary sources of iron people gathered from the wild for primitive tool making: Bog Iron 

I find it good to have a little bit in various places. Splitting it up this way makes it handier and less cumbersome in all places. Here are some examples of fairly non-intrusive areas you can keep some duct tape (and ranger bands which can serve similar purposes): 

If I am whitewater or sea kayaking, it is possible that my kayak will get overturned leading to a live or death situation. I've heard that it is possible to roll the kayak so it is right side up again, and that's it's called an Eskimo roll. How would I actually do that? 

Sometimes when mountaineering, there may be an emergency situation which leaves you in bad weather with no or damaged shelter (such as returning from a summit attempt or after a wild and crazy storm). Snow shelters can keep you insulated as well as protect you from wind. How would you go about building one? 

I'm planning a whitewater rafting trip, and I keep reading that different rapids are different classes, and sometimes the same rapid is different classes at different times of the year? What do the classes mean, and is there a level that would be too dangerous to raft? 

Bowline knots are among the most commonly used knots across many different outdoor activities. It is used to create a fixed loop at the end of a line, while still being easy to tie and untie. How would I tie a bowline knot?