I have a 10-year old bike, fitted with hydraulic disk brakes. The bike has been actively used for around 4 years only though. Recently, my brake levers started to have more and more "play" before the bike actually starts braking. A kind of a "dead zone" where nothing happens, just like if there was not enough oil. I went to the store to fix it, twice, but it keeps coming back. They say something may be stuck ("bourrage" in french, as ugly as it sounds). They told me they bled the brakes, but at this point I'm not sure anymore. So now I'd like to fix this myself, once and for all. The brakes are the only thing I've been afraid to fiddle with, so far, so that's why I'm coming here for advices. Is there any "fixing your hydraulic disk brakes 101" or equivalent? A guide I could follow to check things in order. Shall I check brake pads first, then oil, then... A flowchart would be lovely! tl;dr: What to check first to fix hydraulic disk brakes? 

can I take my (front + rear) hubs apart while it is still attached to the spokes? is it good enough to visually inspect the hub axle, and decide whether it's safe to use based on that? any other safety concern? 

I'm having a hard time finding the technical documentation (equivalent of $URL$ for the Shimano Deore Hollowtech 1 crankset, FC-M510. Among others, I'm looking for information about which BB size I should get. Anyone has any info? 

I'm just back from hospital! I was having fun in a skatepark with my trials bike, and something quite unfortunate happened. Basically, my thumb flexed the wrong way around. That won't stop me though, and I plan to go back as soon as the doctor allows. But I wish I could protect my fingers, at least from flexing the wrong way around. Is there any glove or bandage that could help me? 

I'm almost done assembling my new bike :) There is still one thing in the way though... See the headset in the picture? It was installed by a professional (or, at least a LBS owner) when I bought the frame. Kinda came preinstalled. After assembling the bike, I went back to the shop to have the headset adjusted. And somehow they couldn't get the thing set up properly. I tried too, and yeah, let's face it, that headset is probably bad or badly installed. 

The benefit of a disc wheel is that you can ride faster than with a spoked wheel, on flat and rolling roads and at steady speeds. Once hills (gravity and lower speeds) or changes of pace, come into the mix the case for spoked wheels becomes stronger. 

Q: You generally see the top tube on steel bikes being parallel to the ground, whereas on a lot of carbon bikes it's angled. Why is that? A: It is because most steel bikes you see are old, designed and built in an age before the sloping top-tube was conceived (for Giant bicycles by Mick Burrows in the mid-90's I believe). So aside from recent artisan-built steel, most steel bikes will have horizontal top-tubes (parallel to the ground). By contrast, most carbon bikes were made as jm2 above has stated, with saving money on mould-making a key consideration, hence the slope. Interestingly, many custom-made steel bikes are now made sloping as well, because because its seen as a more modern look. Yet perversely some of the poshest new carbon frames (eg some Legend, Parlee and BMC frames) are now made with horizontal, or near-horizontal top tubes, because their customers want a more 'traditional' look. What goes around comes around. 

Wobbling cassettes should be absent from, not present on, every bike. It is possible that the wobble is caused by worn splines on what might be a soft (aluminium, as opposed to steel) freehub. I myself recently blogged about such an issue at $URL$ . The wobble might instead be a result of an incorrectly seated lock-ring, or a missing spacer from behind the cassette (in which case you might find this link of interest: $URL$ 

You are almost certainly doing something wrong, so why not simply pop back to the shop and get them to show you how they use the pump that they sold you? Bending the valve stem is virtually impossible - if you are bending anything it is perhaps the valve body. Take care to ensure that after you release the thumb-lever lock (you ARE releasing it, aren't you?) that you remove the head of the pump without wiggling it, as such an action is sure to bend the valve body. 

I'm planning to build a new bike from scratch. Part of that is buying a new frame, and possibly facing/reaming it. That's actually the part I'm scared of the most. Fortunately, the brand I'm targeting, Surly, seems to do that in the factory. But as they state, there may be some paint left where it should not be: 

As is, the bike is pretty much unrideable since the fork would wobble every time I brake. The frame is an Intec M1, see document page 6. It has a 1" 1/8 fork tube. The current headset is a XLC A51AN. I guess it's an external headset, but not really sure. $URL$ There are enough spacers, allowing to tighten the top cap really hard, hard enough to almost lock the steering. Even then, the fork still wobbles. The fork tube is not cut straight, but I'm pretty sure the tube never touches the top cap. So what are my options to fix that? (not involving yet another LBS) 

I'm starting renovation work on an old bicycle. One of the things I want to do is a new paint job. I guess before that I'll need to sand the current paint off the frame. So I bought sandpaper. On the back of the sandpaper packaging, they state "beware when sanding lead paint". Makes sense, I guess, don't really want to be intoxicated with lead. A quick research on Internet showed that somes bikes had lead paint or lead rust inhibitor. So the question now is: is my bicycle lead-free? Is there any way to identify lead paint? The bike is an old Flandria, probably dates back to... I have no idea really... 

In Belgium at least, you are required to take the bicycle lane on your right if it exists. Yet, sometimes, safety would be higher somewhere else. You should always prioritize safety, and it sometimes requires to do barely legal stuff. In that case anyway, people (and most likely cops) will be understanding if you have a good explanation. Keep on mind though that the roads are usually designed to be as safe as possible, and the guys who designed it had a better overview than you have right now. (Most of the time) But never, ever go on a bike lane in the wrong direction. You would endanger yourself and other unsuspecting users.