It is always difficult to answer the question "why"? It is a combination of many reasons. Perhaps some reasons can be unveiled by comparison. It seems that "good government" is very important for prosperity of a nation. Compare S Korea with N Korea: same people by the way. I do not know the whole history of Korea very well, but I suppose there was no substantial cultural differences between the North and South before 1940s. Differences which could explain the current disparity in the economic development. Then one can ask where does "good government" come from. Someone said that "people have the government that they deserve", and this explanation is popular. But comparison with N. Korea again leaves a puzzle: why S. Koreans and N. Koreans "deserve" something different? So where their government comes from? In 1940s the United Nation vigorously resisted the "unification" of Korea, and gave a mandate to US troops to defend it. The US troops were successful in maintaining and supporting the S. Korea government system. In 1970s, it was different with the similar case of Vietnam. The attitude of UN and US was different. Unification happened. And the results we see now. It is interesting to notice that some most developed countries, Germany, Japan and S. Korea, all have a common feature in their history: victorious US troops on their territory in 1940s or 1950s. Soon after that a vigorous economic development followed. I do not want to claim that this pattern continues. It does not. And in general, I do not pretend to have a complete explanation. The question is indeed difficult, and I just brought attention to some patterns. Speaking of the ancient history and many invasions. Well, how many invasions did England and France experience in the old times? Germany even did not exist as a state until the end of 19s century. So this does not seem to be very relevant for the present situation: one probably has to look at more recent history. Remark. Of course I understand that Japan and Germany were the most powerful nations in Europe and Asia, respectively, before 1940s. But comparisons with other nations in the Far East, like N. Korea and Vietnam, seems legitimate. One can also compare with former British colonies, Hong Kong and Singapore, which are also doing better than the countries surrounding them. I suppose there was a strong British hand in establishing good government there. 

I think it is clear that the picture shows: "Science and knowledge is light, while ignorance is darkness", a typical symbolism of the Enlightenment period. (Unlike Ken Graham, I see nothing related to religion in this picture, just the opposite). 

I think that Wikipedia article has an adequate description of the Oslo accord. The main point was the mutual recognition between Israel and PLA, a promise of PLA to stop violence against Israel, and withdrawal of Israeli troops from the West Bank and Gaza. This also implied that Israeli settlements had to be removed. Some people on both sides were against the accord. One of the results in the Israeli side was the assassination of Rabin. On he Palestinian side it was the revolution against the PLA, and establishment of Hamas government in Gaza. The net result is that Israeli troops were eventually withdrawn and settlements removed from Gaza, but violence against Israel did not stop, and the new Hamas government in Gaza does not recognize the accord. Oslo accord was a temporary accord, it assumed further negotiations about Palestinian state and the status of Jerusalem. These negotiations failed. (See 2000 Camp David Summit). 

The whole purpose of the drinking horn is that you drink it to the bottom, so that nothing remains, and then you can lay it in the table. 

Russia was the largest republic but of course it was not the same as Soviet Union. (Though many people in the west confused Soviet Union and Russia). The decision to terminate the Union was made by three presidents. Each of them had his own interest: Ukrainians and Belorussians wanted independence. Russian president (Yeltsin) wanted independence from Gorbachev who was the president of the Union. The result of this act for Yeltsin was that he became the leader of the country by a clever move of eliminating Gorbachev's position, so from his point of view this could look like a coup d'etat. However this would happen in any case, because shortly before Ukrainian parliament decided on independence, and this was soon confirmed by the referendum. Similar decision was made by Belarus. So there was no way to preserve the union, no matter what Yeltsin and the Russians wanted. 

The state and Communist party TRIED to control ALL aspects of people's life. Another question is how successful they were. 

First of all, I would not trust Wikipedia numbers about Roman Empire. Roman empire existed for 4 centuries, and the things did not stay unchanged. Second, we have no reliable statistics for most periods. Even the population of the Empire in various periods is not clear, and estimates widely vary. Third, you cannot compare ancient economy with modern economy, it is simply ridiculous. Some portion of the Roman economy was based on slave labor, for example. And again, we do not know what portion, and how many slaves there were. Slaves did not pay tax. Fourth, most European countries nowadays spend less than 2.5% of their GDP on their military. Including NATO members. Fifth: the government funds in the Roman empire were not only spend on the army; they did huge construction works everywhere in Europe (which you can see even now), then in various periods the population of Rome itself not only did not pay taxes but was supported at the government expense. With all this, it is of course true that ancient societies could not spend as large part of GDP on government expenses as modern ones, simply because the labor productivity is incomparable. For most of the history most people worked just for subsistence. It is only surplus production besides the subsistence, which can be used on all other expenses, including military. And you don't have to use the Roman empire for comparison. Compare the part of GDP which was collected in taxes in the late 19-th century US with the modern numbers:-) 

In one thing she was right: socialism (and communism) still stays with us and shows no sign of declining or falling:-) I mean China first of all. The largest economy in the world, not speaking of he huge population. So any explanation why Soviet Union collapsed must be based on some features which are not applicable to China. And this makes the task much more complicated. EDIT. Of course there are differences between Soviet Union and China, but there are also big differences between Soviet Union in the 1920s and Soviet Union in 1980s. Both Chinese and Soviet systems evolved. But I cannot understand why people deny that China remains a communist country: it is a one party dictatorship, and the ideology of this party is Communist. Considering atrocities that the government committed to their own people, China is comparable to Soviet Union. They don't do this anymore (on such scale) but the Soviets also did not in the ater time of their existence. 

Thomas Paine was twice elected in the French Convention during the French revolution. (I don't know how good his French was, and whether this was relevant). 

When did they start to "feel" cannot be answered (and does not relate to history in the strict sense. This certainly happened in pre-historic time. You cannot plan anything without some feeling of time. Perhaps some animals also "feel time", how can we know?) But when people started to keep track, one can probably explain. Not later than with the start of agriculture. When doing agriculture, one needs to know the time of the year, when to plant. For this it is necessary to look at the sky, and observe various phenomena, and to count days. One has to know how many days remains to the next summer, and whether you have enough food till the next harvest. So one of the most fundamental thing for a human is how many days are there is a year. So great efforts were spent to determine this with high accuracy. Perhaps it started even earlier: those people who lived by hunting and gathering also needed some notion of the season of the year. To keep track of the seasonable migration of animals, etc. Some time after the invention of agriculture, writing was invented, and people started to record longer periods of time, count years etc. By the way, all evidence shows that writing was invented to keep track of the agricultural products and their distribution. For shorter periods than a day, the Sun's approximate position in the sky was enough for crude estimation of time in most civilizations. With the development of more sophisticated societies, more precise measurement was needed and water clocks were invented. 

The question in the referendum had nothing to do with Communist party. It was about preservation of the Union of 15 republics. The union was created in 1922, with the provision that the republics (which joined voluntary) had a right to leave. The majority voted to preserve the union. But later events in the same year lead to its dissolution (See Wikipedia article Dissolution of the Soviet Union). 

In Jewish custom, all calendar questions were decided by the court (Synedrion). It was a duty of everyone who spotted the new Moon to report to this court as soon as possible. But of course, the new moon is not always visible, the sky can be covered by clouds for example, so the Synedrion decided when to start the new month, based on all available evidence, including the knowledge of the average length of the month which they calculated based on previous observations. I take this information from the book of Shlomo Sternberg, Celestial mechanics, vol. I, Benjamin Inc., NY 1969, and he refers to Maimonides Code, Ch. XVIII, sections 5-9, "Laws of the sanctification of the new moon". Sternberg refers to a Hebrew edition, and I am not sure whether an English translation exists. EDIT. Much more detail can be found in the article by N. I. Idelson, History of the calendar, (Russian, 1925, reprinted in his book Essays in the history of celestial mechanics, Moscow, Nauka, 1975, also in Russian). I cite (my translation): 

Economy was indeed centralized but not absolutely. This applies not only to airplanes but to cars and to many other items. There were usually more than one manufacturer. Speaking of the airplanes one has to distinguish the plants and design bureaus. There were really many airplane designers, and there was a severe competition between them. The state commission usually selected a model from several models made by different designers. The winning model went in production on one of the state owned plants. The fight between various design bureaus was very far from "honest competition". But I suppose that this situation satisfied the authorities: probably they understood that competition is good. Same situation prevailed in the missile industry and in some other war-related sectors of economy. Airplane design was a very prestigious occupation, and some design bureaus directors were relatives of Politbureau members (like Mikoyan and Kaganovich) or other people closely affiliated to the power structure (Yakovlev). 

The first electric lighting device was not an electric bulb but the "Volta's arc", also known as "electric arc", see Wikipedia. In 1801 Humphrey Davy described an artificially produced electric discharge in the form of a spark. The first continuous arc was achieved by Vasili Petrov in 1802. It was actually used as a light source before the invention of the bulb. Electric arc is still used as a light source in the powerful search lights, beacons etc. But of course natural "electric light" always existed in the form of lightning. So the Earth was always illuminated by electric light from time to time. 

Criminal justice in USSR in the post war period was performed by "People's Courts" (they existed in 1937-1989). They consisted of judges and "people's jury". The judges were elected by popular vote for the term of 5 years. The jurors were elected for 2 years by meetings of "labor collectives" (factories an other enterprises). All elections in Soviet Union were strictly controlled by the Communist party, so usually 99.9% voted for a single candidate proposed by CPSU. There was no such notion as "independent court", even in theory. The system of justice was "a branch of the government". In addition to this, aspects of life, all institutions in USSR, including the government and justice were strictly controlled by CPSU, and this was written into the constitution. Superficially, the process looked as in democratic courts: there was an accuser and a defender, the judge presided and the jurors made decision by vote. In some cases the jurors were not used and the judge made the decision him/her self. There was also a variety of other courts, "Camarade's courts", tribunals, etc. But the usual criminal cases were handled by the People's courts. In the period immediately after WWII, enormous number of people were imprisoned in camps or exiled without any court hearings, for alleged "collaboration with enemy", or waging war against Soviet power. (Whole nations were deported, and other nations decimated). In most cases, the armed resistance against Soviet power was qualified simply as "banditism", but it was not handled by any courts. Most of the camps population in the late 40s consisted of these people, though the ordinary crime rates were also very high. Torture was not officially permitted after WWII, but in fact it was widely used. Even in 1980s, beating by police was a routine "investigation procedure". Very few people dared to complain. Death penalty was abolished in 1947, but in 1950 it was re-introduced for "spying and high treason". 10 years later people were sentenced to death for "illegal currency transactions". So the state did not respect its own laws. But in any case, death penalty was very rare in comparison with 1930s. See, for example, $URL$ Sorry, in Russian. 

Maria Celesta is translated from the Latin as Heavenly Mary. This could mean a woman's name in a Catholic country or Virgin Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ. In Catholic countries, naming ships this was was quite common. Certainly they would not name a ship in honor of Galileo's daughter. 

The battle of Thermopylae (300 Spartans) is a prime example:-) I think no comments are required because everyone knows this example very well. Persian literature of that time did not survive to our days, but one can be reasonably sure that Persians did not consider this battle as something very important. Moreover, one can conjecture that the battle is so famous mainly because of its description by Herodotus, and because the writings of Herodotus survived. Another very famous episode which had enormous influence is Anabasis by Xenpophon, which essentially describes a retreat after a lost battle. There is no doubt that it is so famous only because of Xenophon's book. The whole story of Peloponnese War is known to us from the excellent accounts which was written mainly by Athenian authors, the loosing party. And only because Spartans and their allies did not cultivate historical literature.