Buses or schools are equipped with RFID/GPS Integrated Special Readers. In case of buses, once routes are mapped individual children details are added to each route under Drop & Pick up points and there could be multiple Pick Up & Drop at the same Route points. When students board or alight the buses, their ID cards will be read by the GPS card readers installed on the school bus doors and on entrance to the school. Alerts are sent to the school’s GPS server that automatically sends an update to parents as SMS. SMS alerts are set up using the database system identifying each child's attendance, including Date & Time for Record on boarding the bus, entrance and these alerts are linked to an emergency-SOS feature and to school attendance. So if the bus arrival or departure is delayed, the child should not be marked late when compared with the system. The parents or the guardians of the children are alerted on arrival at school and on return. In case of delay at any point, subsequent pick up/drop contacts are alerted along with a alert to the administration and records are saved in the system. The school administration can also track the real-time and historical location of the bus on a detailed map and get over-speeding alerts. 

Design inspirations for colossality of the Statue of Liberty: Historians John Bodnar et.al. in 2005 mentions that Auguste Bartholdi in the 1860s had traveled to Egypt for gaining support for an idea of building a huge lighthouse at the entrance to the Suez Canal, a French enterprise supervised by Ferdinand de Lesseps. 

Televangelist Islamic preacher Dr. Zakir Naik has also been accused of orchestrating instant conversions to Islam by offering benefits. 

2. NMES is a training modality resulting in changes in oxidative enzyme activity, skeletal muscle fiber type and skeletal muscle fiber size but a future meta-analysis of NMES is need to have definitive conclusions. Per a systematic review by Maurice J. H. Sillen et.al. in 2013 on metabolic and structural changes in lower-Limb skeletal Muscle following Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES), it seems to be a training modality resulting in changes in oxidative enzyme activity, skeletal muscle fiber type and skeletal muscle fiber size. However per the authors, a future meta-analysis of NMES will help to have definitive conclusions about the effects of stimulation frequencies on muscular changes. 

Hemorrhoid: The question of the efficacy of squatting as a way of preventing or curing haemorrhoids remains to be resolved per Christine Dimmer in 1996. 

Per study by Alina Rodriguez et.al. published in the journal Pediatrics in 2010, children who are mixed-handed, or ambidextrous, are more likely to have mental health, language and scholastic problems in childhood than right- or left-handed children. 

There is also some bias expected in blind or unblind taste tests when one compares locally grown produce that is harvested and marketed in a shorter time to supermarket produce which is picked unripe and shipped over a long distance. 

Regarding the claim in the article that "The Institute of Medicine (IOM) confirmed that food proteins in vaccines cause food allergy", it is very important to note that the NAM paper mentions that "the above-mentioned antigens do occasionally induce IgE-mediated sensitization in some individuals and subsequent hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis". The understanding should be that sensitization occurs in some individuals but not all and hence this claim cannot be generalized for the entire population as noted below from the NAM paper. 

An WHO 2013 congenital birth defects study report for 18 states in Iraq found that the rates for spontaneous abortion, stillbirths and congenital birth defects found in the study were consistent to or within international estimates of such defects. However, there were several questions raised on this report in both the internationally renowned journals such as the Lancet and the British Medical Journal mentioned here. 

Children or individuals with pre-existing hypersensitivity to the non-active components of the vaccine have a small risk of developing allergic reactions. For the remaining population, allergic reaction development due to those components of the vaccine is extremely rare and also studies have shown that food allergies are rarely contraindications to vaccine administration. 

The sound intensity and pressure of seismic surveying is 255 dB re 1µPa @ 1m while in comparison, undersea earthquake's sound intensity and pressure is 272 dB re 1µPa @ 1m. 

b. From pictures taken with a standard photo camera: More details about the claim is present here and its english translation here. 

Referring to GNS Science seismologist Dr John Ristau, the answer is no due to the following reasons. 

Regarding Gatorade efficacy on hangover effects, there are comments from Dr. Seymour Diamond and Dr. Jeanmarie Perrone that it might be useful for rehydration due to its balanced electrolyte content. However Dr. Jeanmarie Perrone cautions about the placebo effect in beliefs relating Gatorade as a hangover cure since it is not proven with evidence. 

The researchers concluded that “mixed-handed children have a greater likelihood of having language, scholastic and mental health problems in childhood”, and that “these persist into adolescence”. "The researchers do not think that ambidexterity directly causes the language or behavioural problems seen. Instead, they think that differences in the brain that affect hand dominance could also affect both these traits. At this stage, due to the limitations of this study, its results should be seen as very preliminary, and will require confirmation by other studies." 

Research by Sarah J. Gervais et.al. in 2012 shows that women are sexually objectified. Also, there’s no real difference between men and women’s perception of women as sexual objects. 

Research shows that the sitting voiding position is preferred to the standing position for patients with problems of the lower urinary tract causing benign prostate hyperplasia and there is no medically superior posture for urination in healthy men. 

Per Blair G. Darney et.al. in 2013, the results were "Elective induction was not associated with increased odds of severe lacerations, operative vaginal delivery, perinatal death, neonatal intensive care unit admission, respiratory distress, shoulder dystocia, or macrosomia at any term gestational age." 

Formaldehyde is an industrial chemical used to make other chemicals and products including chewing gums. 

Global positioning system (GPS) uses radio waves to transmit data using the global positioning system of 24 satellites. Radio waves sent out from this system of satellites transmit their time and orbital data to receivers down on Earth. Using the data from multiple satellites, receivers can then triangulate their position relative to the satellites, and thus on the Earth's surface. Older GPS receivers have been no smaller than two D-cell batteries and newer models smaller than a dime are present in the market. 

TL;DR: Yes, John Safran an Australian media personality influenced Omar Bakri Muhammad an Islamic cleric to issue an incorrect fatwa against Rove McManus an Australian television show host based on false allegations and incorrect evidence. The fatwa was then declared as void by Omar Bakri Muhammad. Evidence: 

Per Theresa K. Vescio, recent research revealed that sexual objectification is related to decreased mind attributions, diminished perceptions of personal agency, and dehumanization. Per Caroline Heldman, "internalized sexual objectification has been linked to problems with mental health (clinical depression, “habitual body monitoring”), eating disorders, body shame, self-worth and life satisfaction, cognitive functioning, motor functioning, sexual dysfunction, access to leadership and political efficacy". Shana Meganck through review of research literature argues that regular degradation of women and portrayal of sexualized violence in the media (with particular attention paid to advertising throughout this review of the literature) provides a backdrop for rationalizing gender violence within our society. 

The figure of 30 percent quoted by the media was based on findings of a nonpublished study by Dr Elliot Philipp from a small sample of parents. 

Are objects such as towels, bank notes, carpet, shopping trolleys and light switches listed in blogs such as these and these really dirtier than an average toilet seat since Dr Chuck Gerba, professor of microbiology at the University of Arizona has said that every toilet seat, on average, has 50 bacteria? 

Per Anthony J. Pinizzotto, Harry A kern and Edward F. Davis in FBI law enforcement bulletin October 2004, with the exceptions of hits to the brain or upper spinal cord, the concept of reliable and reproducible immediate incapacitation of the human target by gunshot wounds to the torso a.k.a one shot drop is a myth. However, many shooting scenes in majority of films and television programs show unrealistic reactions and expectations regarding ballistic effects. 

Also, Adam Hardy in his book "Indian Temple Architecture: Form and Transformation - The Karnataka Dravida Tradition 7th to 13th Centuries" disputes that the pillars were built using lathe by noting that pillar makers were highly skilled and were making circular parts in such precision equaling the output of lathe. 

Issue: Are badminton shuttlecocks made using feathers from only the left wing of a goose or a duck? Source: Shuttlecock aerodynamics Evidence: 

Incidental and working memory tends to be affected by age and implicit while semantic memory appears to be less affected by the aging process. 

The claim that 'they found collapsed walls, not walls that were broken down from the outside but that had fallen down' is not backed by archaeological data since there was no evidence of fortification walls of Jericho to destroy during the fourteenth century B.C.E., as described in the biblical account and Jericho was an insignificant, poor and small settlement. There was also no archaeological evidence of a Late Bronze Age II occupation at Jericho. 

The claim that installation of blue streetlights in Japan caused a reduction in suicide rates is unproven by research since experts say there’s no conclusive evidence that blue lights will prevent suicide and the effectiveness of the blue lights in this regard has not yet been proven. The limitation for the study in 2013 showing decrease in suicides is that the analysis relied on data from a single railroad company and it did not examine the underlying suicide-mitigation mechanism of blue lights.