If you are willing to start with a premise that fusion is developed and wormholes provide galactic or inter-galactic travel; then you are starting from a premise that makes a lot of the quantum mechanical cookbook possible. And that opens the door to a lot of possibilities that only appear to be a causality violation from a newtonian physics worldview. Imagine making switches from quantum spin paired devices. Now enable your communications devices with them. Drag them through the wormhole. You can send pictures instantaneously that the light will take years or hundreds of years to travel back home. Did you just change someones future by sending them a warning of a navigational hazard in space? Perhaps from a narrow worldview. Mathematicians tend to create tools to solve problems long in advance of actually having a real problem to solve. Cauchy bubble descriptions of causality are an example. "If quantum mechanics hasn't profoundly shocked you, you haven't understood it yet." - Niels Bohr 

If the natives built a large number of wagons on wheels to provide small garden plots, then the farm becomes portable. There would probably also be an outhouse incorporated into these mobile farm platforms for fertilizer benefits. Whatever serves as the draft animal would be hitched to the gardens to move them periodically. While this would work well for berry vines and smaller vegetables, it would not be a complete solution. But it does provide enough food that an advance group could be planting in the "dawn area" so that there is a large supply of food for the main group to follow. We can also assume that at the tail end of the procession where harvesting occurs, that a certain amount of caching of food stores occurs. This would minimize the need for as much back and forth travel to distribute food stocks. 

It is likely that even with extremely long lifetimes, young people will still be less risk averse. Understanding the reasons why is fairly simple. First, being risk averse is a matter of good judgement. Judgement is partially a result of integrating experience. So making mistakes (that you survive) becomes part of the basis for later having more sound judgement. Secondly, the perceptual basis is different. A teenager will complain that waiting a year for something, say a drivers license "is forever". A year to a fifteen year old represents 6and 2/3 percent of their life. A fifty year old for whom that same period is 2 percent of their lifetime, is more likely to say, "ok I'll wait another year for whatever it is." I think comparing the statistics for the number of overweight people today, with the insurance company actuarial data for death related to heart disease and diabetes should provide enough insight into human nature to see that medical advances won't change behavior that much. 

There is a real strong tendency for businesses to encourage repeat business and regular consumer activity even to the point of encouraging addiction. And a lot of science fiction has already been written about neuro-electric addiction or "wire-heads". If the neural interfaces to these games jolts the pleasure centers of the brain, then it will be tough for people not to keep coming back for more. B F Skinners rats were well documented to keep pushing the pleasure lever, while ignoring the food lever, until they starved to death. A lesser stimulus might just keep people coming back for more, whenever they can. 

I see 3 possibilities. Antimatter and Nuclear fusion have already been mentioned. Fusion seems the most likely as hydrogen accounts for the bulk of known matter, and occasional restocking of a lithium supply would allow breeding deuterium (heavy hydrogen) for higher energy output. A third possibility would require some serious advances in pure and applied science. Freeman Dyson wrote a paper that proposed harnessing the entire energy output of a star by enclosing it inside a sphere. Assume that a Dyson sphere has been built and that ERP or wormholes can be artificially made and moved, then a Dreadnought warship of a very large size could be built that is propelled by the light output of a star being channneled through a wormhole to strike a reflecting plate in the rear of the ship. Max velocity would probably be about .25C after long accelerations. The same mechanism would account for some serious beam weapon capability of the ship. 

I have no way to verify the following claim: Applied Kinesthesiologists maintain that muscle testing can identify whether a substance is beneficial, or toxic. If this is true, having one or two members of this specialty in the group would be quite an asset. Essentially what the AK practitioner does, is have a person taste a small quantity of a substance, while laying flat on their back with an arm held straight up. With the instruction to resist the AK from trying to move the arm, both before and after tasting the sample, he can tell whether the tested item is beneficial, neutral, or toxic, by comparing the relative strength of muscular reaction. If the test subject suddenly becomes weaker, and is unable to resist moving their arm as directed; then the conclusion is the sample is toxic. see ref $URL$ 

The two most used methods of desalination of ocean water are: *distillation *reverse osmosis Either is possible on a large scale where there is a commitment to resources needed. reverse osmosis would likely require support from a fishing industry to provide osmosis membrane materials until research develops suitable replacements. wave pumps established offshore could drastically reduce the pumping energy requirements to make either approach feasible. Parabolic troughs constructed with buoys and supplemented with wave pumps could provide the means for the supply of both energy and unprocessed water. This sort of project might be taken on with little more than a large workforce, determination, and some skill with pottery, ceramics, and glazes. 

Another alternative is to use electrolysis to cause dissolved sediment in seawater to precipitate and adhere to a surface. The process was patented in the late 1970's and has principally been used to repair coral reefs that are damaged. It has been referred to as seacrete, biorock and seament. $URL$ The downside to this approach is that structures have to be formed upon a metal skeleton that conducts the current used for electrodeposition. And once the current is turned off, the structure is subject to decay. So buildings made of seacrete would require a reliable low power source of electricity or the structure would have to be sealed after construction. The upside is that biorock has been found to have a better compressive strength than concrete. So large buildings and other structures would be very feasible. And since the process evolves hydrogen gas; it is possible to collect a fuel in the process as an additional benefit. 

Imagine the queen of the hive of a space faring race sitting in a command center where there are many video screens (or their equivalent). All the space borne insects are required to be in a pressure suit. It would be a simple matter to have radio controlled dispersal inside the suit of the appropriate pheromones for communication. The queen indicates orders to an admin assistant. They make the appropriate radio maneuvers to one or many suited insects. The suited insects smell the chemicals inside their suit as they are released and do their worker ant thing. Suit IDs could be arranged to allow individual or wildcard addressing similar to a broadcast ip address arrangement. A little electronics and a little biotech and the queen can fart her approval or disapproval across many parsecs of space. 

Sure. Lots of reasons. 1 Political convenience---I have introduced a bill that will add X jobs by constructing probes to map poorly traveled regions of space. 2 Investigating anomalies---We keep losing ships in this area so we need to determine what causes this. 3 Sensors/scanners/radio on automated craft could act as a communications network for disabled ships, such that search/rescue operations are performed on a much more timely basis. Might also reduce the likelihood of piracy on commercial shipping lanes. 4 Military planning---Publicly stated reasons above might cover use of probes designed to detect if a group of planets are planning to secede from the main government and building up a war fleet. 5 Keeping an eye out for exo-galactic phenomena arriving. 6 We lost contact with a planet. Lets go check it out. Did they have a war that bombed them to the stone ages, or a plague or natural disaster? 7 We are still hunting for dark matter. Its still playing hide and seek. 8 Our industry is hunting for more sources of unobtanium, that might have been missed in earlier surveys, or have more recently been deposited on planets after initial surveys. 9 Monkey boys are still curious, so we still wanna look around. There might be something new since the last time we looked. 10 We need a really isolated place to send a few political prisoners. A probe ends up being a cover story to hide where they are exiled. 

Set up a brokerage firm. Then you get paid to advise your clientele. With the time machine information, it becomes straightforward to know how to advise your clients with a mix a both winners and losers that are designed to slightly outperform your competition. This will allow you to collect commissions on both winning and losing trades in a large volume. More subtle than playing the market directly, but longer term more profitable and lower profile. Invest in computer big data and neural net learning. This will provide a longer term answer for outperforming markets, should the need eventually arise.