Not, IMO an ES question, but depending on what level of division, and if you are talking about the surface only or a partition of the sphere extending to the core, terms such as spherical sector, spherical cap, and quadrant would be fairly common descriptive terms for parts of a sphere. Cap would be the portion of the sphere cut by a plain passing though the sphere. The Hemispheres are caps cut by the plane passing through either the equator or the poles. Normally a cap would describe an area formed by cutting the plane parallel to the equator, as in the lines of latitude. A sector would be a cone centered and the center of the sphere and extended to the surface. Think of a cone capped by a cap as described above. A quadrant would typically be a wedge, think of an orange wedge, or a part of one. I do not think any of there really are especially common to use in relationship to Earth though they are valid descriptors. Lines of longitude and latitude are the common differentiation that describe these divisions, and phrases such as above/below the 45th parallel to describe the halves of the Northern Hemisphere. 

Most times it does not happen, but there are many factors involved and in part it depends on your definition of triggering. As a general rule, earthquakes are considered to occur when the stress on one section of plate becomes too great and the plate slips, surges, or in some way moves to relieve the stress. The plates though are large, relatively solid objects, so slippage in one location to relieve stress is likely to increase it in other locations, some close, some far away. This increase in stress should tend to be spread out, and much less that what was built up and caused the quake as some of that energy is dissipate through the quake, but not all. If another section of that plate, or potentially even an unrelated plate was at or near its stress limit also, sure, that added energy could be the straw that breaks it loose. The added energy from one quake is not really likely to be the cause per say of another large quake in a seemingly unrelated fault, but it could be the energy that causes it to pass its tipping point, and thus considered a trigger. The triggered quake could even be much large that the original quake. The second quake was going to occur anyway. The energy was already there and ready to be release, the jolt it got was simply the last push needed. When two quakes occur, you will normally hear if you listen to reliable reports, statements that the two are not considered related. That is normally the case, but each time the seismologists look at the patterns and make that call based on their opinions. Sometimes they will decide they actually were related, but not often at least for large quakes. 

Doppler radar is not used any differently to predict weather than older forms of radar were, satellite imagery is, or how physical observations that were then called or telegraphed ahead of an advancing system. The radar detects the presence of clouds with a water load that are likely to produce precipitation, or may already be doing so. That is compared to the direction the potential precipitation is moving and historical records of when similar conditions have occurred in the past, how likely is it to be repeated for a given location. An observation is made, hey there is a cloud back forming there that seems to hold a lot of water. It is moving in this direction at this speed and the barometric pressure is doing this with a temperature like that. The last 10 times we had conditions that matched this, it rained 7 times, so, let's say there is a 70% chance it is going to rain. Doppler radar is, in general terms, a more sensitive form of making these observations than older radar was, which was more sensitive and actuate than having physical observers a few hundred miles away calling and saying, hey, it's raining here. You will probably get rain in a few hours. 

Increased snowfall in a year or for a few years is weather, not climate change. Reports such as "this storm" or "this season" being cause by, proving or disproving global warming are all anecdotal and serve no purpose other than to fuel those who do not understand the concepts but want ammunition to fight for their point of view to claim global warming as fact or fraud. Global climate change, either towards warming or cooling promotes weather extremes. Warming will cause change. Some places will become colder while on average temperatures will rise. Droughts, in general will increase, while some places will flood. Storms though in general are all expected to be stronger. 

Better is first and foremost opinion based so cannot be answered with a conical answer, but, will give it a stab anyway. First, it is entirely dependent on application. Start with your suggestion of a 0,0 based coordinate system. This is used for many maps. It also has very little to associate it with reality as it is a two dimensional representation for a three dimensional problem. It works, somewhat, but for closer to reality the smaller of area that is being represented. It is "better" potential for reasonable speed surface travel and location applications like driving and walking. Lat/Long is a navigational representation in three dimensions of a three dimensional situation. It becomes a far better solution for navigation when the curvature of the Earth and movement of the Earth becomes an issue. Long range ballistics, air travel, ocean navigation, etc. These all do not work with a flat 2D representation of a 3D reality, they need spherical coordinates, and that is were lat/long came in. Spheres are generally measured in angles, not lengths. There are other factors in navigation such as the rotation of the Earth, but Lat/Long was the attempt to have a better system for those applications, and it is better. It is not actually what most would consider the best, but it has been around, known and used for a long time so is typically understood well by those who need it. It has drawbacks, like units (degrees, minutes and seconds) are not uniform size. A truer representation would be a spherical coordinate system, but would this actually be better? It is a true representation in 3D of location, but one that for most people has little to no meaning. Who, for most applications, needs to know their position at any time as described by distance from and angle to the center of the Earth. It is a much better and needed method if say you are building a cyclotron that accelerated particles to a high percentage of the speed of light, but not for applications that most of us will ever consider. 

Slash and burn has been used in North America and still is at times. I see regular field burning near me where fields are particularly rocky and tilling if impractical for the crops grown. It also occurs when there is intrusions of some noxious weeds that are controllable through fire as effectively and much cheaper than chemical controls. In general, I would consider slash and burn in disfavor because of it consumptive nature. The practice does provide some otherwise missing nutrients, but it consumes large quantities of biomass while doing so. More favored in many regions it to use that biomass to supplement the soil by tilling it in and allowing it to aerate the soil while slowly breaking down and augmenting the soil. Between being fortunate enough to have good soil to begin with, or the ability to augment with either natural or chemical supplements, many North American farms do not need the quick fix burning can supply so opt for the slower, longer term solution of turning in the organic materials. 

I do not have the data to back this, I present this more as possible contributing points that you may be able to verify with data. DavePhD presents an excellent and backed answer for local sea effects. For non-local contribution, I would start with the point that warm air has the ability more total water than cold, and that if the air holds the same amount of water, but you raise its temperature, by definition, relative humidity drops. Also, if you lower the temp, relative humidity rises, and the tendency to precipitate out that water increases. Those are well know, just restating as a base. As a coastal location, NJ will tend to have its temperature somewhat moderated by the ocean, that is be a bit warmer in winter than it otherwise would be, and cooler in summer. Not a lot, but a few degrees makes a difference in relative humidity. Winter weather patterns will have a high percentage of the air mass heading at NJ coming across the continent, and a good share of the systems being arctic. We thing of these as being wet systems, but really, they are cold systems and result in snow because they cannot hold as much moisture. When they get to the coast, the temperature may be low as compared to summer conditions, but it may also be a bit warmer than the conditions to the West. That rise of a couple degrees equals a drop in relative humidity for that air mass much like heating that air in your house creates very dry conditions in the winter. In the summer though, as temps go up, there will also be changes in weather patterns, with a higher portion of you air masses coming from the gulf or even straight up the coast. These will be wetter air masses. In addition, now you are getting a cooling effect from the ocean. Yes, temps are higher, but still a few degrees lower than they likely would have been without the ocean effect, and cooler than what they likely are to your West. Drop the temp of the air mass a couple degrees and the relative humidity rises. One more factor in that line, when the air mass is coming more directly from the West, or from the NW, it crosses a line of mountains before it gets to NJ, which will tend to cause more of the moisture to precipitate out. With the summer pattern, with a bit more of the air being gulf and coastal, this misses some of the effect of NJ being on the lee side of a range. Not saying these are the cause, but logically, they likely seem to contribute to a correlation between seemingly higher humidity as temps increase.