It's important to give the whole sentence, because the final words "of that pallid hue" give the answer: it's e) a drowning victim. None of the others are likely to be pale. The "motionless" nature of the water indicates the static, unchanging nature of the life she lived, as does the comparison to a "long submerged" corpse. Her inability to change has, in effect, rendered her already dead. The sentence is rhetorical because in the context of the sentence, Miss Emily is still alive. Comparing her with a corpse is, therefore, a rhetorical device. The choice of metaphor is also instructive. Death and decay are the central themes of A Rose For Emily. They recur as a rhetorical device throughout the text. 

So the "faithful light" here is a wordplay both on the light of the Moon and the light of God, and how an appreciation of the former can lead to one of the latter. An optimistic interpretation thus seems fitting. Although the melody and chorus are uplifting, the cited verses go against the grain and appear rather grim. Reading the whole verse it seems clear that this is a case of dramatic contrast. Stevens suggests a number of pretty dire occurrences: 

Since these seem to have been inspirational to other authors following on from Yeats including Ray Bradbury and Hope Mirrlees. 

Which is a description of hollowness. The grayness of the vision corresponds to the "twilight" and the "shadow" and the "sightless" in the poem. The evanescence of things is the spirital emptiness that suffuses the poem. Finally, the famous final couplet of the poem "This is the way the world ends / Not with a bang but a whimper" could be read as a description of Kurtz's equallly famous final words: 

The fullest version of this story is known as Aided Óenfhir Aífe (The Death of Aífe's Only Son) and is found in a manuscript known as The Yellow Book of Lecan. Apparently Yeats used this text as the basis for On Baile's Strand as well as a poem, Cúchulain's Fight with the Sea. I have been unable to source a definite translation, but here is the relevant text from what appears to be one: 

Burns died relatively young, possibly of a heart condition, at the age of 37. He had been expressing staunch support for two unpopular causes, the French revolution and Scotting political reform. As a result, his work had fallen in popularity. Shortly before his death, his cottage at Alloway in Ayrshire had been sold to a local shoemaker's guild. Later, one of its members turned into an alehouse. It opened in early 1801 and the band of the local militia played on what they thought was Burns' birthday, 29th of January. The original Burns supper was not on the date of his birthday, but of his death, in the same year. Because of his relative youth, he left many friends who were disappointed by his diminishing popularity. Nine of them - eight men and a woman - held the first supper at the Alloway cottage to celebrate his life and work. They ate sheep's head and haggis, speaking Burns' famous poem "Address to a Haggis" before consuming the latter, and drank wine and ale. Several of the attendees were, like Burns, members of the Masons. As a result, the evening was designed to proceed a little bit like a Masonic ritual with a set running order and recitations of verse. The evening was felt to be such a success by the participants that they decided to make in bi-annual event, celebrated on the anniversaries of both his birth and death. Celebrants discovered that according to parish records his birthday was, in fact, the 25th of January, not the 29th. After five years of this, it was changed to a single date, the 25th of January, because this was during the least busy time of the agricultural year. During this time, the popularity of the event had spread. "Burns clubs" sprang up, loose organisations who held a supper every year. Paisley and Greenock were among early places to create such a club, with their record books dating back to around 1802-1805. In 1806 the first supper was held in England, by Glaswegian students at Oxford University. After mentions in the press, the popularity of the celebration skyrocketed between 1810 and 1830. 1812 was the earliest record of a supper outside of Britain, held by Scottish army officers in India. In 1844 a great festival in Ayrshire spread knowledge of the celebration internationally, leading to the foundation of Burns clubs in expat colonies of Scots. In 1885 the Burns Federation was founded, bringing many of the clubs together under one organisation. References: - Scotland: A Very Short Introduction, Prof. Rab Houston - The Ultimate Burns Supper Book, Clark McGinn 

It may be that he didn't: that this is purely coincidental. Heller had long nurtured an ambition to be a novelist and was working as an advertising copywriter when he began Catch-22. The inspiration came to him in a flash and was, pretty much, the exact sentence that he used to open the novel: 

Having imagined the sentence, Heller then sketched out the idea for the novel over the course of about 90 minutes, during which the 'Someone' became Yossarian. So, the pat answer is that the opening inspired Heller to begin the novel, and so he stuck with it even though it's not mentioned again and doesn't entirely make sense in light of later character developments. It's also a great opening line in the sense that it immediately capture's the reader's attention. However, that's also the less interesting answer. What can we infer about the characters from Yossarian's love of the Chaplain? Most readers will equate "love" here with sexual love. However, as the opening of the novel unfolds it becomes clear that this is wrong. That "love" here denotes something which is more romantic than homosexual. There's a lot we can read into this. First is the concept of "brothers in arms", the strong emotional attachments that men form with one another under the duress and terror of combat. Some soldiers look back on those bonds with fondness because nothing so intense exists in peacetime. By opening the novel with this sentiment, and then rapidly establishing a strong anti-war tone, Heller is suggesting that this recollection is fake or false. That conflict is so terrible as to invalidate the upsides that it creates. Second, although not directly progressive in terms of LGBT rights, it also hints at the fluidity of human sexuality. Yossarian loves the chaplain, perhaps even feels physical desire for him, but never acts on that desire and never feels regret for not doing so. He is, as later becomes clear, heterosexual, but has no problem admitting that he feels a romantic attachment to another man. This fluidity can be seen as an expansion of the novel's constant theme of absurdity and contradiction. In Catch-22, very little actually makes sense. Why should love and sexuality be any different? One could even imagine this is deliberate on Yossarian's part, a purposeful rejection of societal norms in line with the purposeful rejection of peace and logic entailed by war itself. 

In which case "Hum-Drum" does not just mean boring and everyday, but is also a nice play on the name "Hume". Given that this name, then, is a double pun, it may well be that the similarity between Kopy Keck and copycat is also intentional - a joke on "Kant's copycats". Kant's ideas on religion are complex and continue to invite debate, to the point where there is disagreement on whether or not he was an atheist. The Metaphysical society, however, attempted to use his ideas (and those of other philosophers) to understand God from an objective viewpoint in a marriage of religion and science. Unsurprisingly, after ten years of fruitless debate, they gave up having produced little of value. They "copied" Kant without really understanding his ideas. If this is so, then Kopy-Keck is a manifestation of spiritual thinking, while Hum-Drum is a manifestation of empirical science. Given that both present ridiculous ideas and are inflexible in their application, the message may be that extremes are inherently ridiculous. That only by looking at both science and spirit can we "cure the Princess" i.e. come to understand the human condition. 

After resting, they plunged into the assault over a ridge on the hill and were shelled by German artillery, suffering casualties. 

I am not a Welsh speaker, but a cursory glance at the original suggests it is composed in rhyming couplets, as Thomas' translation is. A more literal - non-rhyming - translation of the words makes it clear why Thomas felt entitled to publish his version as poetry of his own devising. This is from William John Gruffydd, sometimes better known as "Elerydd", the Archdruid of the National Eisteddfod of Wales. 

Post-modernism is characterized by the rejection of enlightenment (i.e. scientific) certainties. In the post-modernist world view, everything is influenced by language, culture and socialization, to the point where it becomes difficult to impossible for people agree on an objective truth. Post-modernist philosopher Jean Baudrillard, for example, wrote a book entitled "The Gulf War Did Not Take Place". This argues that the perception between soldiers on the two sides and audiences across the world, watching the conflict through the distorted lens of locally-biased media coverage was so vast that there cannot be one single accepted account of what happened during the war. Post-modern literature, therefore, is often characterised by techniques and viewpoints that emphasize this uncertainty and the role of language in creating it. They may be fragmentary, use pastiche to blur the distinction between high and popular culture and often feature metafiction, unreliable narrators and impossible situations such as magical realism. Perhaps the earliest great postmodern author was James Joyce. His novel Finnegan's Wake, for example, cannot be read as a typical narrative as it makes little sense. It is, instead, a multi-layered piece of work relying on puns, polyphony and an extreme stream of consciousness technique to create a literary landscape that the reader is free to interpret as they choose. Ulysses is less extreme, but can also be considered postmodern. Other well known examples include: