Now for the actual foot angle, rather than just stance width. The section for quadriceps mentions that with the feet turned out 20 to 30 degrees, compared to a neutral forward direction, there was no difference to be found in quadriceps activity. The same conclusions hold for hamstring activity. I've read, both in Rippetoe's Starting Strength and (<- not sure) on Powerliftingtowin.com that a wider stance will result in smaller horizontal moment arms. See my crummy Paint image below. 

First of all, you'd need to know what it is you're getting. Osta-Red contains ostarine, which is another name for a substance known as enobosarm. Its chemical formula is (or should be) . However, the name "ostarine" has also become associated with andarine, which has chemical formula , which is a similar but still different beast. From the Osta-Red site it seems that what you're getting is enobosarm, so let's focus on that. Enobosarm was originally developed by pharma company Merck & Co. and is now developed by GTX, Inc. They're specialized in drugs influencing hormonal pathways. The formula given above was not publicly disclosed but it can be found through patents. It is an investigational substance, meaning its full range of effects and side-effects cannot be expected to be completely known. Anyone who'd try to sell this claiming it is safe or fully approved is lying through their teeth. That's not to say there is no medical literature, but certainly not as much as is needed. On PubMed Central the most interesting thing I'm finding is this: $URL$ (The selective androgen receptor modulator GTx-024 (enobosarm) improves lean body mass and physical function in healthy elderly men and postmenopausal women: results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled phase II trial; J Cachexia Sarcopenia Muscle. 2011 Sep; 2(3): 153–161). There are other studies regarding selective androgen receptor modulators (SARMs), of which enobosarm is one, which might be interesting. One important thing of note is that this stuff is banned by the world anti-doping agency, meaning that if you want to compete in a sport there will be plenty of federations who could find it a reason for exclusion, and you could get into trouble for things outside of competition, such as drug tests in other contexts. A second important thing is that this is a drug influencing your hormonal system. The idea behind SARMs is that they get some of the benefits you could get from hormones such as testosterone or anabolic steroids, while being selective enough in receptor activation to avoid side-effects that would occur from the effects on non-target tissues (for example, anything outside of skeletal muscle). Just because they aren't technically anabolic steroids or hormones doesn't mean it's safe to be messing with your hormonal regulation. With steroids and hormones, despite the potential for negative effects at least they've been extensively studied and you get some idea of what you're getting yourself into. Now the Osta-Red site at least seems honest about a lot of these points. They note how the substance can make you fail doping tests, that this stuff is experimental and they don't seem to try to peddle it to folks who have no business hopping onto supplements. That's something that speaks in their favor. I'd still go looking for reports doing actual chemical analysis to make sure you're getting enobosarm, and only that. Bottom line is, this thing is a wildcard and I don't think you should feel comfortable being the guinea pig for testing it. Could SARMs turn out to be amazing things that will benefit muscle growth and retention with nearly no side-effects? Certainly. But we just don't know enough yet and, at least to me, that makes the potential risks outweigh benefits. 

If the stress is repeated too soon, when recovery hasn't completed, overtraining occurs. Trying to lift heavier weight when you're still in the reduced performance zone will work against you, since you're likely to miss reps and are actually shoving the baseline lower. Wait too long, and you're not getting the benefits of the supercompensation window. If a beginner would only train each muscle group once a week, progress would likely be very slow or absent. There's plenty of people who do the exact same thing for years in the gym with little to show for it, since they're missing the crucial aspect of increasing the baseline. The answer to your question, then, is what the time frame between the stress and the maximum of supercompensation is, which would be the optimal time to repeat training. That is going to be dependent on a lot of factors. First of all, the level of training. A beginner will usually fully recover and adapt within 48 to 72 hours, since the weights used are still low in an absolute sense, and so far from their physical limit in terms of strength in a relative sense. This is why a simple linear progression (weight increase each workout) and about 3 full-body workouts are concepts you'll see in many of the most popular beginner workout programs. For an intermediate trainee, where linear progression is no longer sustainable, things become more complicated. A single workout probably can't induce sufficient stress for enough adaptation to occur, so it's no longer just a matter of choosing the right recovery time. Stress from workouts needs to be accumulated in a way that uses multiple parameters, such as the intensity of an exercise (number of repetitions and percentage of max weight used), the number of sets, the way these cycle and more. Recovery will no longer be just a matter of how much time there is between workouts, but also what the workouts consist of. The Texas Method, for example, utilizes a scheme where one day is a volume day, a second day is a light day that doesn't inhibit recovery and adds no new stress but keeps neuromuscular efficiency up, and finally an intensity day which, driven by the recovery from the volume day, allows for setting new personal records and driving the baseline up. Apart from those things, other factors will influence recovery such as adequate sleep, nutrition, the normal daily level of activity, personal life and stress... So in the end it's hard to say "this time frame of rest is optimal" because it will be a very individual matter. It is constantly going to vary depending on your level of training, program adherence, life factors and training history. I'm hesitant to go for actual studies, because they're frequently flawed in this respect. A lot of them work with untrained individuals or groups that are too coherent, who are going to respond very differently than you or I might, or someone with an athletic history. For the true novice, however, the vast majority are going to be capable of recovering and being ready for a new training stimulus within 48 to 72 hours. So that is why you'll see beginner programs often consisting of 3 full-body workouts per week. The edge between overtraining and suboptimal volume hasn't become as sharp yet for these trainees, so things can be quite simple. Once you're past that phase, you should dig into some literature regarding programming (the aforementioned Practical Programming for Strength Training by Rippetoe & Baker is a good read) and have developed the sense to figure out whether you're doing too much or not enough. There's going to be recommendations that tend to work well for the largest portion of trainees, but there is, and can be, no single recommendation that is going to be optimal for everyone, in every situation.