I would say it is not correct to say the mind is inherently attached to the body, particularly from child birth (since the Buddha taught a new born child does not have the view of 'self' - MN 64). What is happening is the body is producing painful sensations, such as hunger, pain & discomfort. For example, the body of baby children often have trouble breathing so the mind is afflicted with discomfort & starts to cry. These painful sensations cause cravings (desires), which then make the mind attach to the painful sensations. If the body never had painful sensations, there would never be any attachment. The Buddha taught as follows about what is happening: 

The quote denies the efficacy (consequences) of kamma (actions). Thus, Buddhists who believe in present-life kamma-vipaka are not nihilists. The quote holds there is a 'person' or 'self' that ends at death. This is the precise definition of 'nihilism' found in the suttas. In other words, 'nihilism' is not the view of 'impermanence' but the view that a 'self' is impermanent. Thus, 'nihilism' is a wrong view because it is a 'self-view'. To quote: 

It is important to learn about the 8 fold path because it is the whole path. The 8 fold path is comprised of three trainings: 

Ordinary homosexual, transgender, childless heterosexual relationships & other forms of liberal or unconventional sexuality don't really fall into a Buddhist lens (despite the extensive efforts of Western Buddhists to market or preach Buddhism to these liberal or unconventional groups) because there is often not enough to naturally or instinctually bind couples in these types of relationships. While some people might get lucky in finding a soul mate, relationships based on sexual need & lust (rather than service to children & family) have shaky foundations due to a lack of sacrifice or altruism. The various teachings on relationship in Buddhism all have 'sacrifice' ('caga') as a requisite condition. In short, in my opinion, the question falls outside of the scope of Buddhism because Buddhism does not teach accepting the vicissitudes of self-centred relationships. In my studies, I have not found one single sutta that mentions the role of sex as a requisite of relationship. Instead, the teachings focus on developing certain virtues as requisites of relationship. In Buddhism, where virtues are lacking in relationship, it is taken as a given those relationships will be problematic or will fail (eg. AN 4.53). Where I live, my two best & most reliable friends are a gay couple. They both have devoted their lives to public service & altruism, which is probably why their personal relationship has lasted their entire adult lives. They are highly virtuous & moral individuals. 

The Buddha-To-Be searched for freedom from "death" (MN 26) yet the question here does not focus on what "death" really is but wants to talk about Nibbana, which is something that will never ever be experienced if what "death" & the "deathless" really are is not discerned. 

In Buddhism, no prostitute ever gained enlightenment. Instead, only "ex-prostitutes" (e.g. Vimala) gained enlightenment. Buddhism states a fully enlightened being is incapable of performing the sexual act (AN 9.7). Any action that harms oneself or another is unwholesome in Buddhism (MN 61). References to prostitution in Buddhism generally include harming, for example: 

'Salayatana' is probably omitted in this mode of Dependent Origination because this mode of Dependent Origination appears to be a later-day concoction for propagation to & conversion of Brahmans. There have been a number of discussions on Sutta Central, which include Ajahn Sujato's agreement, that much of the DN, including DN 15, was probably composed for propagation to & conversion of Brahmans. Thus, nama-rupa in DN 15 appears to have the Brahmanistic meaning. In other words, the 'salayatana', most specifically sense objects, are possibly included within 'form' ('rupa'). In Brahmanism, 'nama' was the naming of 'forms' (sense objects). 

This again is a mistranslation. It should be 'mind fabricator'. Rapture & happiness are the mind fabricator (citta sankhara) because they seduce the mind and, if the mind is not mindful, rapture & happiness will fabricate craving, greed, love, attachment in the mind. This is why they are called the mind fabricator because they fabricate or condition defilment in the mind. 

The Buddha forbade monks to demonstrate psychic powers to lay people. Therefore, at least in Theravada Buddhism, it is uncommon to meet Buddhists claiming & displaying psychic powers. The monks rules state: 

It is not more nuanced. The sole purpose of Buddhism, to quote the Pali scriptures, is the 'unshakable freedom of mind'. The sole purpose of Buddhism is freedom from suffering. 

Often, examining the dictionary meaning of words is not clear. Instead, it is most useful to examine how words are used in context. There is an excellent website called 'Sutta Central' where a word can be placed in the search function and all of the suttas appear where in which that word is used. Then click on 'languages' & find the english translation (but only when the english translation appears at the top of the list). vihiṃ­sā 

For women: (i) loss of natural bonding instinct (ii) however, often, no loss of reproductive instinct but loss of genuine love towards eventual marriage partner due to instinctual attachment to a former often first partner (iii) loss of tolerance & strength needed to maintain a family (iv) loss of ability to control a man (important in Matugama-samyutta) (v) difficulty in maintaining marriage (vi) major loss of instinctual wisdom & morality needed to bringing up children (vii) become sexual needy & servile (rather than having natural self-control) (viii) highly probably of needing anti-depressants when older Pali Buddhism particularly focuses upon sexual impurity of women for such reasons. For example: 

The mind can reach Nirvana. It is unrelated to time & place. It is related to dispassion towards the world. Craving, which is an inborn instinct of all life forms, is the major obstacle to Nirvana. 

The Brahmanistic folk-lore in Digha Nikaya 27 is probably the closest to Arthur Schopenhauer's viewpoint. However, DN 27 does not support Schopenhauer's viewpoint because it states: