Your health comes first. To be as considerate as you can, let your friend know as soon as possible that your health issues are sufficiently severe that you cannot be relied on. Apologize for the inconvenience this will cause and reiterate that your health comes first. Offer to help smooth your exit to the extent that you can do so. If you can write up planning documents, offer to do so. If you can help interview someone to do some of the work you were doing, offer to do so. If you cannot do these things, clearly and simply state that you cannot help. Trying to do what you cannot do will not produce a good outcome. Letting someone think you will be able to provide assistance you will not be able to provide will not produce a good outcome. Take the time you need to get better, whatever it takes. You will not get good results any other way. 

That would depend on things about your relationship with your boss that we don't know and on details about what the consequences are from him bringing this up the way he did. You might want to try reading those messages over a few times and trying to figure out why they made your boss concerned. Perhaps you didn't say quite what you think you said or perhaps there was a misunderstanding. 

He gets you written approval from your current employer. He compensates you in some way for what he's asking you to give him. He covers your legal expenses in having the contract reviewed. 

If you can find a way to work this out with this person and make this problem go away, that's great. Please make every effort to do that. But I'm going to assume that you can't and that this person keeps making trivial complaints to HR and that this is a serious issue that affects your ability to work. If not, find a polite solution. You need to make HR do their job. There's a complaint against you. HR is supposed to investigate it and make findings. Instead, it sounds like they're trying to placate the complainant and make the problem go away. They might think they're doing everyone a favor, but they are not doing their job. Send them a written request for the findings they made with regard to the complaint. Specifically, did they find the complaint substantiated? Did they find that the complaint was made in good faith? Did they find that the complaint was not made in good faith and was an attempt to bully or harass you? (Don't suggest that it was. Just ask them if that's what they found. It's their job to investigate, so they should have either found that or not found that.) If HR finds that the complaints are not made in good faith, they should deal with the person making the bogus reports. The tough case is if they find that the complaints were made in good faith despite your opinion that they are obviously bogus complaints and where they are really affecting your ability to have a peaceful work environment. If that happens, notify your manager that you are looking for a new job because you cannot tolerate the bullying and hostile environment that you are getting in the form of these harassing complaints and failure of HR to make appropriate findings and make the harassment stop. Your company will probably get lawyers involved at this point, so keep complete documentation including names of people who can substantiate your claims. Again, please try to avoid escalating this situation if at all possible. It will be better for everyone, especially you. But if you do need to escalate, that's how. While it is generally illegal to retaliate against someone for filing a discrimination or bias complaint, in most jurisdictions it is legal to retaliate after a fairly-made finding that the complaint was not made in good faith or was made to harass or annoy. It is not sufficient that the complaint be found to be incorrect or not substantiated. There must be a positive finding that the complaint was not made in good faith, that is, that the person was not really offended or that any such offense was trivial and that the real purpose for the complaint was as a form of bullying or harassment. Whatever you do, do not pretend to take offense at trivial things. Do not mistreat a fellow professional. Do not retaliate in any way, other than with HR. If you genuinely feel that these bogus complaints and poor HR handling are making your work environment hostile, say so. If not, you ultimately have to live with it or find a new job. tl;dr: If this doesn't really bother you and you've just worked yourself up into a self-righteous frenzy, just let it go. It doesn't matter if you're right or wrong. You have a co-worker with an annoying quirk you can live with. I'm sure you have annoying quirks too, like making beard jokes. But if this really does rise to the level of you being bullied or suffering a hostile work environment where you live in fear of the next bogus complaint, use the procedures your company has to deal with that. And do not let HR bully you either or placate a bully, call them on it. 

We always talk to people we interviewed after the fact, whether we hired them or not, if they are willing to talk to us. We talk to them about what they could do better and we hope they're willing to talk to us about what we can do better. I would like to think this practice isn't unusual, but it probably is. 

It probably means that you will get paid within 30 days of when you invoiced them. So if you sent out an invoice on January 1, you should get paid for whatever was on that invoice sometime around January 31. 

Simply tell him that you cannot sign the contract as it asks you to give him something that is not yours to give. You already signed a contract giving all your work product to your employer, so you cannot agree to him having any ownership. It simply is not yours to give. If he still thinks you need to assign it, give him three conditions: 

Yes, if it's his private communication too. If you didn't want him to give your private communications to HR, you shouldn't have given them to him. 

I don't think you need to do anything at all. But if I were in this situation, I would suggest a policy change that for any rewrites or redesigns, where possible the original author of the code should be consulted about the issue prior to work beginning and a mandatory reviewer of the finished code. The normal rationale for this policy is that the original author will have a better understanding of the requirements the code has to meet and the design rationale behind it. But it also helps to prevent people from fixing things that aren't broken. If you get a policy like this pushed through, you should be consulted before the next such "redesign". It is perfectly reasonable to reject such a thing by arguing that the benefits do not justify the costs and risks involved with changing code known to work. But if this doesn't work, don't worry about it. If his manager thinks what he's doing is worth his time, then let him keep doing it. It is not your job to write perfect code but to efficiently write maintainable, documented code that meets the requirements and coding standards. If you can defend your claim that you're doing that, then let him do whatever he wants. 

You almost have to say something. Otherwise, the other person will be constantly waiting for you to bring it up or wondering if they should bring it up. Waiting for the other shoe to drop is uncomfortable to them and it's hard for them to start the conversation but easy for you to. It's hard to know what is safe to say. So you must follow their lead. Do not mention prayer, an afterlife, or anything like that unless they do. Other things to avoid including anything about having to make up slack while they were gone or that you'll be understanding if they aren't fully effective when they return to work. Just don't. Things that are almost always safe to say are: "I'm sorry for your loss." "Please accept my sincere condolences." "Let me know if you want to talk." "Do you need anything?" "Is there anything I can do?" Pick the one that most closely reflects what you really mean and don't say it if you don't mean it. Some people have a lot of things they want to say and are waiting to open up. Some people just want to be left alone. You should be able to quickly figure out what their style is and just go with it. 

I would strongly suggest just treating the areas they work in with anti-static spray. Typically, spraying only once a month is sufficient. If the floors or carpets are regularly deep cleaned or mopped, treating after cleaning is best so you don't remove the anti-static coating. You can use ACL Staticide. It's available in spray bottles, large refills, and aerosols. Getting a one gallon refill is probably the cheapest solution. Just re-use an old spray bottle (or buy one at a home and garden store). You can punch "ACL Staticide 2001" into Amazon or any search engine to find sources. 

Whatever you do, under no circumstances should you continue to work after you've been told that you won't be paid as previously agreed. That is quite possibly the worst thing you can do and I'm shocked that other answers are suggesting you do it. If you do that, and you get paid at least minimum wage, your employer will be paying you as agreed, and you will make any claim that you were terminated much weaker. Many of the answers above are answering a different question. This is not a case where you have not been paid for work you've already done. This is a case where you have been notified that you will not be paid as agreed for future work. That is, you've been told that the company you work for no longer intends to honor the agreement under which you were working for them. You have been verbally told that your employment agreement has been terminated by the company. You do not have to quit. You have been constructively terminated. Your boss may not have told you that he has terminated you, but he has. He has stated that he will no longer honor the agreement by which you were employed by him -- the guarantee of reliable pay -- so he has terminated it. Depending on your jurisdiction, you may be required to provide notice to your employer. You should do it in writing. You must make it absolutely clear that you are not agreeing to any modification to the terms of your employment. "You have notified me verbally that you will not be paying my salary on a regular basis as agreed. However, the guarantee of a regular salary is precisely the reason that I was working for you. Your removal of that guarantee and threat to fail to meet your payroll obligations despite my satisfactory work on your behalf renders my working conditions intolerable. If you cannot repair this immediately, I will consider myself to have been constructively terminated due to these intolerable conditions as of this Friday, the date on which you informed me that you no longer intended to honor the agreement under which I was employed." 

Remind him that there is absolutely nothing whatsoever that you want from him, so absolutely no reason for you to give him something that he wants from you. You're already employed and you've already signed a contract with your employer. If he was going to ask for this all along, he has no excuse for not telling you beforehand. If this is something new that he's asking from you that he wasn't going to ask from you before, he should come up with something new that he's offering you that he wasn't going to offer you before. Presumably, you both felt the deal was fair before, so how can it still be fair if he's asking for something else from you? 

First, there is absolutely nothing wrong with hyperbolic statements so long as no reasonable person could take them literally. When you say "we have the best customer service on the planet", you are communicating to the person you are speaking to (assuming they are not an idiot) that you take customer service seriously, believe you have excellent customer service, and want your customers to evaluate you on that basis. For branding to stick, it has to be consistent. So if this is the branding your company has decided on, it has to be delivered consistently. There is no rational reason for you to refuse to do that unless you can genuinely claim a reasonable person could get a false impression from it. That seems like an stretch. The Red Cross has a slogan, "The greatest tragedy is indifference". How could they possibly make this slogan stick if someone people said it like this and others said, "Well, the Holocaust was probably the greatest tragedy, but indifference is bad too. And I guess indifference to the Holocaust is awful. But you get my point ..." How would that send the powerful brand messaging the slogan was intended to convey? It wouldn't. So, at least in my opinion, you are being unreasonably obstinate and making it more difficult for you customer to consistently brand its products and services to the customers you interact with. Stop it. 

This wasn't outside the workplace. You were contacting your boss because he's your boss to talk to him about work. That's a workplace communication, and wherever you do it is, at least while you're doing it, a workplace. 

They presumably want the second interview to perform specific assessments to help them decide whether to make an offer to you and have chosen to have you meet with the people they think can best make those assessments. If you want to meet with other people in addition, you can certainly ask. But asking to not meet with the people they think can best assess you will make it harder for them to be confident that they want to hire you. I wouldn't suggest it. If you want to better evaluate them, you can do it after they make an offer. 

Stop arguing. Let the other person keep talking until they're done. With luck, they'll calm down a bit by having their say. If they're getting more heated all by themselves, only then interrupt them. Apologize if appropriate, otherwise do something close to apologizing. For example, "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to turn this into an argument." Pause, if possible. Since you already let them say all they wanted to say, with luck, anything new they'd want to say would be positive, since you just apologized. Find common ground. For example, "We're both trying to solve the same problem." Again, pause. With luck, they'll respond in a positive way. Acknowledge the legitimacy of whatever argument they're making. For example, "I agree with you that <variant of what he said you agree with>". So, for example, if he's arguing that a change you want to make shouldn't be made because it's too dangerous, agree that we need to carefully look at the risks before making the change. If you find that you can't prevent the situation from escalating, make an exit. Just say you can't discuss it right now or otherwise extricate yourself and hope the conversation can be continued later. 

Be careful with statements like "Take all the time you need" or offering to reduce their workload. It may seem like you're implying that they're not being effective or that you expect them not to be. We're all equipped to be human beings and to be sympathetic. Just choose to do it. Don't push, if you say one sentence and then they're done with the conversation, that's fine too. 

When he makes a suggestion or criticism of your pull request, explain once why you aren't going to change it to match his suggestion. It should be simple and clear. For example: "That wouldn't significantly improve the code." "The effort to make that change isn't justified by its value." "The current method is simpler." If he still refuses to accept the pull request, escalate to management. You can do it by email, for example: "Pull request X has been open for Y time, still waiting for Z's approval. Z has not given any sufficient rationale for rejecting the pull request." Force him to be the one delaying and interfering, since that is what he is doing. Point out that his insistence on constant design changes or his refusal to timely approve pull requests just because they're not done the way he thinks is best is wasting your time. Note that you are going to management simply to decide whether or not your code is acceptable as is and whether or not the pull request should be accepted. Either your code meets the applicable standards or it doesn't. If it does, it should be accepted. If it doesn't, he's right and you're wrong. 

I don't think it's unprofessional at all to ask for special consideration for someone who has talents that are not well-reflected in their work and educational history. Here, they are pointing out that his grades and class standing may not accurately reflect his skills because of personal issues during his education and that he has talent and a positive attitude that should be given consideration. However, I would be suspicious that this really is just asking for a hire out of pity or for overlooking deficiencies that aren't actually compensated for by talents not reflected in the resume or history. I think it's entirely appropriate to ask for direct contact. If you do interview him, look to see if he really does have skills and motivation that aren't reflected in his resume and history. But understand that you are taking the risk that you'll be wasting your time on someone who really is unmotivated and whose hidden skills and talents are largely imagined.