I would assume that the vast majority of the market for tents consists of people who car-camp. They want something large, comfortable, and cheap, and they don't care about weight or bulk. Then there would be a much smaller fraction of the market that is cheap, relatively heavy backpacking tents, and an even tinier fraction of the market that is expensive ultralight tents. For the style of canoe camping you do, is the main function of the tent to keep out bugs? Do you want a big vestibule to cook in? Do you sometimes spend long periods of time confined to the tent, e.g., if it rains all day? [EDIT] Based on the further information in the revised question, I'm surprised that an ultralight is an option for you, since I would think you'd want a lot of room. But if it's roomy enough, and you think it's likely to be durable enough for your conditions, then it probably comes down to a trade-off of expense versus weight while portaging. 

Two other answers have given methods for measuring this on-site. The trouble is that there's a lot of behavioral and sociological research showing that this doesn't really work. Once you get to the location where the activity is planned, you'll tend to go ahead anyway because you feel committed, and because there is a strong psychological need to show other people that your actions are consistent with the way you present yourself. See McCammon, "Evidence of heuristic traps in recreational avalanche accidents," $URL$ . For these reasons, it's better to determine the slope angle at home, using a topo map, before you go. Use a ruler to measure the distance between two topo lines on the map, and use the scale on the map to convert this to a horizontal distance x in units of meters. Let y be the vertical spacing of the topo lines in meters. (If your map has elevations in feet, then determine both x and y in feet.) Divide y by x. If the result is between 0.6 and 1.0, then the slope angle is between 30 and 45 degrees. Personally, I just use the following ultra-simple checklist: a) Is the slope 30-35 degrees or more (or is the area bare of old-growth trees)? b) Has there been more than 6 inches of snow in 48 hours? I can determine this online, e.g., here's info for a mountain near where I live. If both of these factors exist, I figure that out at home, and I don't go. 

When you're following a pitch on a trad climb, what is a good method for racking and handling the nut tool? My goals are to be efficient but not to drop the tool. My current system, which I'm not very happy with, is this. I have the nut tool tied to one end of a 30-cm cord, and on the other end I have a tiny biner. When I'm getting ready to follow on a pitch, I clip the biner both to the front gear loop on my harness and also through one of the holes in the handle of the tool (so that the tool isn't swinging loose). When it's time to clean a nut, I have to unclip the biner from the hole in the handle, and usually I also have to remove the biner from my harness and clip it to the climbing rope, since otherwise I can't reach far enough. When I'm done, I put everything back the way it was. This is all very awkward and time-consuming, and although I haven't dropped my tool yet, it seems like it's only a matter of time before I fumble while doing one of these complicated clipping and unclipping operations. 

You can also increase fat by substituting crackers and potato chips for bread and tortillas. Potato chips can be put through a food processor to make them more compact. For a long trip where you're worried about energy debt and undesired weight loss, it makes sense to find palatable ways to add fat to your food supply, because it's the most dense form of food energy, at 9 kcals/gram. Since the question seems to be motivated by a desire to reduce carbs, I will just note that carbs serve as the primer for fat metabolism, and if you don't have enough carbs in proportion to fat, you will get incomplete fat metabolism, which leads to accumulation of ketone bodies. 

In a gym, the toprope will be wrapped over a cylindrical bar. Some gyms have it just over the top of the bar (180 degrees of contact), while others give it an additional full wrap around (540 degrees of contact). In the former setup, a belayer can hold the static weight of a climber who weighs roughly twice as much as she does; the friction between the rope and the pulley keeps it from slipping. In the latter setup, the factor is much larger, maybe 10 or more. In your chin-up bar test setup, I assume you had 180 degrees of contact. When you say she could "barely hold" your weight, are you describing a situation where she was simply sitting in her harness with her weight hung from her end of the rope? She shouldn't be trying to hold the weight with her hands. Only a relatively small force from her braking hand (below the belay device) should be needed in order to keep the rope from slipping through the device. If it's in doubt whether your partner's body weight is enough to suspend you, she should anchor herself to a weight or to a carabiner connected to the floor. Ask at the desk and they can show you what they have for you to use and how to use it. In case she isn't anchored and does get picked up off of the floor, it's extremely important for her not to panic and release the rope through the belay device. Practice having her catch a fall when she's expecting it. (You typically want to practice this about 15 feet off the ground. It should be high enough so that rope stretch can't bring you to the floor, but not so high that a fumble gets you killed.) Even in a real fall where you're 50 feet above the floor, if she stays calm and keeps tension on the brake strand, the worst that will happen is that you'll accelerate down to the floor relatively gently, you'll survive, and she'll be left suspended until someone comes along to help. For toproping, none of this is as much as of an issue as you might imagine. It becomes more of an issue for lead climbing. Even for lead climbing, I've seen very small belayers competently catch big lead falls by big guys. 

Any 8-10 mm nylon rope will hold many, many times more than your body weight. Climbing ropes are designed to hold dynamic falls, not just static body weight. You could easily get away with 6 mm accessory cord, which is a lot cheaper than a climbing rope. It holds about 700 kg. 

What are some of the common things people do that are avoidable and contribute to accidents and injuries when climbing? 

The standard mountaineering textbook Freedom of the Hills has a long discussion of fixed lines, and they state simply that you use a mechanical ascender on them. This seems odd to me, since for most mountaineering I would be carrying a pretty light rack, and it probably wouldn't include a heavy mechanical ascender. I would just have a Prusik loop handy. What would be the pros and cons of one versus the other? Is a Prusik any less likely to hold if the rope has snow or ice on it? Is it an issue of speed on siege-style climbs, where you're ferrying loads? They seem to have in mind some kind of massive expedition, where you bring a special-purpose 100-meter static line just for this purpose. 

No, there isn't any general rule. It depends on a lot of facts, perceptions, and preferences. I guess the water where you hike is unsafe to drink, and filtering is a reasonable way to make it safe. If you prefer to carry 5 liters of water in order to filter less often, that's what you prefer. If you prefer to carry zero liters of water and filter each time you drink, that's what you prefer. For people who hike in the Sierra Nevada, backcountry water is safe to drink without treatment [Rockwell 2002], so the answer is different from the answer in your area where the water is unsafe. In the Sierra, where water is generally pretty plentiful, there is seldom any reason to carry any water on your back. Pack an empty Dasani bottle, and when you come to a creek, fill it with nice, safe water, drink it, and then empty the bottle back out before continuing on your hike. Yet another possibility would be that someone hikes a lot in an area where there's a significant risk of getting sick from viruses in the water. In that situation, filtering won't help, because filtering doesn't eliminate viruses. Rockwell 2002 - Robert L. Rockwell, Sierra Nature Notes, Volume 2, January 2002, $URL$ 

Yes, they work really well, and that's why they're required in many areas of the Sierra. While you're asleep at night, put the canister far enough away from where you're sleeping so that if a bear finds it and tries to open it, you'll still be able to sleep. Some of the more popular camping areas, such as Little Yosemite, have enough of a problem with food-stealing bears that the park service has installed bear lockers for food. If you're camping in an area that has them, use them. You will also see lockers at car-camping campgrounds and at some trailheads. If you're parking at a trailhead, don't leave food, or anything scented such as chapstick, sunscreen, etc., in your car. Bears can smell the stuff inside your car and can wreck your car to get it. While hiking, keep the chapstick, etc., together with the food inside your bear canister whenever possible. Sealing all your food inside ziplock bags is a good idea; it may not eliminate the smell completely, but it will probably make the smell less likely to attract a bear from a long distance. Use a ziplock bag for garbage. If you have left-over food from dinner that you're not going to eat, either bury it far away from your campsite or seal it up inside the garbage bag and pack it out. If you see a black bear while you're hiking, just take a minute and enjoy observing the bear. Because black bears aren't aggressive, you're not in any danger. They don't want to eat you, they just want your food, and if your food is inside a ziplock, inside a bear canister, inside your backpack, they aren't likely to go after you in order to obtain it. If you're in the middle of eating dinner and a bear walks into your campsite, you could try to pop the lid back on your canister as quickly as possible. But if the bear obtains your food, the food is his. There's nothing you can do about it. 

I'm joining a rock climbing club that requires an evaluation test in order to become a member. (I think this is a great idea.) They have a detailed handout listing exactly what you need to know for the test, including a bunch of knots. Most of them I was familiar with, but one knot they listed was the slip knot, which I've never used for climbing. Googling turns up this page, which says 

The choice of using poles, an ice ax, or nothing basically works the same as with hiking in boots or climbing in crampons. As with those other activities, poles are always optional. When climbing something steep, I prefer an ice ax, and I may duck-walk while driving the shaft of the ax into the snow with both hands as in a self-belay. Carrying an ax rather than poles makes it much more likely that you would be able to self-arrest if necessary. Poles are just as useless for snowshoeing on level ground as they are for hiking. 

If we describe these runs in the traditional way, then A is 20 km with no gain, while B, C, and D are each 20 km with 1000 meters of gain. However, the energy costs of A and B are about the same, C is a little higher, and D is vastly greater. That's because in examples like B and C, the improved efficiency coming downhill nearly cancels the cost of climbing. In the software I wrote, I tried to find a simple statistic that would help people to more accurately characterize how hard a certain run or hike would be. What I came up with was something I call the "climb fraction," or CF. It's defined as the fraction of your energy that was spent on climbing. For example, if you compare runs A and D above, the CF for run D is (1876-1130)/1876, or about 40%. Studying the stats for one of my favorite trail runs near my house, which I consider fairly hilly, I was demoralized to learn that its CF was only 1%. After I wrote this, I came across a very similar treatment of the problem by R. Baumel, referenced below. Reference Baumel, Bob, "Hill effect to second order," Measurement News, January 1989, #33, p. 36, $URL$ Baumel, Bob and Jones, Alan, "Uphills, downhills, and the Boston marathon," Measurement News, March 1990, #40, p. 15, $URL$ Minetti et al. "Energy cost of walking and running at extreme uphill and downhill slopes," J. Applied Physiology 93 (2002) 1039, $URL$ 

Many people at moderate altitudes (about 10,000-13,000', 3000-4000 m) experience mild AMS (acute mountain sickness). The most common symptom is a headache. Mild AMS is not life-threatening, and people may experience similar symptoms due to other factors that are common in a mountain environment, such as lack of sleep, caffeine withdrawal, sunburn, or unaccustomed exertion. One study (Dallimore) of people who hiked at elevations below 1500' (500 m) showed that about 7-11% of them had "symptoms that at high altitude would lead to a diagnosis of AMS," defined by scores of 3 or higher on the Lake Louise questionnaire. Because of the high rate of false positives and the possibility of lumping together disparate conditions and symptoms, questions have been raised about whether the Lake Louise questionnaire is a good method for diagnosing AMS (ISMM, Hall, MacInnis). Two non-symptoms are fainting and difficulty sleeping. Although poor sleep has in the past been used as a factor in diagnosing AMS, recent work (MacInnis) shows that taking it into account makes for a less accurate diagnosis. Of course, poor sleep will cause you to feel lousy, and mild AMS is basically a condition in which you feel lousy. Sometimes people will faint at high altitude when they try to stand up suddenly; this is fairly common, and is not a sign of anything serious if there are no other symptoms. Severe altitude illness is another matter. There are three common forms of severe altitude illness. All of these can be life-threatening and require immediate descent. They occur most commonly above about 15,000' (4600 m). Severe AMS The most common sign that distinguishes severe AMS from a mild case is ataxia, which means general problems with coordination and balance. A good test for ataxia is to have the person walk heel-to-toe in a straight line, as in a drunk-driving test. Ataxia is a sign that something is wrong with the person's brain. Other signs of an altered mental state (irrationality, changed behavior, lethargy, babbling) may also be signs of severe AMS. In addition to these mental symptoms, people with severe AMS will often have some of the other symptoms of AMS in such severe form that they become incapacitating. These include headache, nausea and vomiting, weakness, and dizziness. If any one of these symptoms becomes incapacitating, then severe AMS is likely. High-altitude cerebral edema (HACE) HACE is a condition in which fluid leaks into the brain, causing it to swell and become compressed within the skull. It is similar to severe AMS and probably overlaps with it. The effects can progress until the person becomes incapacitated or goes into a coma. High-altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) This is a condition in which fluid leaks into the lungs and keeps the person from breathing normally. They are unable to catch their breath, even when resting, and can't complete a sentence because they run out of breath. They may have rales, meaning a crackling sound when they breathe. To check for this symptom, have the person take several deep breaths first, and then press your ear tightly underneath their right arm at nipple level and listen as they keep breathing. Rales do not indicate HAPE if they occur without other symptoms or during the first few deep breaths. References Bezruchka, Altitude illness: prevention and treatment, 2005 Dallimore, Foley, and Valentine, "Background rates of acute mountain sickness-like symptoms at low altitude in adolescents using Lake Louise score," Wilderness Environ Med. 2012 Mar;23(1), $URL$ ISMM World Congress in Bolzano online discussion session, 2014, $URL$ Hall et al., "Network Analysis Reveals Distinct Clinical Syndromes Underlying Acute Mountain Sickness," PLOS One January 2014, $URL$ MacInnis et al., "Is Poor Sleep Quality at High Altitude Separate from Acute Mountain Sickness? Factor Structure and Internal Consistency of the Lake Louise Score Questionnaire," High Altitude Medicine and Biology, December 2013, 14(4): 334