You certainly can negotiate a fixed cost contract. Be aware, however, that this sort of thing is quite risky particularly when you don't have a lot of consulting experience. I would be very, very cautious about doing so for anything close to an internship. You bear the risk of misestimating. Most developers, particularly younger developers, suck at estimates. Perhaps your estimate of a month is right on the money. Perhaps their 3 month estimate is closer to reality. What happens, though, if the project takes 4 or 5 months? Almost everyone that does fixed bid contracts has a horror story (or three) about a project that they lost their shirt on. If you aren't highly familiar with their existing code base, a project to integrate your code with their existing application is quite risky-- you never know what struggles you're going to have because of issues in their code that you're not aware of. You bear the risk of scope creep. Documenting the complete scope of a project is a skill that, again, most developers are not good at. In the real world, that means that there will frequently be cases where the company asks you to do more work because they're making a very expansive reading of anything that is potentially ambiguous. You, on the other hand, are going to have the financial incentive to make the narrowest possible interpretation of the scope. If you're not comfortable pushing back professionally on requests, you can find yourself getting taken advantage of. You're taking on billing and tax risks. An intern would normally be a short-term employee of the company. The company would give you a regular check, it would withhold taxes, etc. A fixed price contract, though, means that you'd be a company that would need to invoice them, wait for them to pay (it would be normal that the company would have a month to pay after they received your invoice), follow up when they haven't paid on time, etc. Being a company also has a lot of tax consequences-- you'd owe self-employment taxes, your taxes get a lot more complicated to file, etc. I'd strongly suggest at that you just try to work as an intern. If you manage to complete the entire project and every bell and whistle that the company can think of in ` month rather than 3, it is unlikely that they are going to run out of things for you to do. Companies always have more work than they have developers to do it. If you exceed their expectations, they're going to find more work for you to do. 

As with all things, it depends... If you're going to put something on your resume, it should be something that would be helpful for the position you're applying for and that you'd be comfortable answering questions about in an interview. It would only make sense to list a certificate claiming that you're proficient in French unless you're applying to a job where that would be a qualification and you're prepared to answer questions about your French proficiency in the interview. It sounds like that isn't the case here so it wouldn't make sense to list it. What does "every now and then" mean? It's reasonable to list one date range (I'd include months unless you're listing a 20-year period at one company) if you've had more or less the same relationship with the company over that range (i.e. you're picking up a shift or two every couple weeks while staying on the company books as an employee the whole time or you're doing contract work under the same basic terms as work comes up). If you were a holiday worker for a couple months, you were no longer an employee for a number of months, and then you were a temporary worker again, you'd want to list multiple date ranges. The litmus test here is going to be whether the employer will back up your date range when someone calls to check references. It's fine to mention that you attended A. You'll need to indicate that your degree is from B, however. 

It's hard to guess why a particular interviewer would ask a particular question. You're almost certainly better off answering it honestly. If you don't have plans to get an advanced degree but might reconsider after you have, say, 5 years of practical experience, that's a perfectly reasonable answer. It is possible that the interviewer is concerned that you are going to stick around for a few months and then leave. But it is also possible that the interviewer wonders whether you're going to be interested in getting an advanced degree because that would be a natural way to progress in the role your interviewing for. Or it is possible that they want to know whether to tell you about the company's tuition reimbursement program. Since there are many possible reasons, there is no single best answer, just tell the truth. If your degree is in something that is often a first step in a longer career path (say, your undergraduate major was pre-med) and you are interviewing for an entry-level role that wouldn't use the more advanced degree (say, a phlebotomist at a blood bank), it's reasonable for the interviewer to guess that you're looking for very short-term employment until you enroll in med school. If you've got the same degree but are interviewing for a position that could grow over time as you get more education (a lab tech at a research facility for example), it might be advantageous for you to explain that you intend to go back to school to get a PhD so that you could be a research scientist at the company. 

One email a month, as an objective observer, doesn't sound like desperation, it sounds like networking. Think of it this way, companies can easily invest thousands if not tens of thousands of dollars filling a single role. They've spent the money to find you, they've spent the money to interview you, they just lost out. Why wouldn't it be worth a few minutes of the hiring manager's time every month to do a bit of networking in case you find yourself on the market again in the near future? All the more so when the hiring manager knows that you took the counter-offer from your current company since those arrangements frequently don't work out in the long term. Desperate companies do not, as a rule, badger specific applicants to join them. Desperate companies are generally in a position of basically accepting any warm body off the street that is within a stone's throw of competent. Unless the company is offering grossly below-market wages or there is some other aspect of the job that is going to be tremendously off-putting to potential applicants, it seems unlikely that the company would have any shortage of at least marginally qualified applicants. The fact that they're not taking those applicants and are focusing on you (or, more likely, a small number of high-quality applicants) seems to imply that they aren't desperate. Now, there are a few specialty skills where it might make sense to let a good employee go after a particular project simply because there are unlikely to be related projects where that skill is called for. For example, there are certain telecom specialties where it may make sense to bring in an expert for a few months to set up your call tree and all the call center infrastructure but then not have 40 hours a week of maintenance work. Similarly, folks that specialize in configuring large ERP systems often find, once the initial implementation is in place, that companies don't have 40 hours of interesting work to do maintaining and enhancing those systems. If your specialty is something like this, it's perfectly reasonable to ask the company about what they envision you doing after the project goes live. If you are in that sort of specialty, I'd strongly expect the company to ask a question along those lines to see whether you've thought through the implications of staying on potentially doing less interesting maintenance work. For the vast majority of skill sets, though, once one project finishes, there are always more projects in the pipeline to tackle. 

Since the problem is with noise in general and not whether the content is work-related or not, it seems unlikely that you have a lot of options for reducing the noise. Your best bet is likely to bring some headphones so that you can listen to music or white noise in the office. Or you could talk to your manager about seeing whether your team can be moved somewhere that will be quieter. If your company has chosen an open floor plan, that generally implies that the company wants to encourage the sort of collaboration that the programming team is doing. The manager of the programming team views the collaboration as necessary. It's possible, I suppose, that you could convince someone that the programmers need a separate war room that they can work from all day so that their discussions don't disturb you. Very few companies, though, have enough conference rooms that they'd be happy to have one of the larger ones taken over by the programming team all day every day. And companies that consciously adopt an open floor plan are unlikely to see the discussions as a problem in need of a solution. Asking people to speak more softly rarely works for long-- the volume is generally driven by things like the distance between people in the conversation, the ambient noise, and the team member's natural enthusiasm/ passion. And complaining about the non work-related conversations appears to be a red herring-- it wouldn't do you much good to get them to focus on work given that focusing on work produces exactly the sort of conversation that you're trying to avoid. Personally, as a developer, I'd much rather have a nice quiet space where I can focus on my tasks rather than an open plan where I can easily chat with other folks on my team. Not everyone, and certainly not every company, agrees with that assessment, however. It sounds like your company, the manager of the programming team, and the programming team themselves favor a louder, more collaborative process. It seems unlikely that there is much you can do when those three things are in alignment.