English is one of the worse languages to consider mood in, so this is a total misunderstanding. In a more inflected language like Latin or older forms of Greek the 'is' or the 'has' would have a subjunctive or optative inflection that indicate which of them is more highly hypothetical and therefore to which the necessity applies. Although Germanic languages sort of try to have a subjunctive, they fail. Instead, mood is not expressed in a verb form, but with auxiliaries or adverbs, and it is assumed to be an attribute of the most primary verb from which it is not fully isolated. English has very weak isolation, so the mood almost always applies to the primary verb and selects a range of possible worlds for the whole sentence to be true or false in. "I might be going to the store later" can mean that I am going somewhere later and that place might or might not be the store; or that I might or might not be going anywhere at all later, but if I am going, where I am going is to the store. It remains ambiguous because the modality is expressed with its own verb, just tossed in there independently, without being bound to anything. It is unlikely to mean that I might or might not be going and where I am going, if I go, might or might not be the store, because there is still only one modal verb. To be that ambiguous, we have to say more. How silly is that? Luckily, the exact intention seldom matters to the hearer, who just gets the vague sense of uncertainty, if they care at all. Beyond that, unlike languages with more hierarchical grammars, English just automatically moves attributes wherever they make the most sense. If I say "tomorrow he says the car will run", we totally forgive the illogic and put the 'tomorrow' on 'run', whether it is grammatically possible or not, because "tomorow he says..." is illogical and "tomorrow, he says, ..." is not. So there is absolutely no natural way to say the equivalent of "p implies that necessarily q" and get heard that way consistently, because even when it is written just that way, the 'necessarily' automatically jumps back to the 'implies' and the sentence means "p necessarily implies that q", which is "box (p arrow q)". However you try to keep it bound, our speaking habits let it loose and it goes where it is most likely to belong. You have to descend to indirect reference: "p arrow box q" means "p being true (in this reality) implies q is true in all possible (related) realities". To some degree that seems just silly to even think about for many English speakers. "How can this reality affect all related realities, sentences hold in realities or they don't..." because moods generally are not that finely articulated in our language. 

From biology. One does not have to be a total moral relativist to believe that morality is an aspect of a species, and not of some deeper aspect of rationality that transcends biology. Ants don't seem to fear death, so if we somehow grafted intelligence onto them, they would probably never develop a compunction against killing individuals. To me this suggests that no moral principle is 'infinitely deep' in the way our restriction on murder seems to be. So all arguments that derive moral principles straight from rationality, or from anything more abstract, seem questionable. We need to look within the species, and the only reality these things can have would necessarily be evolutionary. Fortunately among other things, humans in general do seem to have evolved two forms of moral sense, and it is clear how those support our survival. We have a sort of shared mind that allows us to enjoy one another's happiness, and a power of projection that gives us a clear understanding of our own limited interchangeability. We can see aspects of both of these in animals like dogs or monkeys, that have hierarchical social structures with clear obligations. We know that whatever happens to another human can also happen to us. So we want protection from those events. In fact, as a species, we are given to irrational paranoia. It seems that we need reassurance of protection in order to not continually degrade our own ability to behave rationally. We also know that pleasure is often a group effect, and we like to be around it. So one of the events we want protection from is the limitation of our own autonomy to find pleasure idiosyncratically, and therefore we fear the excessive control of others' behavior. It is not far from that impulse to a full-blown Lockean social contract. Humans have not just never been found without any such device, but we can easily see how it destroys them to be deprived of it. These two impulses suggest that that fact is not accidental, but part of the way we frame our thinking. Beyond that, it suggests that it is not incidental that these contracts always involve aspects of both Utilitarianism and the Golden Rule, no matter how far they evolve away from their roots. Therefore moral claims may not have an existence independent of humanity, or be derivable from anything but the overall patterns these contracts take, but to the same extent 'shelter' is a real category of things, 'morality' is real. 

These are beliefs, and they spawn others, and grow easily into a world-view. So there are collections of atheists across time who rebuild the parts of experience usually ceded to religion in different ways, usually shaped by their reasons for abandoning religion. In the same way secularism is a basic political position, an materialism is a basic epistemological one. And a lot of people build two of these off the third, so there are people for whom atheism proceeds from a secularist defense of religious minorities, or for whom a materialist epistemology proceeds from a form of atheism arising out of an abhorrence of the wastefulness of ceremony. So the premise of the question is wrong. Atheists may want to factor their position off from the range of other ethical systems based upon unfounded beliefs, but they are not actually in that privileged position. 

@Addems answer is right, it is just not clear. In any logic with the ordinary definitions of implies, not and or: 'A implies not A' iff 'not A or not A' iff 'not A' So no extension of ordinary logic is going to find this a contradiction. Even weakenings of modern logic that keep the definition of A implies B meaning A or not B still make this a theorem. So only systems with a less mechanical definition of 'implies' like hard-core constructivism could ever possibly find 'A implies not A' to be a theorem. The only useful ones of those are always weaker than standard logic, so they will not add theorems. So no useful or normal theory of logic will have this as a theorem. 'A implies not A' is not a contradiction in and of itself. When it is proved, it establishes that A is false. This is the basis of all uses of reductio-ad-absurdum. You assume A to be true and show that it contradicts itself, and that proves A false. If the proof itself were a contradiction, you could no longer do this. 

I don't think there is any deeper intuition there. It is just a matter of linguistic convenience. But if it helps, the word is part of a set of words in English, including 'lest', 'else' and 'except', that are generally related to exceptions in rules or intentions. (I only start with the least common one first because it is the one most closely related historically.) "I dare not wear wool lest it rain", meaning I want to, but will contradict my own wish for a good reason. I wear wool by choice, unless it is going to rain. "You must choose a meat option, or else you should mark may 'vegetarian' if you do not eat meat.", meaning there is a general rule, but sometimes there is an allowed variation. Choose a meat, unless you are vegetarian. Or, of course, "It is illegal for adults to ride a bicycle on the sidewalk except when accompanying minors under the age of 13." Meaning again that there is a rule, but also an exception. (Obviously the source of the word 'exception'.) Bike in the street, unless protecting children. I hope that helps. (But if it does, that means this question did not belong here, but instead belonged on English Language and Usage SE instead. Ask questions of logic here, unless they are really about Engish and not logic...) 

is an example of (A -> B) -> C If event A (the king's death) will lead to event B (the son's crowning) in all circumstances then event C (this being a hereditary monarchy) is true. Then applying the definition is then exactly C -> (A -> B) 

Quantum field theory, with its strange problems of the identity of a particle is hardly materialist and pragmatic. String theory, with its extra dimensions and its paradoxical dynamics at tiny scales is even less so. And the comparable domains of mathematics, like the study of infinite ordinals are just as silly as Critical Theory or post-structuralism. But the problems are just not solved. We want to know how things with very little practical application work out in detail. We want to have an understanding of whatever we can manage to understand. Picking on the silliness of philosophy, which in many ways addresses far harder problems, is just bias. There is still no materialist, pragmatic solution to issues of real morality, that does not just throw out the problems it doesn't like. Theories of value like post-structuralism are attempts to build an understanding of why we choose the judgments that we do, how those evolve, and why we bother. You can go ahead and simply adopt a solution, but to find one that actually works, in detail, is not a trivial endeavor. The fact that they don't come together without a ton of fluff and nonssense should not open them to bizarre accusations. There is a lot of fluff and nonsense involved in caring about the mass of the Higgs boson, and imagining that the strange patterns created by that huge ring in Europe will tell you anything is really just more nonsense, taken out of context. 

The second law of thermodynamics insists that the level of disorganization increases over time, always has, and always will. Since 'an entity' to be recognizable as itself requires a certain level of organization, not all entities can continue to exist, or to recur, endlessly throughout time. A life form requires quite a high level of organization to continue to be recognized as itself. Ultimately no single entity with any high degree of organization will be able to exist at all. So eventually, no individual's life, nor any recognizable remnant of it, will be able to exist, unless time itself ends. The overall level of organization does not seem likely to stop decreasing or to return to a higher level, since the expansion of our universe is not slowing down over time, but is increasing instead. 

One set of people who have actually worried about this are the Intuitionists, who strive for a real, answerable, standard for meaningfulness, in their mathematical objects, if one that has to be continually renegotiated. They believe that mathematical objects are only reliable to the extent they can be mapped onto some aspect of human psychology that can be captured clearly and communicated. The general approach in Intuitionism is to consider all infinities mere potentialities and to avoid reifying them. The integers represent the potential of a process that simply does not stop. The continuum represents divisibility that simply does not stop. And so forth. Considerations like the Axiom of Choice are replaced by an absolute prohibition upon completing any infinity. On weaker grounds, the standard goes back to Aristotle. But, since Kant's antinomy of space, we are more certain that reifying endlessness conjures up an internally inconsistent set of intuitions that we simply cannot handle adequately. Kant is free to say that means space is not real, but mathematicians would find that inconvenient. Still, his point is made, we need to avoid imagining that we can imagine too much, in such domains -- it gets us in trouble. Instead of completed wholes, we must look at ininities as processes of evolution, with sets of rules, preferably identifiable states and transitions. So, for instance, in studying the ordinals, we are not addressing a trans-infinite class of sets, we are analyzing the variety of possible kinds of ordering -- there is no omega-to-the-omega-plus-seven, there are only rules that say how to compare things that are free-flowing sequences of integers, with noted exceptions that dominate all of those sequences. When we study cardinality, we cannot reify the orders of infinity, but we can explore the potential conflicts that humans should be aware of in the process of making a bijection. This squares well with the more modern notion of Category Theory. What is important, in addressing any mathematical 'thing', is the potential interactions it might have with the other things of its kind. If those interactions are pinned down by stating rules about identified elements within it, that does not mean the elements or even the collection is 'real', only the composite behavior is. It just means it is convenient to imagine the object in either global or more local terms for axiomatic testing purposes. 

One of the threads in the Philosophical Investigations is the mutual interdetermination of meaning and usage. You can think of this (thinking with the pen) as the smallest loop in the feeback-loop between usage and meaning. If usage creates meaning, and meaning determines usage, the actual meaning of what I want to express is affected by how I choose to express it. In the very act of composing a sentence, I am still deciding what I mean. There is not a single clear and isolated meaning in my thought unconnected with its expression on the page. Without deciding to express it, I might have actually thought something slightly different. In a slightly more modern framing, Dennet's multiple-drafts analogy, the parallel process of the brain, and the serial story content of the mind (as interpretable memory) are only synchronized in choosing actions. So we only know what we actually mean when we try to say it (or put it in some other expressive medium). 

I would go beyond Kant and argue that not just time, but causation is a subjective notion of humans. Time flows in one direction for us because our mental processes for collating information use entropy to drive them. But that has nothing to do with the nature of the universe. Kant imagines that angels, free of time, would still have the notion of causation, since he establishes it as a Category of Pure Reason. But I would broaden this consideration of the differences between possible minds. If you had the equivalent of thought without time, I believe it would lack what we think of as chains of causation. Energy seems to us to be a substance conserved in transformations, but that is because entropy, our chosen recording medium, is a form of (wasted) energy. Our accounting system would not work if the basis we account against could spontaneously arrive or vanish. But it is simply the currency in our accounting system. It is preserved over time, because it is what time is made up of. If time is recorded as increasing entropy, and entropy is unordered energy, entropy can only really be measured as a fraction of all energy, and the supply of energy must appear fixed through time. So all of the intermediate things that you point to, that break down at the start or end of time, are all aspects of time itself. Since time is a form we impose on interpretations, by virtue of being tied to electrochemical brains, and not a part of the nature of the world, these forces are also not basic aspects of reality. More specifically, they are not going to make sense of states that involve the lack of existence of time, whether that is the start and the end, or domains where it is not deterministically driven. 

I would suggest it is because he didn't have active followers in large numbers until after his death. Aristotle was subject to the same charge as Socrates at the end of his life, though he was exiled rather than killed. So the degree of disruption, the intention to be disruptive, and the actual hostility evident all seem less important in this particular charge than the number of people affected. (Although by some accounts, Aristotle's sentence was all about racism and revenge. Aristotle's father was Medean in origin and Athens had gone to war against Alexander the Great -- Aristotle's family's king and his own prior student.) Athens had very active courts, but no written laws. In the spirit of absolute democracy, elected jurors voted on everything and their decisions were bound by no precedent. So the number of people who directly met the offending opinions and were offended probably controlled whether your case went forward toward prosecution more than any specific definition of the crime involved.