Yes, yes, a hundred times yes. There's this idea that you can bring an offer to your boss and get a counteroffer to stay, but I've never heard of it working that way. I'm sure someone has made that trick work, but more often than not you've just attached a giant target on your back. Again, look at it from their POV - you've just announced that you're going to leave. That means it's suddenly in their interest not to give you a raise (you're leaving anyway), not to give you added responsibilities (you're leaving anyway), not to give you anything sensitive (you're leaving and could end up at a competitor)... you get the idea. Unless you have a very special relationship with your boss (if you're not sure, you don't), the first they should hear about you looking for a job is when you give your notice. 

It's in your record, both for future promotions (you're an employee who is valued enough that they did this), and as protection if needed (you can't be too terrible an employee if they pre-offered you a job). Depending on your office politics, they may be positioning this as a "see, we did something nice for you!" gesture. But you seem to recognize it for what it is, so you're not going to take this nice letter in lieu of a raise. :) If you decline it, it's sending a signal that you're not interested in a full-time position with them - which may trigger other actions from them. (Namely, you may be taking yourself out of consideration for future jobs at that company, since they'll assume that you're on your way out the door). 

The agreement, unless it was in writing, is useless. (Even if you could prove it and enforce it, it's not going to advance your career at that location). Now, the good news - this isn't a terribly uncommon occurrence. I've been hired on the "management track" and ended up in a warehouse indefinitely until I quit, because the company needed people in the warehouse. I know someone who was an Executive Vice President who was in line to take over President when the current Prez retired - and when retirement got pushed back, he moved to another company to continue his career. Sometimes it's a company being sneaky, sometimes it's just circumstances changing. So, when you're asked about leaving, you can put it simply - you were hired at company X with the expectation of advancing up to a leadership position, and due to changes at the company the planned expansion was cancelled, and you're looking to continue your career. 

Absolutely nothing. I've had a corporate trainer openly recommend that you should take an interview once a year or so, partly to stay in practice and partly to make sure the grass isn't greener elsewhere. That said, there's no reason for your boss to know that you're doing it. I certainly can't think of any situation where telling them is to your advantage. 

This sounds like an issue for your manager to take up with the CEO. Your role is going to be support and documentation. The boss needs to make the argument to the CEO that it was agreed the move would take place, and that your groups needs a bit of executive push to get things moving. If you can show documentation that people are actively resisting (e.g. "there's no plug" = "hey, there's a plug right there"), that gives the boss ammunition to make the case that there's office politics at play rather than physical issues. One trick is to have your evidence in place, and arrange a meeting with boss, CEO, and the PA (and whomever is blocking, if that's not the PA) to discuss a plan to go forward, and let them dig their own hole. (Oh, we can't move you because there's no plug there. What about the plug that's already existing? Oh, IT can't do it. OK, let's get IT in here to discuss alternatives then.) It's a bit of theatre, but I've yet to meet the CEO who is happy when their will is thwarted. 

Sharing code with an interviewer is a blatant violation of the Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice: 

My boss, for the entire company's workflow, uses Google Sheets as a sort of feature-tracker/TODO-list. The company employs 7 people, aside from the CEO (my boss), who all work remotely. There are 2 software developers (myself included), 2 linguists, 2 marketing personnel and the CEO's son. I did once suggest to my boss that we at least move to a tool like Trello that functions similarly, but with much more flexibility. This was when he said that Trello would be a new tool that everyone has to learn, and he doesn't want to do that as everyone is already used to the "Google Sheet flow", and that it would be difficult for everyone to migrate. The problem is that if things are pushed into the backlog, as in "not important enough for this next release/campaign", they are often forgotten about. We will continue to add things to fix/add at the top of the list, and things that were low priority before become essentially non-existent. It's also hard to tell why we backlogged something because of the limited flexibility of Google Sheets, and having progress tracking is out the window. Here's an example from my Sheet (feature tracker) for a high-priority Android app fix that got mixed in with other work: 

From your question, I'm guessing that the candidate did not get permission to share the code. Code is owned by the employer, and confidential, unless stated otherwise; so, in this case, this is unethical behavior and you absolutely not accept the code. In fact, dismiss the candidate immediately. Edit: To clarify, the ACM's SE Code of Ethics is not law. It is a simple set of guidelines as to the "do's and don'ts" of our industry. However, many universities and employers are adopting the code as our standard set of ethical guidelines, making sure that students and employees are aware of the code, and follow its practices. E.g. in my computer science degree, I've had at least 4 significant projects involving the SE Code. Many employers in my area also test candidates with ethical questions during interviews, expecting them to have knowledge of the SE Code and to employ it in their responses. 

I am a freelance software developer and have three clients that I communicate with via email. I have mobile and desktop notifications set up for my several email accounts (work, personal, university). If I see an email notification, I will generally stop what I am doing in order to respond, even if the email is from a client that I am not currently doing work for (I stop/start my clock accordingly). My average response time is about 5 minutes if I am currently in a situation where I am able to respond to an email. I feel that I have given my employers the impression that I am always available. Should I be waiting an hour (or a few) in order to respond? 

There are probably more benefits... How can I start a discussion within the company to migrate to a better workflow management tool? 

This sheet is now about 75 lines long for the next version release of the app, with some duplicated information and no visual organization except "what's on top is most important". I've been testing out some free workflow/task management tools for the past few hours (on my own time) and I am convinced that it would be beneficial for all the employees of the company to use such tools. What benefits about employees and management can I use to convince him that it's actually a good idea? I've come up with the following: 

The CEO of a startup that I work with has, unfortunately, grand ideas about software that we can build. It is in a field that I am interested in, so it excites me, but at the same time I am realistic - there are a dozen other companies that specialize in this software, and they have vastly more resources than we do (I would be the only software developer, and I work about 30 hours per month with this company). Let me be clear here: the software we're talking about has been in development by multi-national corporations for decades, incorporating bleeding-edge research and millions of users' data. We don't have employees, decades, nor experience enough to understand academic research in order to build and improve the system. How can I gently tell my boss/partner “dude, I really wish we could make this, but it’s literally impossible given our resources”? PS - I am on very good/informal terms with the CEO, so letting him down easy in a conversational way would be most logical here. However, I'm looking for a more diplomatic way to break this news to the CEO, especially considering how a manager/project lead would want to learn about the inevitable failure and potential damage to the company should such a project be persued. EDIT: this is clearly not a duplicate of the one proposed. Simply reading the question and answers shows that...