Changing your lifestyle doesn't have to be drastic or cost a fortune; it's all about having the right attitude and being consistent. 

The advantages and risks have been highlighted in this article. And this. And countless others. Yes, you'll burn more calories wearing it. How much you'll burn depends on 

Yoga changes the construction of the body from the inside out, from bones to skin and from fingertips to toes. So before you change it, you have to heat it up to soften it, because a warm body is a flexible body. Then you can reshape the body any way you want. Hatha Yoga flushes away the waste products, the toxins of all the glands and organs of your body. It provides a natural irrigation of the body through the circulatory system, with the help of the respiratory system. It brings nourishments to every cell of your body so that each one can perform its function and keep your body healthy. Bikram Yoga also employs heat to further that cleaning process: When you sweat, impurities are flushed out of the body through the skin. 

I'm not completely certain the goal of this question as the order is largely dependent on the individual. To effectively answer the question, one has to make some assumptions: 

Background I've been deadlifting for about a year at home and have managed to have a 1RM of 405 lbs (more than twice my body weight). Because I had no intention of disturbing my downstairs neighbors, I never drop the weights; I always put it down carefully. Obviously, this was very tasking for me (and I think it contributed to my low number) Fast Forward I now train in a commercial gym with a free weights section. My observation of most patrons deadlifting are: 

Make stretching part of your daily routine. Try the shrug exercise (without any weight) everyday. It can done anywhere and everywhere (even at your seat at work). The beauty of stretching exercises is that most of them can be done randomly and anywhere, even at your seat. Not everyone has the option of seating on a ball at work; however, stretching your back (and generally your whole body) at intervals (every hour or two) will reduce stiffness in any part of your body. 

If I'm following a weight loss program and don't see a result in a month, it means I'm doing something wrong. Same goes for my weight lifting training. Very importantly, what I'm looking for is progression (something that shows that I'm moving in the right direction). 

If you're not seeing muscle increase in your arms, it's either you're not working the muscles hard enough or you're using bad forms. You don't necessarily need to change your routine. First, check your forms and ensure that you're lifting the weights appropriately. That might require you watching a lot of videos and practise in order to use the proper forms. Second, increase the weights you currently lift and try to complete the same sets/repetitions. With good forms, your muscles will be more challenged and they'll reciprocate by getting bigger. Third, whole body exercises are better than isolation ones. So, keep doing those ones. If you can find free weight equivalent to the machines, use them. Fourth, ditch the crunches; they're a waste of time. Replace the crunches with standing crunches and reverse crunches. Do at least 20 reps of each. Fifth, embrace body weight exercises. Do pull-ups and chin-ups to build your lat, shoulders, triceps, and biceps. Do planks (bridges) and push-ups to build your core and biceps. Sixth, definitely increase the weights of your barbell curls and bench presses. Those directly affect your biceps. Perform goblet squats (with weights of course) to increase your triceps, biceps, and thighs. Seventh, progressively increase the weights as you realize your body's adapted to the new weights. Bigger weights will both help you to be strong as well as build muscles. Eighth, eat protein meals often. If possible, drink protein supplements after your workouts. Ninth, don't do all these at once. Mix and match as desired. Do them as frequently as possible. Tenth, never stop exercising :). 

Most likely, you'll begin to feel some pain in your back after a while. This is due to weak lower back muscles. You need strong back muscles for a good posture. To strengthen your back muscles, perform 

Yes, it's important to reach parallel when squatting; otherwise, you'll have muscular imbalance as your hamstrings will be exercised, but your quads and calves will not really benefit from the exercise. Just decrease the weight and squat with the dumbbells raised to your chest. If you don't have balance issues, you can use a raised platform also; however, be careful when performing the exercises not to lose your balance so you don't hurt yourself. If you're indeed serious about squatting though, barbell squatting is still the best way to go :) 

Since you've already sought medical help and nothing obvious could be found, I would start with taking the multi-vitamins. Our bodies can't produce all the nutrients it needs; that's why multi-vitamins are needed. Vitamins rich in B-complex, manganese, zinc, and iron are also recommended daily. 

Stretching: Stretching is good for you, especially after periods of immobility. Do it regularly and you'll notice how limber your body begins to feel. 

And now for the costs: 1. You can (and very likely) will hurt yourself. Jumping or squatting on a slippery ground is a bad idea. Not only can you slip, but the motion can cause temporary disorientation that'll result in you falling. Hitting your head or vital parts of your body against the bathroom's hard surfaces is much more likely to occur. 2. A lot of bath areas are too small to accommodate effective exercises. Exercises that really burn calories (running, plyometrics) just can't be performed in small, contained location. 3. Some exercises just aren't feasible in the shower. Performing push ups in the shower (in pools of water) is both disgusting and unhealthy. 4. Sweating while showering makes little sense. If your goal of showering is to clean yourself, but you manage to generate enough intensity to create a sweat, what's the purpose of the shower? 5. You can injure yourself. This is worth repeating. If you exercise in the shower, you'll hurt yourself sooner or later (it's not a matter of "if", it's a matter of "when"). The benefit you'll gain is minute, compared to the potential cost. You're better off exercising before showering. Optimal solution is this: create dedicated periods to exercise, eat right, have quality sleep, and incorporate exercising/movements in your daily life and you'll have no need for injury-prone disasters such as exercising while showering. 

These could be the culprits. First, clean up your meals. You don't need to diet; just eat balanced meals (containing protein, complex carbs, vegetables, etc) with proper rationing. As the first answer has mentioned, abs are made in the kitchen. Don't eat junk! 

How long have you been performing those exercises? Are they intense for you? The reason I asked is if you want to add new routines to the mix or want something different. First, YES! Do include a running program also. None of your current exercises include pure cardio exercises. You can also replace running with some plyometric exercises. Skipping, knee jumping, etc are good examples. Going by your current list, I would switch the order of the exercises to this: 

This depends on the exercise. I expect your bench press numbers to remain stagnant or reduce while your body's adapting to the exercise. There might be an impact to your curls; there shouldn't be an impact to your squat. Essentially, your tricep and chest exercises should be affected due to the fatigue in your arms. 

I can give you a whole list of regimen to perform; however rather than doing that, I'll let give you just a sample list; give them a try and select the ones you love. 

(Power) Walking: While running can place stress on joints (especially when done improperly), power walking doesn't really place much stress on the joints. That being said, you'll have to make walking a practice in order to see a significant impact on your weight-loss goals. Walking doesn't burn much calories; however, combining the practice with an effective dietary program will really help you achieve your goals. 

I scheduled a time at work (12 noon to be exact) and allocated a location to it. Once it's 12 noon, I simply set aside whatever I'm doing, go into this location and work up a huge sweat for 20 - 30 minutes. Most of my exercises involve body-weight exercises in cardio form (completed as fast as possible). This is done every workday. On days that I cannot do it at 12noon because of a busy schedule or room availability, I simply continue with my work till it's finished (or the room is available) and I go in to pleasure myself. I always come out drenched and with a smile on my face (with the feeling that I've accomplished something for the day) 

You should also consume food that contain these vitamins; they include spinach, watermelon, broccoli, milk, potatoes, bananas, lean meats, lentils, etc. Eat right, take time off, and enjoy life :). 

Your abs muscles' primary function is to stabilize your upper body; this comprises more than half of your body weight. 

Take a warm shower after your interval training. Spend time in the shower, soaking your tired aching muscles. That will reduce the tiredness and increase your alertness. Once done, have a light snack. And then, drink some herbal/green tea. Some also take multivitamins after all that(depending on the time of the day). You should be refreshed to continue your day. 

The protein powder isn't any different from the supplements people take to increase their protein intake. If you already consume enough protein, you don't need to use protein supplements. You're welcome to take them; they just aren't required. 

Once you're comfortable with that, switch to half pushup (not sure what it's actually called though). From your lying position, you lift yourself up into the plank position. The next stage is lowering your body to the ground from the pushup position. At this point, you have enough strength and ability perform one pushup. Attempt it. This progression should help you with your push up in no time. 

With the statistics you've given, you're about 6ft weighing 195lbs. You aren't really overweight (based on recommended height/weight from this, this, and this sources ). My recommendation is that rather than focusing on losing weight, focus on building muscles. Based on that, I'll criticize a few things: First, your breakfast isn't completely balanced. Yogurt should be a snack (or an addition to a good breakfast). There are better low calorie alternatives. Even a wheat-based cereal and skimmed milk should give you a complete diet. Always try to have a protein- and fiber-based diet. (Yeah, I know that yogurt has protein; it just doesn't have enough fiber; also, just yogurt for breakfast? That's not sustainable on the long run). Get more meal options. Also, replace one banana with an apple. Apple has lower calories and provide more benefits than banana. Your lunch and dinner options are alright. You still need more variety though (unless you're one of those who don't get tired from eating the same thing for a long time). Also, drink more water. 8 cups are recommended daily. Try to get as close to the quota as much as possible. Second, you need to calculate your BMR (Basal Metabolism Rate) to determine how much calories you consume. As long as you consume lower than your BMR (or increase your daily activities), you should lose weight. Third, your exercise regimen is low; your current exercise choices cannot give you a fast weight loss. Increase the running to twice a week. Increase the push up reps periodically (weekly, monthly, etc.) or vary its intensity. Your body'll get used to the same rep/sets and your muscle building will stall. Also, get a pull-up bar and do pull-ups, chin-ups, and/or knee-up daily (increase their reps as you get stronger). Add reverse crunches, standing crunches, and/or planks to your daily routine. Not afraid of weightlifting? Try StrongLifts or Starting Strength, or 5-3-1 Wendel's Program. (Spoiler alert: they are all based on incremental weightlifting :)) Because you don't have a lot of fat to lose (to begin with), you might not see a huge loss difference on the scale. My advice is for you to purchase a body fat percentage measurement. So, even if the scale isn't going down (or worse, increasing), your body fat percentage will constantly reduce. Oh yeah, your pants will start falling too. You might need to purchase a mirror to start checking out your new body :) BTW, don't focus on fast weight loss; focus on a sustainable one....and enjoy exercising; the fat will naturally shed off your body to reveal the muscles they've been hiding for a while. Hopefully, this rant helps :). 

Seriously, if you're injury prone, I will not recommend you near any weights at the moment. Being safe is a whole lot better than being in the hospital for weights-related injuries. 

I don't think there are rules (I'm not even sure that people would follow them) concerning those; however, my goal is to keep moving as much as possible. First, as best as your back allowstry to sit straight always. Even if you rest your back on the chair, always try to be straight and not slouched. Sitting straight improves your posture as well as works your core muscles. So, my stomach naturally feels contracted without exercising it. Sometimes, I rock (sideways sometimes, back and forth on others) on my chair. Every hour, I do some crunches as well on my seat. Or I can lift both legs (or alternate them) for a few seconds to work my thighs. Squatting is good; however, it shouldn't be for an extended period. Whatever you do, ensure to move your body as much as possible. 

At this point, your muscles will be tense even in your "relaxed state". Of course, all these won't make much difference without a low body fat %. The lower the %, the more rewards your efforts will see. 

Lasse, The difference between deloading or resting is this: the former allows your body to rest (with lighter loads, thus increasing endurance and strength) while the latter allows your body to rest completely (something you don't want to do often) . Given that strength training is hard, taking rests (especially for a beginner) doesn't increase your endurance and make your body give reasons why you should quit the program. The more often you lift heavier weights (without passing your optimal frequency), the stronger you'll be. More rests will reduce your strength growth. Or you might finally give in to your body and quit the entire program. So, plan your weightlifting on non-consecutive days, lift heavy, and rest on your non-lifting days. If you really need a rest (absent of any illness, injury, or doctor's recommendation), deload instead and re-structure your weightlifting plans. 

Increase your general activity level. Because you're not spending all day at the gym, your body recovers fast enough for you to be able to increase your general activities (walking/biking instead of driving, taking the stairs, portion rationing, etc) 

Be more active: The more active you are, the better your joints will become. So, walk as much as feasibly possible, stand up as much as feasibly possible, etc. 

I will recommend bodyweight exercises, yoga or pilates (for balance and stretching purposes), swimming (if available), and cardio exercises such as running, jumping, and biking.