However, FDR was the Democratic vice-presidential candidate himself in 1920! (wiki) Isn't there something of a contradiction here? Perhaps FDR was supporting a Hoover run before he decided to run himself? Am I engaging in an anachronism here? 

When context is considered, it becomes clear that the quote about un-German methods was not even referring to Jews. This is the full context: 

Actually, the universities were NOT an outgrowth of monasteries, but rather of the schools attached to great cathedrals. The difference is important, because this meant they were run by the secular clergy and not monks. 

This is from page 117 of A Common Justice: The Legal Allegiances of Christians and Jews Under Early Islam by Simonsohn. Google Books link 

Tiberius Gracchus tried to push through his reforms programme while holding the magistracy of a tribune of the plebs. I wonder, though, why he did not try to get elected as consul (very likely given his family connections and personal distinction) and to enact his reforms then. This would have taken more time but wouldn't it have a better prima facie chance of working out? Or was he afraid of getting saddled with a veto-wielding conservative colleague in the consulship? Are there ancient or modern sources discussing this angle? 

(Quote taken from p.88 in The last thousand days of the British Empire by Peter Clarke). To me this indicates that (A) Churchill's shamefully cavalier attitude to the famine in Bengal sprung not from a special animus towards the Indians, but rather from his dogged pursuit of a single objective (VE) on the one hand and from his slapdash working habits on the other. (B) His "tirades" on the subject were not really the same thing as actual British policy and must be read more as rhetorical exercises. All this, of course, should not obscure two simple points: 

No he wasn't. He abdicated of his own free will choosing Wallis Simpson over the throne. He abdicated because as a British Monarch he was the nominal head of the Church of England that did not allow divorcees to remarry. The Church strongly disapproved of Edward's intention to marry a divorcee in Wallis Simpson. He was also viewed as a bit of playboy and held fairly naive views on Hitler's Germany which also didn't sit well with the English government. This doesn't mean they forced him to abdicate, but given they didn't view him as a particularly strong minded potential Monarch, they didn't help him either. 

Firstly, I think you may be getting a little confused between life peers and hereditary peers. Life peers are given a peerage or title for their lifetime only. It is not hereditary and it cannot be handed down to their children. When that person dies, the peerage or title dies with them. They are not expected to maintain a country estate or multiple houses, nor are they necessarily expected to be wealthy. The cost you refer to I believe is probably constituted from an honour fee paid, for the priviledge of becoming a peer which probably covers the administrative charges, charge for the warrant and possibly also the fee for a coat of arms or heraldry from the College of Heralds. In addition to that would also be the cost of regalia when needed and worn on public occasions. The cost of all that added up could well constitute a considerable sum of money. Hereditary peers are in a similar position but the initial cost of being made one will already have been paid and their main concern is the upkeep of the family seat or family home which would have been passed down to them through the generations. Many peers have found that these old country homes and castles are simply so expensive to maintain they've had to sell them to English Heritage, who maintain them but open them to the public. Some have had to sell them to private individuals simply because they have insufficient funds to maintain them. Just because a country seat has been sold, does not mean a hereditary peerage or titles goes with it. It does not, it remains with the peer until death and is then inherited by their son or sometimes daughter. 

Indeed, in a somewhat similar situation, in the 15th century Italian Condottieri such as Sforza, Braccio da Montone and Malatesta did use their mercenary armies to seize control of city-states and become dukes and lords. However, in 17th century Northern Europe such a development was more or less unthinkable. The reason is, I think, that the power in 17th century states had a different source of legitimacy - it was based on more than naked coercion, but on some variation on the divine right of kings/dukes/princes etc. The more complex structure of the economy also played an important role. Also, one can take control of a city-state using armed force (in a time-honoured tradition, going back at least to the Greek tyrants starting with Cypselus) but it's much more difficult to control a large state using mercenary troops - one would only be in possession of the capital and even if the rest of the country doesn't rise up against the usurper, how would one collect the revenue? And without revenue, you can't control your mercenaries. This issue was grasped well by the contemporaries. The only example that comes to mind of a mercenary captain who tried to turn himself into a ruler is, of course, Wallenstein. And even in his case, it is important to note that before he could really proceed with his ambitious plans he first had to acquire a solid territorial base, the duchy of Mecklenburg, in the "usual way" - receiving it from the Emperor. UPDATE: So far I've explained why a coup by a mercenary captain stood no chance of success. Regarding the wider issue broached at the title of the question: why wasn't the ruling class subverted by the mercenary captains, the answer is actually quite simple: the captains belonged to the ruling class themselves. 

JFW I'm not sure what you're asking for here, 'the German perspective' in what sense? The German army made some serious strategic errors in their attempt to 'take' Stalingrad most of which I might add were fueled by Hitlers arrogance in his own military ability, a mistrust in his own Generals' ability and his petulance in wanting to take Stalingrad as quickly as possible to 'teach Stalin a lesson' and break the will of the Russian people. The Germans used their usual 'blitzkreig' tactics of hitting the city with Panzer divisions and infantry supported by the luftwaffe but made the fatal mistake of almost bombing the city into oblivion which hindered their later progress of clearing the city of Russian resistance which basically took too long. The Russians (what was left of them) dug in and fought a guerilla war in the bombed out remains of the city which meant that the two most powerful parts of the German military machine, the Panzers and Luftwaffe could not be deployed. The harsh winter weather played its part in effectively cutting off the German supply lines and they had to be increasingly resupplied by air which wasn't practical in terms of the weather. This allowed the Russians sufficient time to move other Russian armies into position to encircle the Germans both inside and outside Stalingrad thus cutting off any hope of the trapped German armies inside Stalingrad from being reinforced or evacuated. The Germans made too many mistakes and underestimated the resolve (and sheer quantity of potential reinforcements) of the Russian army. If you want any one particular reason it was Hitlers arrogance and over-confidence. 

Howard Roark explains why the Parthenon is not great architecture and in passing explains that the whole of architectural history has been nothing but a series of copycatting: 

Actually, I don't think there was any Jewish theatre at all at the time. I don't have an academic source at hand but this webpage seems to sum up things pretty well. Look especially in the section "Changing Attitudes under Hellenism". 

Poor finances. The Spanish crown defaulted on its debts four times: 1557, 1560, 1575, and 1596. This was due to poor management, constant warfare which cost a lot and brought meagre returns at best, over-reliance on New World bullion etc (see n. 2 above). 

So one sees the handwatches were just the tip of the iceberg. Interestingly, wikipedia has a special article on this - Consumer goods in the Soviet Union which makes for interesting reading. One quote: 

So Augustus actually appeared in court if summoned! For later emperors, this would have been unthinkable. (However, there were rare cases of the Senate trying the emperor's friends in a way that was rather discomfitting to the monarch, under Tiberius and even under Domitian, of all people!). To sum up, I think that the shift to monarchy was actually likely to have taken place already in the reign of Tiberius (who actually stamped out the very last vestiges of Republican opposition). There is one more point to bring up: what we are discussing here is the attitude of the elite. The common people were probably not very much concerned with constitutional niceties anyway. In fact, the ever-helpful Svetonius tells us that the common folk were not averse to the idea of a king already in Caesar's time: 

I can tell you two things, how many were under Nelson's fleet in the Mediterranean and how many were in commission throughout the world in May 1804. Under Nelson's command were 13 Ships of the Line, 1 Fifty, 11 Frigates, 10 Sloops, 3 Bombs, 6 Gunboats and 2 Cutter and Schooners. In total commission (throughout the world) were 88 Ships of the Line, 13 Fifties, 125 Frigates, 92 Sloops, 18 Bombs, 40 Gunbrigs, 6 Gunboats and 82 Cutter and Schooners and 41 Armed ships. Source: The Command of the Ocean, A Naval History of Britain, 1649–1815, N.A.M Rodger. 

Speed with greater numbers and fear is the primary answer here. The marching columns main purpose was to simply get to the enemy as fast as possible and overwhelm them with superior numbers. The huge columns of soldiers marching to a rhythmic drumbeat would strike fear into the hearts of any opponent. The high casualty rate of this kind of tactic was justified by the speed of victory and was less significant for the French due to their superior numbers. Bottom line - it was a sledge hammmer to crack a nut. This of course didn't work particularly well against the British, despite their inferior numbers, due to their far higher discipline and better training (they didn't break and run so easily) and their greater volley firing rate. All British redcoats could fire 3 musket balls a minute - far better than any other army. 

Actually, according to recently declassified records, it seems that Churchill was very much in favour of summarily executing Hitler should he be captured. Whether this would have really become policy or remained just a bit of Churchillian bluster is impossible to tell. 

There are some coins which show her. But can you be 100% sure that the designers of the coins did not perform an ancient analogue of photoshopping on them? I'm afraid not. 

This is a play from the 14th century (reportedly "the first secular tragedy written since Roman times") relating the tale of Ezzelino da Romano and written by one Albertino Mussato. Is there an online English text? Or at least a published book where it appears in translation? 

Here is what I came up with so far. The lictors are mentioned in the Theodosian Code (This is from footnote n.46 in this paper). More evidence for them at the end of the 4th century CE can be adduced from Gibbon who says that one Ammonius "expired under the rod of the lictor". I don't know what was Gibbon's reference for that but he can be trusted to get such things right. So we know that lictors were still in vogue in the 5th century. When did they disappear? My present guess is that Heraclius might have abolished them as part of his reforms that swept a lot of the Roman heritage away. But that's just a guess, I'll keep looking for a real answer. I also found this tantalizing pointer: