I just read most of Wikipedia's article on the Giant Impact Hypothesis. Basically a large object impacts Earth and creates debris that soon coalesces into the Moon. But there is something I did not find mentioned: How would the Moon get its circular orbit? A debris field from any impact would at first follow a very elliptical orbit, with a perigee very close to the surface of the Earth and an apogee much farther away. In orbital mechanics, where you start is where you end up. In fact it doesn't even have to be where you start. Pick any point in the orbit and you will return there again. In other words, the original elliptical orbit doesn't change its shape. ...Unless there are pertubations or impacts that change your velocity. How exactly did that happen? Does the GIH just assume something else did that fortuitously? I've also seen youtube video simulations like this. It's hard to tell if the camera angle is changing or if the orbital plane is unstable (how?), but you can clearly see the debris goes around and impacts the surface again and again. I.e., the orbit remains highly elliptical. I've never seen a simulation that shows the debris circularizing. I also want to note that this question is highly relavent not just to the Moon, but many other things like orbital capture as well. I've never understood orbital capture theories as they all seem to leave out how the initial elliptical orbit later becomes circular, e.g., Triton. 

Well, then I remembered the precession of the equinoxes. I know precession does not change the fixed background of stars, but can change their relative location. If we rewind the precession 1000 years, does Zeta Tauri cross the zero meridian or the celestial equator? 

With no major mechanisms for gases to be absorbed by the planet, Venus is experiencing a runaway greenhouse effect. Atmospheric escape You mention Jeans escape. It is true that this effect is greater at higher temperatures; however, it is much easier for smaller molecules to escape than for larger ones. Hydrogen and helium, being the two smallest elements, are the most greatly effected by this phenomenon. In comparison, carbon dioxide, which makes up the majority of Venus's atmosphere, is not much affected by Jeans escape. You also mention solar winds. While these play an effect, especially on planets without a magnetic field, this phenomenon is not as powerful as you might think. Ultraviolet light (i.e. photoionizing radiation) causes ionization in the uppermost region of the atmosphere. These charged particles now form a shell (called the ionosphere) that deflect solar winds, much like a magnetic field would. On Venus, the thick atmosphere provides more particles for ionization, resulting in a more powerful deflection. (Compare this to Mars, where solar wind is the primary non-thermal escape mechanism due to the thin atmosphere with few ionized particles.) The primary atmospheric escape mechanism for Venus is actually a bit more complicated. In the absence of a magnetic field, it is easier for charged particles to escape. In particular, electrons are most susceptible due to their small mass. As electrons escape, the net charge of the ionosphere leans positive, causing the ejection of positive ions, mostly H+. Conclusion While Earth and Venus formed similarly, Earth got lucky. It has pathways to remove gases from the atmosphere, while Venus does not. Additionally, the two planets do not experience significantly different rates of atmospheric escape. This results in the atmospheric densities where know today: 66 kg/m3 for Venus and just 1.2 kg/m3 for Earth. 

The Sculptor Dwarf Galaxy is a small satellite Galaxy of the Milky Way. There are many such satellites galaxies and I'm trying to compile basic data on them. However, I can't find an estimate for the number of stars in the Sculptor Dwarf (and many other satellite galaxies too). I'm disappointed that Wikipedia doesn't have this basic information, and that makes me suspicious that estimating the number of stars in other galaxies is not very easy or reliable for current astronomy. Googling these things has resulted in nothing but a bunch of pop science sites...which is no surprise except that these sites don't seem to have the number of stars either. This lack of basic data is surprising and only adds to me worries that no reliable estimates exist. Can anyone find a link to this info? It would also be very helpful to point me to a database that has the number of stars for all galaxies in the local group, if such a database exists. 

I've found various sources on the web stating that the limiting apparent magnitude of the Hubble Space Telescope is about 31 or 31.5. Wikipedia lists that here and it has a cite to a pdf about it. What I want to know is how is that calculated? I'm aware of two methods found at the bottom of a table here, but they seems to be general calculations for ground-based telescopes, because if I plug in Hubble's numbers, I get something around 21. The difference between an apparent magnitude of 21 and 31 is actually something like ten thousands times (in terms of brightness). Also, one key factor missing in their formulas is exposure time. I'm pretty sure the limiting magnitude has something to do with exposure time. Hubble Ultra Deep Field, for example, had an exposure time of about 1 million seconds. So to sum up, how would we calculate the limiting magnitude of a space-based telescope, in visible light? 

The short answer: Atmospheric gases never left Earth, they're in it! The long answer to this question isn't just about the planets' current states, but rather the processes that led them there. Let's start at the very beginning (a very good place to start). The very early years When our solar system began forming 4.6 billion years ago, most of the mass from the collapsed portion of a molecular cloud (see Nebular hypothesis) collected in the center to form the Sun. The mass that didn't collapse into the Sun left a protoplanetary disk—a cloud of dust and gas—surrounding the new star. Gradually, dust particles began to come together through accretion, attracting more and more particles into fledgling planets. Close to the Sun, where Venus and Earth both reside, it was too hot for many particles to condense, so the planets in this region formed with metals and silicates, which have high melting points. This is why the four planets in the inner Solar System are called the "rocky" or "terrestrial" planets. The earliest atmospheres on these planets began forming with the gradual collection of gases from the solar nebula, mostly hydrogen. Goldilocks and the two planets At this point in the evolution of the two planets, they looked pretty similar, but there is one major difference: the distance to the Sun. Earth, it seems, got lucky to be in the "Goldilocks zone", where the temperature is just right to support life. Being in this zone has two major implications: liquid water and, as a consequence, active plate tectonics. (See this article for an in-depth view into why the two are related.) Carbon sinks On Earth, there is considerable water contained in liquid oceans. On Venus, this is not the case. It is simply too hot that close to the Sun, so all the water evaporated into the atmosphere. (Venus likely contained liquid water in its early stages, but it all evaporated after a billion years or so.) It is also likely that the young Earth once had a dense, punishing atmosphere like Venus's today. However, surface oceans and plate tectonics both provided ample pathways for gases to be absorbed into the surface of the Earth. Oceans and plate tectonics offer huge amounts of carbonate storage, allowing the transfer and balance of carbon compounds to and from the atmosphere. So now we have two things reinforcing the differences between Earth's and Venus's atmospheres: