"Repeated wash and rinse is required for most people?" – No – no need! Earliest usage or origin? Rumour has it that David Ogilvy invented this "trick" for Proctor & Gamble". But it is unlikely that he invented this strategy, as should be obvious from Edna Kent Forbes' "Beauty Chat" (The Border Cities Star - Aug 8, 1927): 

The sad thing is, these Reichsbürger are usually completely crazy or just criminal people, with some of the most prominent proponents more comparable to the Emperor of America, despite most of them just a tiny bit to the right from mainstream conservatives in Germany today. But in these two specific points from the claim in question they have some valid arguments in their hand, in theory at least. It is quite complicated because of the trickery involved in the historical events – always initiated by the German government – as they unfolded and as they and there consequences are now, or have to be, interpreted. The case for "no real constitution" These arguments are historically grown. When West-Germany was founded, it did not have sovereignty and no "real" constitution. Both points resulting from allied control over the German lands and emerging states. The West-German state held the view that it was the only legitimate German state and successor to the German Reich, giving itself a preliminary constitution, called Grundgesetz (Basic Law), until all German lands are again unified, including the GDR and crucially, all other territories in the East, now in Poland and Russia, that were internationally accepted parts of the Reich before 1937. 

It is therefor entirely in doubt what was actually said, and no-one can be sure whether Picker was accurate, whether Bormann awas smoothing things over or whether Hitler himself changed anything when glancing over it to authorise it. But as can be seen from the dates this volume is supposed to cover it is not the entire basis for is this book of "Hitler said that". The basis for the quote in question is from an English version published much later! And this 'source' also has a colourful publication history: 

(Every fourth animal product comes from a sick animal) Is the source for the newspaper snippet accurate? In the original press release it was further qualified: 

Synthesising vitamin D needs more than just sunlight. Irradiating cholesterol does not yield what you want. You need those enzymes that are not present on your skin. Any vitamin D present on skin comes from within. From Wolfgang Herrmann and Rima Obeid (Eds): "Vitamins in the prevention of human diseases", 2011, Walter de Gruyter, Berlin/New York: 

tl:dr Yee-es?!? The pharmaceuticals in the US are subsidising something. But what that is is certainly not anything that benefits the rest of the world. The sentences in the claim in question are blatant lies. US prices end up as profits for a large part and are not reinvested, certainly not into research and development of new drugs, as the industry likes to claim. 

A much more thorough analysis and weighed interpretation of events and actors comes to slightly different conclusions: Note that the following source is an analysis that explicitly tries to paint an apologetic picture, emphasising Iranian internal factors. As an additional argument or version it is not to be dismissed. As a lonely "source" it looks too lopsided. 

Conclusion Depending on target and mode of application: even a bath in still stinging nettles might help with joint pains. That may be a bit of an unpleasant tradition that does probably represent the oldest and cheapest but not even the most effective route to deliver the drugs contained in nettle. Stinging nettle has many uses and a wide range of pharmacologically active substances. But high quality research on the whole range of effects for stinging nettle and all its potential targets and applications is still not available in sufficient quantity to reach a definitive conclusion. 

An important note to add is that regular okra use should be mentioned to a practitioner since it can actually interfere with certain diabetes medications (metformin). 

Prescription drug prices in the United States have been among the highest in the world. And given the facts available, that is not easily interpreted in any other way as U.S. Prescription Drug Costs Are a Crime. 

This is a line of inquiry that gets much interest from participants, like students, and very little funding. The newspaper article is based on this paper: 

Even some expert opinions on the different interpretations of the legal status of Germany after 1945, however moot they are now, could be read as lending some support for a few select Reichsbürger views and arguments. As it seems, some need this disclaimer to aid in comprehension: This answer cannot be read as endorsing Reichsbürger views. This answer traces the origins and substance and validity of only two of their arguments. These select arguments are of historical origin and as such not completely without base and validity in history. All parties involved in the 2+4-treaty or the German merger of 1990 attempted some tricks, made sidesteps and mistakes. The Reíchsbürger views as a whole, describing the current status and implications and their conclusions from that, are no longer compatible with the current reality and should be viewed as a backwards oriented and dangerous political aim they have for the future. Not fully sovereign: Soverignty and international treaties, explained by the British Telegraph The 1972 Act: supremacy of EU law explained 

Slipping on a banana peel is not impossible, but unlikely. Banana skins or green grapes as a cause of accident are therefore a risk, and they will have a relation to one another. But these incidents have to be measured against the absolute risk of fall related accidents to make them meaningful. 

Orgasm can influence menstruation. It may help in shortening the time of bleeding/menstruation – it does not say it will shorten the length of what is properly defined as a menstrual cycle. The body text in the claim in question is correct in its own paragraph. The rest of the article and the headline confuse the terms and do not match with this paragraph. 

The Grundgesetz was constructed given the West-Germans two different ways to re-expand eastwards. Any little irridenta tribe and small conglomeration might declare its accession into the Grundgesetz territory – or the "whole German people are reunited after the peace", when crucially the German people were called to give themselves a real constitution. 

So they do use an accelerometer! Way to go to measure what a friendly person holds to your mouth and you get to swallow with a straw. Unfortunately, the reliability of these technologies are not really assessed: 

Depending on the exact definition of "nutritional value", starch and protein are by far the most important factors, but not the only ones. An often cited study as "proof for decreased nutritional value" is focusing on the (trace) minerals Evidence of decreasing mineral density in wheat grain over the last 160 years (2008): 

This is true even now, since Germany relinquished some sovereignty in treaties regarding military to NATO, regarding economy and finances and law-making to the EU. EU-law breaks German national law. That is the stated goal of European integration. Even though Germany dominates the EU, and most of its decisions. This is sometimes costly for Germany. Germany wants his citizens to breath in diesel exhaust without limits, the EU forces Germany to adopt clean air limits in cities, even if that would entail prohibitions on driving dirty diesels, on certain days at least. Given the fact that the US has bases in Germany that violate German laws routinely, the Reichsbürger point is only reinforced. The occupation by allied forces ended in the West officially in 1955, but the troops in Germany did remain unchanged in nature but in name. The 2+4-treaty, said that any occupation of Germany had now finally ended, again. But the troops remained. Only the Soviet/Russian forces really left Germany. French, Dutch, and especially British and American Forces remain stationed in Germany. Whether as occupiers or invited guests and military partners might lie in the eye of the beholder. German military bases in the US are allegedly quite rare to find… Since the Reichsbürger also claim that the German Reich in the borders of 1937 is the aim of a true Germany it is also factual that large swathes of historical German land are supposedly occupied by Polish and Russian forces. As with almost all of their claims and aims, these ships have left the harbour now. The official Germany signed a number of treaties relinquishing any claims in that direction and promised to keep this issue untouchable in the future and really settled for good. These facts are of course just irritating the self generated reality of Reichsbürgers in which they chose to keep dwelling. The Reich: new name, new management, otherwise buggering on in good health These two claims from the question — most others they have do not — do have a solid basis in the history of the legal and political trickery from 1949 until now. The central argument for the existence of Reichsbürger at all is for example much more outlandish, as they claim that the Federal Republic of Germany is not the legitimate, legal successor of the German Reich that collapsed in 1945. While the Reichsbürger are again "somewhat" correct here, but the Federal Republic of Germany is not even the successor state of the Reich! In fact, the FRG is ruled as being identical to the German Reich, even if transformed, from 1871, from 1919 and from 1945. (Although again, there was some trickery involved for legal reasons in the interim):