When jackets get dirty and tired, they no longer 'bead' rainwater and will 'wet out' easier - This is when the outer layer becomes saturated with water. They should still be waterproof, because the inner membrane isn't affected by this. It's 100% waterproof, regardless. However, they won't feel waterproof, because the breathability relies on the water-prepellent properties of the outer layer, which is now saturated and so won't pass as much air. So, any perspiration or moisture from your body has nowhere to go, and you'll feel wet - even though the water's not getting in from the outside. Anyhow, have you read eVent's care instructions? 

I know that's all bit of a leap, but if you had a problem our running in remote country and had to wait for rescue, having all your layers soaked with sweat is giong to be pretty uncomfortable. 

They are marked on OS 1:25K Explorer maps as "Byways open to all traffic". But it's a good idea to research your route beforehand as some (like the Monk's Trod) are now closed by traffic regulation orders - primarily because of the damage caused by off-roaders. 

In the more remote parts, especially during week days, I've walked for days without seeing anyone. So a big check on this part as well I'd say! 

At a casual look, grass with a bit of surface water on it can look very similar to a potentially deadly marsh, and in many rural places there can be lots of both after it's been raining! In dry weather it's easier to spot, since most wet ground will be somewhat marshy. When it's been raining though, is there a good way to tell the difference other than to put your foot in and see? 

My one experience can be summarised as "ish". It definitely helped / worked in light rain, so if that's all you're trying to achieve then it should be fine. But for heavy rain or pressing the garment against a wet surface, it was all but useless. Afraid it was a while back and I can't remember the specific brand I used, but after talking to a couple of other people who've also tried it they seemed to have similar experiences. 

For compasses, it will depend on the model. You can get globally balanced compasses like the Suunto M3 Global, but Silva compasses (probably the most common in Europe) tend to be balanced for the Northern Hemisphere. As LBell says, they'll point the right way, but just won't work smoothly so you run the risk of taking inaccurate bearings. It's worth looking at a declination map to understand the scale of the problem. We're not talking just a degree or two out. Large parts of the world are 20 degrees or more away from polar north. Another point: when you correct for declination, you need to correct from magnetic north to GRID north (which will not be the same as polar, and the difference will vary according to your location on the grid - as well as over time). Some smartphone apps (e.g. Eclipsim's GPS Status) can help by using GPS to determine location, and then lookup using declination map data to give the required correction. You can then set your compass accordingly and switch off the phone. Good background material here and here. 

As above really, is there a resource where I can find all the "off-road" style lanes in the UK where I could legally drive a 4x4? 

Camping on a slope is really quite common, and while an extreme slope can cause problems a mild one shouldn't and is all part of the experience! I find it comfier to set the tent so I'm sleeping at an angle rather than rolling against one side, so that may be something to consider. Likewise if there's just a relatively rocky surface you should be ok - if you want to make sure you don't puncture the tent then putting down a tarp first certainly wouldn't do any harm. Beyond those points, you really have to look at starting to change your environment - but if this is the case decide if you really need to, if you're allowed to and if it's really going to make a big difference. It really does go against the "leave no trace" philosophy, so consider that first. The situation can vary wildly depending on whether you find yourself in a survival situation or whether you're just out on a few day's recreational wild camping. If you do decide to modify it, see if you can level the ground off with your available tools - not so it's dead level per-se, but just so you have a reasonable slope that means you can still get some good rest. Or, if you don't fancy levelling off ground for an entire tent, you may want to level off just a bit so your stove (if you have one) sits level (if it's not then it could be a hazard since it's more likely to tip over.) 

IANAL, but... The riverbed is owned by the landowner (although the water isn't), so removing rocks (or any other item) from the riverbed is the same as removing them from anywhere else on the land. In other words, it's probably theft, so NOT legal. If you're concerned about it, ask the landowner's permission. Also note that the CROW act is pretty restrictive about what you can do in rivers and lakes even when they're on access land. No boating or bathing... : $URL$ 

I take a Primus EtaExpress stove with me when camping, and am slowing accumulating a collection of canisters with only around ~20% gas in them. With this little gas, they don't have enough pressure to be useful in anything except ideal conditions (hot, windless, and you have all the time in the world) but I'm reluctant to dispose of them. Is there a good way of constructively using up the remaining gas - and what's the right way to recycle the canisters when they are properly empty? 

There's two schools of thought here that I know of - the first is to avoid lighting a fire where there's ground you could easily damage, and the second is avoiding the heat getting to the ground. Combine both if you can. As far as the first goes, I won't say a great deal about that because beyond the obvious (being open minded about where you camp and looking around for a good spot) there isn't much else that can be done. As far as minimising the heat getting to the ground, when I want to take this approach I generally pile rocks on the base of the campfire, then light it the fire on the rocks. It's not a foolproof approach, and rarely leaves the ground completely trace-free, but it's a darn sight better than the mark you get just having a bare fire on the ground. 

The big advantage that classic dome tents will have with strong winds is the addition of the guy ropes. With a popup tent, in high winds the stress will be on the tent itself, with guy ropes the stress is on the ropes and (when erected properly) a certain amount is channelled down to the ground via the pegs. Now this isn't to say popup tents will break the minute they hit a moderate wind - but the point I find most people don't consider much is that when popup tents do break, they use such a combination of internal poles / springs that they're near impossible to fix in the wilderness with tools you may have on hand. Quite simply, there's much more to go wrong, and much less chance of fixing it if it does. If you apply this ethos to a dome tent in high winds, if something breaks it's very, very likely to be the guy ropes that go first (because they're what should take the brunt of the force.) If you awake the next morning to find a couple of guy ropes snapped, 10 minutes later they can be near as good as new with a short piece of paracord and a moderate knowledge of good knots. Combining those together I'd say that at lest for serious use, popup tents are not as well suited to high winds as dome tents. 

FWIW, I used a short NeoAir mat (with the platformat from my OMM pack under the feet), PHD Minum 500 down Bag, TarpTent Scarp 1. I left my lighter Marmot Atom bag at home, which I think was the right call. 

I've heard that leaving the jacket in a car on a hot day, or carefully using a hairdryer on it will improve the DWR without the risks involved in ironing. 

...and the second showing effect of different clothing. In this test with 10degC water, subject (wearing 'street' clothes) had core temperature of 35.6degC after 30 minutes. 

I've never had a pack failure 'in the wild' but I think my usual repair kit of duct tape, tie wraps and a bit of paracord should be able to handle most things. Minor strap and buckle failures aren't likely to cause you major problem - but if a shoulder strap fails, that's quite a challenge: Just remember your pack is a vital part of your gear, and look after it well! 

"list" questions can cause problems on stackexchange sites, but, anyhow... From a UK perspective, Robert Macfarlane's "The Wild Places" is excellent. 

You don't say what area specifically you're looking at, or what your budget is - but Anquet seems to do a number of electronic copies of standard OS maps for prices I wouldn't consider unreasonable here. Of course, if you mean the whole of the UK / Europe then the cost will be high, but I don't think there's really much getting around that. It unfortunately seems to be the case that if you want this level of detail, you have to pay for it! Who knows, in the future perhaps prices will come down somewhat. 

When choosing a water bottle for hiking, a very distinct choice I can make (amongst all the other types of materials and hardiness, size and so on) is weighing up whether to purchase a "hard" plastic bottle, or one made from a softer material that can be squashed. What are the advantages of each, and why might I choose one over the other? 

I know a few people who say they're useful - and they are certainly very versatile. There's nothing very complex about them, it's just a section of stretchy material that you can wear however you like. They can be used wet for cooling, or dry underneath a hat for a bit of extra warmth, or as a scarf. If you're on a gentle hike or a fun backpacking trip then there's no harm in having one, they're cheap and if nothing else a bit of fun! I wouldn't say they're an essential piece of serious gear though - kit dedicated to the task it's meant to do will almost always do a better job (a proper scarf will likely be a lot warmer than a buff as a scarf for instance.) 

It Depends. Actually, it depends on pretty much everything: Weather, terrain, fitness, group size, and of course, how long a day is. It's better to think of 'How much can I do in an hour, and how many hours do I want to walk/climb for?'. I'd start using Naismith's Rule. But, as you get experience about your own group's speed and fitness, adjust it up or down as appropriate. 

If you're out of the water and wet, you will lose heat by evaporation (as well conduction and convection), so dry clothing and dry body are important. 

Each scenario is probably different, so you'd likely make a plan on the hoof: How far are you from your previous 'checkpoint', and how far is it to the next? What time of day is it, etc... If the 'lost' couple were at the rear of the group (a likely scenario) and you're following a rerasonably well defined trail, then backtracking for a while (or at least, sitting and waiting) to look for them seems common sense: An accident or injury could have slowed their progress significantly, and the next checkpoint could be a long way off. And, who's carrying any group medical kit..? 

Sounds obvious, but if you've got enough fuel and it's snowy, gather some to melt. Bear in mind though that you'll get vastly less water than you might expect, so be prepared to grab lots of it. Stay away from coloured snow as well, not just for the obvious reason but because very nasty bacteria can also cause coloured snow (pinkish as well as yellow.) If there's no snow, have a look out for some common signs of water nearby: 

Also worth mentioning are caches which are difficult or dangerous to get to - but these don't make them bad caches per-se, on the contrary one of the best caches I've found has fitted this description. But you need to be very careful that when doing this you advertise it as such. A lot of people seek out extreme caches, but someone expecting a nano stuck on a lampost and finding he has to cross the Niagra falls on a tightrope isn't going to be too happy ;) 

Yes, they may be fatal! Is that a risk you're willing to take? As pointed out already even if you eat them once and you're ok, that may not be the case the next time. If you're unsure of eating anything in particular in the wild I'd stay well away. With something that's known to be poisonous to a large number of people, it just seems silly to even try! 

On a backpack, you'd have the quick-release buckle, but no clasp. The clasp is really doing two things - stopping the buckle loosening, and making it look tidy. If the buckle is decent quality and condition it's unlikely to loosen much by itself in normal use. I'd just remove the clasp, and shorten the webbing as much as possible (which helps keep it tidy). Carefully melt the cut end of the webbing to stop it fraying. 

I can't answer the rest, but for here's my 2c worth for gloves. Layering : As with other clothes, layering gloves is worth doing. I'd try fairly thin liner gloves inside either mitts or a larger glove than you'd normally wear. This gives an extra layer of insulation, but also means you can just take the outer layer off when you need more dexterity than mitts allow. Mitts have an advantage that there's less 'surface area' around each finger so they can stay warmer. Also they allow warmer parts of the hand (palms) to conduct heat to colder parts (fingers) if you make a fist inside the them.