I think at times it can be helpful, and at times, harmful. The teachings of the Buddha are his experiences. By sharing his atainments, he helps us all walk the path. Unfortunately, if you are too descriptive, people will seek your experience in their practice. They may come to false conclusions that make guiding themselves toards the next attainment much more difficult. I think it may be more helpful to others if someone with attainments focuses on another's practice, and asks them to answer questions that spark introspection that leads them toward their next fruition. 

The Buddha teaches us the path to enlightenment. When enlightenment occurs, the sense of self, attachment, and suffering no longer arise. In my opinion, the Buddhist way is analyzing your experience in order to cultivate wisdom and become enlightened. If someone attepts to steal from you, yes a Buddhist who is attempting to emulate an arahant would give the thief their belongings. But now that your things are gone, how do you react? Are you attached to those possessions? Where does that attachment come from? What does it feel like deep within you? If you have walked the path, it is impossible for someone to steal from you. If you are walking the path and your goal is enlightenment, what is most important is not what happens and how you act, but how through your investgation of your experience is. Training in morality is essential, but I would argue not as important as concentration and wisdom. 

What changes do you need to make? What roadblocks do you believe you can't overcome in your current situation? Enlightenment can be attained no matter what your circumstances are in life are. Living using monastic princaples can assist in removing distractions that can be enticing, but if your practice is strong, you can walk the path no matter where you are in life. There seems to be some sort of misconception that you must ordain to become enlightened or must live according to specific guidelines. The key to walking the path is cultivating morality, concentration, and wisdom. Use the five aggregates to help balance you along the path. Follow the Buddha's teachings in morality as best as you can. Cultivate concentration and wisdom through meditation. No matter your living conditions, you will still be observing and analyzing the same experience. I encourage you to ask yourself while meditating, what makes up my desires to make changes in my life? The beautiful thing is, you already (and always will) have everything you need to attain new wisdom! 

What makes up your desire to have your condition go away? How often is the desire/suffering being felt by you? What physical and mental sensations occur that show you your desire is absolute/a need? What part of you is your condition harming? 

I think this entirely depends on what you are trying to get out of it. If you are looking for more time with the effects of doing the meditation, then I would say do them as often and wherever you'd like! If you are looking for a feeling of inclusion in the Sangha or the feelings that go along with being a part of a religious tradition, then I would say just do them at the Sangha. 

Alright, lets give this a shot. Lets write down a chain of how reality is perceived before we start. That way, we can understand where this question lies on the spectrum of experience. The fundamental nature of reality of an unenlightened being is described as thus: 

The purpose of Vipassana is to gain insight. Is there any way you can gain insight into the workings of your experience through your newfound aversion? You can observe any experience to gain insight into the truth, but looking into suffering is particularly helpful. Moments of suffering house so much delusion, they are information treasures! Wishing your physical condition to go away is a manifestation of fundimental aversion. Next time you are meditating, I encourage you to ask yourself these questions. 

Yes. There is no difference in how our "waking sight" and "dream sight" operate. Both are nothing more than experience coming through our 6 sense doors. Anything that is experienced, is an existent. You can see, hear, feel, taste, and smell both a dream-snake and snake. You can not directly perceive the son of a barren woman through sight, sound, taste, touch, or scent, but you can conceptualize about the son of a barren woman. You can experience thoughts about the concept of a son of a barren woman. These thoughts are absolutely an existent. 

What you are observing here, if I understand you correctly, is what is called emptiness. All experience is. No experience has any qualitative aspects. No experience holds any meaning. No experience holds any wisdom. No experience holds any concepts. No experience holds any truth. It is not that snakes are not real. Our experience of any type of snake is real, waking or dreaming. They are both equally empty. There is only experience. We single out one aspect of experience and say "this is a snake!" A snake is nothing more than an interpretation of experience. A snake is the conceptualization of only a small aspect of experience. A snake is just a concept that we use to label experience. A label is empty. Just a word or idea. A concept can be realized, but that doesn't mean there is something behind the concept. 

We don't know. The Buddha would in each case know if a person possible got rid of ignorance by death, would know the destiny of certain being. 

Neither such as Buddhism nor such as Hinduism do approach anything or have views, people have, and they have as much different views as there are people, of corse. Maybe this short quote helps in general to do not lose what is called proper attention: 

Aside of being not allowed to ask lay people for nearly all of the requisites, a monk (Bhikkhu) would be allowed to ask his "near" family (blood relatives) members without violating the rules. Some Sanghas and sects expand near family to the seven generations, which in Asia then mostly includes the whole paticular village one lives. If one actually does (ask) or not, is another matter, since from a kammic view (e.g. accumulating certain debts) it has it's impact as well. Especially if not really familar with Dhamma it can cause lot of troubles. It's maybe worthy to note that monks for the most, especially from a modern or western backround, asked or not usually can not aspect much support or help from family. One leaving home therfore should be clear that he will be most dependent on the "new" family, the ideal Sangha and those following them (sometimes "only" cultural). Generally one is good advices not to hope or count on support one was used to gain once having left home. The other extreme is merely reality in SEAsia, where sure 80% and more monks maintain their lifes mainly on the family. A normal situation that as side effect let people mostly think "if he needs really something, he will ask his family", especial "problematic" in regard of medicine, if being someone have left home actually. There is also a kind of new wave (certain western monks are included): children of rich people, with full support and living like such... they are really annoying when going begging if like or call mommy. So all in all, a matter one should think very carefully about. would it be right/moral to ask support from one's parents In short: "Right is given to do so, yes. From a moral point of view: really if even better do only in cases of real emergency." (Neither is it good for once conscious nor does it shine bright in regard of the Sanghas-members. And althought generally allowed one is actually easy and fast in transgressing a heavy falt: corruption of families, Sanghadisesa 13. Something actually very common sadly.) Nevertheless, one support one would need from ones parents anyhow: the acceptance that one may leave home. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

Nibbana is displayed in the third Noble Truth, which might be the most proper way to describe it, yet it lies beyond the sphere of imagination, because there is nothing compareable in the sphere of the six senses: 

Akila Hettiarachchi, and those with interest, Taking side and to even maintains ones livelihood by such means is a heavy offense, when it falls under the rule given as Sanghadisesa 13, which, if a monk does not change his ways, could/should lead even to be banned from the community. (See disciplinary transactions). If on ordering or suggesting, e.g. by means of speech, with words, signs, letter, gesture, he moves people to act on it, saying "it would be good to kill, beat, derive, ban... those/him, her...", he did beak the certain rule for each case, if it is done on that account. In the case of killing, he would have transgressed a downfall rule, Pārājika 3, or if possession if taking on his account, Pārājika 2. In this cases, he does no more count as member of the Sangha, whether he accept, confesses or not and can no more ordain in this live. 

See also "The fruits of the homeless life: DN 2" The "knower" and the "known" disappearing is the last in line: ceto-vimutti & panna-vimutti. 

Eggman, and those interested, The answer can be found in Methuna Sutta: The Discourse on Coupling: Brahma/Abrahmecariya. It's simply a matter of desire of be coming and on most networks just a maintaining with sensual pleasures. Unskillful entertaining of the mind. 

Mt person does not know why scholars and teachers usually translate paññā-vimutti as "liberation through wisdom" rather than "liberation from wisdom" but that is possible because they need something to stick on, nurishing on that. A technical approach might be found here as well, by Upasaka Warapol: Let's See: How It Hard To Let People Get In "Self" Word Of Diṭṭhi And Māna An older discussion about wisdom vs. knowledge (not found for now...) Since currently editing manual into html, ZzE-format, for those liking to gain knowledge about wisdom or those liking to gain wisdom by possible meritiouse deeds: Wisdom and the seventy-three Kinds of mundane and supramundane Knowledge - Ven. Ñāṇadassana Bhikkhu - e.g. let those willing to make merits, do merits, and those greedy, up to gain, accumulate.