First, do you have cycling shorts w/ a chamois? If not, I would highly recommend them. As a note, they are your underwear (ex: do not wear undergarments and then put on the shorts). Second, how did you choose your saddle? Was it fitted through some type of measurement system ala bontragers inform system or specializeds BG system? How much did you spend on the saddle and was it appropriate for the style of riding you are partaking in? Third, does your bicycle fit you properly? Have you had it fitted? So, there are a few points that you could answer to give me some help. I cannot recommend a saddle because everyone is different but I can recommend a brand that provides some type of measurement system for choosing your saddle. As well, if you are wearing cycling shorts a nice chamois butter might help with the chafing. 

$URL$ This service .pdf indicates that you need 15x26x7 bearings. I did a quick search on Enduros website and they don't appear to make this size in ceramic. A quick web search came up with one option that I could (quickly) find. $URL$ Typically, in my experience, the bearing manufacturers are not going to say that they have a kit for a WTB LaserDisc Lite hub. They simply make bearings of a given size and if they are what you need, great. What the .pdf doesn't specify is what size the freehub body bearings are. It gives a part number for replacement as a UNIT but does not break it down into its finer parts. Read further along in the .pdf and they do indicate that you can replace the bearings from the freehub quite easily. My recommendation is taking them out, measuring them w/ a vernier caliper and then doing a quick search to see if you can acquire a ceramic version. Hopefully this helps a bit. 

Check that the wheels are true. Like ChrisW mentioned, angle the pad slightly to make sure the brake pad doesn't touch the wheel all at once to have more leeway in the rim. 

Cycling speeds do vary greatly, and I'd advise to remember your average long-distance speed from a day of cycling and cut away a third to take the many unknowns and saddle soreness into account. When I cycle for half a day, for example, I usually average 15-20 kilometres an hour, so I'd expect 10-15 kilometres an hour or 100 kilometres per day for longer distances. That was close to my average on the one 3-day tour I made. Make sure you match the terrain and street conditions, though. My above estimate was for hilly, towny European terrain. In the vast reaches of colonial America, you will probably be able to go faster. 

Amongst the other factors, the TDF is an outdoor event and therefore subject to climate change. A few kph change in average wind speeds can cause a few kph difference in the achieved average speeds. It is known that wind speeds have been rising by 5-10% over the last quarter-century (thanks to Colin Pickard for the link), and France's climate is dominated by westerly winds from the Atlantic. Therefore, the generally faster winds on the Atlantic can be expected to cause faster winds in France and therefore more wind resistance for the cyclists, slowing an upward trend in man and material. 

Why did early manufacturers of safety bicycles put the drivetrain on the right? I have no evidence for this, but it's always struck me that a large part of the reason is surely that the safety bicycle originated in a country where you drive on the left. When you're pushing your bicycle, or mounting or dismounting it, you're less likely to get chain oil on your clothing if you stand on the side away from the drivetrain. But it also seems sensible to walk or stand on the footway (sidewalk) and hold the bicycle in the road (note the same principle applies even when there's no footway - you want to stand away from passing traffic). Hence in a country where you drive on the left, it makes sense to stand on the left of the bicycle and therefore the drivetrain should be on the right. I've found that one secret to avoiding getting oil on my trousers is always to stand to the left of my bicycle when pushing, mounting and dismounting, and always to park it with the right (drivetrain) side against the wall or stand. This even means that when I stop on the left side of the road and lean it against a wall to my left, I turn it around first. But it becomes difficult to keep to this rule when I cycle in countries where they drive on the right - i'd be standing in the road when mounting or dismounting. 

Material: The material of which the chain is made of affects the price greatly. Titanium chains, while not common, are ridiculous in terms of price. Often, in terms of material, it is the 'finish' of the chain that can affect its (claimed) performance and thus its price. For example a DA 7700 chain is nickel plated, DA 7800 has a zinc alloy etc etc. These are claimed to increase life span and reduce corrosion Weight: As posted above, the less you get, the more you pay. Technology: Hollow pins, unidirectional chains that improve chain pickup etc. can increase the price of a chain as well. Lastly. Name. Campagnolo is still silly expensive for being a chain that is no better than that (arguable, I know) of comparable brands. 

You would have to change to a new crankset*, I would recommend a road triple for this (52/42/30), and acquire a road triple front derailleur that was suitable for a flat bar shifter. Shimano makes the 2200 crankset which is quite affordable and will (I believe ... chainline might come into effect here) not necessitate a new bottom bracket. In my experience the FD-R443 derailleur (a road triple, for flat bar) works very well with this set up. Can I now ask, why do you want a bigger chainring? My experience is people jump the gun on needing larger gears (unless your rides are almost entirely all downhill) and tend to push a much larger gear than necessary. I have found that alot of commuters and casual cyclists ride with a cadence of ~70 rpm. By making the assumption you are doing such, 15-25 rpm would show vast improvements in bike speed and would garner you greater cardio benefits. As well I would then assume, unless you are a highly trained athlete, that you will not spend a huge amount of time riding 48/11 @90 rpm. Do you have a good set of clip in style pedals and shoes? This will help you work, in my experience, on your pedal stroke. By working first and foremost on your pedal stroke you will improve your muscle recruitment, improve your climbing (able to push the pedal over the top and scrape it across the bottom) and in general increase your average speeds. Anyways, my two cents. *When I say 'have to' I am referring to maintaining a semblance of smooth shifting. The reality is you can typically jury rig whatever you want and it often works. But it won't be smooth and it can be more of a pain in the arse than it is worth. 

The people who ignore the rules of traffic fall into two categories: Those that put reason above the law, and those that just don't care. The first group can be reached by appealing to their common sense. I belong to the first group, I regularly run certain red lights (the ones I know, where I can see for myself that there is no danger), but I never drive past a stopped train. If you want to tell me something is dangerous, do so right away - I'll listen to reason when voiced in a reasonable tone. Do not refer to law or customs, because most people do know the law and chose to ignore it because it makes no sense to them in the situation. Don't know about Toronto, but where I live (Würzburg, Germany), the majority of red lights are necessary only during the morning peak hour and can be safely treated as a yield sign, and most "one-way" streets are broad enough for a cyclist and a car to safely pass each other. However, when there is real danger, simply telling me about the danger is a good way to bring the message across: 

Hydraulics for your drop bar bike might be difficult to acquire. I believe that someone made a cable actuated hydraulic brake ... it was downright terrible. The clamp on adaptors are in my experience a nightmare. They allow for greater vibration and therefore terrible noises. First, check your bike for disc tabs. If it doesn't have them you could have them welded onto your frame by a local builder. As well this could be your opportunity to upgrade your bike. Haha. As well it might be cheaper to simply purchase a new fork rather than have tabs welded on. Who knows? Second, check your wheels. Do you have disc hubs? If not you will minimum have to rebuild your wheels with a new hub. Ensure that you can build the wheels in a nice dependable 3 cross pattern to resist wind up. Again, this might be the time to get a nice new set of wheels. Or the opportunity you have been looking for to start building your own wheels. Thirdly, what shifters do you have? Does your crosscheck have barcons w/ independent brake levers or STI style shifters? If you have STI style shifters then AVID makes a bb7 road disc caliper. This caliper has had the pull adjusted to accommodate road set ups. If your setup features independent brake levers for the calipers the road bb7 is your best choice as well. That's about all I've got for you. If I can think of more ... I'll be back. 

Single-butted spokes are what you need, such as Sapim Strong. Used on tandems and heavily-laden expedition touring bikes. That also means hand-built wheels, naturally. 

I recently bought a 'sportive' bike, i.e. very much like a road bike but with a taller head tube to give a slightly more upright, more relaxed, less 'heads-down' riding position, and a triple chainset rather than a compact double. I think this is a great bike (I'm not telling you its make or model as I don't want to discuss the pros and cons of this specific bike), but the US-based manufacturer produced it in 2010 only. I happened to meet a UK-based employee of theirs at the weekend who told me although this bike was designed specifically for the UK market, its (worldwide) sales turned out to be too small to justify continued production. This surprises me, as I have the impression that only a small proportion of the (lower-end) road bikes sold are ever used for road racing or time trialling, with more used for fitness and day rides, including the sportive events that give this style its name, and that this style of bike is ideally suited to such uses. Can anyone explain why such bikes aren't popular outside the UK?