As far as legal ramifications, they aren't really allowed to be used within the US because of regulations by the FCC. They can potentially interfere with emergency equipment, sensitive electronics, emergency responder radio traffic, and life saving medical devices like pace makers. They pump out a LOT of power, if you wear one for too long you get a splitting head ache from the radio frequencies resonating water molecules inside your body. The larger ones like the CREW system deployed on vehicles can black-out transmissions at up to a kilometer and if you touch the antenna while it is operating like I did on accident once you will get a radiation burn on your hand and all the skin will peel off after a few days. The biggest legal ramifications of such a system in commercial use are liability related. High power High frequency RF transmissions are nothing to mess around with. This is primarily why the FCC regulates which frequencies and power outputs can be used in certain places and for certain applications. 

A Fun Side Effect of Fusion Energy is Infinite Hydrocarbon compounds Hydrocarbons (oil) can be chemically produced from well... hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen molecules. Its just really REALLY energy intensive to the point of being ludicrous at the moment. If you have reliable and mature fusion reactors you basically have so much surplus energy that you quickly have the problem of trying to find out ways to get rid of it. In a post-fusion energy economy energy becomes so cheap that you can now economically perform actions that formerly were scientifically possible but economically infeasible. We're talking transmuting lead or bismuth into gold with particle accelerators, mass-manufacturing diamonds from carbon, and even synthesizing hydrocarbons (oil) from base elements. So to answer your question, all your space oil production needs is hydrogen, oxygen, and carbon (some of the most common elements in the universe) and a reasonably sized fusion reactor powering a refinery where energy intensive processes that would have bankrupt entire nations prior to the advent of fusion energy now take place 24/7 for pennies on the dollar. 

Supposedly we human are able to terraformed Mars decades from now, then in few hundred years able to enhance our genes to be more adaptable to live on harsh conditions, creating space colonies and starting to live on moon, Jupiter's moon, all the way to Saturn. Supposedly we also invented FTL travel between our colonies, and planets in solar system. As dates and years will become very relative, it would be a disaster in daily basis to scheduling for 3D video call meeting, or planning some events if human still count days and years like we do now. So what will be the best way as the universal standard time keeping in this situation? It's more about the substitute of days/months/and years count that we used now based on earth rotation and revolution, what's the other alternatives that can be socially accepted that's not linked on just one planet movement? Sun movement can be accepted as we deal with just one solar system. (Hours/second would easily solve able using whatever precise time counting device that we will have in the future.) As @cort Ammon has showed the linked question in here. I've revised the question, since I've checked and still not found the answer. Thank You 

The question is, could he evolve given a millennia or more time there? Can his brain develop more intelligence as the more time he passes there? Edit : @SRM answers that by word definition of evolving itself i got wrong. What I really mean is can he changing/developing/mutate over unlimited time? 

After failed SWAT team intervention and more than a few failed sniper attempts, air support is requested. The National Guard responds to the call by deploying a small formation of Apache Helicopters. Using herding/suppression fire they drive the dragon to a less populated area, where they then strike it with a few sidewinder missiles. Problem solved. Reference: $URL$ 

What about community service hours? You could even make the punishment fit the crime in some cases. If the person is found guilty of jaywalking, make them to spend their days off as a crossing guard. If the person is found guilty of littering, make them to pick up trash on the side of a highway. And so on... This kind of alternative sentencing is already becoming a little more common in some juvenile and misdemeanor courts in the US. 

SoAndSo may be a deity, holy book, profit, seer, oracle, theocratic leader, or what have you. They simply need to be a authoritative source that's accepted by the leadership or majority of practitioners of the religion. Regardless of who SoAndSo is, once their decree has been accepted, as dogma, for a few generations, it'll be really hard to break it. Humans have been martyred and fought long and bloody wars over these things throughout history, and it very often all boils down to what they were taught about what SoAndSo said. 

For a long time I had imagine that the most advance human can do if we can learn and practice magic and other mysticism like we learn at schools like hogwarts while also interact and develop technology and science nowadays. In this scenario, in our world nowadays some group of peoples manages to spread virally a ton of ancient knowledge of magic that can be practised by anyone and it really worked. Like any other things that spread on internet, the government late to contains it and it have already spread troughout the world. The rules: 

I think let the Ai did it. Count every important person that would be needed including some who should do the hardwork, but also lets make the Ai cross analyze their social media, and criminal records (if we want to restart the earth, make sure we just bring the good seeds). Last, make sure the system can work with no human interference, and no one can change it, and don't let the programmer knows what the Ai real use. So lets not get everyone with the drama of who should or shouldn't be in the ark. Lets make it cold but fair, that some of us will be picked by force of the machine and put there to prolong humanity whether we liked it or not. 

I was a Marine Infantryman and I think people have zero idea how truly powerful modern weaponry is. In movies fighter jets float lazily in at a monster firing point blank until he swats it down like a bird. In reality those jets are going to be at 30,000 feet moving at twice the speed of sound carrying enough ordinance to level several city blocks which they can target and fire from several miles away. For example, the TOW 2 bravo Aero missile (my weapon specialization). It was a 68 pound guided missile with a range of 4,500 meters (just under 3 miles.) The missile covers that maximum distance in 26 seconds. Thats a 68 pound guided missile with a shaped charge that can penetrate meters of concrete or several inches of hardened homogenous steel moving faster than a lot of handgun bullets. The TOW is considered a small and somewhat slow missile, and is also somewhat obsolete since it needs to be manually steered and nwer stuff like the javelin are fire and forget. So yeah. A single Marine could mess up yer dragon good from several miles away and not even have to get out of his gun turret seat. 

As a rule of thumb pack animals can carry about 30% of thier body weight reliably. This is for purposes of packing however, a battle charger would need speed, and so one would need to have that ratio be even better, maybe 15% to 20% of the animals body weight. Minimum size to be reliably ridden is about 800 kilograms, but for battle purposes I would say the lower size limit would need to be roughly about 1000 kilograms or larger. This is an animal that is going to be bigger than a bull moose. 

He/it doesn't need to sleep and eat. Nor also his cell decaying (so he would never aging and still always be on top of his condition). He is stranded on a place that there is nothing there except sandy ground and peebles. It is limitlessly vast, and always basking on a gentle light, there's no night and day, like it always like early morning ambience. Weather change is also absence. On top of this situations he just not going crazy, or desperate so he killed himself. He always looking for an activity to amuse himself. 

And for the Crabs, I agree that it would be like Geonosis from starwars from the global view of their cities. Since we can draw from their nest of their real counterpart that have been found. 

If you mean by without maintenance really means is without human maintenance: then how if you build a forever learning and adaptable ai that can maintain and update itself included in the structure. At first it can deploy a not far future drones to maintain the system and building and later can upgrade itself, learn and discover more technologies, even search and harvest materials it needed from the nature far after human had no longer existed. There's one beautiful story involving a structure like this as its 'main character' its a manga by Boichi $URL$ 

They could eat the monsters. I'm sure that medieval men at arms would vie for opportunities to demonstrate their prowess making a sport out of monster hunting and trapping. Its not exactly a far fetched idea, stone age man hunted mega fauna like the saber toothed tiger, cave bear, and woolly mammoth with stone tools so why wouldn't iron age warriors do the same? 

The idea that you can believe a simulated cut is real hard enough for it to magically appear on your body a la Matrix is pure bunk. But..... You could end up with real psychological trauma from simulated events. The pain itself could be simulated realistically enough that say, a guy in a war scenario with zero saftey interlocks could step on a landmine and expierience a double amputation with shrapnel embedding itself in his abdominal cavity rendered in full spectrum sensory feedback (through some sort of hand wavey nueral interface) and develop some form of Post Traumatic reaction to the expierience. Also in the Hyperion Cantos novels theres a scene where the protagonist walks through a house where the occupants are all emaciated and plugged in to a direct neural uplink VR set. They had elected to commit suicide by shutting the saftey features off so that the system would not automatically disconnect when sleep, food, water, or other necessities were needed. Its not too far fetched from current reality, cyber-gaming cafes in asia have had customers die in thier chairs from exhaustion after multi-day marathon gaming sessions. 

There seem to be more than a few plants that rely on their seeds being eaten to spread and reproduce. Usually herbivores eat the plant and pass the seeds through their digestive systems and deposit the seed on the ground with a lump of fertilizer. Well, what if the seed simply opted to sprout earlier and take root while still inside the unsuspecting animal? Starting its life cycle more like an intestinal parasite and eventually growing to a point where it would block and eventually burst the intestine killing the animal. Then it could take advantage of the corpse as fertilizer. Of course the process would be really slow and painful for the animal, so one would assume that animals would avoid the plant and just not eat it, but I'm thinking that if the process was slow enough most animals wouldn't make the connection between the fruit eaten and the death weeks later. 

The body will pass an awful lot of contaminates, we consume them all the time, so I'm not too sure about specific doses. I'm sure for common dangerous contaminates you could some info or at least anecdotes. 

I would probably go with a religious order. Leave a sufficient offering at the temple of and your enemy simply disappears into the night. The people don't really need to know how it happens, just that it happens. The silent, chaste, and otherwise unassuming monks either are or are the contact point of the assassin's guild. In the event of a monotheistic world they could be the order of St. Swithen's, the patron saint of lost causes. Who's been known to help a person out from time to time... If you know what I mean... Being a religious order carries a certain respectablity that would help an assassin's guild maintain a "beyond reproach" place in the community.