In mathematics there's a type of book, bordering on the textbook but slightly different, that compiles examples to demonstrate the necessity of various conditions on theorems and the correct directions of implication. For example, to show that a connected space need not be path-connected one can construct the topologist's sine curve. My question: are there any similar compilations in the philosophical literature? For instance, in epistemology the obvious set would be the Gettier cases (to show that JTB is an insufficient analysis), along with Armstrong's (?) barn facades and fake towns (to show that context seems to be important) and so on. In ethics we have Nozick's experience machine (the limits of hedonism). Further, potentially-not-site-appropriate question: do people think such a compilation would be in any way valuble in philosophy? 

The question is definitely not philosophy, but whatever. I also don't think you're going to get a particularly interesting answer; we spend early childhood being shown a huge array of animals, and we get pretty good at telling when a new object is similar to an animal we've seen before. Most vertebrates have roughly similar structures (eyes, a head, limbs) and textures (fur, feathers, skin) which aren't similar to most non-animals. And there are very clear cases of our failure to recognise life (think of fungi or mould, which we have to be convinced is technically life). As for your specific case, it's a squid grafted onto a mouse walking almost identically to how humans walk; I don't think you should be surprised we see it and assume it's a living thing. 

A good starting point is to figure out the possible arrangements of people and properties, and then draw a table of what they would answer to various questions in each arrangement.after some trial and error you'll develop an intuition for the kind of questions that give you useful results. Note that as posed there are some questions some men can't answer (specifically, neither the truth-teller nor the liar knows what the random-answerer will say in response to any question). I think Boolos describes this as a head-exploding outcome. 

If you're a utilitarianist, you don't sacrifice your life merely to save the lives of two or more other people with your organs (people who will, in most cases, be ordinary people rather than utilitarianists), except in the extremely unlikely situation that the people who need your organs for their survival are utilitarianists and there are no non-utilitarianist or less healthy and/or older utilitarianists than you who could save those utilitarianists' lives in your place! The utilitarian thing to do is not "to improve the world more than an ordinary person would" or "to do the best you can at an arbitrary isolated point in time", but to improve the world as much as possible, in total, in the long run. You can do so much utilitarian good during a long life as a utilitarian, that it outweighs by orders of magnitude the good your organs could do if you killed yourself while still in good health (with the exception of the above, extremely rare situation). A lot of people falsely assume that in order to be a utilitarianist, you have to be very willing to sacrifice your whole life for just about any two other people in just about any situations, and that you have to give away almost all of your money and belongings to the poor and starving. As if every other human being would have the same value as you, despite your being a utilitarianist! That's not utilitarian - not as long as very few people are utilitarianists. That's underestimating the rarity and exceptional instrumental potential utilitarian value of being a utilitarianist (alive). It's almost as if Einstein would have spent all of his life taking care of mentally retarded kids, never doing any science - despite realizing his genius! Or as if Mozart would have spent all of his life singing in bad choirs, never composing anything at all in his whole life. It's utterly stupid! Those utilitarians. who think suicide merely for the sake of saving a few non-utilitarian lives is utilitarian, are so stupid, they should be ki- (just kidding). The only things you have to "sacrifice" as a utilitarianist are things that aren't good for you anyway, like time-wasting activities and unhealthy habits, like watching sitcoms, eating junk-food, smoking, going on a lot of roadtrips all the time just for fun, pointless things like that. To be a utilitarianist, you should probably eat well, exercise, maybe practice mindfulness, spend a lot of time learning stuff and being creative in your striving for having as utilitarian an effect as you can upon the world in the long run. Sound and rewarding activities like that. Certainly not suicide. You shouldn't even necessarily lead a very modest lifestyle, since that could prevent you from making a lot of money, for example. Making sure you always have a lot of money might be very utilitarian. Just think of how Elon Musk probably has a very utilitarian effect on the world by running his world-improving business, and how that would have been impossible had he given away all of his money all the time - or had he taken his life as a teenager merely to save a few other human beings with his organs, falsely believing that to be the "utilitarian" thing to do! What he now did was so much more utilitarian! (And maybe there was something even more utilitarian that he could have done!) Also, I think Elon Musk seems pretty happy. You can have a very happy and long life as a utilitarian, since efficient world improvement can be fun and requires a lot of time (that is, a long life) - and you should have fun being a utilitarian, or else you won't last long as a utilitarian. Not lasting long isn't utilitarian! 

This is a major rewrite of my previous answer, so if you've read it before you might like to read it again. I'll begin with a definition: "to create" - Bring (something) into existence. (dictionary.reference.com/browse/create). The question of what it means to exist is one that has been covered at depth by the existentialists. A pre-cursor to the existentialists, Martin Heidegger investigated that bit of reality which has the power to ask "what it means to exist", ie Human Beings. (Heidegger proposes this philosophical investigation in Being and Time, an outline of which can be found here.) The study undertaken by this route (continued by Sartre and the existentialists) seems primarily related to human existence, and not existence per se. I hope that I can take another approach to begin to answer this question. I would like to propose that, based on the definition of "to create" given above, "to be created" should be defined as "to be brought into existence where previously one did not exist". If in fact to create is to bring into existence, before one is created one has not been brought into existence. Therefore an uncreated thing has either: always existed, or does not exist. With some agreement on what it means to create and be created we can look at the thing in question, the universe. What exactly is the universe? There are many competing definitions available. For the purpose of this discussion I would like to appeal to scientific defintions. Accepted scientific definitions of the universe have been and continue to be contested. At this point in time we can consider definitions from two camps within physics: the theory offered by Einstein's theory of general relativity and the theories offered by quantum mechanics. I'll consider each briefly. "Relativity says space and time are on equal footing - together they are the fabric of reality" (New Scientist). The article this appears in goes on to describe that space and time are part of a single four dimensional fabric that can be modelled mathematically in ways that are very useful for predicting the behaviour of large objects. On this view, space cannot exist where there is not time, nor can time exist without space. Both include each other. If we say the universe consists of this fabric, I would argue that self-creation is not possible. The reason for that is that on this model the laws of physics hold. Effect follows cause. The effect of being created must follow its cause of creation. Here we come to the nub of the question. Is it necessary to exist in order to create? Or more broadly is it necessary to exist in order to act or have an effect. I believe the answer to this is obvious, and so I will proceed without the support of refernces for this point. Let us say, at least for the sake of argument that to create presupposes to exist. Therefore the thing which creates the universe must exist in the instant prior to creation in order to create. While the universe, to be created, must not exist in the instant prior to creation in order that it may be created. This presents two opposing requirements that cannot be reconciled in the one thing, the creator must exist in the instant prior to creation while the created thing must not exist in the instant prior to creation. Therefore a creator cannot create itself. Thus the universe cannot create itself. Yet the idea that the universe consists of a single four dimensional space-time fabric is contested on the minute scale of quantum mechanics. Space and time, may, when considered at that level, be separate, or they may both be expresions of a more primal reality (New Scientist as above). If the universe is defined to include this primal reality there may be scope for saying it created itself. However, to avoid an infinite regress you must say either that something always existed (and created other things) or that something came from nothing. Depending on how much your "nothing" is actually nothing you may be more or less inclined to reject the notion that something comes from nothing, or that things can spontaneously occur without cause. If you do reject that, the evidence before your senses that there is in fact something, suggests that there always was something. The question then becomes what has always existed? Scientists mostly agree that the universe did not always exist (www.big-bang-theory.com). Theologians agree that God always does exist, on the basis of reason and scripture such as the following: "Before the mountains were born or you brought forth the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting you are God." (Psalm 90:2, English Standard Version).