The Roman Empire site specifies that they refer to the time of Augustus, which at the late end of your time period. Absent further research, I'd give them the nod for precision. Neither site is particularly replete with references. In either case, each legion had someone responsible for the pay chest. 

Wikipedia's article on the Bombing of Barcelona (hat tip to @Brasidas) highlights the new technology, the anxiety of the victims and the horror of other nations. The audience for Churchill's remarks would have been aware of these reactions. 

I can't provide a good answer, but I think this is an amalgamation of several events; I'm not aware of anyone refusing to swear to the Continental Congress on this basis, but I am aware of units refusing orders that violated their charters. First, the Oaths Clause, which touches in turn on State's Rights as discussed in the Federalist period. Second the ongoing challenge that Washington had in retaining recruits, most of whom were obligated to state militia and had no obligation or desire to serve in "national" conflicts. ( I regret that I cannot find a more terse summary) 

tl;dr Modern industrial warfare pushes the economy to 100% utilization; this cures the effect of an economic downturn (which is effectively suboptimal economic utilization). Wars in general, and the civil war in particular create stimulus spending - governments buy bullets and boots. Governments drive the economy to 100% utilization. Unemployment vanishes as young men move from their traditional jobs to new jobs created just for the war. As @jwenting points out, mortality decreases the size of the labor pool, which affects the economic power of the remaining labor pool. Individuals not normally in the labor pool take up jobs to replace the young men. Industry is pushed to 100% capacity - industry produces war goods on a priority footing, causing shortages of consumer goods, which drives up prices, drawing even more idle resources (e.g. labor, capital) into production. Between government need for new weapons and technologies, and the retooling of production lines to produce more bullets and less butter, there are opportunities for innovation. Innovation makes more efficient uses of the available resources and deepens the capital pool dramatically. Furthermore, during wartime, innovation is easier. In normal conditions there are always opponents to innovation, because innovation is never Pareto Efficient. War lowers the commitment to Pareto Efficiency and makes innovation easier to implement. A full explanation of this phenomenon would probably require a small essay. Wars act on financial markets - because wars are intrinsically an existential threat to governments, they borrow money heavily, which further increases the size of the economy and draws financial assets into the markets. There are additional effects of 100% utilization on capital markets, but I would need a lot more caffeine before I could address that question. The civil war was arguably the first industrial war - although the war was fought with boots & bullets, the war was won with trains and industrial production. The North ultimately won because it could outproduce the South. For sources, consult any book on macroeconomics, search on Keynes or Helicopter Ben Bernanke; you can also draw an analogy to quantitative easing. It may also be useful to consult the Parable of the Broken Window; many people believe that the economy grows as the participants replace things that were broken. This is a fallacy. (I might argue edge cases of the fallacy, because there is some benefit from the increased efficiency of new infrastructure & the cost of brownfield vs greenfield development, but those are edge cases and would require a much longer essay. (and I'm probably not competent to write it; I'm only a hobby economist)). A full answer to the question would address the cause of the 1857 panic; unfortunately the 1857 panic was caused by shortfalls in the specie market and it is commonly known that I cannot discuss specie based currency without entering a irrational raging madness that causes me to froth at the mouth like a rabid dog and post page after page of furious invective of the quality usually found on conspiracy web sites. Today I've chosen to spare us that spectacle. @jeff asks whether the results would have been different with fiat currency vs commodity (specie) currency. Not really; the chief difference is that fiat money facilitates a monetary policy, where commodity money restricts the ability of the government to employ a monetary policy. In either case war is an existential threat, (If the government doesn't address the war, the government ceases to exist). In either case, the government must shift the economy to a wartime footing, and in doing so demand more from the labor and capital markets. That increase government demand is what recovers the economy from the downturn. The mechanics are slightly different, but the effect is the same. Wars may cause famines, and the government may choose to address those famines; if the government does, it will continue to stimulate the economy, but the ability of the government to make such choices are constrained by the deficit spending to fund the war. But now we're well outside the scope of OP's question. 

I'm going to have to go with opinion here, so I won't be able to source/support my opinion as strongly as I prefer. There is a major shift in these terms tied to economics. During the mercantilist era (which I'm going to arbitrarily close at the start of WWI), colonies were possessions of the mother country. Colonies were a mercantilist tool that served two purposes. 

A quick google search led me to Model Prime Minister which states that Buchan's name was entered in the Golden Book as a friend of the Jews, but that he was unable to overcome his government's "tragically intransigent policy that excluded Jewish immigration". 

1 The citation is to : Gannon, Robert, "What Really Sank the Titanic," Popular Science, vol. 246, no. 2 (February 1995), pp. 49-55. 

Libya has recently fought a civil war; women probably fought. I can't find any records of Qaddafi's amazon guard fighting, although I would assume they did so. Israel has definitely had women in combat. 

Arguably R.U.R and Metropolis are descriptions of post-work societies, and there a innumerable science fiction stories (Marching Morons) et. al. where "work" no longer has the same meaning. Communism assumes that the proletariat will create a state where work is no longer required. But if you're looking for the term/concept of a post-work society in the modern sense, I can't find anything earlier than this December 2000 Guardian article prior to that, the term "post work" seems to refer to escort services, and I choose not to read any further. Google permits you to search for a term or set of terms and limit and sort by date. I used 

Like I said, this is not what I consider a good answer; I can't prove or disprove the original hypothesis but I hope that consideration of the viability of alternatives will weaken the original hypothesis - kind of like providing reasonable doubt in a trial. 

No. The term pedophilia was not coined until 1886; all of the examples you give were before the term existed. Furthermore, and much more importantly, pedophilia has to do with sexual attraction, and none of these marriages had anything to do with sexual attraction. Although I have not done the required research, I'm confident in asserting that none of the parties involved (neither the spouses, nor their relatives, nor the governments that they represented) expected that the marriages would be consummated at these early ages. As others have stated, these were political treaties that have very little to do with "marriage" as we understand it. I would expect different behavior at a family dinner the night after a holiday than you would at a state dinner where the President of the United States entertains a foreign dictator during a tense diplomatic standoff. The are both dinners, but they really can't be compared. Similarly the marriage between two royal houses cannot be compared to two peasants jumping the broom. 

Strong nations use peace treaties as a strategic ploy. Peace can be a way to re-arm, and restart the conflict on strategically advantageous grounds. War is exhausting and undermines the legitimacy of the participating regimes. When a regime is forced to peace by internal questions of legitimacy and the underlying issues remain, the war will recur. War can be the result of intrinsic conflicts (who will control resources, etc.) these will be fought to the end. Civil wars are less likely to be punctuated; all sides are fully engaged. 

OP states that "etymology above suggests that only certain Roman citizens were bound to moenus." - I don't follow that line of reasoning. I think there is insufficient evidence here to reach a strong conclusion about anything. Having said that, here is the way I would read these definitions: I concur that only certain citizens were bound to moenus. I think the critical phrase is "free town, city whose citizens have the privileges of Roman citizens but are governed by their own laws," This sentence explicitly is not about Roman citizens; this discusses citizens of towns who have been granted (for whatever reason) the privileges of a Roman citizen; such citizens are bound to moenus. 

There are about 20 examples at the association for Renaissance Military Arts. Wikipedia's article on Historical European Martial Arts lists a few more. The Academy of European Martial Arts knowledgebase has an online library. If you are interested, I would recommend starting there, and supplementing with a google search on "manual of the sword", and filtering the results by date. 

That is a reasonably subtle question, and deserves an answer that is both better reasoned and better researched than I'm capable of (particularly at this moment). I think that they would generally disagree that the state was a god, but that they would agree that the state could only survive with the active cooperation & sponsorship of a god. I think that 95% of the population would agree that gods controlled the unseen forces that were responsible for the success or failure of anything beyond human control. Every state/polis/civic entity/institution was sponsored by a god. The institution flourished with the god's favor and suffered for the god's ire. I'm going to draw a broad analogy here - this will not hold up for analysis, and in no way do I mean to disrespect, but imagine that there were an ethnic group in modern day america that refused to say the pledge of allegiance, to pay normal deference to the flag, refused to participate in judicial proceedings because they included the flag, refused to enter public buildings that displayed the flag, refused to send their children to public schools (because the school displays the flag). This group would not, under penalty of prosecution, perform even the most minimal acts of respect for the flag (standing, saluting, etc.) Imagine that they rejected the compromises of groups like the Jehovah's Witnesses who find compromise positions that endorse the state while rejecting the practices that they find idolatrous. Such a group would be subject to a great deal of scrutiny to try to understand their contempt for our shared symbol. THe early Christians rejected the civic symbols of their neighbors - they went even further and asserted that respect for national symbols was idolatrous and sinful and imperiled the eternal soul. Like I said, this is not a precise metaphor - nobody today believes that the flag's happiness is required for national prosperity. But if such a group existed (and I am not interested in examples or counterexamples), they would be the intolerant ones, not the flag wavers. This is veering away from history rapidly. 

I can't offer a good answer, so I'll offer a bad one. * One of the impacts of the English Civil war was the creation of Whig philosophy - the notion that although England would remain a Monarchy, supreme power lay in the hands of Parliament. (Obvious oversimplification here; it might be more accurate to ascribe this to the Glorious Revolution, but to my mind the two are inseparable). This notion gave rise to a couple of related notions. (In each of the points below I'm citing the influence of a broader principle on these two events; in no way to I mean to limit these conflicts to this period, but think that the Civil War and the American war for independence represent significant inflection points in the development of these notions. 

Wikipedia, which references Arnold Toynbee, "A Summary of Armenian History up to and Including the Year 1915," in Viscount Bryce, preface, The Treatment of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire 1915-16: Documents presented to Viscount Grey of Fallodon, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs By Viscount Bryce (New York and London: G.P.Putnam's Sons, for His Majesty's Stationary Office, London, 1916), pp. 637-653. 

Examining those numbers, it seems quite possible to me that the total number of mutineers might rival the Royal Indian Navy Mutiny. 

tl; dr The empire was a collection of semi-autonomous states that shared a long coastline protected by a Marathan Navy. Most of the answers can be found in Wikipedia. 

The British system wasn't designed; it evolved. They didn't set out to create an empire, and had no idea that they would be so successful. Consequently they developed imperial administration reactively. If we consult a third source, we get a conflicting view. This one sounds like an analysis by language, rather than by politics. The Lord Lieutenant of Ireland is certainly more important than the Governor of Virginia. 

I could probably cite a dozen more reasons, but none of them will answer your question, because your question presumes that the two events were related in a simple fashion, and reality was far more complex. 

I continue to maintain that the real answer is, "Whatever the currently reigning Archduke says to call him", or "Whatever tradition says" - but wikipedia's (unsourced) assertion has some merit. If the ruler is sovereign then the heir apparent is a Prince. Update: As @Semaphore has pointed out, Grand Dukes are distinct from Archdukes. The critical fact is that the duke is sovereign. A sovereign ruler use any title including Duke, Grand Duke, ArchDuke or "poobah and bottle washer"; the heir apparent to a sovereign rule is a "Prince" unless local tradition or autocratic decree mandates a different title. 

Historian J. L. Bell has done some research on this tl:dr He believes this is a spurious quotation. My ego leads me to quote the following from Bell, which states far more clearly the concept I tried to articulate in my other answer(s). 

@NL7 has offered a fantastic answer, but I'd like to add one thing. Allocation of land was not "rational" - inheritance was complicated and it is entirely possible for a noble to have multiple non-contiguous parcels of land. It is entirely possible that a noble could inherit several strips of land that surround or enclose another noble's land. 

Just to be clear the reference given in that quote is to " Philip Sabin, "The Roman Face of Battle," Journal of Roman Studies 90 (2000), p. 5 Quoting from Sabin, 

1) Bretton Woods required the participants to maintain a monetary policy that resulted in a relatively stable exchange rate. 2) Below the international coordination of exchange rates was a gold standard. 3) supporting the system was the IMF's ability to make temporary loans to assist countries to fulfill their obligations. Why is this important? Because it is international coordination to maintain stable exchange rates and to prevent devaluation/deflation. If I go much beyond that, I enter the realm of rhetoric (it is difficult for me to conceal my contempt for currency based on specie, and this is not the appropriate venue for my bile.) To fully understand Bretton Woods, you're going to need to understand monetary policy, and the dangers of deflation. The best short summary is that the amount of currency in a country must be coupled to the amount of production - if one country outproduces another, currency will flow to the producing country. Prior to Bretton Woods, this had been solved by arbitrage, but there are some undesirable features of arbitrage. Monetary policy without coordination can result in a "race to the bottom" phenomenon in everyone looses; the winner merely loses less. Coordinating monetary policy avoids this failure mode. 

You've revised the question in comments; you're not asking why people opposed Communism, you're asking why they opposed it more than Fascism (dictators) The difference is twofold - first in the claims they made and second in the cultures where they took root. What claims did Communism make? Communism advocated worldwide revolution, the abolition of private property and the establishment of a new world order. (pick your own source - they all make me sick to the stomach to read) According to the communists, only the laboring class would rise; all others would fall (and probably fall to the knife). Take a quick look around you - are you willing to bet your family's life that you're one of the elect? Are you completely sure that there isn't someone poorer than you who will claim that you are bourgeois? (Hint: if you're using the internet, I can guarantee that there is a class of people who will happily denounce you, and seize your property as their own.) Communists offered class solidarity to a world that wasn't accustomed to thinking in terms of classes. (I yearn for those halcyon days when we could actually think about a problem before first assigning blame to the bourgeois). You would ultimately be united with people who shared your class interest, but you had to learn communism before you understood your class interest. And of course if you didn't understand your class interest, you were a counter-revolutionary and should be punished. Is there anyone who wants to admit that they don't share their class interest? Trains to the labor camps form on the left. Communists rejected religion and pretty much all traditions. If there was something you liked about your childhood - a holiday, a meal, the notion of a birthday present? that was counterrevolutionary and must be suppressed by force. Everything you remember as pleasant must be replaced by communism. You have no immortal soul, there is no God. If you believe there is a god, the train to the labor camp starts on the left. If your parents are religious, the state will ship them off to a labor camp; all you need to do is betray them to the state. Or if you have some loyalty higher than the state, the train to the labor camp begins on the left. _Note - @jamessqf says that anti-religion was a major selling feature of communism. I get that - the Great War had made it tough to believe in a loving God. But there is a big difference between doubting god and never celebrating Christmas again (or Eid, or Yom Kippur, or..). Most of us have a bit more trouble telling our parents that we reject everything they have taught us about good and evil. That not only are they profoundly wrong, but that unless they embrace the revolution, the train to the labor camp begins on the left. My point is that communism demanded total loyalty. Communism was more important than anything else in your life. Nobody believed that the communist utopia would arrive in your lifetime; the only reward you could hope for was to struggle and die so that the proletariat would eventually rule the world. Remember Boxer?? The only thing holding back the proletarian revolution is that you're not trying hard enough. You - you personally are failing the revolution. You should die of shame, but the party, out of kindness, will work you to death to atone for your crimes. Also in response to @Jamesqf, that argument carries a great deal of weight with the young - they tend to reject their parents beliefs. But OP is asking about national leaders who aren't that young anymore. What claims did Fascists make? Mussolini and Hitler offered to bring order, to bring pride to the nations, to cultivate and raise up the people to their true nature. They promised to keep order, to keep people safe, to enforce the law and make the trains run on time. There is also a cultural context. Germany and Italy needed hope, and their culture was receptive to ideologies that provided hope. I'm not as familiar with Italian Fascism, but remember that German Fascism was in part a reaction to French Liberalism. France conquered Europe and imposed "liberalism" on the conquered people. Germany knew what "liberalism" looked like, and it looked a lot like oppression. Germany explored alternatives to Napoleonic Liberalism - alternatives in which it was possible to be proud to be a German. BBC History had a very good article on Italian reactions to Mussolini a couple of years ago - I find it nearly impossible to cite articles from BBC history, but if you search their website you should be able to find it. Dictators offered racial/ethnic solidarity - you would be united with people like you. People like your neighbors and friends. The power of the nation united would transform you. Tradition was good - the traditions, habits, cultures and religion of your parents are part of what makes our nation great - you should be proud of these traditions. The future is so bright we've got to wear shades! I'm not defending fascism; both were evil, anti-liberal ideologies. Both ideologies are effectively religious and require you to believe in things you cannot see. But ultimately Fascism promises order, safety, comfort, unity, and the removal of all danger. Communism promises revolution, the opportunity to fight, to kill, all in service of a future that nobody can describe, except that it is different from today. At the root, both ideologies promise absolution for killing people you fear; because the people you're killing are not really people. They're capitalists, or bourgeois - and therefore killing them is not a crime, it is a noble act in defense of the future. And pretty much anyone you don't like is probably one of those "others". Edit based on @user2520938 - remember that fasicst wanted a better future for their country/their race/whatever. Communists could not be content with less than the world. Every human being must participate in the proletariat revolution or die. Fascism was surgical - remove the liberal elements and revive the people. Communism is an ideology of mass destruction.