Why do undead have to be evil or nefarious? Why not just have them be... different? (Yes, I know Discworld pulled that one off, but hear me out...) The cycle as you describe has: 

Visual signaling is a lot faster than verbal processing, especially with a new language. The fastest way to do this is to use short hand signals - you sometimes see this in cop shows and war movies. This can be combined with HUD alerts. Think Google glass overlays or a standard fighter pilot cockpit. Since you're talking about aliens (but didn't specify whether we're on earth), the HUD is feasible tech. The military already has models it's working on, so it isn't really a stretch for your world. Basically, direct visual range =hand signals, father range = translate verbal commands from allied commander to visual signal overlaid of l on HUD. 

But is the above statement necessarily true? In this question the OP asks about terrestrial rivers temporarily flowing uphill on a map, but most of those answers involve "resolution" issues (where average gradient is uphill but local gradient is downhill), pressurization, or alternate physics. The answers to the linked question are all local geographic tricks. OP there is focused on earth and cartography. I'm looking for physics on alternate worlds, not necessarily talking about water. Titan has hydrocarbon rivers, Europa has cryovolcanoes, Venus has molten rivers. Would it be possible that a certain combination of environment, chemistry and physics could create "uphill rivers" across significant distances and timescales? For instance, a naturally occurring superfluid that flows upward between multiple reservoirs or something more exotic? EDIT: To clarify the parameters of the question, a river is defined as a naturally occurring stream of water or other fluid flowing through a channel toward a reservoir, such as an ocean or lake. This means things like underground streams certainly classify as rivers, but something like a geyser does not (since it does not flow toward a reservoir). 

Basically, we've already got a lot of that going now. Between Youtube, Soundcloud, Blogger, Wordpress, Vimeo, etc. there is more digital culture being produced than ever before WITHOUT MONEY NEEDING TO CHANGE HANDS. Copyright law was written in an era where production of anything (and especially culture, books, music, art, etc.) required immense resources. We're far past that point. So what happens when you take the money out of culture? Then people produce culture because they want to. We wouldn't have "The Fast and the Furious 6," but we'd still have movies and music. We're already seeing patronage resurfacing through crowdfunding platforms like Kickstarter, Indiegogo, and Patreon. Bands will still be valuable - time is unique and non-digital, after all - and they will continue to earn the majority of their revenues from appearances and merchandise, rather than the music itself. This has actually ALWAYS been the case with musicians - the record labels make the money on the music and CD's, not the bands. Hulu "sells" TV for free (as did all TV before cable) - they make money off of your eyeballs, not your subscriptions. Soap operas are so called because they were bought and paid for by soap companies. No one purchased episodes of Days of Our Lives. Radio is free, "digital" music. So in short, it wouldn't look too different from today, just with fewer middlemen between artists and the public skimming money. 

Well, the Challenger Deep has been visited, but not the HMRG, Galathea, or Tonga deeps, all of which have similar depths (over 10k meters) and potentially interesting features. Tonga is fascinating, since it's at a convergent plate boundary - the crust is literally being subducted to raise islands. That means it has probably some of the oldest rocks on earth still in existence that contain fossils of marine life. That itself is worth the trip (though they would have to dig through the spongy layer of diatomaceous life at the bottom, if Challenger Deep is any indication.) Still, your bathysphere can withstand 6,371 km of water pressure, and we're only using a tiny portion of that (11 km = .117%) pressure capacity. The density of water is just under 1 megagram (1000 kg)/m^3. The pressure at the bottom of the Mariana trench is only 15,750 psi = 108 MegaPascals (MPa). We can withstand up to 999.97 (kg/m^3 density of water) * 9.8 (m^2/s force of gravity) * 6.371*10^6 (m radius of earth) = 62.4358 GIGAPASCALS A more interesting proposal - if those special bathyspheres can stand that much columnar pressure, we should send them to the gas giants in our solar system to see what "lies beneath," and possibly discover the metallic hydrogen theorized to exist there. Or to Neptune, and discover why it radiates more heat than it receives from the sun... 

The easiest method I can think of: Diplomacy. Encourage the elves to exert themselves into posturing against the Mage. Have them send an otherwise vulnerable delegation of a couple 3rd level officials to speak with him. This sort of action is only taken by those who see themselves in a position of strength, whose very word operates as their shield. There are two possible outcomes: 

I would suggest a mechanism "stolen" from Terry Prachett's Discworld (based upon his treatment of religion): Magic operates via faith. As fewer people practiced magic and instead turned to technology, fewer people believed magic even existed, which weakened the ability of those that remained to perform magic. Eventually, even those magicians were dismissed as merely using slight of hand, and eventually all magic ceased entirely since everyone "knew" magic didn't exist. This is distinct from science "killing" magic, in that a scientific examination would show that magic does, in fact, work. It's just dependent on the general publics ability to believe in it - psychic energy, I guess, is a good parallel. 

Depth for humans (and most animals) is figured out by sampling different overlapping images at a defined spacing (ocular distance) and interpolating depth by the shifting of objects within those two images. Some animals (such as horses, rabbits, chameleons, and many birds) have little to no real overlap in their visual fields. So depth perception isn't a necessity for survival, but it is helpful. In our case, the size of the cyclops means that it has no natural predators, and that it can easily outrun prey. Just because it has a single eye doesn't mean it can't have depth perception, it just makes the process more difficult. The lens on your eye is constructed to focus light on the retina in the back of the eye, and especially on the fovea, the part that senses the most detail. What if it weren't? Let's assume that the lens, rather than focusing, split the light into two images focused on different parts of an expanded retina. Instead of depth interpolated through the angular depth caused by the distance between the eyes, it would be caused by the angular deviance between the two samples. To humans, this would look like a distorted fun house mirror. To a cyclops so evolved, they would have depth perception. 

There are others, but these four tend to be considered the basic "types." I chose my wording carefully for these to provide for our underground analogues. Notice that plants and how they interact with the environment are generally at the core of how we define our biomes. Let's focus next on the energy and resources that will form the core of our biomes. 

In this article, scientists are investigating river channels on Earth, Mars, and Titan to see how rivers modify their landscapes. The following quote caught my eye: 

Invisible to imaging satellites. Cannot be visited by boat. Cannot be picked up as a landmass on radar; as it would then be detectable by vessels at a distance. Cannot have detectable/locatable emissions, be it light, heat, or even radio waves. 

This is a bit of an idea generator, but it does point you in a solid direction. It got me studying saurian evolution. If you look at body size and feature pattern, you notice that there are two co-evolving trends: larger bodies (for both predators and prey) among established clade, and the formation of small bodied clade that fill niches around these apex dwellers. For example: the first tyrannosuarid predators were of relatively modest size, but rapidly grew into their new niche, opening the spots they previously occupied for the raptor-type dinosaurs. This "market segmentation" meant that more body types became feasible, since a T Rex (or even a velociraptor) wouldn't bother eating a tiny Dino like compsignithus (definitely spelled that wrong...) So large predators wouldn't eat small prey and large prey species wouldn't need to worry about small predators. As you increase in size, birth rate trends suggest you get smaller populations and a slower rate to maturation. Speciation would slow down in such individuals compared to microfauna. I think the best hypothetical example are the "How to Train your Dragon" movies: a tiny number of HUGE alpha/apex predators, and a large number of smaller, more diverse species. It's unlikely humans would evolve in such a scenario - size and strength are better values than energetically costly intelligence. 

Your hero uses a carefully attuned infra-sound device that creates standing vibrations inside the skulls of everyone nearby. This defensive weapon excites the neurons in the gyrus, targeting the fusiform and surrounding lingual (encoding visual memories) and parahippocampal (memory encoding and retreiving) gyri. Basically, this operates as a temporary memory loss ray that protects your identity. The fun part is that with induced synaesthesia, villains have a harder time fighting you as their visual field is flashing colors due to the random tonal noises of your infra-sound. Basically, all they remember afterwards is random noises and a riotous rainbow... P.S.: Technically, setting up a standing wave to target the fusiform precisely is difficult since everyone's skull is a slightly different size. That's why targeting the surrounding areas of the gyrus is a better, more reliable strategy... 

Depending on how you're looking at it, labor supply is a vital "good" in a society that needs to revert back to small scale agriculture. Basically, you'd have tribes of people who are either slaves/indentured to a local power, or have banded together as a "temp" service for communal profit - a large extended family hiring out three teenagers for the harvest season for a share of the harvest and some extra trade goods, for example. Livestock may be even more important than labor itself, combining both a food source and a labor source in one. In all likelyhood, large-scale raising of cattle will require too much food to be practical. Instead, there would be "the family cow/horse/donkey/etc." and shepherds with flocks of goats, which are hardier and can be grazed on more unfriendly terrain. Some interesting details: 

As mentioned above, the only "fast" way to make a country transition to a new food source is to make the old food either incredibly dangerous or incredibly scarce. There's no way to force people 100% (some people will hunt, for instance), but we can assume broad adoption is "good enough." First you start a livestock epidemic, like mad cow, swine flu, Asian bird flu, etc. Easiest way to do this is to put something in the feed stock (pesticide?) that poisons animals in a way that mimics disease. This keeps humans protected but leads to die offs and eventual widespread culling of herds to "stop the epidemic." Tricky part is making sure no one puts 2 and 2 together that it's the food making the animals sick. Otherwise you could engineer a virus, but that can be much riskier. You'd have to find some excuse to ban imports of meat, perhaps by saying the infected livestock came from abroad, allowing you to impound any shipments at the border. This next step is critical: someone has to use their political capital to "save the farmers" to transition those who raise livestock to some other food source, such as aquaculture or algal protein. This would probably take the form of job retaining and loan programs to allow the purchase of new equipment. Put onerous requirements on raising livestock (to "prevent disease") and subsidize these new food sources so farmers stick with cheaper plants rather than reverting to livestock once the initial "crisis" passes. This could all be done over a few years, but it would require quite the conspiracy. And people would be vegetarian by force, not choice. If you could keep it up for a long while, the younger generations should easily transition into voluntary vegetarianism, but the older folk who miss the taste of bacon will complain until their dying breath... 

Prosopagnosia is triggered by a disruption to the processing of faces in the fusiform gyrus and temporal cortex. For induced cases, this is mostly due to the creation of lesions on the area brought about by trauma. But we're not interested in permanently harming people, just disrupting their temporal cortex... temporally... The fusiform gyrus occupies specific areas of the brain (see this animation) and thus could potentially be targeted for disruption. Jostling the gyrus directly could disrupt the normal firing of neurons to either dampen responsiveness or increase random noise. Either option would have VERY interesting secondary effects, since that area of the brain is ALSO implicated in synaesthesia, dyslexia, facial hallucinations, and symptoms of autism. 

Since our aquifer surface (i.e., water table) is actually BELOW sea level, the amplification factor they mention works in our favor as sea water pushes into the aquifer to equalize levels. Or you could just wait for the sea levels to rise, so the outback becomes "infront." 

I'm going to be a contrarian on this one. Hypothetically, if the point is to wipe out humans, would we even be capable of using animals for agricultural work? Without machinery, farming for large populations becomes difficult to sustain. While we could always hunt for meat, plowing is EXTREMELY energetically intensive, and there wouldn't be enough "wild food" to sustain human populations at 1 A.D. Early hominids were grouped in small populations and fairly mobile in order to follow their food sources (excepting food rich environments like inhabited jungles). Additionally, EVERYONE was taught the skills to survive, and specialization was comparatively mild. The sudden cessation of all agriculture would lead to mass die offs. Even assuming slave labor, farmers would have a hard time plowing and planting crops, since humans are weak in comparison to domesticated mammals. Basically all city dwellers would die, since they lack basic survival skills. Soldiers and the like might learn to hunt large game, but military tactics and formations used against large groups of humans don't translate well to individual animal quarries. Regardless, a population sated with meat would still suffer nutritional deficiencies. Your empires would fall without their bread baskets, and while small populations of subsistence farmers might remain, it's likely that genetic inbreeding would eventually lead to gradual extinction. TL;DR: Early humans survived against megafauna due to small populations, high mobility, and lack of specialisation. By 1 A.D., our accumulation of technology means none of these factors hold. If we lose the capacity to engage in agriculture due to the larger farm animals "un-domesticating," then it is likely that humans will slowly go extinct.