The wikipedia entry is confused on the rest, but on the separate entry on transcendental apperception 

The point here is kinship; it's also worth noticing that in Levi-Strauss considered opinion the taboo is universal. 

For example the caricatures of a Cruickshank, or Grosz; grandeur in the history paintings of Caravaggio or De La Tour. He adds: 

The word 'nothing' symbolically represents nothing-in-itself. But how can we refer to something that by definition is not there? To make this clearer: the word 'horse' refers to an actual living horse. we may take an alternate tack and consider the empty set. This also refers to 'nothing' but in the sense of mathematics, which is not in the sense of philosophy. To make this clear - note that mathematics is structural, so we identify things by what it is that they do. In this sense, the empty set is defined by what it does with other sets - nothing. But Nothingness-in-itself or to use Parmenides language, the Void, does no such thing - as it 'is not' 

I can't resist mentioning that these new set of fields was lampooned by Alan Sokal in a notorious hoax submission to Social Text, titled The Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity. This was gleefully seized upon by critics as a demonstration of the intellectuel bankruptcy of these new fields; however in a kind of post-modernist twist the Bogdanov affair showed that the same kind of hoax could be perpertrated on the hardest of hard sciences - physics - but this time the alleged 'hoaxers' insisted on their seriousness of intent. Finally, of course, these histories & sociological studies are Modern in that they date from the Renaissance in Italy where Galileo began to revive the ideas of Aristotelean Physics; and it is Western history in that it ignores a prehistory in the Christian & Islamic world and of course Antiquity. A 'Science without gaps' would reassert the importance of these gaps. After all, from this distance the key development that Galileo engaged in, compared to the old Aristotelian science in Antiquity, is the application of mathematics to physics, one could ask whether this key notion had any precursors in the Islamic world; and of course it is well known that the Heliocentric Universe was not a new discovery by Copernicus, but had already been discussed in Greek Antiquity. 

This has to be taken in context of the 20C when patriotism was part of the motor that drove the nationialisms that led to both World Wars; and that was immanent in the discourse of politico-economical ideologies that drove the Cold War; or the collective punishment that was the second Iraq War. The 'love of ones own country' may not be blind; but as a mass passion it can be driven to blindness, particularly in moments or eras of crisis; and it is these reasons that Steven Smith 

What about a theory? Is a theory a whole or a part? What is the relationship between facts/observations and theory? A good theory places the facts of the world in a web of relationships and by this we see how they all hang together and point to each other, and also by this we can predict which facts are missing or predict new facts. This suggests, that in a sense, facts/observations are parts of theories and that a theory is a whole. But in a sense only. There is a great deal of difference between actual wholes, like trees and houses and conceptual wholes like theories, and likewise with their parts. Though there is a family resemblence. Now, Einstein in later life told Heisenberg, in opposition to what he first believed as a young man and a young physicist, that it was the theory that tells us what we can observe. Does this suggest that Einstein is saying it is the whole that comes before the part in opposition to the presuppositions of atomism? edit It might be fruitful to ponder the following remark in relation to the above by the German philologist, Friedrich Ast 

It starts with sentences that gesture to the traditional structures of of poetry - sentences and alliteration and ends with just bare words it appears placed at random. He states, in his essay, Notes on Conceptualism that 

Unlike an academia where a certain threshold which is pretty high is required, and where one understand the various demarcations between subjects like epistemiology and the philosophy of mind or of history etc, this site allows the interested layman (or above) to ask questions and file answers. Now this means that the questions may not be phrased in the way a professional may phrase them, or answer them in the way he may do. One sometimes has to look for the philosophical content in the question, or nudge the questioner in the right direction. At least that is the way I view questions on the site. As to what construes philosophy. One can say at least from a historical view going back to the academy in Platos time, that all academic subjects are philosophical because they all require the persistent application of reason in an effective manner. That doctorates, that is phDs are short for Doctor of philosophy is a vestigial reminder of its very early origins. (There is another root which is shown in the idea of theory which comes from the idea of God or gods, that is the realm of the divine; and one can theorise (pun intended) on the theological/mystical/mythological origins of philosophy in the presocratics in the Western Tradition). This is the reason for the wide variety of questions. But Philosophy has been practised for over two and a half millenia, and one should understand the progress made and not made or rolled back, or requestioned or reasserted or repositioned etc. One strong marker is the definite development of modern science dating from the renaissance from philosophy proper, one could say that philsophy contracted or a part of it having found itself new means and techniques budded away and developed under its own momentum - in fact most of its practioners will not be aware of the historical basis of their discipline in a solid way. This means a question about the real world may be seen as philosophy by Aristotle, and as part of physics by the modern day philosopher. One doesn't ask a philosopher for the equations for gravity, but he'll be interested that gravity can be understood as curvature. Of course, if one was philosophically astute as Pythagoras was alleged to be, then one may not be surprised at all, because the idea of the real world as mathematics & thus geometry is an idea that goes back a very long time. 

This is a variation of the story about a large enough group of monkeys typing on on type-writers, given enough time, will type out the complete works of Shakespeare. Of course, not real monkeys, fictional monkeys that do what we ask of them so that our thought experiments are actually carried out. Its possible to work out just how long this would take, and its probably on the scale of the lifetime of several universes - maybe a multi-universe worth of universes. Heidegger said that man is not apart from his world; here these monkeys are - what they type is of no meaning to them; for them this is a world apart; between their world and this world - an infinite distance, though that world is right before them; were they to type out a poem or a play, it would mean nothing. Because man is not apart from his world, everything he makes has its provenance in already existing world, which is then hewn into a new shape; not altogether different, and not altogether the same; the degree of difference is the degree of originality; and that degree manifests itself in different ways, in different spheres of conduct - of making ones way in the world: a child learning to write, for him a new experience, a new form of consciousness, a new way of being conscious; and this is not taken away even if every child has done this. This is still original in this sphere - his life-world; but the life of the species is made of many spheres; and the life of the universe, still many more. 

By what criteria do we judge as to whether we have understood consciousness on a theoretical basis? One criteria might be the construction of AI (but this can't be the whole story as everyday new conscious's are born - ie birth). Still, one cannot experiment (ethically) on consciousness; and one notes how our understanding of how consciousness is constituted has been enlargened by pathologies of the mind or brain; but one can experiment (presumably ethically) on AIs; which should bring some additional insight. The obvious criteria is that of the Turing Test; however, important as this test is, to a large extent it misses the main issue; what the Turing Test discovers is how well can one simulate an intelligence. Simulation isn't the thing itself, and though there is a level of disagreement/controversy about the notion of 'inner life' or qualia - to my mind its of the essence for this question. The Turing Test puts in a sharp form the test for a construction of an AI. The sharper question is how does one know one has consciousness-in-itself or a simulation? What other criteria are possible, necessary or sufficient? Or is the horizon of this criteria infinite (ie impossible). To go back to human beings, we denote ourselves by consciousness, by the cogito, and to others, by some principle of continuity or resemblence (I am human, you are human; I am conscious, you are conscious); which can be put in syllogistic form; but the essence, surely of our recognition of consciousness in others is continuity, or even more basically, resemblence. 

My training is as a mathematician and a physicist. When I first began out I was also very definitely interested in philosophy/religion, but aside from encyclopedia entries on philosophy I had little material at hand. In fact as I was raised as an orthodox muslim one of my interests in science was the attempt to find out what the true was. There was little theological debate (to be fair there was no-one around that I could debate with) and just a commitment to assertion to things that appeared at first obvious (well I was a child then) and then doubtful. Science offered an agreeable contrast: it started with things that one could see. It had a method. As an A-level student, I came across maximal principles in physics, which appeared to me analogous to Liebniz 'best of all possible worlds'. When I came across feynmans (nobel in physics) approach to QFT, the sum over all possible paths a particle could take (in a popularisation), it seemed even truer. It made me want to take philosophy more seriously. I read somewhere a zen koan 'what is the sound of one hand clapping', this doesn't appear to have any mathematical/physical questions, but it raised questions about the truth of statements, I couldn't dismiss it as being simply untruthful, for what is meant by the cretan liar paradox, that godel took seriously and which resulted in his incompleteness theorems and got everybody excited, although I was to learn (much) later that godel remained anxious that all that there was in his theorem was all that there was in that cretan statement. This also made me want to take philosophy seriously. I also read, most probably in an Asimov book (a sci-fi author) that the ancient greeks had discovered the notion of the atom. This was incredibly startling and made me incredibly angry that there was no discussion of this within the college syllabus. Feynman himself said, that if he were to pass on one scientific statement to a future generation, that it would be that everything was made of atoms, which leads me to suspect that he hadn't known that this had been philosophised about over two and a half millenia ago. And of course this also wanted me to take philosophy seriously. Much later when I got around to reading the relevant portion of lucretious 'de rereum natura', I was surprised by how much of nineteenth century physics they had accurately (qualitatively) predicted. It wasn't just the notion of atoms, but also that they cohere, that they collide, that they move in straight lines, that they move incredibly quickly microscopically, but slowly to the eye. Incredibly they also posited a 'swerve', a random motion, to account for free-will, which is startling when you're being brought up on a diet of deterministic Newtonian physics. Einstein said that god didn't play dice, due to the prestige of newtonian physics, but did he know that a few ancient Greeks said he most certainly did? And of course the copernican revolution revolved around a heliocentric universe, but again the ancient greeks got there first. They didn't do it by the scientific method, but by observation & disputation. They were philosophers of nature. So what was the importance of the copernican revolution? But a new emphasis on questioning received wisdom, and that this also meant kicking back on the catholic chuch. Its importance is social. Then there is the current obsession of grand unification in physics, is this the same as the parmenidian one, or brahman? Sure we will know more details, but skip the details, my life is short, there is so much else to do. May be those religious thinkers got there first too. As I skipped through school, the carefully constructed syllabus led you to only one conclusion, that scientists were getting it right, and getting it righter. That the final goal was not much further away. That this material universe was all that there is, though this is never stated explicitly, but imbibed gradually. Eventually I had a crisis of faith and jumped ship, to a foundation I thought much firmer, more solid, the logic and evidence unassailable. I was committed to the scientific view, but this lasted only a month or so, until I realised that the thisness of experience was simply not explainable by science. I'd been torn between between being an artist and a scientist. So the colours of things, the sensual world mattered, and when I reached the cusp of adulthood, it mattered much more, the vividness of crimson, the scent of a rose, the figure and face of a woman. None of this experience was amenable to science. Sure you could state that the wavelength of red is such and such a number, and relate it to maxwell laws. But this didn't explain what I felt and what I saw. Hence Heideggers 'thrown into the world' and the sensuality and thisness of things. So I had another crisis of faith, this time in science, in its ability to find the final truth. Ones spirit is forever reaching out for that holy grail. And I mean it as a crisis of religous faith. One could trace back the notion of the universe being Number to the pythagorean cult, which I'm sure wouldn't hesitate to call it in those terms, and the primary difference between ancient greek science and science since Galileo is Galileos emphasis on measurement. On giving reality to Pythagorases dictum. David Wallace, a novelist, said one doesn't get to not what worship, one will, one must. You have only the freedom to choose what we worship. As I've grown older, I've seen so much of what humans do as based on ritual. We've never given them up, just added to them, changed them. It seemed to me that the religous perspective mattered as much, if not more than the scientific one. The word Islam means submission (to the will/law) of Allah. Why the passion/love of finding out all those laws, the fine detail, when we know all things worship. The electron as much the human, or as Yeats put it: She bid me take love easy, as the leaves grow on the tree; But I, being young and foolish, with her would not agree. Perhaps an anthropological viewpoint was of importance, in why ritual mattered. A lot of performance art was tied around ritual acts, but I didn't understand that. A lot of 'primitive' societies indulge in ancestor worship. But we being more sophisticated do not do that, or do we? Isn't their the ritual nod towards Newton, and Darwin, and Einstein in scholarly papers and conferences, the respectful listing of past masters in the bibliography? The ancestral worship continues in changed form. This is explicitly acknowledged in a project on the web that traces the genealogy of master-student (that is parent-child) relationships in doctoral dissertations. Oh and 'primitive' societies don the garb or use the shield or the spear of a respected enemy, is this the same relationship when we pick up a hermes bag, or don that saville row suit, or wave that tome by Yeats about? Culturally are 'primitive' societies really that far apart from the 'advanced' western ones. Gaugain famously sailed to the polynesian islands, and a picture he painted there bore the title: Where have we come from, What are we, Where are we going? One is seduced by mathematics, by logic, that sensual music of signs, the movement of forms around. One is aware of just how many good mathematicians have stated that the beautiful is true, which indicates that the role of the sensual is not just through our outer senses but also our inner intellectual ones. That perhaps aesthetics is more important. We love the beautiful, and the good too. And after Baudelaire, the ugly, the sinful and dangerous (but then he's only expanding aesthetic categories). It seems to me that there is a kind of hostility in science towards philosophy, religion and the arts too. Hawking said Philosophy is dead. Feynman pours scorn on an artist he befriends. Dawkins is an arch athiest. The scorn it appears is returned. But these are really tribal distinctions, and sibling rivalry. They are all in fact intertwined delicately and are a whole. At one point in ones life one strand appears more important than another, and at another time a different strand. When the new testment starts with, in the beginning there was the word, (and the word was with God). Is that really so different from saying that the universe is information? When the prophets & poets claim they are divinely inspired, is that so different from the illumination I get when I finally understood calculus. When the light finally breaks. Is it me, or have I been divinely illuminated? Islam talks about the Noor (Light) of Allah, its a certain position in islamic theology called, illuminatism. When Empedocles held everything is love & strife. Is this not so? We call the law of 'attraction' of gravity. Attraction or 'love' of matter for matter. And strife, do not the atoms hit each other, and push each other around. And on the ethical/human life, is not love and strife all around us? Intellectual, political and personal loves and hatreds? As to why so much philosophical/artistic/literary & religious nonsense is produced. Who knows. One cannot know the individual intellectual history of each and every scholar. One cannot know what is nonsense today, may make sense today. Physicists were grumbling about 'gruppenpest' and mathematicians about 'abstract nonsense', both of which make very good sense today. Kelvin invented a vortex model of atoms, which inspired Tait to treat knots mathematically, both of which dropped out of sight until the late 20C and is now of huge importance. And VI Arnold bemoans the neglect of classical physics for more abstract terain, Atiyah acknowledges many instances of the 'axiomatic system at its worst'. John Baez complains about centipede mathematics when one axiom is stripped off after another. Theres plenty of silliness in mathematical & physical circles. We're all at it. Eventually a few gems will be dug up amongst the tsunami of mud. To become a trained mathematician/physicist takes a long time. To become good at anything takes labour. And that is as true of philosophy, theology and the arts too. To remain good takes even more labour, its an ardous process and prone to corruption. We are in the end only human. Theres plenty of magical thinking and superstition in mathematics & physics, as there is in all parts of our lives. Anyway this entry is way too long, but hopefully illuminating. I'm trying to show how for myself various ideas from all sorts of terrain formed my intellectual development. A sort of intellectuall bildungsroman. Shantih. Shantih. Shantih.