Javanese has 8 letters that are used instead of ordinary letters in all positions (initial, medial, final) in certain proper names. They are called “aksara murda” or “huruf kapital”. You can find them here: $URL$ (in Indonesian only). 

The idea that all languages derive from Hebrew has been around for a long time. It is a theological construct, not a scientific theory. By the way, the tower of Babel story (Gen 11,1-9) does not say anything about “70 different branches”, nor does it claim that Hebrew was the primeval language. 

I am not sure that there is any good explanation. Clauson’s Etymological dictionary writes that “there is utter confusion in the Turkish languages about the words for 'spring' and 'summer'”. Perhaps this reflects an older situation where the Turks distinguished only two seasons: hot and cold. 

I do not see any problem with the way you did it in your second grey box: you put a macron immediately above the long vowels, and indicated the scansion of the verse (heavy and light syllables) in a separate line above the text. That is standard procedure. But if you want to call attention to the unorthographic scansion of “hoc”, you could always write “hoc(c)”, that is: “written hoc but presumably pronounced hocc”. 

Some of these letters are clumsy imitations of Ancient South Arabian script, others are made up. It looks like a fake. Many years ago I worked as a volunteer at the National Museum in San’a. The storeroom of the museum was full of this sort of thing. The government had the enlightened policy of paying farmers for any “antiquity” they brought in, even if it was obviously fake. The idea was to discourage them from selling authentic antiquities on the private market. PS. These comments refer to the first picture; the second one was added later. 

It would make more sense if you asked where the d went to, rather than how it got there. These words come from Latin admittere. The d is retained in English and Spanish, but assimilated to the following m in Italian ammettere. 

What you are saying about the "Latin languages" is not correct. In French the masculine proper name Pierre is not the same word as the feminine common noun pierre, nor are they identical etymologically: the former comes from Latin Petrus, but the latter from petra. Likewise Italian Pietro vs pietra. Or Spanish Pedro vs piedra. So to answer your question: English handles this translation issue in exactly the same way as the Romance languages. The proper name is borrowed as "Peter", but the common noun is translated as "rock". 

I think French is very close to what you are looking for. Most nouns are pronounced identically in the singular and plural (though the plural is mostly still written with a silent “s”), but number and case are indicated audibly by articles. Thus: singular: le garçon plural: les garçon(s) possessive singular: les main(s) du garçon possessive plural: les main(s) des garçon(s) singular indirect object : donne-le au garçon and so forth. 

Your question is based on a false premise. I do not think there are any speakers of English who do not distinguish between "trees" and "cheese", or between "train" and "chain". 

The word for “sea” occurs across the board in Iranian: Avestan zraiiah-, Old Persian drayah-, Middle Persian drayā(b) (also: zrēh), New Persian daryā; probably cognate with Sanskrit jrayas- ‘expanse’. The NP verb daryāftan is of course dar + yāftan, so it is not connected with the word for “sea”, except as a poet’s pun. 

Yes, the standard international musical notation is used for songs in these languages as well. The words are broken up into syllables and written syllable for syllable below the staff. 

It is widely believed that proto-Uralic and proto-Indo-European were at some stage in contact with each other and that there were borrowings at least in one direction, if not in both. 

Most of the letters have separate initial, medial and final forms. جمل is ج plus م plus ل. I suggest you look at an Arabic textbook. 

I do not know what you mean by "common", but one view is that Indo-European "ablaut" and Semitic "stem formation" are typologically very much the same thing. See for example Kuryłowicz, L’apophonie en sémitique. Kraków 1962. 

The commas are just decoration to fill the vacant space. Your atheist statement is very clearly written. 

There are two different issues here. First: New Persian never had a voiceless /ϑ/, at least not in words of Persian origin (though it is possible that in early Islamic times bi-lingual speakers did pronounce ث correctly as /ϑ/ in Arabic loan words). گيومرث is simply a misspelling of گيومرت which happened to catch on in this proper name. It entered the spoken language from the (wrongly) written form. Second: Early New Persian did have a voiced /δ/, written ذ, in Arabic loan words, and also in Persian words for etymological post-vocalic /d/. In early manuscripts ذ and د are clearly distinguished. For example in /būδ/ بوذ “he was”. Later (probably in the 12th century) this Persian /δ/ shifted back to /d/ and was written with د. In Arabic words ذ was retained and pronounced /z/. In a small number of genuine Persian words ذ was also retained, and pronounced as /z/. This has a complicated reason, which is discussed here (pp. 94 sqq.): $URL$ 

It means "one" (the number) but is also used as an indefinite article, just like (for example) un(e) in French. 

In England the “Received Pronunciation” (RP) of “ate” is [ɛt], so it is not the same as “eight” [eit]. But the difference that you make, and that you perceive, is clearly based on the orthography: where you see a diphthong you pronounce (and imagine to hear) a diphthong. 

The use of the verb “to drink” specifically to mean “to drink wine or another alcoholic beverage” is indeed very widespread. It is not (as Anixx appears to suggest) restricted to Indo-European. In Arabic too šariba means “drink” (in general) and “drink wine”; from the same root you have šarāb “beverage, wine” and šarrāb “drunkard”. 

Indo-European is a field in which many scholars have been working for a very long time and which has to a certain extent ended up in a dead end, or perhaps rather in a fruitless impasse (multi-laryngealists versus mono-laryngealists). If you want to make a big splash you might be better off researching a little-studied family such as Austroasiatic. It will not make you rich, but it might make you famous. 

I do not have the patience to type out all the Greek, but if you look in Beekes s.v. πυθμήν you will see that *bʰudʰ-men- has reflexes all across IE, including English “bottom”. 

I assume you mean 华为; unsimplified 華為; pinyin Huáwéi. This word consists of two syllables, with a diphthong in the first syllable and a triphthong in the second syllable; whatever-phthongs are always within the same syllable. So in this case 2 + 3 does not equal 5. 

There is a reasonable list of grammars and dictionaries here: $URL$ (The English version is less useful). 

It is not rare for the same Latin word to be used both for a genus and a species of the same genus. For example, canis canis, or the examples cited by Yellow Sky. A more mainstream laryngealist reconstruction of the IE ancestor of Greek ἄρκτος and of Latin ursus would be *h2rtḱo-. I will not quibble about this, but do suggest that you put an asterisk before reconstructed forms. 

Sound shifts are not in general “regular”, but there are sound laws that work with a fair degree of predictability. One example is the phenomenon in Semitic known as Barth’s law. As originally formulated it dictates that in Hebrew and Aramaic 

Just to add this: what is usually called Hebrew script was in fact borrowed from Aramaic. The Old Hebrew script, as found in the oldest Hebrew inscriptions, looks more like Samaritan script. 

If I could address the Semitic part of your question: the Arabic past tense (al-māḍī; please note that this word actually does mean “past”) is used in principal clauses for actions in the past time, but is also used with the particle “law” in unreal conditions. So at least in your first two sentences you would say “law kuntu” and “law kunta”. So this is not a purely Indo-European thing. 

The –lū suffix in colloquial (not standard) Persian is in fact borrowed from Turkish. The –am suffix for “my” is Middle Persian –am, Old Persian –may, Vedic me: in short, Indo-Iranian and ultimately Indo-European. Middle Persian –am is attested long before the earliest contacts between Persians and Turks. The identity with Turkish –am is coincidence. 

In Italian there is a verb accasare “to marry”, and a noun accasamento “marriage”, etymologically “taking to the house, taking home”. This is evidently the basic meaning of the forms that you have cited.