Well, if "upside down" can mean "sideways" then you could always make the city a large, spinning wheel. A 1km radius spinning wheel rotating at 1rpm should be enough to create Earth-style gravity, then slope the floor at around 1:10 to balance out the gravity of Europa. To leave the city, take a lift (elevator) 'up' towards the centre (which would probably be quite a weird feeling!) and then just step off (remember, although the outside is spinning at over 100ms - around 250mph - the centre is only turning once every minute). If the lift carriage is in a gimbal, then the feeling shouldn't be too odd - the gravity would just gradually reduce until you're at Europa levels. You'd only be able to build around the inner circumference of the wheel though, unless you were happy to accept lower gravity levels as you go 'up'. With that size of structure multi-storey buildings shouldn't be a huge issue though, unless you want to start making Empire State buildings in your city. 

Judges are employed part-time, and jurors all have jobs. Based on earlier, agrarian times the trial period for criminals would traditionally have been after the harvest when everyone is at their least busy. It then follows that the executions would follow shortly afterwards, so try in October and November, sentence carried out in December. Perhaps the need for the post-harvest trial has long-since ended, but the tradition of a December execution remains. 

No. Short answer: there's no oxygen Longer answer: as a rule, potential chemical reactions don't really hang around in the natural world unless living things are present. Most things that would react have reacted; Earth is of course the exception in this regard. Fire requires oxygen - a highly-reactive substance, which only exists in its free form due to organisms which produce it as a waste product. 

Do the muts use ranged weapons (or any high-level tools at all)? Because if not, they're likely to come off very badly in this war. Past that, just use sound military strategy. Use mobility (what sort of mobility options do the humans have?) to concentrate your forces and divide theirs (and by the sound of things a cut-off group will fare badly, as they will become dumb and disorganised). The biggest question is how did they do so well in the first place? Do the muts outnumber the humans by a huge margin? And what do they eat? 

No. Even if you manage to find two planets that are so perfectly aligned in an orbit that they don't seem to move, the forces between them in a case of a tiny-seeming movement would be enormous. Then there is the amount of material involves - the distance from Earth to Mars is 300,000 times the length of the biggest bridge ever made. It's more than 1,000 times the length of the Equator. The most important consideration though is why. If you wanted to get effectively between two planets, just build a space elevator on both planets. Once you're in space, rocket travel between the two would require much less energy and fuel to travel than it would from the planet's surface. And you'd need a rocket - it's the only sensible way to travel in space (the only other option really is magnetic propulsion on your bridge, but trying to transmit electricity over tens of millions of km won't work very well). You want to keep the vehicle off of the surface to avoid drag... at which point there is no reason to have the surface at all. 

I think that others have covered the simple truth - aliens must be more advanced to have come into contact with us - pretty well. As for the reason for how they had the chance to get advanced, just consider humanity. 

I think so long as he is careful to avoid doing a few things (and assuming that nothing in the machine is illegal or controlled, such as fissile material, etc) then he should be OK, legally-speaking. For one, I'm fairly sure that there are no laws about uncontrolled leaving of the country, only entering. So if you start in the pub, go somewhere foreign, and then end up in the pub it's not going to be vastly different, leagally-speaking, to hopping in your dingy in Kent, crossing into French territorial waters, crossing back again and ending up back in Kent. Of course at this point he needs to make sure he has no extra people, as then you'd be in the realms of people-smuggling. If he's leaving the country on these trips he may well be breaking the law in those countries (even just on basic immigration laws) but I think that any form of extradition is very unlikely on that front. He should of course be careful to avoid teleporting anywhere that he otherwise would not be allowed to go. There is of course an entirely different question of precisely how - upon deciding you wanted - to successfully prosecute someone in possession of a teleporter. 

Fungi, insects, and worms are probably the most likely sources of below-ground non-oceanic bioluminescence. Bioluminescence seems to be primarily selected for aiding in the attraction of prey, the ability to use a decoy to avoid predators, and communication. My understanding is that bioluminescence is the product of a chemical reaction so I wouldn't expect glowing webs to last long. Glowing edible fungi probably wouldn't fare better than their edible cousins that don't glow. Perhaps the proximity of your faeries leaves a magical residue that leaves normal matter with a glow. Stones or webs glow dimly as a patrol traverses a tunnel; stalagmites and stalactites glow brightly in warrens or cities. Maybe it builds up based on population and fades slowly: the Ruins of the Great City of the Lost Ones might still be dimly lit after several hundred years. Another option would be to have the faeries adapted to low light. The underground is probably going to be pretty dark, even with bioluminescent fungi. Your faeries may have exceptional hearing (echolocation) or have developed more and/or more exceptional rods (darkvision). Faeries with a super-sensitive sense of smell might be able to navigate by nigh undetectable breezes or scents from the surface (or the depths). It'd be hard to describe; but, they may be able to detect slight variances in their planet's magnetic field and navigate based on known veins of ore, as an example. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Instead of scaling down the kusirigama, perhaps your protagonist or antagonist should wear a trenchcoat or otherwise conceal the whole weapon as originally designed. As Andon said in a comment, there are a lot of sections put under stress. Range is another benefit of this weapon and making is pocket sized is going to make it really Batman-y. 

If you have several (human) generations, don't make them happy. Make it horrible. A life of slave labor and subsistence farming and devoid of educational opportunities. Kids have got to grow up knowing that life is toil. This is your first "we're better than everyone" bonding moment that I totally stole from what I remember of the descriptions Emperor's prison planet in Dune. You've killed most of the pet species, so you can control any rebellions that might spring up. Once morale is low enough, select certain pets that demonstrate desirable qualities. Give them titles and spoil them with treats. Appoint a few as ombudsmen or "union reps" for their fellows in specialization (lap pet vs. sex slaves). They should relate to one another as better than those who don't have titles and traits showing worthwhile breeding. Spay/neuter your pets and keep them happy with whatever cocktail trips their trigger. Think the eldest son in Farnham's Freehold (if I recall correctly, he was either too intoxicated to notice or accepted intoxicants as a suitable substitute for his castration). 

The reptilian homeworld(s) would probably need to be on the inner (closest to its star) edge of the Goldilocks zone. Hot enough to keep cold-blooded creatures from spending all their time chasing warmth to avoid torpor but not so hot that your slaves are dropping dead from heatstroke. Basically, both species need a mutually survivable ecosystem and climate. It'll have to have diverse flora and fauna to support the different diets of the reptilians and humans (at the very least, to keep the costs of feeding slaves reasonable). If your reptilians and humans didn't co-evolve or otherwise can't take one another's climates, the slaves are probably being imported. From the slaves point of view, it might be considered going to a harsh life in a hellish environment. Mothers might discourage misbehavior with a warning that "the reptilians will drag you screaming to hell!" If the human climate is inappropriate for your reptilians, some humans may make a living capturing, transporting, and selling their fellows. Finally, I don't think a species in an arid climate without much vegetation would adapt webbed feet (not large or deep enough bodies of water to need help swimming). If you meant a desert by your description, I don't know why--even if partially erect--the reptilians wouldn't develop more of a sidewinder style of locomotion (up to eighteen miles per hour, according to YouTube; but I couldn't find another source). If the two species are being held back evolutionarily for whatever reason, I'd suspect that it would end up like Earth: even if crocodiles became "intelligent," humans are going to be more versatile. $URL$ $URL$ 

The space station manufacturer did include airbags..... didn't they? ;-) Translated - it completely depends on the safety features built into the space station and environs, and nothing else. The question is a bit like asking "can a person survive <some kind of collision/fall/failure> of any manufactured object they happen to be in." It depends on the safety mechanisms the manufacturer built in, and/or any other sources of safety/mitigation that might exist, and not at all on where it falls from (space or any other location). 

Theocracy makes sense if something is to be gained by it. Quite possibly nothing will be - in that case it won't have a compelling reason to be the form of government. Example - perhaps humans figure out that actually, (a) gods exist but (b) they don't seem to want or seek anything from humans, or offer anything to them. Urban foxes know cars exist, we know volcanoes exist - the presence of forces beyond our own, doesn't seem to automatically command a religious approach to them. (While we did worship volcanoes, its worth noting this was at best, only when we assumed it would achieve something, or when there wasn't a better object of praise around the diesphere...) Gods may also have agendas far different from humans', so that what they do and care about is completely lacking in human relevance in most cases. Perhaps all one needs to know of the gods is how to recognise when a divinely initiated event is likely to happen so as to not be in the vicinity (think tornado warnings - "yesterday Odin turned the sea blue near the city, residents advised to leave for the hills for a week in case of some untoward event') 

His power's main weakness is the distance limit. Is he a complete reclusive hermit? If not, there will be places he goes even if only occasionally,which are more than 20km away. Any amount of preparation can be made to kill him in any place more than 20km from where he is at any given time. So if he visits a sick relative or a fellow criminal more than 20km away, if one of his kids (if any) or his mum or some relative is deathly ill, in trouble, or badly hurt, or something else happens that takes him 20km away, your assassin has an easy time of it. Update to elaborate on this He can't tell what someone did in the past, only what they are doing now. He can't read intentions, only actions. Very likely, he travels, or has a friend or relative or somewhere he goes more than 20km from home. If needed arrange a traffic accident for his out of town mother, or a serious sports accident for his kid, or just wait till he goes to his favourite hotel or whatever he does for vacations, or buys something from a regular supplier not in the same town. He cannot know what has been done in those remote locations. Plant a lethal device in the place he's enticed, with a wifi based trigger, and a nearby webcam to keep an eye on the scene. Then create your enticement or wait for his arrival, and retreat 20km. When he's visible in the webcam, trigger the device. Nothing will give away the explosive placed under the driveway, the poison spray in the airvent, or whatever else you choose, because at no time is he within 20km of anyone doing any action that would catch his attention. 

Short answer: No, because The sensation of gravity in a rotating object isn't caused by the mass of the object. It's caused by the rotation of the rotation. Longer answer: On the scale you are discussing (small to modest space station) the object's mass will generate only a tiny amount of gravitational attraction. To understand where the rest comes from (which is the great majority of the "gravitational force" sensation) needs some discussion of acceleration and forces. Simplifying a lot, and in what physicists call an inertial frame (broadly, the entire area of space you and the space station are in, isn't accelerating or changing, and can be approximated as just moving at a constant velocity), this is what's going on: