The test below shows that someone survived g-forces up to 45 g's in experiments and 180 g's in crashes but both of these were instantaneous loads. So I'm not sure what the theoretical maximum g-load is. Human g-tolerances 

The star positions can be made statically stable by orbiting them around their common center of gravity. The problem is that the configuration is dynamically unstable - meaning if anything juggles the positions, the bodies will not return to their proper places. Answers 

I am mostly familiar with the English Common Law tradition. Preponderance of Evidence In that tradition, civil cases in the US are determined by a "Preponderance of Evidence" (equivalent of your "clear and convincing evidence") - imagine a scale with evidence place on one side or the other side of the scale. Which ever side has more and convincing evidence wins. 5 $\sigma$ In certain branches of hard sciences (e.g. physics), the evidence of a new discovery must break the statistical $ 5 \sigma$ level (99.73%) of proof. This level of proof might not be usable in today's subjective legal system. However, it might become more attractive as our ability to collect and analyze evidence gets better (e.g. the DNA evidence is above a 99.73% likely one person and not another). 

Unless the module was designed to survive reentry, then no. Not even by accident. Surviving reentry from space not only requires the module to survive but it also requires the capsule to be gently decelerated before it slams into the ground. So far we've only figured out how to do this with only aerodynamic forces on wings or parachutes OR aerodynamic forces combined with last minute retrorocket thrust. So unless those systems were built into the capsule, along with the control mechanisms to activate at the appropriate times, your protagonist would end up as a pile of unattractive goo at the bottom of the capsule even if the capsule survived. But if your space stations were built centuries ago, then perhaps everyone forgot that certain modules were intended to be used as emergency reentry capsules. 

Hemerythrin Hemerythrin uses $Fe^{II}$ Hemerythrin is an iron bearing oxygen transport protein often found in the muscles of marine invertebrates. 

These transitions happen "instantaneously" on the geologic time scale. Our best current era (CE) guess is the transitions take 1000s to 10,000s of years. However, we don't really know how long they take. You could just "say" that it happens in 10 years but it would be more realistic if you could have it happen over a minimum of 100 years. FYI, the Earth has started a magnetic field flip and our magnetic field has been noticeably weaking. 

Strange solar flare / CME of a type and strength we've not seen before Cosmic ray storm - mostly ionized atomic nuclei, probably from a nearby super nova Gamma ray burst - mostly gamma rays Nearby supernova - releases all sorts of radiation but the gamma rays are probably what would be most lethal (probably necessary to cause #2 or #3) Humans dropping neutron bombs - gamma rays from nuclear weapons are readily absorbed by the atmosphere and turned into a shockwave, so for human deaths with little devastation, you need to go with neutron bombs. 

It would be difficult to not discover the date if you had access to a computer of that era. Bad news However, 100 years is a loonnnggg time for technology. It's likely the communications protocols for wireless and wired connections would no longer work. In fact, the frequency allocated for the devices could have changed (e.g. the protagonists wireless phone might emit signals in a frequency now restricted for military use). But even sending and receiving signals in the proper radio frequency doesn't mean the future devices will speak to the protagonist's devices. Heck, data storage technologies, data storage formats, operating systems, file systems, file formats, computer languages, etc. will all likely have undergone 1 or more drastic / dramatic changes. The underlying technologies, the strategies for doing these things, and the programming to control them will all have changed too much for 100 year old implants to do much with the future tech. Imagine interfacing a Cray computer with a WWI era navigation plotting table on a ship, it just wouldn't work and it is unlikely that any amount of reprogramming would enable the devices to adopt the new standard. How would a current era computer speak to one that no longer recognizes TCP/IP for network connections? How would you reprogram an Ethernet controller to speak to a wired connection that doesn't use Ethernet network standards? Furthermore, I remember using computers 40 years ago. At that time I could type faster than the computer's network connection could transmit data. Current data transmission speed might be something like 40,000,000x faster than the communications of that era. It is likely the protagonists "implants" won't even know they're being talked to and if they detect the signal no amount of programming would enable it to make sense of what its receiving. Imagine a multispectral network connection using many colors and polarizations of light to transmit data. Unless you had a future receiver capable of detecting and decoding such a message your hardware might only be able to tell there is a signal. Since it will miss most of the message (that transmitted in other frequencies and polarizations), there is zero chance of making it work. 

If the Strange Matter Hypothesis is true, then this concept would win the contest on the amount of mass required to destroy the Earth but it would not disrupt the Earth. Rather, it'd collapse the Earth to be a very small object < $\frac{1}{1000000}$ the volume of a neutron star. It would become the densest object possible without forming a black hole. 

Even better, we could theoretically fly a mission to the Sun's focal point (about 550 AU) and use the Sun as a giant telescope lens. It would give you a 200 meter resolution at Alpha Centauri. Even using a nuclear powered craft (such as nuclear pulse propulsion) expect the mission to take decades. For conventional/ less practical propulsion (chemical, solar sail, etc.), expect it take centuries. TAU The Thousand Astronomical Unit (TAU) mission would be similar in scope and cost to the Solar Focus mission. It would be a great trial run for an interstellar mission and you would fly through the Solar Focus. The ship would not be recovered. As with most space related projects, the hurdle is not technological, it is the tremendous cost of these ambitious programs. 

Skip building wealth Rather than making yourself wealthy. Why not skip the wealth building phase and go straight into your real objective. After all, your machine can make pretty much anything you need. What do you need money for? Provide services For instance, your device could be used as the energy production for an exceedingly powerful rocket engine. Build yourself a spaceship and leave the Earth. It will make you quite safe from the prying eyes of investigators. When in space, your machine can make everything you need. You can form a colony. Sell space in your colony (or hotel) to wanna be astronauts. Now you are earning money completely legally. Government agencies will think all of your money is going to pay for your rocket but your actual launch costs could be minuscule compared to conventional launchers. Or go into environmental clean up. Shovel oil polluted sand in -> get clean sand & energy out. 

If they can put aside their moral objections, the most obvious answer is to annihilate the Dum-d'uums' race with a pre-emptive strike. I highly recommend reading The Killing Star. 

Please note that it takes quite a bit of extreme tuning of each body to get a configuration like this that keeps all of the mass of each body within its own Roche Lobes. If any part of either body (e.g. atmosphere) falls outside of its Roche Lobe, then that planet will begin losing mass - which usually only accelerates the problem. 

A Lunar Atmosphere My Tool I wrote an atmosphere calculator based upon thermal (Jean’s Escape) with empirical fudge factors to increase the rates of atmospheric loss to more along the lines of what we see in the Solar System. It correctly predicts an $N_2$ atmosphere for Titan and no atmosphere for the moons of Jupiter. What I see This calculator shows the half-life of water as ~$2 \cdot 10^5$ years in a lunar atmosphere. It gives the half-life for $O_2$ & $N_2$ as ~$10^6$ years. Some Assumptions Human Time Scales Assume a human generation equals 20 years. We would only lose ½ of the water in the atmosphere in 200,000 years – meaning a non-technological society could survive at least 10,000 human generations (i.e. 1 atmospheric half-life for $H_2O$) without replenishing the lunar atmosphere. Lunar Atmosphere The Moon’s gravity is ~1/6 of Terrestrial gravity. Atmospheric pressure is generated as the weight (mass * gravity) of the column of air above the measurement point. So to maintain the Terrestrial atmospheric pressure at the Lunar surface, we need 6* the mass of gasses above the observation point. The surface area of the moon is 7.5% of the Earth’s. When you multiple 6x the column of atmosphere * 7.5% of the surface area – we get 45% of the Earth’s atmospheric mass. 45% of the Earth’s atmospheric mass comes to $2.35 \cdot 10^{18} kg$ ($2.35 \cdot 10^{15}$ tonnes) of volatiles in the correct combination. For the atmosphere we will need: