Language isn't just symbols. Language is your history. (This is why it is a crime to assimilate people into your culture.) From that history, there are generationally-encoded values of both semantics and syntax. We pass these former unconsciously, each generation, through culture. Now it is very meaningful to ask: can we really understand a language from a different culture? And I argue no, not without being connected to its history or assimilating to it. The white man never understood the Red Man, for example (with few exceptions, some involving ingesting psycho-active substances), because they share NO history AT ALL. The evolutionist would argue otherwise, but the Biblical narrative is the only way to understand this complete failure of Western culture to understand the Native American. Another example is Ancient Greece. It is not clear at all that we share any genetic connections from Greece, so these texts must be carefully translated. So now, in philosophy, we have two different systems of semantics (not just syntax): first-order calculus consisting of many non-alphbetic symbols and predicate sentential logic using some form of the verb "IS". The latter we can understand intuitively, the other we have to be trained and only when we have completely embodied this training can we be said to understand their propositions. As another example, you understand what I'm saying, even though these ASCII characters givce you get NO inflection data (besides the use of caps, etc.), no tonation, and no rhthym of interaction, right? You propably 50-80% of what I typed despite what I just said because we share a lot of common culture. (I can tell by YOUR use of language). The rest you have to extrapolate or ask for clarification if sufficient interest is present. 

'Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind', Yuval Noah Harari. You can catch Harari talking about this on the Sam Harris podcast $URL$ Things like how these mental structures like nation and religion allow ideas like dying for something an individual will never see, which you could never convince a chimpanzee to do. 

Sartre saw the answer in living authentically. Camus saw this as a confrontation with the absurd. Schopenhauer saw in experiencing the sublime a return to a more naturalistic state free of such concerns: $URL$ Buddhist practice is aimed squarely at the matter. You may already have written it off as a dogma, but it is a practice. Meditation is aimed at training us to be with things as they actual are, quietening the voice of distraction and triviality, and awakening fully to our existential situation 

Yes, it is possible. Modern science biases itself on observation -- a powerful basis for an ontology of the world, but not infallible. You can start there, in epistemology and solipcism. I'll also give you this little nugget: empiricism is highly dependent on measuring instruments. However, every instrument implicitly encodes an ontology -- a model of the world. The problems of this should be self-evident. 

Any system of logic is based on unprovable axioms -- that's just the nature of the axiom. However, that doesn't make every possible starting point equal. There is a history to the universe. You could say that is the a priori from which one could make an actual foundation for mathematics as well as spirituality. What I can tell you from my own personal investigations is that math is interesting because it`s basic axioms derive from the entire history of consciousness in relation to the universe. Now I can't prove this to you in this forum except to tell you that because of this, physics and math tend to abide. But consider the axioms neither beliefs nor assumptions, but agreements between GOD and us (perhaps that's why the symbol for "equals" is two parallel lines of equal length). 

So, is the problem in not achieving the goal, or in setting goals that aren't achieved? Is a feeling of restlessness, or that something is problematic, leading to a certain choice of goals, that would really be unsatisfying fulfilled or unfulfilled? Perhaps this is the subconscious trying to communicate to the wider psyche, through generating an experience of unfulfillment, restlessness figurative and literal, which is space for new ideas, experiences. Many philosophers talk about adjusting expectations and mindset to be conducive to happiness, at least since the stoics. Modern framings like 'Growth Mindset' suggest how we shape ideas about ourselves is as crucial to how we will feel as the experiences. The Buddha said one of the 'early fruits' of Buddhist practice was good sleep, this being through virtue & discipline. Buddhism draws attention to something which can unite the psyches search for wholeness, and the search for good rest. What does it mean to be awake? $URL$ 

No we wouldn't create God again, but God would. You have not understood a complex subject, because you're basing your internal dialog on ideas solely from the Christian world (that is the Gregorian calendar) as it relates to the intellectual one. Notably, it is clear that you have not interviewed an actual Jew who has a personal experience (distinct from belief) of God. 

WE ARE DIFFERENT. We are not only governed by the laws of physics, for when we act with awareness, we have personal agency. No psychologist or neuroscientist has pinned down the origin or seat of consciousness. The simplest conclusion is that it transcends (strict) observability because it is the subject itself being observed and this forms a contradiction. I really wanted to answer this with my robot voice. EXTERMINATE. 

E.O.Wilson used his lifetimes study of social insects, towards understanding the parallels to human behaviour. He popularised and extended the definition of $URL$ Quite compelling if you read up, how bees and ants give up individual reproductio interests for those of close relatives, at great benefit. This plays out in our preference to help family and those we know well, rather than rational Singer-style altruism eg. $URL$ 

The modern strain goes along the lines of whether reality is a simulation, and there are many technologists taking up this perspective now. It was discussed here Are we living in a simulation? The evidence Buddhism takes the perspective that the arising of things is founded in delusions, which result from cravings for things to be other than they are, which is founded in misconceiving the nature of our world. The fundamental metaphor of Buddhism, to attain awakening or enlightenment, references leaving a sleeping state. I think this character you met must be thinking along the latter Buddhist lines, to say "nothing actually exists" although it should be noted, he must have a fairly tortuous definition of thing and nothing to use that precise phrasing. In Buddhism they would term that nihilism, the opposite extrem view to eternalism, both of which are avoided by Buddhism's 'Middle Way' which views things as contingently arising but lack any permanent nature. Do suggest to him he may have misunderstood the genre of thought on this. We can still make some sense even of a dream, writing off any attempt to do so can only be founded in psycology that rejects all thought and reasoning, for an instinctive decision. 

Yes, power on one axis/being would simply be distributed in time on the other. Given that they are eternal as well as infinite, the more likely scenario is that they're wise enough to negotiate the boundaries are. Since there is a documented story of one such infinite being gaving rise to another being, that is the likely trajectory of Man if and when He/She completes their journey of Knowledge. 

Not really, they exist in a relation and commitment between God and mankind. To this degree they have a practical status as being ontologically existant. 

There is no way to prove it, beyond the obviousness of it all. So one must choose to believe it because one likes it. That is all one can do. It's a particular aesthetic. 

There is not actually an infinite regress. There is a long, subtle, and biologically ancient regress that you have adapted to unconsciously and simply called it you. But the interesting point, is that what you call "you", is shared at some point, at what your partner calls him/herself. That is, that long chain is connected to your listener's chain. That is what the purpose of dialog is: to continue working each others way down each's respective chains of causal thought until one reaches and creates through linguistic feedback the point in common in which you agree. Call it a shared "cultural meme", but consider that since your perception and cognition systems evolved along similar paths, it actually gets down to shared genetic ancestry. It's very much like the correspondence of physics and math. There the universe co-evolved with consciousness, so that there is a point in common that makes the universe have sense and not be simply and blandly arbitrary -- which would otherwise be its nature. 

The first priority should be to investigate what happiness means. Usually it means something like, experiences we want. So, is happiness enough becomes, is getting experiences we like enough? A tautology, that contributes nothing. In that definition, anything that brings happiness is what we want, and anything we want brings happiness. If 'it's' not enough, nothing is. Aristotle's concept of eudaimonia is often translated as happiness, but that obscures a much more sophisticated concept. They say it translates better as 'human flourishing', or more literally as 'a spirit of good guardianship over one's being'. Aristotle's idea of multiple material souls, 'organisational essences', see's the differently levels of organisation as seeking flourishing on different levels, bodily in nourishment, sensorily in pleasure stimulation and desire, and cognitively through polis and philosophy. Reifying happiness and unhappiness as correlates of pleasure and pain, leads into negative utilitarianism. It a nihilist position, that on balance pleasures do not balance out pains. I like Alan Watts on why 'Happiness is not the meaning of life' $URL$ Was recently discussing cultures that put more emphasis on duty to family than personal material success, and how it seems that emphasis relate to putting more value on education, and wider notions of wellbeing than material ones. Virtue can't just be an individual behaviour. It is an 'uncool' area of philosophy now, the nature of virtue, but perhaps never more in need of reclaiming. 

If God exists (the Biblical God as you mention), then there are certain conditions for you to be in harmony with God, a presumably beneficial condition for your life path. If those conditions aren't met, then the consequences are documented to you beforehand, and they are dire. It helps to be true rather than false in life. 

I suppose the latter point it the most difficult because you can't test the theory until it either totally fails or doesn't in which case you don't know if you've reached the end of your test. But in practice, there are other resources which allow us to evaluate. We often, for example, simulate theories in our head. The meaningfulness of this simulation will be a factor of the sophistication of the theorizer, but this is overcome with this simple truism: that a society can't generate a theory that is more sophisticated than society itself.