Take all these into account, and you have a commodity implied measure of future inflation. Of course, inflation as usually considered also includes services and retail products, on which there are very few (no?) futures/forwards. If you could find iPad futures and child care futures, then you would in theory be there. 

On the Federal Reserve First off a technicality; there isn't a Federal Reserve bank, but 12 Federal Reserve banks that together make up the Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve System acts as the central bank for the United States Dollar and as such takes control of that currency. The Federal Reserve Banks have a number of responsibilities, but it is indeed possible to manage without them. They were established in 1913 and prior to that the US managed without, albeit with some problems. An important, but mundane activity that a central bank carries out it to allow bank transfers to occur. The "Reserve" part of the name refers to the reserve accounts that U.S. banks are required to hold with one or more Federal Reserve Bank. These may be thought of as current accounts for banks. It is only by having such accounts with a reserve bank, that money may be transferred from one bank to another. When bank A wishes to pay bank B, they simply instruct their local Federal Reserve Bank to move money from one account to the other. Prior to Reserve Banking one would have to physically ship the money from one bank to the other. Whilst excellent for generating movie plot lines, this behaviour is not ideal for the banks. Another job of the Federal Reserve System is to act as lender of last resort. This ensures that there is always liquidity available in USD, so that trades can be settled at the end of the day. This can be an important tool for preventing contagion of bank runs, as well as allowing banks to survive short term exogenous problems, such as the September 11 attacks. On the flip side, there is the risk of Moral Hazard; that banks are more reckless because there is support available. Historically there were many more bank failures in the era before the Federal Reserve, and little evidence to suggest that they were any less reckless. In the period 1837-1862 the average life span of a bank was 5 years. Immediately prior to the Federal Reserve System, much of these two roles were taken up by private banks. A system of "National Banks" were in place, which held accounts for smaller regional banks, in much the same way the Federal Reserve Banks would later do. Similarly institutions such as the New York Safety Fund would provide deposit insurance, while others acted as pseudo lenders of last resort. One irritating consequence of having no central bank, is that the value of currency depends upon the bank that prints it, and the bank in which your account is in. So prior to the Federal Reserve, buying a cart might cost \$10 Acme Bank Dollars, but \$11 Zenith Bank Dollars. With the various bank notes circulating together, this does not help efficient trade. The Federal Reserve System was established to deal with these issue, which by and large it has done. The other major activity of the Federal Reserve System, are the open market operation. That is, it controls the interest rates in an effort to "look after" the economy. This is a very 20th Century thing to be doing, and really took off after the end of the Breton-Woods system. It is difficult to objectively answer how successful this has been, but it is only one small part of the job of the Federal Reserve Banks. Can you pay off the debt? This question is roughly unrelated to the existence of the Federal Reserve System or not. My guess is you refer to this apparent paradox: Currently the total US debt is around 17 trillion. The total money supply (M2) of the US is around 11.6 trillion. At first glance this looks odd - the U.S. has borrowed more money than exists. In fact, this is not a problem at all, and is just a quirk of numbers with no real significance. For starters, of that 17 trillion, 5 trillion is "intra-government debt"; that is where one government department owes another government department. So that could instantly be paid off in theory. This is just like if you put some money aside each month to buy a new car, but then "borrow" some money from your car fund to buy a TV. Really the US debt is around 12 trillion, a tad over the money supply. The money supply is fairly arbitrary though, and is a measure of LIQUID money. The value I am using is roughly the sum of: Cash, Coins, Demand Deposits, Checks, Savings Accounts, Money Market Accounts/Funds & certificates of deposit under \$100,000 Obviously, there is a lot of wealth NOT included in that. The total value of the US Stock market is around \$16 trillion, the total value of corporate bonds is around \$10 trillion, and the mortgage related market comes to something around \$10 trillion. Then there are the buildings, resources, land etc. Adding everything up at current market values and the entire united states is estimated at around \$123 trillion: there is no shortage of wealth. So really the questions is how do you pay back a debt without using up the money? And the simple answer is that money is not destroyed when the debt is repaid, it simply moves from one person to another. So if the US pays off \$5 trillion of debt, then there will STILL be \$12 trillion of money supply, it will just have changed hands. Imagine: Alice owns \$1000 of US Debt Bob owns \$500 of US Debt Chris runs a business and has money in his account (part of the money supply). He pays \$1000 of taxes to the government. The government pays Alice \$1000 to pay of the debt, which goes into her account (part of the money supply) Alice spends this \$1000 at Dave's shop and it goes into his account. Dave pays \$500 of taxes from his current account. The government pays Bob \$500 which goes into his current account. In this example, \$1000 of money pays of \$1500 of debt, and ends up with \$500 sat in Dave's account and \$500 sat in Bob's account, ready to carry on the cycle. The only impediment to paying off the debt is raising sufficient money to have a budget surplus with which to pay back the debt. 

For example, the Manx pound is in a de facto currency union with GBP. The Isle of Man Bank chooses to back IMP one-to-one with Bank of England notes, but is not legally required to do so. At one-to-one this would automatically be part of the GBP money supply. In principle it could expand the IMP money supply, and since IMP is tied to GBP, one could argue this increase should be included in the GBP money supply. The Singapore dollar and Brunei Dollar are pegged to each other and the total money supply managed by the MAS. On the other hand, the HKD is pegged to the USD without one-to-one backing and the federal reserve has no control over it (HKD being managed by Hong Kong Monetary Authority). During the Irish Pound-Sterling pegging era, we again had separate monetary authorities, but currency union. First through Bretton-Woods and later "managed". In this case GBP was mostly accepted for trade in Ireland, while IEP was rarely accepted in the UK. Would GBP be in the IEP money supply, but the IEP not in the GBP? When performing an analysis on currencies of this nature, how should we determine what to include and not in the money supply calculation? 

The classic answer here would be Libya and Brunei, but I think Libya now has debt. Brunei is a strange case in that it uses a joint currency with Singapore dollar, controlled by the monetary authority of Singapore, so in effect you can use Singapore debt as a substitute for Brunei dollar investment. Not having any debt, and having a free currency is generally a bad idea, since you cannot control interest rates. Furthermore, if you can afford not to have debt, then people will be begging to lend to you at such favorable rates it would be foolish not to borrow a bit. On the other hand there are many counties with no net debt. Singapore and Norway don't need to borrow but do so to provide bonds for the financial markets. They then invest the money they borrow. Norway can borrow so cheaply they can buy US treasuries and make a profit. 

As you can see this would be a rather dubious strategy, but I have often wondered if Thomas Jordan (chairman of SNB) could simply address the world with underpants on his head and his willy hanging out as a way to depress the CHF. The strategy they opted for was the "ripping off a bandaid" style. The sudden shock is estimated to have cost the SNB about 13% of GDP due to all those foreign holdings. Since the SNB made a massive profit in 2014 (see: $URL$ it probably saw this as an opportunity to get out before things got any worse. Hold out longer and have 100+% GDP in foreign currency, and the bank might not have survived the jolt itself. 

From a central bank's point of view, printing money isn't free. Each 1 CHF created costs exactly 1 CHF - that is, it appears on the bank's balance sheet as a liability. They owe that 1 CHF to someone (the person they bought the Euros off - a bank). And whenever you owe someone money, there is always the ultimate belief that you can pay it back. Lose that and the bank fails, and the currency fails. With central banks this isn't clear cut, since the money can only be "paid back" by destroying it, but the trust in fiat money relies on the solvency of the central bank. A sort of, "so long as you could pay it back, I'll never ask you to". The SNB had been buying so many Euros (and other currencies) that it was sitting on foreign reserves worth about 85% of Swiss GDP. In the process it did make a lot of profit, but that can only go on so long. In theory, if the SNB could have held out forever, then it could have beaten the ECB, and when the Euro eventually strengthened, unwound its position as a profit. But that would have involved the SNB conducting massive quantitative easing in the mean time, in order to supply the world with sufficient CHF to meet demand. Given that Switzerland is somewhat smaller than the Eurozone, it would have been a battle it was destined to lose. Given that they knew they would likely lose eventually, it is better to lose now, when you only have 85% of GDP in Euros, than to lose later on when you have 850% of GDP in Euros! Of course having a central bank that is completely screwed, would weaken the CHF, but they only want moderate weakness, no complete destruction of the currency! 

First off, you are looking at the wrong column to compare like with like. Total debt went from \$16.7tr to \$17.8tr but that includes intragovernmental debt. Changes in this number will net out in the deficit calculation (this is one part of the government lending money to another part). Secondly, you are starting on the wrong date. You need to go full year, so start from 30-Sep-2013 and go to 30-Sep-2014 (you would think 1 day wouldn't matter, but a lot happens on that last day of the fiscal year!), so your link should be: Treasury Direct FY 2014 So the real number you expect to see change in line with deficit is the "held by public". This changed from \$11.976tr to \$12.784tr, an increase of $808bn over the period. So that leaves a gap of $325bn to be explained. This can be explained by the fact that various things are considered "off budget" for purposes of calculating the deficit, a small example I can remember is the U.S. Postal Service. Prior to Obama the Iraq and Afghanistan war were considered "off budget". I think various overseas aid payments are also off-budget. Also any loans or asset purchases or financial gains and losses will impact the debt value, but will be treated "off budget". This "off-budget" idea may seem a little dodgy but it should probably be seen in comparison to corporate accounting. For corporate accounts you would not expect the income statement and cash flow statement to exactly match. Doing the Math for 2013 Ok, so this is the best I can find, I'm afraid it is projected for 2014 but it gives you the idea. We can do the calculation for 2013. The Budget for Fiscal Year 2015 Go to page 207, then there is a table showing the bits that contribute to the debt change. If we re-ask your question for 2013 (where we have data), then your links are: Monthly Budget Review: Summary for Fiscal Year 2014 and Treasury Direct FY2013 Then we see that the deficit was \$680bn and the public debt changed from \$11,269,585,800,039.32 to \$11,976,279,236,073.83 = \$706.7bn Now according to the budget tables, we see that Unified Deficit is \$680bn but that there is an additional 22bn of changes in financial assets and liabilities, bringing us up to $702bn. Not bang on, but probably as close as you are going to get - rounding and different sample dates probably makes the difference. You can see from the projections for 2014 that there is a much bigger value of \$271bn, which is only (!) \$54bn short of the actual number we are seeing. 

The SNB could have started offloading some of its 85% holdings before the market realised. This is called front running and market abuse, and would land a stock trader in jail, but for a central bank trading FX, it would not technically come under any legal challenge (at the moment...). The reputational damage to the SNB would be huge, which would go some way to undermine investment in the country, causing a weakening in the CHF! 

Yes, but... In theory what you suggest is pretty standard text book, and in fact Keynes makes exactly this point in his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money as a way of getting a grip on the idea of interest and "Time-Value of Money" (don't have copy to hand, will update reference when I get a moment). The problems come, as always, in the details - in fact in details that you have glossed over in your original set up. If these 10 apples can be traded for those 20 oranges, then how can you be sure that another 10 apples can also be traded for a different 20 oranges. Or even, are we sure 100 apples can be traded for 200 oranges? Adding the dimension of time to this, creates even more problems, but putting those aside the relationship you are looking for is $$F=S_0e^{rT}$$ That is the future price ($F$) is equal to the price now ($S_0$), inflated by the time value of money. Now back to apples and oranges. Are we certain that 10 apples now is the same as 10 apples in the future? Or more pertinently does the 10:20 apple:orange exchange rate persist into the future? Probably not. Apples and oranges are both seasonal, and also suffer seasonal demand. We could image that apples are easy to come by now, but hard to get in 6 months time, vs oranges. Since you can't store them, this has to be reflected in the futures price. This means you will get a different $e^{rT}$ value for apples and oranges These main causes of these difference are usually broken down thus 

The third case would have almost certainly bankrupted the SNB. If they had, as you suggest, let everyone know in advance what was going to happen, then everyone in the world would just arbitrage the situation into the ground. Everyone would just buy CHF from the SNB at the cheap rate while they support the cap, and sell as soon as the cap is dropped. The first case is a little dishonest, and would almost certainly get found out (the worst kind of dishonesty!). As soon as they stopped supporting the cap, the FX rate would drift slowly down from 1.2. Once people realised that this was not "supposed to happen" and therefore the SNB must have stopped defending it, then it would probably snap anyway. There are two dubious plus sides to this approach I see though