Map: Nomadic and sedentary (Imperial) Iranic Peoples in 6th century BCE The Scythians are one of the oldest known Eurasian nomads. Like the Cimmerians before them, they migrated from the (central or eastern) Eurasian Steppe. In other words, they did not originate in Eastern Europe (north of the Black Sea). The many quotations of Herodotus, the "Father of History," says as much. Their original location was probably somewhere along the Kazakh steppe (also known as Central Steppe) and they eventually moved westwards to Pontic-Caspian steppe. Or, you could place their origin further east, along the Eastern Eurasian Steppe, say along the Altai-Sayan region. Herodotus believed they were from Central Asia: 

However, for a variety of reasons, not least the amount of information that is required and whether such concerns are really the focus of the question -- I will restrict this answer to focus mainly on the siege engines and brief mentions of the indicated campaigns. (Main sources provided at the end of the answer, see also links in answer) 

If we take modern-day Iran (linguistic identity) and Turkey (geographical identity), confusion will set in. The important thing is to NOT do this. There was an earlier question regarding Turkic people and the Mongols - where I explained the linguistic and biological genealogy (with reference to the Altaic languages). So we are looking much further back in time - 850 BCE, when neither Iran nor Turkey existed. A better approach is to look at it from a migratory perspective, i.e. where did they come from - "the formation and development of an ethnic group". The correct term here is ethnogenesis (i.e. origins). 

To end, here is a good explanation of Deng Xiaoping's open door policy, Economic Reform and Growth in China (Department of Economics, Princeton University, 2004) (pdf). A good, but basic, overview of how US-China trade developed in early years - U.S.-China Trade, 1971–2012: Insights into the U.S.-China Relationship 米中貿易 1971〜2012年, The Asia-Pacific Journal, June 16, 2013, Volume 11 | Issue 24 | Number 4 (pdf available). Finally, any mention of toys from Asia (Hong Kong) should always involve Li Ka Shing - for instance, Thoughts Of Li Ka-Shing (Forbes, 2006). This press release by HKDTC might be useful, 2011 - Toy Town. 

SOURCE: Sean D. Murphy, The United States and the International Court of Justice: Coping with Antinomies in THE UNITED STATES AND INTERNATIONAL COURTS AND TRIBUNALS (Cesare Romano, ed., 2008) Professor Murphy is professor of Public International and U.S. foreign relations law at George Washington University. Article available (pdf). 

Source: Andrade, Tonio (2016), The Gunpowder Age: China, Military Innovation, and the Rise of the West in World History, Princeton University Press, p.167. A simpler way of putting this, Wikipedia's timeline on the gunpowder age states clearly, "(in) 1480 ... Guns reach their classic form in Europe". From here, we can presume Ivan the Great imported them for his army. 

A lot more historical details available in a useful 1999 article on this very point, "British Free Trade, 1850-1914 - Economics and History" (pdf) by the The Economic History Review - $URL$ 

In case you missed the first and last sentence of this quote, there's at least 4 different ways to say Mandarin for Mandarin speakers: putonghuà ‘the common language’ in mainland China, guóyi ‘national language’ in Taiwan, and huáyi ‘Chinese language’ in Singapore and other parts of Southeast Asia, and beifanghua referring to North China. Let's just say the Chinese language has a complex history! 

The answer from a scientific perspective is a somewhat more involved, and difficult to make a simple and clear-cut statement (as indicated by your articles) because we have to differentiate between male and female lines. But in general, the conclusion is No, as there is very little evidence of interbreeding for both maternal and paternal lines. According to the world's first genetic archaeologist, Bryan Sykes, a Professor of Human Genetics at the University of Oxford, who conducted extensive DNA research within the British Isles, covering a much longer (earlier) history from pre-history to modern-day (emphasis mine): 

NOTE: I don't deny that the 'Church' did not always follow Exodus (22:18) but it does not mean a change when they do, because the witch-trials were (in my opinion) never truly about ideology - rather, it was clearly driven by material-wealth (i.e. economic returns). 

Source: Padgett, John F; Ansell, Christopher K, 'Robust action and the rise of the Medici, 1400-1434', The American Journal of Sociology; May 1993. 

Political Philosphy Getting back to your understanding, from a perspective of political philosophy, I would recommend that your reading at least cover the concept of Social Contract Theory because the context of this work (The Social Contract, 1762) should be understood as a continuation of arguments/discussions between philosophers or prevailing philosophy of the period. In my opinion, Wikipedia's entry does not do a good job of explaining this. A better one is The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy (IEP) on the Social Contract Theory, with particular focus on the section of Modern Social Contract Theory (i.e. Hobbes, Locke and Rousseau). In particular, note Rousseau's opinion of human nature viz that of Hobbes (State of Nature). Finally, to help finalise your reading on meaning of social contracts but with expectation you have prior reading (especially the IEP), Stanford's Encyclopedia of Philosophy (SEP) might be helpful here if you read Contractarianism. 

Q1- Did the rebels really not leave any garrison behind? Answer: Nope, unless you count old men, women, and children. 

The Convention - Prince of Wales, Duchy of Cornwall The Duchy of Cornwall was created by royal charter in 1337 by Edward III for the Black Prince. Both Edward III and the Black Prince were excellent role-models (of the time) and this is probably why this practice became entrenched, and developed into English parliamentary convention. The role of the duchy is to provide revenue for the heir-apparent (assets are held in trust). The Duchy of Cornwall Act, 1860, organised and standardised the governance of the duchy and the holdings and perquisites are actually located beyond the modern county of Cornwall, to Devon, Somerset & Gloucestershire (closest to Wales). A recent discussion on the Rights of the Sovereign and the Duchy of Cornwall Bill, Hansard, 2013. The title of Duke of Cornwall is granted to the eldest son, but not necessarily the heir-apparent. More info available at their website. 

Where did this manner of speech come from? It is very likely from everyone's favourite playwright, Shakespeare. Sonnet 124 in the 1609 Quarto: 

which translates to how ancient Chinese society functioned (or should function) because of difference in geography, about 3,000 years ago, Zhou Dynasty. The person credited with this belief is Duke Liu (公劉 / Gong Liu), an important ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty. His presence is still felt in modern Chinese society in several areas, such as urbanism, language, and poetry In ancient China, with insufficient infrastructure and early stages of statehood, there was a difference between North and South, which was not a matter of what language one spoke, but geography: 

Source: Livy, Liv. 5 34 If it is Ambigatus, the Celts should be the first ones at Avaricum (i.e. Bourges), because he was the first high king, i.e. King of Gaul. By the way, I wonder if Bituriges is from Welsh, "byd" which should be "world" and Latin, "rex" which is "king"? Hence, King of the World? See also Bituriges (early Celts). 

The Royal Irish Academy's website on St Patrick's writing has an entire paragraph on the second point (emphasis mine): 

Since there was no reference to horses, I believe this reference to camels is probably a reference to draught animals (including camels) as used in transport/logistics (i.e. camel caravans), and not fighting-units. 

I see the struggle (edits you've made) with understanding the issue but it comes down to legal process of creating land owners - concept of enclosure, where previously it was not used as such (private ownership of land). Put it another way, motivation for pecuniary benefits. All the other factors matter, of course, but if the (previous) tenants were not motivated, they would not work the lands. This article explains it.