A recurring phrase in Michael Ende's The Neverending Story, often seen when some character or characters drop out of the story, is ".. but that's another story and shall be told another time". I believe this is what's being referenced by Bastian, Atreyu, and Falkor near the very end: 

The first time the Rupert Annuals repeated a story was in 1953. But before the year I remember (2006), there were only seven years in which old stories were repeated (1953, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1988), and the only time any story from later than 1940 was repeated was for the 50th anniversary special (1986), which made a point of containing one story from each decade. Since the earliest annual I owned was 1949, this explains why I never noticed repetition until recently. The year I remember (2006) was when repetition of old stories really became a trend. In fact, since 2010, there has been only one new story each year, the rest being recycled older stories. Apparently Rupert annuals have gone so far downhill that they're mostly surviving on reruns. I'm glad I got out when I did, so that Rupert can remain a treasured childhood memory without being spoiled. 

There have been a couple of different explanations given for this, but the upshot seems to be that there's nothing particularly significant about the masculinity of April - it was more a product of the way language was used at the time than any kind of symbolic statement about masculinity. In his Notes to the Canterbury Tales (2014), Prof Walter Skeat says that the masculinity of Aprille is derived from that of the Latin Aprilis. Latin was of course much more widely used, especially in literature, in Chaucer's day. However, in his notes published here and based on those of Alfred Pollard, Prof Edwin Duncan cites Skeat and then points out that: 

Postscript: on Lem and mathematics Lem wasn't formally qualified in maths, but nonetheless he was quite knowledgeable about it. In fact, he was knowledgeable enough to be able to write about fictional mathematical events which were so plausible that they actually came true later! 

Half the poem is spent talking about day, night, and dawn. Surely this must have some symbolic meaning and connection to the main topic of the dead and their distance from the living. What is the significance of the references to night, day, and dawn in this poem? 

At the end of "The Bounds of Reason", the first story in the collection Sword of Destiny, the second of the first two Witcher short story collections, we see the following exchange between Yennefer and the dragon Villentretenmerth: 

... and that leaves Romen and Junior. The names certainly look very similar to Romeo and Juliet, and if Morrison was as careful in choosing names as it seems she was, then surely this can't have been an accident. It must be the first thing many people think of when seeing the names "Romen and Junior" paired together, and Morrison must have realised that at some point. But there are also other possible interpretations of these names. "Romen" sounds a lot like Roman, perhaps hinting at the connection with classical literature[1]; but it also sounds like Roaming, which could be hinting at his inability to stay in his 'place' in society, e.g. his refusal to be peer-pressured into taking part in gang rape[2] (perhaps like Romeo, gatecrashing a Capulet party?). "Junior" is an ironic name, both in the way she got it (after her mother's boyfriend Ethan Payne Jr., or at least plausibly so) and in the fact that she's actually older than Romen. This is one place where we find contrast - and yet, somehow, similarity - with Romeo and Juliet: where Romen is 14 and Junior 19, Juliet is 13 and Romeo is usually taken to be older. (That makes Juliet the "junior" member ... significant?) The case could be made that they're akin to Romeo and Juliet not in coming from warring families but in coming from very different places and being raised in different ways.[2] Our introduction to Junior's place of origin is to tell us that it's very far from Romen's: 

Instead of addressing any of these practical considerations, Borges preferred to spend the text of the story pondering philosophical issues: language, meaning, and infinity. This, the essential 'theme' of the tale, should tell us how we're meant to approach it: not as a realistically constructed world in which people could actually live, but instead as a philosophical exercise for the amusement of the mind. (Having read several other Borges stories, such as The Garden of Forking Paths or The Lottery in Babylon, I believe this is typical of his work.) Thus, any answer would not only be necessarily almost purely speculation, but it wouldn't even be useful speculation, in the sense that it wouldn't increase our understanding of the story in the spirit it was intended. This isn't the kind of analysis the author meant anyone to make. The Library of Babel focuses on wacky ideas rather than realism; if Borges has intended us to worry about the latter, he would have paid more attention to it in the story itself. If you're looking for that kind of worldbuilding, then I'm afraid you've probably got the wrong author. 

So he did have a phobia, which he might have channelled into writing some of his "buried alive" stories (like the protagonist of "The Premature Burial", he would have found it unpleasant to wake up in a dark and unfamiliar place), but it wasn't specifically taphephobia. 

This is a very subtle piece of wordplay, so it makes for an excellent question. The answer, believe it or not, is God. This is analysed in An Ingenious Jest in Byron's "Don Juan", a paper by John I. Ades in Papers on Language and Literature 24(4) (1988), p. 446. 

This is The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, by Mark Haddon. The protagonist is a boy named Christopher who has "behavioural difficulties" (Asperger's is implied but never explicitly stated). At the start of the story, he lives with his father Ed Boone in Swindon, England, but during the course of his investigations of the death of the next door neighbour's dog, he discovers that 

"The Lamb" and "The Tyger". There is certainly parallelism here beyond the titles: in both poems, the writer asks the respective animal "who made thee". The comparison is even made explicity by the line in "The Tyger" which says "Did He who made the lamb make thee?" "Infant Joy" and "Infant Sorrow". These are two very different takes on the birth of a newborn baby. No direct parallelism in the text, but the topic is similar enough for them to be paired. "The Divine Image" and "The Human Abstract". As above with the two Divine Image poems, both of these spend a lot of time on capitalised traits. In fact, this time "Mercy", "Pity", and "Peace" star in both poems, although of course the attitude and outlook are very different between Innocence and Experience. "The Little Boy Found" and "The Little Girl Found". Not that boys vs girls is at all an Innocence-Experience comparison, but I noticed that both of these poems tell very similar stories, although at different lengths. In both, God appears to reunite a lost child with their parents in a "dale" or "dell". (In fact, "The Little Girl Found" seems like a very un-Experience-like poem!) 

However, all that being said ... I did find a potential real source for the Superman asteroid problem! Thanks to the book The Ages of Superman: Essays on the Man of Steel in Changing Times, edited by JJ Darowski, I discovered the comic issue World's Finest Comics #68 (1954), in which: 

Again the word shadow is used as a metaphor for supernatural danger. A mere two pages later, when Ogion is enquiring about a ship to take Ged to Roke, they are told about the ship called Shadow. Doesn't it seem like an ill omen? (Of course, all of this foreshadows [pun unintended] later events in the story, the appearance of a much greater and deadlier "shadow" to a more experienced and knowledgeable Ged, which then dominates much of the narrative thereafter. But even now we've already seen enough to appreciate that the word Shadow carries dark connotations.) 

Ernest Hemingway wrote For Whom the Bell Tolls, the story of an American soldier fighting in the Spanish Civil War, a few years after his own experiences as an American journalist reporting on the Spanish Civil War. I know that various real-life figures appeared or were referred to in the novel, but I'm not sure how many of the events described therein really happened. How much of For Whom the Bell Tolls was describing or referencing actual events? Answers could be based on quotes from the author or from someone else knowledgeable about the Spanish Civil War, or on comparisons between the text and historical records. 

As a bonus, Valjean's second prisoner number was apparently also chosen for its special significance to Hugo: it refers to the month of his daughter Léopoldine's death. From footnote 46 in Kathryn Grossman's Figuring Transcendence in Les Miserables: Hugo's Romantic Sublime: 

It's also worth noting that he goes at least a week without water ("Water, water, every where, / Nor any drop to drink" comes earlier, in Part II, and he only manages to drink at the start of Part V). This too suggests that he's supernaturally unable to die. 

An excellent defining example, although not from literature per se, would be Captain Malcolm Reynolds from the cult TV series Firefly. 

El-ahrairah is not a god; he didn't create the universe or its inhabitants. Nor is he a mighty warrior (like many of the characters in ancient Greek legends, say), nor yet a prophet, preacher, or saint, in the traditions of more modern religions. His awe and glamour, in the eyes of rabbits, comes from his ability to escape his many enemies through cunning alone. This makes sense, of course, since strength is not the best survival trick for rabbits. if the entire company had been made up of Bigwigs, they would never have got as far as they did. Not to diminish Bigwig's contributions, it was the rabbits with more intellectual skills - leadership, intuition, and intelligence, as found in Hazel, Fiver, and Blackberry - who really enabled the success of our heroic band of rabbits. They are the one who exemplify the traits of El-ahrairah. Of course, El-ahrairah isn't the only character in the Lapine mythos. There is Frith, the god and creator of all things, and the Black Rabbit of Inle, guardian of the underworld and the dead, as well as Prince Rainbow, King Darzin, and other characters. How literally are these stories taken? Do the rabbits truly believe that Frith created the world, and that El-ahrairah was a real rabbit prince who got up to all these wild adventures? Most probably not - the way they treat the stories Dandelion tells makes clear that they don't care that much about getting the details 'right', and see them more as entertaining tales than religious instruction. How about historical accuracy? Well, it's possible that there was a real El-ahrairah many years ago, whose adventures have simply been wildly exaggerated and caricaturised as they passed from history to legend. But it's perhaps more likely that many different stories have been put to his name, some from various real rabbit leaders and some made up by imaginative storytellers like Dandelion. Perhaps some of Hazel's escapades will one day be retold under the name of El-ahrairah. (In fact, according to comments below, this actually happened in canon.) Out-of-universe Most of what we know about the legendary background of the rabbits comes from the stories told by Dandelion and others at intervals throughout the novel. In these stories: 

So the description of the external atmosphere surrounding the house, as well as being a writing technique to evoke the appropriate feeling in the reader, is also meant to be a direct in-story correspondence with the mental atmosphere surrounding the Usher siblings. Just as they are oppressed by their own mental illness and drowning in unnatural despair, so the house is oppressed by heavy clouds and ends up drowning in the tarn. The parallel is clear. 

The fact that he shows no surprise at learning that Wednesday is his father might be a foreshadowing of his experience further along his journey, where he learns about death, and gods, and (it is suggested) the fundamentals of the universe, as he passes into nothingness. As he moves further into the realm of death, his enlightenment and inability to be surprised increase. Also, he's already figured out the grand master plan. 

As soon as I read the first sentence of this quote, I wondered: who was the friend of Stevenson on whom Long John Silver was based? Silver is easily the most interesting character in Treasure Island - a most "ambiguous rogue", as I once saw him very accurately described - and it would be very interesting to know who inspired him, especially if it was a famous figure "whom the reader very likely knows and admires". 

(A note on terminology: "public school" in the British sense does not mean a public-sector school; it refers to an elite group of private schools, including Eton, Winchester, Harrow, and Rugby. This is where the children of the British ruling class are educated.) I doubt that Barrie has a particular person in mind when writing this passage; probably it was just for effect, to give Hook an air of mystique and add more depth to his character. Certainly his public-school background and adherence to "good form" does give him more depth, and (at least in my view) it's one of the more memorable things about him, making him more than just a villainous murderer. And to give him a specific name, link him to an actual real-life figure of the British aristocracy, would take away from that mystique. It's better for the story that we don't know his true name; then each reader can exercise their own imagination to come up with whichever possibility would be most interesting or scandalous for them.