Artificial banana flavor was derived from natural banana flavor; bananas, both Gros Michel and Cavendish, as well as other varieties including "wild" bananas, contain isoamyl acetate, amyl acetate and related compounds which result in their smell and taste. The synthesis of isoamyl acetate from other sources (namely the reaction of isopentanol aka amyl alcohol with acetic acid as found in vinegar; the acid deprotonates the alcohol to form an ester) allowed for the replication of banana flavoring on a mass-producible scale without the need for natural banana extracts; however, because it's only one such compound in the full palette of "banana oil", it produces a one-note flavor. That flavor is recognizable as banana, by taste and smell, but it was never meant to be an accurate reproduction of any one variety of banana; merely a cheap reproduction of the species in general. Other similar synthetics that have come to dominate use of the natural flavoring include methyl salicylate (the key ingredient of oil of wintergreen, and so close that hardly anybody bothers with the natural stuff anymore), and hydroxymethoxybenzaldehyde aka vanillin, used in place of natural vanilla extract in most brands of vanilla ice cream (and other flavors; it adds a creamier flavor to chocolate, for instance). Source: Dr. Derek Lowe, synthetic organic chemist, and FDA documentation on artificial food flavorings. 

The short answer is not really. The longer answer is that, while a silencer (aka suppressor) does dramatically reduce the report of a handgun, the sound of the pistol doesn't universally transform into the audio clip that has become a movie standard (some would say cliche). The Mythbusters tried this one as part of their "Sounds Bogus" episode dealing with movie audio versus real-world sounds. They called their results "plausible" due to the reduction in sound level, but did state that the sounds they recorded did not match the movie sounds. Here's the digest of that myth including what silencers really sound like on "defense-caliber" pistols. $URL$ The trademark "silenced pistol shot" sound in most movies is usually some variant on a suppressed .22 target pistol. That pistol is stereotypically common in the hands of close-in assassins (another movie myth; anyone who could get close enough to be lethal with a 22 has many better options) and therefore the sound it makes has become associated with all silenced pistols. 

The numbers are correct. The definitions, and thus the argument, are not. As in both Avi's and Konrad's answers, the number of postnatal deaths and the number of abortions in this poster are correct, given the latest information on world population, mortality rate, and number of abortions. However, they were arrived at by ignoring the fact that the mortality rate, which is the number per hundred of deaths as defined by the WHO, does not include abortions, because an abortion is not a "death". It also, as both answers have said, does not include miscarriages, or the grey area of stillbirths (the definition varies by jurisdiction, with some measurements including them as miscarriages, others including them as postnatal mortalities, and still others differentiating them entirely). These four results - live birth, stillbirth, miscarriage or abortion - are the only possibilities for an implanted egg and a viable pregnancy. I cannot find a worldwide stillbirth rate, but the U.S. rate is one in 115 pregnancies[1]. With the U.S. pregnancy rate at an average of 105.5 per 1,000 women (so 10.55% of women are pregnant at any given time)[2], if we extrapolate these out to the world female population of 3.402 billion[3], the number of stillbirths annually is 3,402,096,414 * .1055 * .008696 = 3.12 million. That is a very low estimate considering that both the U.S. pregnancy rate (due to economic factors both positive and negative) and stillbirth rate (due mainly to healthcare) are relatively low compared to the rest of the world. The annual number of miscarriages worldwide, borrowing from Konrad's answer, is 135.97 million. For a fertilized egg, which for many pro-life advocates is where life begins, there is a fifth option; non-implantation, which is the case for up to one-half of all fertilized human eggs according to some estimates[4]. Given this estimate, the number of non-implantations annually can be as high as the total number of pregnancies itself. If the U.S. pregnancy rate were extrapolated to the world female population, then over a nine-month period, there would be on the order of 358 million non-implantations of a fertilized egg, which would become nonviable (die) and the woman would continue her monthly cycle. Pushed out to the full year, that's 478.5 million women per year who, in the eyes of those for whom life begins at fertilization, are murderers. Lastly, the OP's chart ignores medically-necessary abortions (because the position of most pro-life advocates is that there are no such situations, which is a position that is patently false given medical knowledge to date). A large contributor, though not the only one, is ectopic pregnancy (the egg implants in the fallopian tube instead of the uterine wall). That occurs at a rate of 19.7 per 1000 pregnancies[4], which if we extrapolate from the U.S. pregnancy rate of 10.55% of women and the total world female population of 3.4 billion, is 3402096414 * .1055 * .0197 ~= 7.1 million ectopic pregnancies annually worldwide (and likely more as the pregnancy rate I used is U.S.-specific and thought to be lower than the world average; unfortunately I can't find a good figure for overall world pregnancy rates). Ectopic pregnancies are 100% fatal for the embryo with or without treatment, and without medical treatment, a ruptured ectopic pregnancy is 100% fatal for the mother, so when an ectopic pregnancy is detected prior to rupture, the treatment is a drug-induced abortion using methotrexate, and if a rupture has occured, the fetus is removed as a natural consequence of repairing the damage. Either way, the insurance billing codes that document the medical procedures performed (and are the primary source of statistical data on such things) will include a code for a medical abortion. This is not the only such indication for a "therapeutic" abortion. Toxcemia/eclampsia calls for immediate delivery of the baby as soon as the mother is stable, whether the baby would be expected to survive or not. Jurisdictions differ as to when such a delivery, resulting in the death of the baby, is a live birth and infant mortality (resulting in filing of a birth and death certificate for the baby), or an abortion by preterm induction (in which case neither a birth certificate nor a death certificate would be issued). Miscarriages, placental abruptions, and other complications of pregnancy often do not result in the woman's body naturally expelling the pregnancy; these situations require medical intervention to "evacuate the pregnancy", and are indistinguishable in terms of the procedure from a surgical abortion of a viable pregnancy and so would include nearly identical procedural codes. 

The Federation of British Aquatic Societies single-tail goldfish care sheet notes that they can grow up to 350mm (almost 14 inches) but rarely do as most are kept in aquariums. The Pond Care sheet also notes that "Pond Goldfish will grow to around 200mm/8" depending on the size of pond as they tend to adapt their size to the environment." The goldfish websites did note, however, that in order to be happy, healthy fish they do need at least a 10 gallon tank. As the link you sourced noted, small goldfish bowls are unhealthy and do not allow proper space or gas exchange. If you want a goldfish the size of a shark, though, I think you are out of luck. 

This paper indicates that although sun can't hurt the hair shaft, some people use hair sun-screens to reduce damage (perhaps from bleaching?) to the hair. It also notes that any damage done to the hair shaft itself is replaced by new hair growth. This paper studies the effect of ultraviolet radiation on the hair follicle (the part that the hair actually grows out of) and indicates that UV radiation is detrimental to the health of the hair follicle. Studies say: wear a hat :) 

In 2002, Lentek International was charged by the FTC with making false and unsubstantiated claims about their pest-control products. In 2003, Global Instruments settled with the FTC. The settlement prohibited them making their claims about the devices unless they came up with substantiating evidence. 

Livestrong does not tell readers to use a tea bag at the site of extraction, but offers the advice that: 

I have heard this on multiple occasions at the dentist and a quick search lists dentist after dentist telling patients to do this. For example: These facial surgeons recommend: 

Another aspect to this question may be cross-contamination at factories/bakeries/etc that produce more than one type of food. Although the allergen may not be present in the food you are eating, it may be present at the factory where that food is produced. From the FDA Allergy Warning Letter (1996): 

@crastic makes a good point that your heart has to be fibrillating to be defibrillated. Here is a link to the American Heart Association (AHA) which explains Ventricular Fibrillation (unsynchronized pumping). Defibrillation delivers a shock to the heart which should (hopefully) restart the normal cardiac rhythm. Although I couldn't find anything that specifically address actually trying to defibrillate a flatlining person, this article (PDF) notes that out of hospital cardiac events can sometimes only be reversed with a defibrillator, and the chance of survival decreases by 7-10% for each minute of delay. This article from the AHA indicates that an asystolic rhythm is non-shockable: 

Is there evidence that either of these claims are medically true for the compounds indicated (or others found in tea)? Please note: by "tea" I mean leaves from the Camellia Sinensis plant. Although "tea" also comes in the forms of herbal infusions containing mint and chamomile (for example), I would not expect these to contain the same compounds. If your research suggests otherwise, please include that information. 

In addition to the study above, the Federal Trade Commission (in 2001) warned manufacturers of these devices that they needed to support their claims with evidence in order to continue to sell the devices. They had specific claims that they found to be problematic, and also indicated that the idea of ultrasonic devices was problematic: These are the claims that the FTC wanted the manufacturers to substantiate: 

According to the American Dental Association, brushing your teeth too much seems to result in problems not with your teeth, but with your gums (for example receding gums that can lead to tooth sensitivity. Here is the sensitive teeth link. They also recommend brushing twice a day with a soft-bristled brush. The Mayo Clinic also recommends that if you eat or drink something that you know is acidic you should wait 30 minutes before brushing because you might damage the tooth enamel. 

I've gotten an e-mail to this effect a couple of times now, mainly centering around the story behind the song "Amazing Grace". The basic idea is that old Negro spirituals were based on the black keys of the piano because slaves weren't permitted to touch the white keys. Amazing Grace was written by a former slaver, and the assertion is that he heard the tune from his slaves. This sounds like total BS. First off, there's no piano out on the cotton plantation, and the slaves' quarters were very unlikely to have had one either. Second, a house slave might be trained to play piano for the enjoyment of the household, but in that case, it seems equally unlikely that the tutor would only teach the student the black keys. Lastly, the black keys, when played in sequence, form a pentatonic scale (not the only one but the easiest one), and this scale is common not only in certain African tribal forms, but in numerous European and Asian cultures. Anyone have any proof or disproof of this thesis? 

First of all, efficient left-foot braking does typically require that you're not also on the clutch. In F1 cars, the clutch is controlled by either of two paddles under the "gear up" and "gear down" paddles, and so it's more natural to give the left foot responsibility for braking. As an aside, the average F1 steering wheel, with multiple electronic linkages to the transmission and powertrain, fuel injection system, brake balance system, front and rear wing adjustments, communications system, various LCD readouts including upshift and pit cues, and the fact that like everything in the cockpit it's custom-made for the driver out of the most lightweight materials, costs in the neighborhood of US$50k. With a clutch pedal on the floor, you typically have to press both clutch and brake at the same time as you're both slowing and downshifting for a corner. The GT and rally drivers, who start with production vehicles and can't make extensive control setup mods like paddle shifters, do put in aftermarket clutches and make very precise adjustments to the pedal throws, giving the clutch, brakes and accelerator the same throw length (short). The pedals are also placed very closely together, allowing drivers to use an "overlap" position of their feet on the pedals; press the outside of the right foot for gas, press the outside of the left foot for clutch, press the inside of either for brake. This in turn more or less allows the driver to use whatever foot's handy to brake, left or right. If they're off the accelerator and downshifting for a hairpin, right foot. If they're slowing for a chicane or a drift turn but still under power, left foot. In the average civilian vehicle, these adjustments aren't available; the pedals are spaced further apart (especially for large American clod-stompers), differently-shaped and differently-placed, and have different weights and throw lengths. Despite this, Rally Racing News recommends left-foot braking when driving a front-wheel drive car in a racing scenario. The basic idea in a FWD is that when both brake and accelerator are applied, the front wheels keep turning despite the braking, because they're under power, but the rear wheels slow, and so lose some of their traction, causing the rear end to kick out (oversteer; a hard thing to do in most American FWDs, which are strongly biased for understeer for safety reasons). In a rear-wheel-drive car, this effect is even more pronounced but for the opposite reason; the car slows, transferring weight to the front wheels, and with the rear wheels still under power from the accelerator they will lose traction, kicking out the rear end. This in fact makes RWD cars really sensitive to applying brakes, accelerator and steering wheel at the same time; the general strategy in a RWD is to brake before beginning to turn, shifting weight to the turning wheels, then turn and accelerate through the corner as you straighten out. Braking while turning hard will cause the rear tires to lose too much traction, putting the car sideways in the corner, and when you add accelerator to try to power out of it, the car will swap ends.