I will assume the current psychological definition of a self. There are many other definitions, if you meant one of those please let us know. An additional assumption I am considering a healthy individual, so we will not be talking about whether multiple personalities constitute different "self" or not. Further, there is an assumption that the self is a single entity in your question so I will not be talking about conversations between say the ego and the id. Given those constraints, I agree with @Alex there is only one person present. As for the follow on question, why do it then? I expect that we do this because the act of speaking changes how we think about a topic. It requires more precision and effort. Helps us to clarify our thoughts. 

Assuming the Judeo-Christian God. 1) The modern Christian belief system asserts a "fallen" existence. Meaning that at one point everything was perfect, but things have become corrupt by the introduction of sin into the world. This is typically referred to as the fall. The high may be a result of this and therefore not part of the perfection that God intended. 2) The "high" itself is not the evil for most peoples perspective, rather the obsession with that high is the problem. This also may be a result of the fall as described above. 3) It is possible, even likely, that a benevolent God created materials which would result in pleasant feelings. Just as sexual intercourse results in pleasant feelings. Presumedly a benevolent God would create the means to have pleasant experiences as part of his creation. 

There's others too, but I think I'll stop here. So I'm curious: do these problems pose an intractable philosophical challenge that renders MWI useless? The other thing I notice is that he seems to rely heavily on popular-culture and layman characterizations of the theory, instead of the actual theory itself. If anything, to me the big problem with MWI is the one which inspired it: the problem of reconciling the unicity of our observations of the universe and experimental measurements with the inherent pluralism of the Schrodinger equation. In particular, given that it involves a bifurcation of the observer as per Schrodinger, it is not clear why our train of subjective experience must follow only one path, and furthermore, what determines which path it follows (e.g. why does this coincide with the Born rule statistics?). 

I saw this: $URL$ In this article the author raises a number of intriguing philosophical challenges against the so-called "many worlds" interpretations of quantum theory. In particular, the author appears to argue that it is "philosophically and logically incoherent", suggesting that it must contain one or more logically contradictory statements. However, is there actually such a statement? Looking over the objections, I'm not entirely sure I find them convincing, but would be curious to hear from philosophy experts as to exactly whether or not these hold any ground. I've examined quantum mechanics quite a bit, and am not sure that the argument given here properly characterizes it - but nonetheless, I also am open to being totally, and completely wrong, and that's why I want to ask about this. And I'm posting it on this forum because I'd like to hear it from a philosophy pov, not physics, since that's what the author is challenging it upon. In particular, the points he raises against the many worlds theory are: 

But if you understand it the origin doesn't matter, ad hominem (genetic fallacy) in the informal logical sense. The origin or genesis of the sentence, or proposition, may make us suspicious, may make us bring greater scrutiny to it, but it can not rule it out simpliciter as something that may speak the truth. The truth (on the most-widely accepted view, importantly, this is Descartes' view of truth) hangs on whether the thing said matches what is the case. That the thing is integral with the assertion in the sentence. For example, this is a sentence. You are now reading a sentence. Such must be true, whether or not the sentence got here due to the pernicious will of a treacherous being. -- Do you mean that you doubt what the sentence says is true? One could say that one takes it to be true, by devil's trick, but it is not true. That, I believe, is somehow unanswerable. Though, Nietzsche said that it makes no sense to assert that one doesn't exist. One says nothing at all. Since, "not existing", is put forward propositionally as a kind of existing. One might also possibly say, it seems to me, that one finds the whole issue unintelligible, that existence doesn't mean anything. Or, that the proposition can't say what it means to say. 

The Problem of Induction does represent a problem for the philosophy that is often referred to as science. That empirical reasoning is not "proven" may or may not be a problem for you personally. Empiricism has lead to knowledge that is closer to true then what we had before. So empiricism is useful as the computer you are using to view this demonstrates. Is our current understanding of empiricism "true"? Almost certainly not. That is part of the philosophy of the sciences. The assumption that our current understanding is flawed in some way. This encourages people to suggest improvements. As a result our understanding improves over time. So no I do not have an issue with the problem of induction, it only represent another area where our understanding could improve. That science currently has flaws in its understanding of things is a strength, rather than a weakness. 

There is no universal answer to the question "Is it ethically wrong to kill an innocent person (or people) for the purpose of self-preservation?" The answer depends on which ethical framework you are using. As you point out Utilitarianism would ask which provides the greater utility. Whereas a Common Good ethical framework would ask which provides for the greatest common good? I can easily imagine cases where the preferable answer would go either way. 

The time when the "worlds" split apart is not well-defined - it relies on the same vague notion as Copenhagenism does for the collapse, namely "when a 'measurement' occurs" which is a concept from intuitive natural language, not formal, rigorous mathematics. However I'm not sure this is a fair characterization. The "splitting of worlds" is nothing else than the uncompromising application of the Schrodinger equation to everything, as much as possible. When a particle collides with a barrier in a tunneling event, there is a splitting - this requires no vagary, it can be seen right in a direct simulation. When these superposed waves collide with detectors that read which side the particle went through, then the detector system is predicted to form a superposition by the same equation applied to the combined particle + detector system as a whole. The "branches" come from that alone, the expansion of superposition due to the linear nature of the equation, not some ill-defined process. The wave is in a very high-dimensional space, so we have no real hope of simulating this on a computer, however. Granted that as it's a smooth evolution, there is not a precise instant where the branches form, but it, I'd believe, has the same qualitative character as the initial splitting of the particle. The formation of many worlds undermines the concept of "I", namely that the bifurcation of a human under the Schrodinger evolution renders it meaningless. How exactly it does this is not clear from the author's description. To me though, it seems, why can't we just imagine the different branches to be literally different people? If they diverged soon after one's birth, then they could be considered as similar to twins separated at birth, arguably rather different people altogether. But perhaps someone here more well-versed in this issue could actually elucidate this in a logically well-parsed-out manner. The interpretation has no way to prove or refute its truth, there is no way to detect the "parallel universes". However, this seems to be a problem that plagues all quantum interpretations - we do not, with the framework of existing quantum theory, have any way to tell them apart, because the actual predictive theory of quantum mechanics is the math, which gives one tool - the Born rule - to connect the wave functions to the results of experiments, and that is shared by essentially all interpretations. The one exception may be the "objective collapse" interpretations as these actually do in fact predict a slightly altered statistics (but then again one can also fudge them so as to make this undetectable in light of new data coming in - but I'd think that at some point that would have to necessarily degenerate to special pleading and we'd have to say it's less likely this interpretation is true.). Any actual resolution would seem contingent upon discovering something beyond quantum mechanics that sets one interpretation as the correct one (while also rendering quantum mechanics only an approximate theory to something deeper) - which is exactly what the advocates that the author dismisses argue. 

I notice two things that run through your steps. The first it is brought up again and again that the method (tool) used to implement consciousness does not inherently matter, but I believe it does. The book is not conscience because it can take no action (it is inert). The computer may be conscience because it can take action. I believe the ability to take action is at least one requirement for being conscience. The second is that the steps accept input from an external source. Is a remotely controlled robot conscience? Is there a difference between the "lookup table" and a remote pilot to a robot? I doubt people would see a remotely controlled robot as conscience, rather they would look to the controller. The flaws come in part from a poorly defined term "conscience". First, let me offer that I believe you mean consciousness. Consciousness is the state or quality of awareness, or, of being aware of an external object or something within oneself. We sometimes say being self-aware. Implied in the definition is that this awareness is a self-contained action. It does not come by virtue of a look-up table or any external other input. I am not saying that it is not learned, just that if learned, it does not require input to be maintained. Assuming that you accept that definition then step three is not valid because the system is not self-contained. Finally, all of the above steps assume a computational model for consciousness. That is to say that consciousness can be mapped into specific steps and choices based on inputs. You have not demonstrated that this is true. The requirements for the tool to implement consciousness depend on the answer to this question. So steps 1,2,4 and 5 are ambiguous. 

Warning: This answer must not be taken for an explication of the text. In fact, as "jobemark" rightly pointed out, we have not even checked the original text here, against the translator's interpretation (as the text called Heidegger understands all translations). It is an answer to the question highlighted above. The simplest and perhaps most-telling explication would involve adducing something from Tolstoy's Death of Ivan Ilyich. Keeping in line with what "idiot an" says: "no-one can die my death for me". 

I am not perfectly informed on how Chalmers understands the “philisophic zombie’, but so far as I can surmise, at first blush, it is roughly the same as what Descartes called automita. Descartes would deny that that you write. To use a word that Descartes didn’t, but I think it is perfectly fitting, one anthropomorphizes the ant, on his claim. The ant is a universal, it has no substance, ergo: there is no ant. It is as though you said of a teddy bear, it is bob. There is a mechanism, a clockworks, that simulates intelligence in its responses, which react to external stimuli, which is received by internal centers such as the brain. So the same applies to the “ant” as to the university in the example one will have heard concerning the problem of universals. One walks about, sees everything, but were is the university? Nothing is there that remains, independent of the parts. The parts are bound together through the human wit, but there is no essence or inner thing, an ant. So when we say, Descartes says the ant is an automaton, we risk confusion, there is no ant. I think I shall ask about the Chalmer’s issue in another question. I must admit, I just, not five minutes ago, saw one of the great experts on this sort of question, getting into his car, but failed to ask him. 

The definition of alive is often given as "not dead". Ironically, the definition of dead is often given as "not alive". I got those from a online definition search. Biologist struggle to define those things that are alive. Though most would agree that a squirrel is alive, there is some debate about a virus and a prion really pushes the envelope. The best definition I have found for what is alive is an entity that can acquire "food", metabolize and act. I put food in quotes on food as it may not be what you expect. Plants "eats" sunlight for instance. Given that definition a Human is dead when they can no longer do those things. 

That depends on how one defines "the universe". Assuming you include yourself as part of the Universe and the Universe also include everything that exists, then any free will you have is "completely governed by the universe". 

Epistemology is the area a philosophy that considers how we know what we know. Although, it is true that Empiricism is a tempting theory for understanding truth, it is limited to the objective and measurable. I believe in justice, though I am not familiar with any units of measure that would apply. I believe there is beauty, though I do not believe that it is objective. At some point what you believe is an element of your personal philosophy. You can believe what you want, but if you want others to agree, you need to either stick to the objective, or work on your ability to discuss and persuade.