For this question you can get clear answers by reading Kalama Sutta. In Kalama Sutta The Buddha said; 

"Kayanupassana" comming under "Chathu Satipatthana". You can find detailed discription in "Maha Satipatthana Sutta" Also refer and search for "Anapanasati Meditation". Refer:$URL$ 

Are gandhabbhas belongs to gods or demons? I tried to find details about them. But couldn't solve my problem. According to the Buddhas Teachings, I want to know whether Gandhabbhas are divine people or evil people. 

According to the Monk's Sila, they can not accept money, since money is related to sensual pleasures. Therefore when monks have to deal with money, it's better to take help of a lay follower. In Sri Lanka, in the past and even nowadays in some places, there's a lay follower called "abittiya" is residing in the temple or the monastery to intervene in actions like dealing with money in order to help monks. In some occasions the chief donater of the temple too engage in such activities to help monks. So it's better if someone can help monks in such actions because it's a great help and also a meritorious act since it help a monk to protect his Sila. 

Now we are spending the era of Gauthama Buddha. So we should take refuge on him. Vairocana and Amithabha are Bodhisattas(to be Buddhas). They haven't attain Buddhahood yet. So the Buddha we should take refuge on is The Sakyamuni Gautama Buddha. 

"He sleeps in comfort. 2. He awakes in comfort. 3. He sees no evil dreams. 4. He is dear to human beings. 5. He is dear to non-human beings. 6. Devas (gods) protect him. 7. Fire, poison, and sword cannot touch him. 8. His mind can concentrate quickly. 9. His countenance is serene. 10. He dies without being confused in mind. 11. If he fails to attain arahantship (the highest sanctity) here and now, he will be reborn in the brahma-world. 

Monks, eleven advantages are to be expected from the release (deliverance) of heart by familiarizing oneself with thoughts of loving-kindness (metta), by the cultivation of loving-kindness, by constantly increasing these thoughts, by regarding loving-kindness as a vehicle (of expression), and also as something to be treasured, by living in conformity with these thoughts, by putting these ideas into practice, and by establishing them. What are the eleven? 

I think it’s possible to eat in moderation and be overweight. I’m not saying it’s possible to become overweight, but rather, to maintain your excess weight. Two factors come to mind: 1) monks don’t really have a physically active lifestyle. That makes it harder to lose weight. 2) different foods have different impact on your body weight. I would guess this monk is not eating a sugar-free, whole plant based diet. Is he? Buy finally, and most importantly: ask them yourself. From what you described, I gather they are pretty wise people, so they won’t get offended by the question. 

I think you are looking for the same thing I’ve been looking for in the past years. What I do is read lots of different texts from many different Buddhist traditions, and extract what I consider “pure wisdom” not influenced by religious beliefs. Currently I’m listening to an audio book: the Diamond Sutra interpretation by Osho, and it’s pretty great and free from religious distortions. You can also adopt a skeptical point of view when reading Buddhism. For example, when past lives are mentioned, you can interpret it as your past defilements. Rebirth is enlightment. Etc. An additional way I’ve found to acquire true wisdom is to study texts from many religions, and just abstract yourself from the fancy religious artifacts. You can get snippets of wisdom from Christians, Muslims, etc. 

On one practical side: be mindful. Meditate daily. Understand that the suffering and joy derived from your appearance is impermanent and doesn’t matter much. It is wise that you seek to reduce this attachment, but don’t do it from a place of aversion and anxiety. Accept your current way of thinking, and be patient and compassionate with your self about making a change. On a deeper side: reflect on the fact that you are a bag of meat and organs. There’s a great talk from the Buddha about this, see if you can find it. Try to see things more clearly, more objectively. Understand that your body will gradually deteriorate and decay. Be ready for that. Of course you can take care of it, but understand that the body is not YOU, but a mere vessel with an expiration date. Priding yourself of your body is no different than doing it with your car or house. It’s just a mere accessory. This answer doesn’t have a clear solution but hopefully will point you to the right direction to find a solution yourself. :) 

It is important to understand that life of a Monk will never be subjected to such a situation, and he will not have to worry about them. Being isolated and thinking deeply about existential questions and understanding how things work is the way of a Buddha. Therefore, one who is pure at heart and one whose mind is as calm as still water will never let the toxic negativity around him/her affect their composure. Given that you and your mother live in an ordinary human society built by these modern ideologies, it is impossible to live the life of a Monk and it is quite likely to meet hardships. In a society filled with people who have feeble control over their thoughts and mind in general, it is not uncommon to find people who do not treat others well. Therefore expecting perfection in people around us, in this modern society is futile, and the only way to remain happy will be to focus on ourselves and more specifically our mind. So what must be done: Accept the reality and understand that associating a negative emotion with something is the real problem here. Please tell your mother that I requested her to sit silently for a minute, close her eyes and be gently aware of her breath. This will help clear her mind. Now once she had done that, please ask her to forgive her colleagues by saying the following to herself: "I forgive my dear colleagues for ignoring me. I do understand that my colleague's lives are filled with worries like with everyone living in this modern society, and their negative emotions and ignorance of my presence are simply nothing but a reflection of their struggles and sufferings. Therefore, I consciously realize their suffering and feel sorry for them. And above all, I would help them if they need me. This cycle of suffering which spreads from one person to the other needs to stop. Let me help by playing a small role in doing so" Doing this is most likely to relieve your mother of her sadness. Explaination: It is important to understand that the world we live in is filled with negativity. Emotions spread like a virus. So it is very important to end the negative cycle wherever and whenever possible. This can only be done if a negative reaction is forgiven wholeheartedly. Sometimes, the thought that the world is negative, and the people around us are all negative and conspiring to hurt us, is a delusional thought caused by expecting something negative to happen to us all the time. This is another consequence of the world we live in. We are confronted with negativity more often than we are confronted with positivity. This forces us to keep doing the same. Everything we observe will have both a negative side and a positive side to it. For example, you can either say that a cup is half full or half empty. Focusing on either of them while neglecting the other will be a big mistake. Understanding that every perspective has something important to tell us and looking at things in all the possible perspectives (including its negative side and the positive side) will help us understand the situation with a greater clarity.