There's three answers in the literature with respect to this question. First, there are certain postmodern readers (I'm thinking of a Derrida text but could be mistaken) who take the pseudonyms very seriously and think there's no author behind them (since they accept the death of the author as a matter of semiotics and structuralism). The thing they like is that pseudonyms make this more obvious. I don't think there's much more worth saying on this (consider the following: if they are right, then every written work by everyone is pseudonymous; if they are wrong, then the view doesn't need further treatment). Second, there's a group of scholars who think we can attribute everything to Kierkegaard himself. This group includes mostly non-specialists in Kierkegaard who do so just by accident. Such authors tend to attribute really strange things that the esthete says in Either/Or to Kierkegaard. But it also include figures like Jon Stewart who defend the idea that Kierkegaard's pseudonyms are just part of a common practice of using pseudonyms where everyone knows who you are that was common practice in Denmark at the time (see Stewart's Kierkegaard's relation to Hegel Reconsidered for more on this view). Third, there's Kierkegaard scholars and others who take Kierkegaard at his word (from Point of View as an Author and also some journal entries). This view is propagated by the Hongs (translators of the Princeton series of Kierkegaard texts), Merold Westphal, C. Stephen Evans, Cynthia Walsh, et al (see for instance). This seems like a good idea but can be done naively and intelligently. There are several ideas and themes that are repeated across pseudonymous and eponymous books (or across multiple pseudonyms). There are also editing issues where Kierkegaard had planned to release in his own name and only hastily switched to pseudonym. These issues are sometimes pertinent in that the voice of the text is still written as if it is Kierkegaard even when it is not. 

I am aware of very few places where you could simultaneously pursue a masters in math and the "professional pursuit of philosophy." You would need to research programs specifically. But most of these are not going to be targeted at the MS/MA level. Instead, what I would suggest is to do your masters in math and take a course or two in philosophy -- outside of the philosophy of math during your MA. Then apply to PhD programs for the philosophy of math (The Philosophical Gourmet -- formerly under Brian Leiter's management would be a good place to find the list of good programs). Without a PhD, there's not much you can do professionally in philosophy. And diversifying at the MA level is not going to help you much. Instead, it will mostly hurt your chances. The key to getting into a good philosophy of math PhD would be strong math skills (demonstrated by coursework and a recommendation letter from someone on the math faculty) and competent philosophical writing (demonstrated by your writing sample). 

Three well-known 20th/21st Century Utilitarians: Peter Singer, currently at Princeton. Famous for the article "Famine, Affluence, and Morality" J.J. C. Smart co-author of Utilitarianism for and Against. R.M. Hare famous for defending a version of what is often considered rule utilitarianism. (Not to be confused with his son who is also a philosopher) 

Actually, that's not entirely clear... but it's just a question of how we define "deontological" rather than any deep philosophical thing. Contemporary ethical discussion seem to love the term as a contrast with consequentialist theories or virtue theories. Moreover, Kant could not have used the term because it did not exist until after he was dead. Yes, the CI is such that it obligates the moral agent to perform its duty and since it relates duty to morality, it is "deontological". But then if we look carefully, doing your duty is not enough for Kant, the maxim of the action of your duty must be universalizable and in accordance with pure reason. There's a lot of hoops there, but to say it another way, if my duty were somehow to help an old lady across the street, I only do my duty for Kant when I help the old lady across the street from the motive of duty itself (rather than allowing some emotion or desire for praise to be the source of my duty). This term is less helpful than the counterpart consequentialism, because different consequentialisms differ not primarily in the methods -- calculating the best consequence given some limitations but in the quantity that matters. Deontologies differ in the way that duty relates to morality at all (is it performance? is it rights-based? Are these duties we contract either through some social contract or as a condition of rational action in a world with multiple moral agents?) In many contexts, the differences in forms matter greatly. 

To ask "is this random" is a question ambiguous between the two senses of random? Here, we need to distinguish between epistemic (concerned with what we can know) and metaphysical (concerned with what a thing or system in fact is) conditions for randomness. What you are describing is when we epistemically cannot distinguish between randomness and a complex system which makes an events outcome deterministic (or free) rather than random. In answer to your question as to whether something epistemically random qualifies as random, that would depend greatly on how yo think what we can know relates to reality itself. And it can also depend on the particular case. So your intuition is right. We might call something random and use it for those purposes even though it is not in fact random on a metaphysical level-- like the random number seed on your computer which depends on jitter in electronic magnetic pulses or on background radiation. But then do we ever care that the thing is metaphysically random rather than random to our knowledge. 

Aristotle refers to letters as the cause (his word aitia) of a syllable in Metaphysics BK 1 and Physics book 2 part 3. He doesn't specifically say material cause (but you're not the first to draw the inference by a long shot). I'm not entirely following the dichotomy you propose but I would suggest the following interpretation I take to be Aristotleian. In general, letters are the causes of syllables insofar as need the letters to say the syllables that are the words. (This may be bad linguistics but give a 2500 year old scientist a break). I take him to mean by syllable a type of uttered sounded made up of the letters in the alphabet. In your example, you seem to be looking at two samples of [digital] writing in different colors and asking whether he sees syllable as a concrete instance or abstract type. I think there's two different things going on that should be looked at separately here and mixing them makes the difficulties. First, there's a computer image [or if you prefer physical piece of paper]. Second, there's words made of letters. Prefacing claims: 

The problem is not understood until after the formulation of a solution. Wicked problems have no stopping rule. Solutions to wicked problems are not right or wrong. Every wicked problem is essentially novel and unique. Every solution to a wicked problem is a 'one shot operation.' Wicked problems have no given alternative solution 

But he then rejects this -- not on the grounds that "the cogito is unbreakable" but on the grounds that he feels compelled to assume there's a good God that makes it so that his inner faculties are not scrambled or deceived to such an extent that his project can never get moving. There's some circularity between Meditations 1, 2, and 3. Basically: Med. 1 = I might be deceived in everything by an evil god including my belief that I am thinking Med. 2 = I exist as thinking thing [built on a dilemma between my belief I am thinking and the experience I have if I am deceived] Med. 3 = I have an idea of a good and perfect God that cannot come from me but instead must come from such a real being outside of me. So Med.3's good God assumption is needed to kill the evil demon objection of Med 1. And Med 2. is needed to have the proof of a good God based on my inner ideas. [for a longer version, see here.]