Castles, like any fortification, are designed to project power over an area and at the same time resist being taken over. What makes a castle different from a "base" or "bunker" or other fortification is crenelations, arrow slits, moats, double gated archways. These are all things designed to protect counterattackers and make it really hard for ground-based troops to enter. You said these castles have force-fields and anti-air defenses (anti-ship, missile, energy beam, god-rod, etc.). Well, once it's clear that air assault will not work, an attacking commander may well switch to ground-assault. It may be that force fields can deflect an energy beam, but maybe they can't stop a physical slow moving object (like a foot-soldier). So, perhaps high-tech weapons have cancelled each other out enough that old-school D-Day style frontal assault is the only choice. And what would be really handy when you've got thousands of armed troops running at you? Crenelations, arrow slits, moats, and gates. In reality, though, I would think a CIWS would take care of just about anyone coming at you. And those things are scary automated. So, to be fair I guess the foot-soldiers would have to have some pretty good armor. Totally doable. 

Depends on how the resulting inflation is spread through the economy. In most general terms: it would affect those who save money, and those who borrow money. Theoretically, it will not affect wage earners (because if inflation is spread perfectly evenly through the economy, wages should go up at the same rate as all other prices). Of course, in the real world, inflation won't spread evenly. If history is any guide, wages won't actually participate in the inflation. The impact on savers and borrowers is complicated. Those who saved at fixed interest rates before starting this form of taxation will lose the most. Those who borrowed at fixed interest rates before starting this form of taxation will benefit the most. Those who save or borrow after this scheme starts will see the interest rate spread increase corresponding to the amount of money being printed. Investors in assets will (again, theoretically - asssuming a perfectly even spread of inflation) neither lose nor benefit, because whatever assets they invested in will rise in value along with inflation. Investors in derivatives (futures, options etc.) or any time-based assets will need to carefully do the math. 

BONUS QUESTION: This page $URL$ says a man lived on coconuts from 1902 (and Wiki says he adopted a monodiet around 1905 or 1906) until imprisonment during WWI in Sept 1914, at which time he weighed 86 pounds. So, a while. 

@Alexander von Wernherr comment to the original question is apt. Not only are prey animals adapted to avoiding a fight instinctually (generally speaking), but physically as well. A hare that was about 5' 10" and 185 lbs would have two big front teeth, and some claws, but most of that 185 lbs would be in its massive hind legs. A rabbit does not kick as part of its fighting. And here's one reason why: A rabbit's skeletal structure is overall much lighter compared to predators (because it is built for speed), and shatter relatively easily. Femurs sometimes break just from jumping. Fighting is not winning for a rabbit. Its eyes are set more to the side of its head with almost 360 degrees of view, but no binocular vision -- which is real handy when you are trying to bite (or punch) something, especially a moving thing. You can't just scale up things and get equal return for size. If you take the long, light and thin leg bones of a rabbit, and you make them even longer, and attach about 100 lbs more muscle weight to it, those bones may no longer be able to take the stress. The bending stresses may be tolerable when the bone is only two inches long, but if they are going to be two feet long, then the proportions and the density have to be beefed up. A good example is engines used before the Wright Brothers; they were simply not able to output enough power to carry their own weight. Bigger engines put out more power but they weighed more too. It also ate a lot more fuel and generated a lot more heat. A tiny engine is less likely to melt itself. That same engine fifty times bigger actually might. Making things bigger increases the advantages but also increases the disadvantages. A timber wolf, on the other hand, has every advantage. It is a sleek killing machine, not a fast grazing machine. However, even a 5' 10" rabbit could still kill you or a wolf if it got a lucky bite in. So size alone would make it more dangerous for the wolf, but all in all the wolf is built to kill, and a rabbit is built to run. 

I don't think that it is fundamentally possible because any habitable planet will have geologic activity as well as climate actions. Earth as a planet will remain habitable for a very long time, but no individual spot can be guaranteed to remain habitable. Over 10 million years, you have to look at such things as an ice age steamrolling over your city regardless of how it is built. You have to look at continental plates crushing and in the process changing the shape of a formerly flat area into vertical mountain cliffs or even turning your city upside down. You have to look at the crust of the earth being stretched and possibly a new ocean forming where you built your "forever" city. Of course you can TRY to find the most geologically stable spot, but pretty much no matter where you go, over 10 million years, your town will suffer catastrophic events that even the rock itself can't withstand. 

What's Good is Good The question asks a lot, so first let me clarify my understanding of the question. The wizard wants to make a better society. But evolution works on individuals. Typically, "successful" individuals spread their traits by reproducing more than their competitors. But the question is about creating individuals who are most "comfortable" in a society, such that the society is "better." "Better" is not defined. Thomas More, Thoreau, Big Brother, and the Unabomber all have different ideas of "better." So, lots going on here. Killer Bunnies I know this is not what you are looking for, but at some point, the constituent make up of this society needs to change from what it is now, to include a significant number of these mutant individuals (let's call them "happy folk.") Either a controlling minority, or a plurality, a majority, or the entirety. In order to do this, the happy folk need to be better at reproducing themselves--whether it be Duggar-style family planning or good ol' fashioned human cloning--or, they need to be better at surviving some situation that reduces the current, non-happy population. Or both: happy folk can multiply like bunnies and also have a "negative" effect on the current population, like say, murdering them. This is not unheard of. I do not mean to offend, but some (not necessarily me) would say that the population of Israel is undergoing exactly such a change. An indigenous population is rapidly being replaced by another. What Was Good is Not Good So you see my problem with this question? By changing individuals to be happy in a society, you wind up changing the society. But I can imagine that somehow you reach an equilibrium where [almost] everyone is happy enough to no longer require further tweaking to fit into society. Although these "static societies" are often portrayed as being fundamentally flawed, that's usually because the protagonist is an outsider. For example, Logan's Run/Brave New World: people are pretty convinced that they're happy (at least so long as you are in society's good graces). Everyone is generally predisposed to accept or like their position in society, coupled with some reinforcing education and fostering. Everyone has fulfilling work and takes recreational drugs and is promiscuous. People have just enough problems to have just enough morals to basically not realize the bubble they're in. Is that what you want? Is that what anybody wants? Running In Place The factors listed in the original question are great. When navigating New York's "smellscape," one can easily see how nice it would be to control your own senses. (I think that's why people wear earbuds and dark sunglasses on the subway.) But every tweak raises potential society-ruining side-effects which might only lead to an "evolutionary war." (The classic example of evolutionary war is: prey develops poison, predator develops immunity. Prey develops stronger poison. That's how you get tiny frogs that can kill an elephant.) For example, let's say that the wizard wanted to make society more cohesive and compassionate and so he made individuals feel a closer sense of "brotherly love." Let's say happy folk identify other happy folk in the same way that animals recognize kin. Well, the obvious side effect can be that they become xenophobic. Or, the logical extreme can be that they become fascist (the thinking is that all happy folk express their true "happiness" by adopting normative behaviors, and that anyone who doesn't act happy is a traitor and a threat to society). Better How? So, to return to the spirit of your question: if you want to keep society the way it is now, but tweak some happy folk so that they can thrive in this society, you can make them not care about certain things (like eliminating ennui and existential quandries by making them pure lizard brain) or you can make them overcome their problems (like eliminating ennui by making them super-social and fun loving). But both solutions fundamentally change the society they are adopting to. 

Yes, but with a caveat. Printing money is effectively the same as taxation, but with far less control and supervision. First of all, "the government" always "prints money". Actually, in most countries, it's not the government, but some central bank that is usually semi-independent, such as the Federal Reserve in the USA, the ECB in Europe, or the Bank of England in Britain. and the money is not created through physical printing bills, but through loan transactions. This "printing money" should be balanced by money being destroyed (through loans being paid off, mostly), and economic growth. When more money is created beyond that balance, you get inflation (either systemic inflation throughout the economy, or sometimes investment bubbles such as the housing bubble of the early 21st century, or stock bubbles). Inflation simply means that each unit of currency (dollar or whatever) will be worth less. Now what you are proposing is basically that the extra money goes to finance the government, but those who already have money or income (i.e., the population) suffers the loss of value of money. In other words, the population pays for the government's operation. Which is no different from taxation, just through another means. Here are some of the problems - and benefits - of using "printing money" instead of taxes to finance the government: 

Get In Me Belly! In a nutshell: for humans, "civilization" really got going with the agricultural revolution, which led to permanent settlements, which led to division of labor, elite classes, then writing and accounting. And of course, trade and war and religion and all the things you find interesting when you're not constantly starving. You Scratch My Back... But none of that would have happened unless we had the need and the means of invention. In this case, the "need" was safety. We evolved as social creatures. This is because numbers provide comparative safety compared to going it alone. Usually, prey animals like to stick together. It spreads out the risk of being targeted. When in groups, certain cooperative behavior tends to emerge. For example, most foraging herds or flocks develop a system of watching out for predators (vigilance behavior) and a simple set of warning calls. You also have some kind of understood communication. You may have cooperative parenting and group defense tactics (like how bovines often circle the wagons). This has been a successful evolutionary behavioral model for dozens of millions of years. But you don't see any animal "civilizations." That's because you also require intelligence. Keep Bangin' Those Rocks The thing about evolution is, mutations happen. Most of them are bad. But every so often a mutant has a (small) advantage over others in his generation, and that mutant gets to pass on the mutant gene, leading to more mutants. Some say you can look at intelligence as just another evolutionary feature. A cerebral and behavioral mutation that turned out to be kinda handy for dealing with situations that would kill a dumber individual (or get you laid more than a dumber individual). The thing is, human intelligence comes at a huge cost: calories. Powering a human brain can be 20% of a day's calories. So if you're gonna sport a brain, it had better be worth it or you're just as dead as any other idiot. So why did intelligence work out for humans? Because we're risk takers. (Is one theory, anyway.) As the changing climate turned forest into tundra, we were forced out of the trees. So we had to deal with new environments, find new foods, escape from different predators. Intelligence was good for that. As we became omnivores we had to come up with hunting tactics because we were pretty weak compared to the other animals out there. What's My Motivation? Civilization = Numbers + Food + Intelligence. Hyperparasites sound gross and it's not helping that there are probably hundreds of them infesting a single host. Ick! But that host is also probably in a group of hundreds infesting some other poor sap. Can you say Hyperparasite Party! Social behavior can be beneficial in any situation where two heads are better than one. I already mentioned predation. But also, maybe it's difficult to find and latch onto a host, so at some point in their evolution the hyperparasites figured out how to work together somehow and they increased their success rate. What's the "agricultural revolution" equivalent for hyperparasites? I would say these hyperparasites would have to make the leap from finding hosts in the wild to cultivating them in controlled environments. (This would be like if humans had ranches where we grew elephants that we lived in.) But since these are hyperparasites, it's obvious how to cultivate host-parasites: you cultivate the host-parasites' hosts! (This would be like if humans grew a lot of peanuts because elephants like peanuts and then when an elephant comes to eat the peanuts we move into the elephant.) The Great Material Continuum So, strangely, a hyperparasite civilization could actually start with the cultivation of the food that feeds the host upon which the parasite-host feeds ('cos hosts need to eat too). (This would be like if humans made a lot of fertilizer to grow peanuts, to lure elephants, to live in.) It's a pure and simple vertically integrated production model. You gotta admit that would take some smarts. 

First off, the question is somewhat meaningless. A society where such a lack of privacy is possible will not devolve into a zero-privacy society, but rather into a society where privacy becomes a luxury good. This also means that privacy would become asymmetric: ordinary people wouldn't have privacy, but elites would keep it (as would governments). In this scenario, trust would not be enhanced, but undermined. This happens because ordinary people have no reason to trust elites (who would still have privacy), and elites would fear that ordinary people might still eke out enough privacy to stage an uprising. By the way, this type of society is by no means utopian. That is one reason I arrived at the privacy-as-a-luxury-good. Privacy is a very recent invention to begin with. Privacy only started taking hold when people were able to build large enough houses or apartments to have rooms to retreat to. In many parts of the world, privacy has effectively been outlawed. The most obvious example is North Korea, but also in the Pilgrim's New England, there were laws that prohibited anybody from living alone; for singles, widowers or widows, etc., having roommates were mandatory "to prevent sin". Today's NSA/GCHQ is actually somewhat similar: they expect complete privacy for themselves (under threat of life in prison or even a death penalty), yet insist that nobody else be allowed to have privacy (even to the point where Britain's Cameron suggested outlawing encryption). The hypothetical society in the original question would suffer the same fate. Possessing these types of drones, or the 3-d printers that produce them, would likely be unavailable to ordinary people. They would likely be illegal, and since there is no privacy, it would also be impossible for ordinary people to illegally own them. So, no, a true zero-privacy society for everybody is not going to happen. Privacy-as-a-luxury-good would be the real outcome. 

Don't Use (Astrological) Periods So, as others have said, calendars are typically based on solar cycle or lunar cycle. Once you've got a year, you can chop that up (you don't have to have 12 months) into finer and finer pieces. Even the second and minute were initially defined as fractions of the solar day. Key to this is that the year repeats when the sun reaches the same point in the sky. It's periodic. Why not have a culture that tells time purely linearly, not cyclically? For example, in Star Trek, you have different planets with different orbital cycles, so why would Vulcan agree to a time system based on Earth's rotation around the Sun? Just find something that ticks off consistently (like Earthicans currently use a certain number of Cesium 133 vibrations) and start counting those off. Don't Use Any Periods Or, you could be totally fugazi and not even use a consistent time marker. Like a fanatical culture that measures time by the heartbeats of the Emperor. The rightful Emperor wears a (pre-industrial) chest monitor that wirelessly updates the Central Time Net or something. And everyone lives by that because he's the gd dmn freaking Emperor. If the Emperor gets nervous or excited, literally time speeds up for that empire. Yeah it seems stupid to us, but we just don't know how deeply the Emperor loves us (yet). You could also get Game of Thronesey and not really have constant seasons. Like, what is up with Summer and Winter lasting different numbers of years? That could also explain why cultures on the same planet would invest vastly different systems. Who Even Cares? Of course, you could also have a culture that lives on "island time," which is to say, they don't really pay much attention to time at all. Like, time is measured by how many spliffs you've smoke that morning. (Sounds good to me.)