Amongst other errors such as severely underestimating the value for the carbon footprint of the car's manufacture. They also suggest that the authors have not included "indirect impact like roads, bridges, and fuel infrastructure." An article on Grist compounds up all these errors and adds a few more to calculate that the book authors are off by a factor of 18. 

I'm skeptical that the event happened as described and possibly that it happened at all. Is there any independent evidence of this event? 

The results showed that high protein diets are associated with higher life expectancy in over-65s. This means that low protein diets must be associated with lower life expectancy since the average over the entire data set was no association: 

This chart suggests that the percentage of the No Religion group in the younger population is greater than in the overall population. As they get older, you would expect the overall population to more closely match what we see in the younger population now. This is the chart from 2006 but the chart from the 2013 census shows a similar pattern. 

Efficiency gap analysis doesn't measure that. In fact, it does the exact opposite. It says that if one side is benefiting more than the other side, that we should transfer some of that benefit to the other side. This doesn't change the amount of disenfranchisement. It just moves it from one side to the other. Because that eliminates the gap in the efficiency. I.e. it is all about making the wrongs even. It makes no attempt whatsoever to remove the wrongs. Worse, efficiency gap analysis encourages the introduction of wrongs. Normal redistricting might put an entire county in the same district while efficiency gap analysis encourages breaking up cities and counties to produce "fairer" districts. From a comment: 

Geographic compactness. A district should have as small a ratio between its border length and its area as possible. Political compactness. A given political region should be all in one district. E.g. a city smaller than a district should be all in one district. Proportionality. The districts should be divided in a ratio as close to that of the voters. So if 40% of the voters are Democrats, then 40% of the seats should be. This can be problematic in that votes change every election while the seats often change only once every ten years. 

It is likely that they did a simple projection of the current trends into the future to make this prediction. On the regular census that the New Zealand Government runs, they ask each citizen what their religious affiliation is. Here are the results for the last four censuses. 

The future is difficult to predict which is why we tend to avoid it here at Skeptics. These trends show what will happen if the forces at work do not change and the rates stay constant. Predicting for certain that the rates will stay constant until 2050 is beyond the abilities of science. 

It's difficult to determine exactly what this means. It could mean that one chicken wing is the equivalent of one cigarette, meaning that the Daily Telegraph's claim would suggest that a high protein diet means eating 20 chicken wings every day. 

A comment on the post mentions that three other authors of the study also work for L-Nutra. The study doesn't have any comparison to smoking but the press release from the lead author of the study does. 

Rasmussen Reports has a trends page that shows their historical results. The specific result being discussed is the 16-Jun-17 result. It's worth noting that this is the best result on Rasmussen for Donald Trump since April. One explanation for this might be a rally around the flag effect after the baseball shooting. People who are unhappy with other aspects of the Trump presidency might be happier about his response to this shooting. Or they may simply find unity more important than other things. The 16th result would include two days of polling after the shooting, which happened in the early morning (around 7 AM). However, Gallup (the other daily poll with a rolling three day average) does not show an abnormally high result on those days. They are 38%, which is in the 36-39% range of the previous week. Rasmussen doesn't poll on weekends anymore, but Gallup's weekend polls have Trump at 39%. This is at the high end of their normal range but still within it. The weekend polls are taken entirely after the shooting. Rasmussen always does what are called Likely Voter polls. That means that they try to determine who will be voting. Most pollsters find that likely voting information is unreliable this far out and use registered voter polls instead. For various reasons, registered voter polls often favor Democrats more than election results. Rasmussen offers four possible responses: Strongly Approve; Somewhat Approve; Somewhat Disapprove; Strongly Disapprove. They have found that this gives higher approval ratings compared to polls that offer two choices. This is because people who would answer Somewhat Approve on Rasmussen might not be willing to say just Approve on another poll. Other pollsters also include No Response as a possibility. Rasmussen only includes their four choices. Rasmussen polls daily and the June 16th result is actually based on polls taken June 13th-15th. See the press release: 

You claim is contrary to the abstract of the paper. It's worth noting that the fish results changed in the follow up paper as well. 

The photo is an relatively obvious composite of Dutch police in the foreground and a bunker in the background and is probably not evidence of anything. 

The chart chooses just the lowest number. The chart considers the foundation programme to be starting work rather than training and the university degree to be training. The source consistently calls the foundation programme training. 

While this doesn't directly speak to the accuracy of the paper, it does speak to the author's willingness to lie (or lie by omission) for personal gain which in turn casts doubt on the authenticity of the paper. There's a blog post including an email from the guy who triggered the investigation that lead to the retraction. Some selected quotes that do directly discuss the accuracy of the paper: 

Trende writes in another article, How Mich. Rebuts Redistricting/Polarization Claims that despite the overwhelming success of Republicans in that state, the district lines changed very little from 2010 to 2012. In fact, the Republican success came in 2010, before the lines changed. They just held on in 2012, despite no district crossing the 50% boundary in the Republicans' favor (i.e. no Democratic district became Republican). The only district that crossed the 50% barrier went from a small Republican majority to a small Democratic majority. 

The normal problem with urban vs. rural districts for gerrymandering is that urban districts are more Democrat (have a higher efficiency loss for one party) than rural districts are Republican. This is why efficiency gap analysis is promoted by Democrats as a measure of gerrymandering. It promotes their goals of more Democratic districts with very little loss of districts to the Republicans. Look at states like Massachusetts and Connecticut for example. In both states, the congressional delegation is entirely Democratic. But in both states there is a large enough Republican minority that they occasionally win the governorship. In Massachusetts, the breakdown is roughly 50% Democrat, 25% Republican, and 25% other. So in a proportional system, the Democrats should have four to five seats while the Republicans and other each have two to three seats. As is, Republicans and other have zero seats. In fact, nationally, other has zero seats in the House of Representatives. Efficiency gap analysis doesn't help with that. In fact, in a state with 75% or more of voters in one party, efficiency gap analysis says that the majority party should get 100% of the seats. The disenfranchised 25%? Not their problem. Same thing with those not in the two major parties. Source: Partisan Gerrymandering and the Efficiency Gap (PDF), Nicholas 0. Stephanopoulos & Eric M. McGhee Gerrymandering Election analyst Sean Trende of Real Clear Politics did an analysis of gerrymandering where he measured the increase in partisanship. He found 

As you can see, the answer "No religion" is trending upwards at around 10% per decade. Christianity is trending downwards at about the same rate. The total of the categories "No religion", "Object to answering" and "Not stated" is at around 50% of the population in New Zealand. Christianity makes up about 43% of the total population in New Zealand. If the rates stay constant, we would expect that after 36 years, the percentage of Christians in New Zealand will have dropped by 36% which would leave 8% of the population left as Christians. The same would be true for the No Religion group in the reverse direction, going up by 36% to 74%. The percentage of non-Christian religions has been growing over the last four censuses, however the rate of change is smaller than the other two groups. At about 2% per decade, by 2050 they would make up 13% of the population, outnumbering Christians. From this simple projection, they along with the "Object to answering" and "Not stated" groups would make up the remainder of the population. This is a simple projection from existing trends and is not highly likely to be precisely correct however it does suggest that the prediction of less than 10% religious by 2050 is close to what we should expect. 

The Virginia game was in Charlottesville, while the Pittsburgh game is near downtown Pittsburgh. For those who don't know, Pittsburgh, PA is about 240 miles (400 km) from Charlottesville, VA or 300 miles (500 km) by road. Others have already linked evidence that the reason for this was his name and the violence over the Robert E. Lee (no relation) statue in Charlottesville. MSESPN 

Even keeping the lines constant, as if redistricting did not happen, polarization is increasing. Another reason that Trende does not mention. 

This may be the source of McCain's claim. Another possibility: the Cato Institute quotes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as saying in 2012 (PDF): 

TL;DR: There is no evidence that Obamacare reduces mortality; if anything, it increases it. Raw data 

However, note that this adjusts for "religiosity". So what they seem to be saying is that conservatives/Republicans give more because they are more religious, not because they are Republican or more conservative. So in other words, they found the same relationship as Brooks but counted it differently. Whether you call this insightful analysis or sophistry is probably going to be heavily influenced by your own views. The link in the question is citing the work of Arthur C. Brooks, a professor at Syracuse University, who wrote Who Really Cares: The Surprising Truth About Compassionate Conservatism. This article by conservative columnist George Will cites some of his findings, including: