If we compare the power of weapons that could be used by the state and those that could be used by the guerrillas and militants, we should conclude that the further we go into the past the closer were the means employed by the rebels and the state. In ancient times people used cold weapons such as sword, lance and shield. Of course the state army usually had superior weapons, but one could use some non-weapon things such as knives or pitchforks or just clubs to counter-act the army. Once the body armor was developed, it became much more difficult for irregular units to fight the pro-government forces. The firearms already require special factories, and actually cannot be balanced by the cold weapons. In most countries possession of firearms is prohibited, and even if the rebels have some, they need bullets for them which also require technology to be manufactured. So the army can easily crush any rebellion unless the rebellion is continiously supported by a foreign power or a part of the army. But the small arms still can be used by the rebels even if they cannot produce them. This is not the case with tanks and planes which require extensive infrastructure and trained personnel to use. With the invention of this kind of weapons the state got unprecedented superiority over any rebels unless they are openly and extensively supported by a technologically advanced power. With the invention of the nuclear weapons the gap even further increased so now nuclear-possessing countries have ultimate military superiority not only over any rebel forces but also over any non-nuclear state. That said, any modern army can easily crush any open rebel resistance if it is loyal to the government, the government is not threated by an even more advanced foreign force and the morality questions not considered. This was not the case of Ancient Rome for example, where the government not always was able to defeat a rebellion. The only possible tactics for rebels now are to disguise themselves as civilians, to incite the military to take their side or to seek a foreign aid. 

Nobody mentioned that Hitler also withstood several internal party votings to the position of the party leader. It is difficult to say whether these votings were fair and what would happen if he failed to secure the majority, but at least we know that Mussolini was deposed by the internal party means. 

What should be historically correct costume of Doctor Faust corresponding to the epoch, described by Goethe? I encontered with several pictures of Faust in the Internet, but they differ very much. For example, in this depiction from a German film he looks much as a medieval wizard rather than a university professor (and reads a book about folk medicine). 

In addition to that I want to mention is that Turkey already formed a shadow Syrian cabinet on its territory which is a classic prelude for a war. Russia supports Syria not only because of the naval base but also because they believe that they will be invaded by the USA or Saudi-sponsored rebels right after Syria and Iran. Russia wants to postpone its place in the queue. 

On the other hand the advocates of these theories explain the fact that swastika is not widely represented in museums of ancient Slavic culture by the claim that it is due to a conspiracy by the Bolshevicks/Jews/ZOG to hide items with swastika from the people. So what is the reality. Was swastika ever a Slavic symbol before WWII? 

There were a lot of German soldiers who surrendered because of their convictions and among them were many Communists. A soldier with Communist convictions most likely would surrender rather than organize resistance. 

Ivan IV the Terrible of Russia had put another man, Simeon Bekbulatovich to the throne and retired to a monastery. But a year later he abandoned the idea and returned :-) Simeon Bekbulatovich resigned the Moscow throne to become the Grand Prince of Tver. Do not know if this counts either for Ivan or for Simeon. 

The "kingdom" is usually regarded as monarchy, the "republic" as the republic in modern meaning and "principate" and "dominate" as either monarchy or military dictatorship (with dominate more often regarded as monarchy). I would question the claim that political order has changed sufficiently in ancient Rome from the era of Romulus until at least the reign of Heraclius. Just some facts. 

Of course, taverns existed in Ancient Rome and possibly in Ancient Greece as well. The very word "tavern" comes from Latin taberna. And you of course mistaken about middle class: it always existed in European cities at least starting from prehistoric age. 

In metro there were turnstiles (although in many places the turnstiles were only at entrance and you could enter freely via exit). The turnstiles accepted coins and there were also exchange machines which accepted 10, 15 and 20 kopecks coins and gave you 5 kopecks coins in return. In intercity buses (which costed more) there were conductors. In city buses, trams and trolleybuses there was no enforcement, it was honor-based. You had to put money into a box and then take a ticket from it. You could take a ticket without putting money or put less money than required but you would be condemned by the surrounding passengers who would say your behavior is detrimental to our state. Here is how the box looked like: 

No, it is not needed. I think you better should read the history of Marxism and about the Great French Revolution. If you want to deepen in history, you can start from the Commune of Rome (1144). 

It is completely wrong if your source claims that NKVD was a "secret police", whatever it could mean. Sometimes I even spotted such claims in Wikipedia. NKVD included normal police, traffic control, firefighters, border guards, passport issuing agency and prisons. 

The main reason was that the people just supported the North. The reasons may vary, but the South were considered a force fighting for the interests of the invaders and the North were simply liberators. One of the previous answers notes that totalitarian governments can sustain higher losses. This does not do anything with the reality of Vietnam. How can you imagine a "totalitarian government" in a forest? In civil war usually wins the side which is more supported by the people, because people can easily defect and switch the sides, and no "totalitarian government" can do anything with it. The people in the North just loved their motherland while those from South loved their money. 

On this statue of Augustus (image is from Wikipedia), he is depicted wearing the traditional dress of Egyptian pharaohs: 

I do not know for factual reasons, possibly others will answer, but if to speak formally, they had no legal pretext for doing so because Poland itself did not declare war on the USSR. 

Sources: Zemskov V.N. Gulag. Sociological research. 1991. #6 pp.14-15; for 1931-1940 - ГАРФ (Russian state archive), ф.9414, оп.1, д.1155, л.2; д.2740, л.1, 5, 8, 14, 26, 38, 42, 48, 58, 96-110 Note also that many who died during the war died not due to maltreatment but because they volunteered to the front (that would reduce the term of their sentence). 

I want to provide some context for the developments in question. At the time in Germany abortions were prohibited unless as a result of rape, especially by "subhumans". If a woman claimed she was raped by a Russian, the abortion was conducted for free so to prevent racial pollution. This legislation remained in force for some time after the defeat of Germany. I say this just as a fact and not to allege that a part of the rape claims were done so to get an abortion permit, which is though quite possible. Another circumstance is that there was a large number of ostarbeiters (forced workers), people freed from POW and concentration camps, pro-Germany East battalions composed of citizens of the USSR who collaborated with the Nazis, including Asians, Cossacks, Russian Vlasovites etc (which all had no discipline at the time), non-Russian Slavs such as Poles and other people whom the women could mistake for Russians. As such, any claim that a woman was raped by "a Russian" does not necessarily hint that she was raped by a soldier rather than, say a KZ escapee or anybody else. 

When I was studying, one student girl asked the teacher what is so bad with Nazism. She asked what's so bad if other peoples are exterminated? The teacher thought for a while and said that it would be boring without diversity. Although the girl did not ask any more, I think this answer is not that satisfactory because existence of diversity is not that obviously good. So what are the modern scholarly points of view criticizing Nazism which could be satisfactory to explain to a layman why Nazism is bad? 

The main reason for helmlet return was protection from artillery shrapnel. WWI and WWII helmlets cannot protect from bullets, entirely. But they well protect from shrapnel from shelling which greatly minimizes the casualties 

In what Arab states having multiple wives legal and where it is not? How this changed over time and what countries were pioneers in the reforms? 

Well, the USSR did not conceal the event from the public. The official position can be described as follows: 

No. The USA had won the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq in any military sense. Their problems there are that they cannot keep the countries secure, safe and politically stable. This is much different from Vietnam where they were opposed by a regular army, supplied from abroad and did not control the whole territory. But indeed if an occupying army is very sensitive to casualties, a sparse insurgency and instability can force it leave. 

I think the most ancient form was the form 2 which still can be found in savage tribes. This possibly came after some disasters or contested power which indicated that the gods were not always positive regarding the ruler. The form 1 evidently came with rise of large national states where the idea of a king as a family leader did not work any more. The people (sometimes consisting of conquered peoples) heeded an explanation why this dynasty is better for all, not just for their relatives. The third form originated from form 1 when the dynastic lineage was interrupted or with the order changed to the republic. The king was not able any longer base his power on a divine origin. Sometimes the form 1 was skipped and form 2 directly converted to form 3 either when a capable ruler went into conflict with clergy who previously could manipulate the outcomes or when the society became multi-religious so that an oath before the own gods of the ruler could convince even those who belonged to a different religion that he will keep the promise. 

Columbus' hypothesis was that he reached India but his published results were reinterpreted as the discovery of the Americas because the scholars determined that India could not be there. If you just observed a new effect or event, does not mean you made a discovery unless you publish your results. That said the Vikings while observed the Americas, never published their results. And even if they did, they never thought that the lands were a new continent rather just a set of islands thus they interpreted their results in a way which would not allow to make a discovery. 

According to this paper, in 2951 BC there was a massive volcanic eruption. I do not know whether even more ancient eruptions can be calculated. 

The chances are minuscule: there were very little Jews in Russia in 17th century. Russia acquired major Jewish population only in the second half of 18th century with incorporation of Poland. So those ancestors could be Jewish, from Europe, but I very doubt they were from Russia. Maybe from Eastern Europe, but hardly from Russia. 

One could buy a ticket for a month for various combinations of the modes of transportation inside a city, the ticket that included all modes would cost 6 rubles. For particular modes of transportation it would cost 2-2.5 rubles. Students could buy monthly tickets with discounts. 

The number of such cases is so high that it would be difficult to put all them here. Consider the following: Iraq's Abdul Rahman Arif was a key figure behind the coup of 1963 after which he became the commander in chief and his brother the president. After the 1966 death of his brother he became the president of Iraq and was overthrown in 17 July Revolution in 1968 by the Baath party. Cuba's Fulgencio Batista came to power in a military coup in 1952 and was overthrown by Fidel Castro in 1959 Argentina's Arturo Rawson ruled only three days between coups in 1943. Argentina's Jorge Rafael Videla came to power in a coup of 1976 and was disposed and arrested in 1981. His successor Eduardo Viola was disposed by a coup less than a year later. 

Besides Britain there were other colonial powers with great empires, Spain and France. They had similar number of colonial possessions. Spain had nearly entire South and Central America, while France had most of Africa. It was much later (after WWII) when France lost most of its possessions in Africa, although in North America they lost their possessions to Britain much earlier (the result of the Franco-British war was determined mostly by other factors, and not directly connected to the industrial revolution). Spain lost the possessions because of independence movements in the 19th century. You may also consider Russia who also conquered large areas of Central and North Asia and America starting in 17th century while not being an industrial pioneer. 

What role played Lenin in the history of our country? Totally positive - More positive than not - More negative than not - Totally negative - Don't know 

According Suetonius, there were important requirements needed for the diploma to be valid, so to combat falsifications. They were imposed by the senatorial decree: 

As you can see, it includes a wheat wreath, red star and the sun, all elements typical for Soviet-style coats of arms. Yet the state regime at the time was monarchy. As such, I wonder whether the regime at the time conducted or proclaimed any policies that could be interpreted as stepping in the direction of socialism, or if not, what otherwise is the story behind the emblem? There is some difference in the sources though as to how the flag looked like, another variant being: 

How compare the rights and conditions of the 19-th century American slaves to those of the 19-th century Russian serfs? 

It should be noted that Stalin is often praised not only by Communists but also by various nationalists and monarchists who perceive Stalin as a kind of strong and just "Tsar". The monarchists for example, frequently believe that Stalin was in fact Orthodox Cristian and sought to protect the church. This is based on the fact of the war-time reconciliation with the church by the Stalin's government to appeal to the patriotic feelings o the population. They also sometimes praise Stalin for purging the leadership of the party of Jews who are considered unpatriotic and anti-Russian. They often oppose him to revolutionary destructors, which they allege were at power before him. It should be also noted that the popularity of Stalin rose considerably in post-Soviet years compared to that of the late USSR along with popular anti-Americanism due to evident crude influence of the USA and the West in Russian politics that detrimented the wealth of the people and strength of the state. === In this video a Russian philosopher and politologist Alexander Dugin explains his point of view on the reasons of popularity of Stalin: $URL$ . In short his point of view is that Stalin is an image, archetype of a father of nation that is imbeeded in Russian mentality irrespective of what actually was historical Stalin and that this archetype is a constant to Russia. He claims that the people want a leader under which the elites will suffer and fear, and Stalin is exactly such leader. He also claims that the popularity of Stalin rises due to comparison with modern leaders. === P.S. I missed to mention two more serious reasons why Stalin may be popular today based on modern politics. 

The government position was extremely unpopular among the people because many saw it as a blatant violation of international law and as a next step towards planned attack on Russia which is already in queue after Syria, Iran and Belarus. Some people compared the war with the 1936 civil war in Spain where the USSR failed to protect the anti-fascist government. Many saw the aim of the Wastern invasion was to support Al Quaeda which allegedly now fell under American control after Bin Laden dead, similarly to how the US supported Jihadists in Afghanistan. They think that the US wants to build a powerful Sunny Wahhabi chaliphate so to increase Islamist terrorist pressure on Russia and China (this is supported by the facts of quite open Western help to the terrorist Islamist rebels in Chechnya). Another cited reason was that the West wanted to take Lybla's oil resources, similarly to how the West attempted in Russia in the 1990s (i.e. Yukos affair and the like). During the war many people learned more about Libya, especially that it was the most developed country in Africa, that its standards of living were higher than in all other Arab countries (including Saudi Arabia) and in Russia. In the Internet there were many pro-Gaddafi Russian-language resources, including for example, forums of Ukrainian medics who worked in Libya (actually a very large number because Libya paid much greater money to Ukrainian and Russian doctors than the Ukraine or Russia themselves so working in Libya became a mass practice for Ukraine's and Russia's medics). It is known that Libya had a high-quality and free for all medical care system so that doctors from many countries worked there (not only from Russia and Ukraine but also from Bulgaria, India and others) The public opinion in Russia currently strongly pro-Gaddafi, which is one of the reasons Russia took different position in Syria.