If you are researching Liu Hui, there is a fascinating paper titled Liu Hui and the First Golden Age of Chinese Mathematics, by Philip D. Straffin, Jr. which was published in Mathematics Magazine in 1998 (Vol. 71, No. 3. (June 1998), pp 163-181) which might be of interest to you. 

He is more familiar today by the Greek version of his name "Anubis" (you may have already guessed that from the "determinative" figure at the end of his name). This is of particular relevance to the discussion here, since you will notice that, when written in hieroglyphs, the name Inpw begins with the single reed hieroglyph we saw above, and which I noted is usually said to represent an "e", "i", or "j". When written in Akkadian cuneiform, the name of the god was rendered as a-na-pa, and, as we have already seen, the Greeks made it "Anubis". So, the single reed clearly wasn't pronounced as an "e" or an "i" in this instance, but rather as something closer to an "a"! 

In 250 CE, Shapur I of the Sasanian Empire invaded Mesopotamia. He fought a series of wars with the Roman emperor Valerian (r. 253–260), who he eventually captured at the Battle of Edessa in 260 CE. However, the following year, Shapur I suffered a massive defeat at the hands of Odaenathus of Palmyra and his forces were driven out of Mesopotamia. 

The first known use of the phrase "The First World War" in any context is actually in an officer's diary from 1918. The diary records a conversation between officers where they discussed what historians should call the war. Obviously, however, this was not a "public" document. Another interesting point from that article is that, even as late as January 1959, the "Second World War" was often referred to as "The Second Great War". 

An alternative interpretation, based on evidence for climate change in the second-half of the second millennium BCE, may fit the known facts rather better than the interpretation presented in the article in Science. Tony Brown combined the analyses of a number of climatic indicators to provide a picture of the changing climate in Britain in the Bronze-Age. These were presented in the first Bronze Age Review, published in 2008 [Brown, 2008]. The results suggest an unusually dry period in the second-half of the second millennium BCE, centred around c. 1200 BCE cal (3150 BP cal). In that context, as we have seen with modern natural disasters, populations might well have been forced to migrate in relatively large groups. A population of this type might provide a better match to the demographics we seem to see at Tollense. Either way, we will have to wait until full publication before we can draw any firm conclusions. 

A nice example of a 13th century Islamic sprinkler bottle was discovered a few years ago during the archaeological excavations ahead of the construction of the Leadenhall building in London. I'm not sure if any residue analysis has been carried out on this example, but according to the article, it would have: 

The acquisition of an empire required that Rome maintain a permanent military establishment in its provinces to cope with rebellions. These were often loyal to their commanders, rather than to the Senate in Rome, as in the cases of Marius (consul in 106 BC & 104-100 BC) and Sulla (consul in 88 BC, & dictator from 82-79 BC). It is interesting to note that during Sulla's two year term as dictator, he was supposed to have had well over a thousand of his political opponents put to death. This resolved the problem of factions within the senate (discussed above), and Sulla was able to retire from office, eventually dying peacefully in his bed. 

UPDATE: I just found an online copy of the Subsidy of Armour, published by the Lincoln Record Society. In it, the items enumerated are listed in a footnote. A "Que". is indeed a caliver in this context. 

TL;DR No, there's no evidence for cultural continuity from the Neolithic to the Iron Age. However, as you might expect, we do see some evidence of elements of continuity from the late Neolithic into the Bronze age, and also from the late Bronze Age into the Iron Age. 

The judgement of contemporaries and modern historians is just about unanimous. King John was a terrible king. All things considered, he is probably a strong contender for the title of England's Worst Ever King! 

I'm not sure the Yugoslavian military were ever actually "combatants" in the Angolan Civil War in the strict sense of the term. I was living in Southern Africa when the war broke out and so I've read quite a bit about what was going on in Angola. The military support for the MPLA came from Cuba, together with a number of Russian specialists (although it is possible that Yugoslavia did sent some specialist military advisers to assist the MPLA and Cubans). I do know that Yugoslavia was one of the countries that provided financial and materiel assistance to the MPLA before the civil war actually broke out in 1975. They may even have provided military training before 1975 (although I thought that training was provided by the USSR). On page 519 of Into the Storm: American Covert Involvement in the Angolan Civil War, Shannon Butler observes: 

Roman law was quite explicit in permitting women to swear oaths and testify in court. The Digest of Justinian states: 

Given that, the UK could hardly insist that any of its dominions should always remain a dominion, or complain when one chose to become a republic. 

(my emphasis) So it seems that there was no hard and fast rule in regard to children. If they looked old (and strong) enough to work, they would be set to work. Otherwise they would be murdered. 

For much of the medieval period, the only way to disseminate knowledge (scientific or otherwise) was by personal letter or in books. In a very real sense, this preserved the traditional structures of authority, knowledge, and even doctrine. In his book, Radical Enlightenment: Philosophy and the Making of Modernity 1650-1750, Jonathan I. Israel argues that the development of scholarly journals served to upset these structures and so accelerate the development and expansion of knowledge. I'd like to illustrate the situation before the introduction of scholarly journals with a couple of examples. Roger Bacon was a Franciscan friar and philosopher in thirteenth century England. He is probably best known as being the first person in Europe to record the formula of gunpowder. He emphasised the study of nature through empiricism and was one of the earliest European advocates of the "scientific method" inspired by Aristotle. As such, we can probably reasonably classify him as an early scientist. This was long before the invention of the printing press, so his work would have been transcribed - by hand - in the scriptorium of a monastery. The amount of work involved in the transcription process, by its very nature, limited the number of copies that could be produced. In turn, this was a real limitation on how widely the details could be disseminated. In that context, the idea of a "learned community" in the modern sense is probably anachronistic. Despite this, some news of Bacon's research and discoveries would have been transmitted by word-of-mouth and by letters. That news certainly travelled all across Europe, for we know that Pope Clement IV requested a copy of Bacon's work. A copy of his Opus Majus, was sent to the Pope in Rome in 1267. Another Englishman, who was also a practitioner of the scientific method, was Francis Bacon. He was active during the early part of the scientific revolution, some 300 years after Roger Bacon. Despite the earlier work of of Roger Bacon, it is Francis that is today often called the "father of scientific method" and "father of empiricism". This was not because Roger Bacon's work had been lost. It simply reflected the increased range that could be achieved in the years after the development of the printing press. Although this was after the medieval period, it was still before the days of learned societies and scholarly journals. His works were published privately. However, in some ways, it can be argued that it was the work of Francis Bacon that led to the publication of those journals. The Royal Society is, perhaps, the oldest learned society still in existence. It was founded in November 1660. Its founding members claimed to have been influenced by the "new science" - that was promoted by Francis Bacon in his New Atlantis.