I use a Texas rig if there are a lot of weeds and plants, if it is flats and mostly gravel and sand i lean toward a Carolina, however it is rare that i fish the latter when going for bass. When i use real worms i thread them onto the hook (generally a smaller hook) and if your good you can thread them partially up onto the line, then bring the hook out and back in much like you would a rubber worm. I like to do it this way because is leaves less unhooked tail to be bitten off or stolen, but you can still use them much the way you would with a fake worm 

See some reviews on the main page. It's touted as a great base camp, boat, camper, or winter stove. The quality/comprehensiveness of the documentation is also excellent in my opinion. This may or may not fit your needs, but I felt it worth a mention. Notably, there is also a version for smaller pots that keeps the burners focused in a narrow radius: 

Sap flow in trees is a result of sap pressure accumulated in the roots during a frost, which is then released when the temperature thaws during the day. Many tree species cannot be harvested because they do not develop high enough sap pressure to bleed (according to Venerable Trees, Inc.). One farm in BC reports that birch sap is harvested just after maple: 

In a survival situation, lets say post apocalyptic, what are some unconventional ways a campfire could be lit? Obviously there are the classic flint and steel, rod and bow, and of course matches. But what are creative non conventional ways to start a fire from things you might find in a post apocalyptic scenario? One example i have heard would be with a battery, and a piece of foiled chewing gum wrapper seen here 

Its very hard to distinguish from that sound clip but my guess as to what you are hearing is probably cicadas depending on your location. They can sound like a buzzing or hissing noise and generally are most active during the peak of summer. If you look you will probably find their shells they have left behind after crawling out of the ground to start their second phase of life. (seen below) 

I have planned a smaller lake trip for me, my girlfriend and our two dogs(10 year Labrador, 5 month Eurasier). What I didn't think of is the fact that the puppy might need to be carried for a part of the distance since he's a wee bit too small to be trusted with walking on marsh-planks. I did a field test the other day and found it quite difficult to carry him in an orderly fashion for more than 800m, fully geared up. So I'm at a point where I either have to re-plan the trip, or solve the problem at hand. The dog is not the problem per se, it comes down to my ineptitude to hold him both securely and comfortably for more than some hundreds of meters. My first thought is that some kind of baby carrying pack might work, but I'm not sure. So, is there a product that will work better than me carrying him in my arms? 

One thing to consider, You could use an adhesive thermal insulating liner on the underside of the bed cap, it would be semi-permanent but i don't see it causing any adverse affects if left in place year round. If the bed liner is one of the one piece plastic liners you could try removing it, adding a layer of Dynamat beneath the liner covering the entire bed and then re-install the plastic liner over the top. This material could be used for the bed and the cap, it is made to dampen sound and insulate the inside of vehicles from heat from the engine bay/firewall but would work equally well at keeping it inside. It comes in various thickness and can be installed yourself pretty easily. The only down side is if you sleep with the cap on in summer it could get a little toasty. Here is an image of some installed to give you an idea of its pliable nature. 

This is consistent with the average min/max monthly temperatures for Quesnel, BC: Interestingly, Cornell University gives the same temperature conditions for maple trees as described above for birch, i.e. when day/night temperatures swing across the freezing point. I'd suppose birch trees just prefer a bit more warmth. In particular, the University of Alaska Fairbanks says birch prefers a daytime temperature consistently above 50 °F. This occurs about mid-April in that region, but earlier for Quesnel as per the graph above. 

If I had to bring one thing for acid reflux, it'd be a bottle of citric acid powder. Hopefully this doesn't come off as crackpot-ish, but it's solved the bulk of my acid reflux problem. Any evening I ate pizza or legumes, like clockwork I'd be lying awake half the night from extreme acid reflux, the kind you have to swallow. If I wanted to get up early, then I couldn't eat my favorite meals. It was terrible. Antacids seemed to do nothing (i.e. stomach seemed to compensate with more acid). Dad always drank soda (carbonic acid) with his meat to help digestion, and I wondered if there was anything to this. Some websites say there is. The theory is that acid reflux is a result of excessive stomach churning from indigestion, and that supplementing your HCl with some extra acid can actually aid digestion and calm the stomach contractions that are pushing acid up your throat. So I started drinking dilute lemon juice with the acid-causing meals. It turns out I can actually sleep at night after a problem-meal. So I drink lemon juice with almost all my meals now. Could the effect be psychological/placebic? Could be. Will it work for everyone? Maybe not. But the acid I still get with any meal now is manageable/ignorable. So, PERSONALLY, on a trek I'd bring a bottle of citric acid powder. 

I like to use these because they are generally weed free, meaning it is difficult to get snagged on weeds and submerged trees etc. Which for bass is where you want to be fishing. 

Likely the reason was due to a momentary torpor. Similar to hibernation but sometimes only lasting as little as a few hours. When it is cold, there are less insects, which mean less food for the bats. The bats know this and choose instead to save energy rather than waste it flying around. Bats have a very high metabolism and consume an enormous amount of food to keep up with it, but are also very good at conserving energy. Nps.gov goes into this some: 

I'm looking for alternative ways of hunting small game(rabbits, pidgeon etc.) besides a rifle/pistol, and the requirements I have found to be the most important are: 

So with these requirements locked down, the only thing I can think of is some sort of bow or crossbow, but these are pretty cumbersome(the latter more than the former) and I might be in a blind spot here. What tools besides a crossbow or a bow would fill these requirements? 

We are all different and this problem is nothing rare. What you are describing is called overpronation, which means that you roll more on the inside of your foot when you walk. This is something that is rooted in your pattern of movement, i.e something that is very hard to change. The best way to remedy this would be to add some kind of padding to your shoe, so it supports your foot and reduces the uneaven ware. Here's a little article on pronation. 

The original Penny Stove has been popular for over a decade as a DIY alcohol stove designed for ultralight backpackers. Its trademark is the use of a penny as a fuel regulator. 

Stefansson proved once and for all that diet affects teeth more than brushing. His experiences with the Arctic Inuit were published in Harper's Magazine in 1935, but are also available here in three parts: I, II, III. It's arguably the upside-down food pyramid that is responsible for lining dentists' pockets today. Starch gunks up one's teeth and gets fermented to acid. If you're eating mostly meat and vegetables, brush with a little water and you should have no issues. It's the grains that bite. Many indigenous people who never brush their teeth also never get tooth decay 

You would normally dress for the activity you're about to preform, and then add a watertight layer on top of your other layers. You also have to be certain that while the wet can't get to you from the outside, your poncho won't protect you against your on perspiration. As to address your direct question, you should insulate your head to protect against the cold. Perhaps a beanie is not the right way, try a bandana or headband, just try to keep something between your head and the cold outer layer to keep yourself warm.