You've got some pretty demanding criteria there, especially if you have such wide variations in a single day. The key is "layers" -- different pieces of clothes you can easily put on or take off as conditions change. And, for that many layers you'd probably want to have a pannier or some other sort of bike bag to carry what you're not wearing (though you could probably get by with a backpack). Since cost is a factor, you should start with what you already have (maybe not designed for cycling) and add a few critical pieces. First and foremost, you need some good rain clothes -- a lightweight jacket that is waterproof (or close to it) and some sort of pants that shed water well. The jacket needs to "breathe", so you don't begin to sweat too quickly. (But even if it "breathes", you'll find that it gets sweaty very rapidly.) You also need "wind clothes", so the wind doesn't penetrate your clothing on a cold day. These should be anything that is thin but tightly woven (but not waterproof). Otherwise, you need layers of clothes that keep you warm without making you sweat and without holding sweat (or rain) close to your skin. Wool is the old traditional favorite here, though there are many synthetic fabrics (such as CoolMax) that are better (and not as scratchy). But stay away from synthetics such as nylon, polyester, etc, except perhaps as a thin outer layer. Cotton is to be avoided in cold weather (because it insulates poorly and holds moisture against the skin), though many of us prefer to cycle in a simple cotton tee shirt in warmer weather. All of these clothes should fit fairly tightly, so they don't flap very much in the wind. (Though the rain jacket should maybe be a little looser than the others, both to "breathe" a little better and because you frequently need to put it on and take it off in a hurry.) Flapping slows you down and also reduces the insulating effectiveness of the clothes. 

I suspect that the spherical washers are there, just frozen to the brake arms so they won't move (aluminum sticks to aluminum). You can try completely disassembling one of them to examine the washers. But the "uneven" wear you show in your first picture is actually fairly even -- I'd be happy with that. And, aside from the first millimeter or so, "toe-in" won't affect brake pad wear substantially. If your pads are wearing out rapidly it's likely due to some other issue -- poor quality pads (or just the wrong ones for your use), rough rim surface, etc. Keep in mind that pads are available in several different hardnesses, from soft and "grabby" to so rock-hard that you have to be a gorilla to squeeze the things. Generally, the softer the pad, the faster it will wear. 

Cone nuts have lock nuts. The lock nuts (in an ideal world) prevent any motion. And, as you observe, precession in either direction is bad on wheel bearings, so there's no real point in preferring self-tightening or self-loosening. (In fact, having both the same direction means that any slight "creep" in one will tend to be canceled by the "creep" in the other.) Note that crank bearings and pedal threads are subjected to much more axial load (and more intermittent), and are thus more subject to creep. Plus, cartridge crank bearing cups and pedal threads are self-limiting -- they will only tighten so far, regardless. And often the crank cups do not have lock nuts. 

No. A greasy chain won't cause the chain to pop off, and it would have to be exceptionally dirty for dirt to cause this. (I've ridden many miles with greasy, dirty chains.) Generally a chain comes off due to maladjustment or because of a worn component (usually a cog). Poor technique can contribute to the problem, but the technique either needs to be pretty bad or there needs to be another contributing factor. 

First off, carefully check the rear brake and compare it to the front. In particular, the "noodle" of V-brakes is quite fragile and can get bent and crimped. Or it can simply get bumped and moved out of place. Squeeze the brake lever (on the handlebar) and then let go -- does the cable (as it exits the lever) go "limp"? If so, the brake lever itself is probably OK. If not, the lever may be jammed somehow. Inspect the cable route and look for any crimp in the cable housing. It's not unusual for a cable housing to rust up and jam the cable, but it shouldn't happen in 3 months, even if the bike is ridden in the rain. More like the sort of thing that happens after 5-10 years. If the bike is 3-months new and purchased at a bike shop you should take it back for a complementary "tune-up" anyway. 

According to Wikipedia, Gold has an "ultimate tensile strength" of 100 MPa, while steel runs from 400 to 5000. (Carbon fiber laminate is 1600.) Gold has a specific gravity of about 19, while steel has a specific gravity of about 7.8. So it would take about 4 times as much pure gold by volume, or about 9.7 times as much gold by weight. A 15 pound steel frame would weigh about 145 pounds in gold. Gold is currently trading about $1300 per (Troy) ounce, so that works out to 145 * 12 * $1300, or $2.26 million. I think even carbon would be cheaper (and lighter). (And, of course, due to the weight of the frame, the frame strength would have to be beefed up, so you'd need more gold still.) 

Well, that second image is a little too small to see what the bike's condition is, but I knew a guy back in the 70s (a fairly avid biker) who bent his fork rear-ending a parked car. (Yeah, he was a bit sheepish about that.) The fork was bent back to where the tire just barely cleared the down tube. He rode it like that for at least 4-5 months, probably doing 200 or more miles a week. (Note: This was a steel bike -- if that wasn't obvious from the date.) Clearly, handling will be affected -- that's for you to assess. And I wouldn't trust a bent fork with aluminum or composite components. 

Hard to say without knowing a bit more. The BB could use a cartridge or could use loose bearings. With loose bearings the situation you describe would generally only happen if one of the cups came loose, in which case the balls could slip out of their races, leaving you grinding metal-to-metal. With a cartridge, if the cups retaining the cartridge get loose the cartridge can slip-slide around a bit, but a real problem would only occur if a cup came loose enough to let the end of the cartridge slip out, at which point the cup would be nearly ready to fall out anyway. Either of these loose cup scenarios would be immediately obvious to the trained eye of the service tech, without having to take the BB apart, and either could be simply rectified. So more likely there is a cartridge and it has come apart internally (though along the lines of the loose bearing scenario). Normally a bottom bracket should last a long time. Loose bearings can be repacked every 10-20 thousand km or so, and cartridges may need replacing at maybe 50,000 km. The type of failure you describe (absent the involvement of a clumsy mechanic) is unusual. If indeed the cartridge has disassembled itself internally then probably no great harm would come from riding on it, other than it could lock up suddenly without warning, or at the very least leave you stranded somewhere. But with a loose cup scenario you should not ride the bike, as this could damage otherwise-repairable parts. 

Traffic law (in the US): The law considers the bicycle, first and foremost, to be a mode of transport, and sees a need to regulate the flow of bikes the way it regulates the flow of automobiles. This dates back to the dawn of automobiles, if not before (though in some states it took decades for the law to spell things out as it does). This makes sense, since bicycles can attain speeds well in excess of a normal pedestrian and their speed creates hazards for both them and pedestrians if they ride on sidewalks or otherwise behave as pedestrians. Besides, if bicycles were pedestrians we'd not be allowed on roads, in the flow of traffic. This would place a major constraint on cycling few of us would want to see. I believe most states have an exclusion of sorts for children on bikes or maybe even for adults riding at low speed, allowing them to use (most) pedestrian paths. But this is an exception to the general rule. There is a problem that a significant fraction of the general public does not tend to view bicycles as vehicles, but this is an education problem, and I'd definitely not want to confuse the issue by raising the above question "in public". (I am reminded, however, of "Big Lip Louie", a guy who lived in rural Louisville, KY 50 years ago when I was a kid. He was, at the time, maybe 30-40, and didn't drive, but walked everywhere. He was tall -- well over 6 feet -- with long legs, and could walk at speeds I'd guess were in excess of 10 MPH. It was fairly common to encounter him walking along a rural road, pretty much right down the center of the road. He was more of a "vehicle" than a pedestrian.) 

The mounting arms are meant to be bent. Bend them as needed to fit your bike. If they can't be made to fit then likely a visit to a local hardware store (especially if staffed by some reasonably clever salesperson) will yield a solution. Or your local bike shop folks may find a suitable bracket in their junk parts box. 

I don't go over the things too often, but I've never noticed this with a wired unit (haven't had my wireless long enough to really notice this, since I don't do that much city riding). The interference could work two ways. Could be interfering with the wireless radio (which I suspect is ANT, a sort of poor-man's Bluetooth), or it could be that the pulses from the induction loop are triggering the reed switch pickups (or perhaps they use Hall-effect sensors in the newer units). Whatever the interaction is, it is a bit weird -- Wikipedia says that the typical loop frequency is 10 kHz to 200 kHz. But unless it's pulsed it's hard to see how it would affect the sensors themselves, and ANT operates at 2.4 GHz and should be pretty much immune to the loop frequency. But the way you say it behaves -- getting "stuck" at the last valid speed reading -- is even more bizarre. My understanding is that the ANT transmitter pulses for each turn of the wheel, and one would expect interference to register as regular pulses, generating a speed that's fixed for a given loop but not related to your former speed. This points to the 3rd possibility that the cyclometer employs a phased-locked loop of sorts to filter "noise" from the speed pickup, and the induction loop is simply overloading the cyclometer receiver to the point that it detects continuous noise. In this situation the phase-locked loop would tend to maintain it's former reading, and you would likely see the phenomenon of a "stuck" speed reading. In any event, more and more of the intersections around here use cameras instead of induction loops, so such interference is getting less likely (for me, if not for you). 

There are two factors: 1) Since they don't "hug" the wheel as closely they aren't quite as effective for a given width. 2) They aren't as stiff, meaning they'll vibrate somewhat worse with a given mounting technique. 

I had no idea there was a difference. What side is the front shift lever on in the UK? The only reason I can think of to have the brake levers one way vs the other would be for hand signaling, but even there it's hard to say whether it would be better to have the front or rear brake only, when signaling -- I've heard arguments both ways for cases when one-handed braking is necessary. There probably is some slight argument for having the shift levers one way or the other, based on the way the cables route. Generally this would place the front shift lever on the left-hand side (for a right-side chain), based on the way things work when pulleys are used. 

You should inflate the tube to 1.5 to 2 times the "normal" diameter, in order to develop a modicum of pressure. (Wait until after the patch has "cured" overnight to do this, however.) Then either test in a tub/sink or let it sit overnight again to see if it loses air. (Getting the tube to fold up nicely is not a problem, if it's a Presta. Just squeegee out all the air, close the valve, then lay it flat and fold it up. Schrader is harder -- best is to remove the valve core temporarily while getting the air out.)