For many of the civilisations that had systems of writing the name that they used for their own country is preserved in the ancient texts themselves. For example, the ancient Egyptians thought of their country as being composed of two parts: kmt or "Khemet" (meaning "The Black Land" - a reference to the fertile strip along the Nile), and dšrt or "Deshret" (meaning "The Red Land" - referring to the deserts beyond that fertile strip). They referred to themselves as Kmtyw or "The people of the Black Land" from at least the Old Kingdom, and possibly much earlier. We also know that kmt comprised two parts - the kingdoms of Upper and Lower Egypt, possibly first unified by King Narmer, and commemorated on the Narmer Palette. Later kings were described as "nsw-bity" or "King of Upper and of Lower Egypt". [kmt / dšrt / Kmtyw etc. are transliterations from the hieroglyphs. As with some other languages in antiquity, the written forms of the ancient Egyptian language did not include vowels, so transliterations are often written with added letters (often the letter "e") to aid pronunciation] As another example (one you mention in the question), the Akkadian Empire apparently referred to themselves as "akkadattu" in the Akkadian language. 

The Highland Potato Famine The Scottish Highlands were an agriculturally marginal area. As such they were prone to famines. Notable famines had occurred in the 1680s, the 1690s, the 1740s, the 1750s and the 1780s. The potato had been introduced as a new crop as part of the agricultural improvements in the highlands from the 1750s. The yield that could be obtained from farming potatoes was four times what could be expected from oats [Sinclair, 1814, p 437], and it quickly became an essential element of the highland economy. A severe outbreak of potato blight struck the highlands in 1846, a year after the better known Irish Potato Famine. It was estimated that three-quarters of the population of the Highlands and the Hebrides had nothing at all to eat by the end of the year. This famine was to last until 1850. Unlike in Ireland the year before, relief for those suffering the effects of the Highland Potato Famine was forthcoming. However, despite huge humanitarian efforts, often including support from the landlords themselves, thousands of people suffered and died during those years. For the landlords, their revenues from the land were drastically reduced while their expenses increased. Many landlords went bankrupt, while many more sold their estates. It was becoming clear to many that the traditional methods of farming the highlands - even with the improvements introduced by the agrarian revolution - were no longer tenable. 

Now, I know that some historians have argued that Thutmose stayed in Jerusalem during the siege. I think this may be based on a misreading of the text (and, possibly, some confusion about geography). Middle Egyptian has several words for "fortress", including "xnrt", "itH", and "mnnw", depending on context (these are transliterations. a Google search will probably give you the hieroglyphs for each word). In this case, the text is explicit. As I mentioned above, the word used is "xtm", which is only used elsewhere for a "fort" in a military context. Other towns are explicitly named in the texts. If Thutmose had stayed in Jerusalem, why wouldn't the scribes have simply said so? Why would they just describe it as a "fort"? Besides, Jerusalem is far to the south of Megiddo. The text states explicitly that the fort was to the east. Furthermore, we know from this and other sources that Thutmose III had cultivated his reputation as a warrior. It seems likely he would want to remain close to his army while on campaign outside Egypt. Now, as I've said several times, we can never be certain. The texts are just not sufficiently explicit. But with that caveat, it seems to me far more likely that he remained with his army, in a "fort" constructed as part of the Egyptian siege-works, and located to the east of Megiddo.. 

For your second, third and fourth questions, the answer is also no. If you look at the Wikipedia page for the History of English, you will see that the Old English (a.k.a "Anglo Saxon" - see above) of Beowulf, developed into the Middle English of Chaucer, which in turn became the early modern English of Shakespeare, which eventually became modern English (and, via Webster et al., American). The language was never lost, and so never needed a statesman to champion its cause. 

The tensions between North and South had been growing since long before Lincoln was elected. While it is true than many in the South believed that Lincoln supported the forced suppression of slavery, his election as a Republican president was simply the trigger for secession. The story of John Brown's raid on Harper's Ferry in Virginia in October 1859 explains a great deal. Brown had planned to instigate a major slave rebellion in the South, but the raid was poorly planned and ill equipped (less than 20 men without adequate rations). Although the raid was doomed from the outset (he and his men were captured within 2 days), the response from many in the North was widespread admiration. Brown was hanged for his actions in the raid, but came to be seen as a martyr by many in the North, including the popular poet, Ralph Waldo Emerson. This just fuelled the flames of outrage in the South. Although the Republican party condemned Brown and the raid on Harper's Ferry, many individuals within that party did not. Again, this caused further outrage in the South. Several Southern politicians blamed the Republican Party for the attack and (falsely) claimed that that Abraham Lincoln supported Brown's intentions. Fake news is not a new phenomenon! As a result, the idea of Abraham Lincoln as President became intolerable to many in the south. Both sides were becoming more and more polarised. Moderate voices on both sides were silenced (or perhaps simply not reported - moderate opinion rarely sells newspapers!) Some of the key milestones on the road that led to the secession of the Southern states are discussed on this site, and are well worth reading. For Abraham Lincoln's opinions on the subject of secession, this site, maintained by the National Park Service is also worth a read. I'd also recommend watching the first episode of Ken Burns' 1990 documentary series The Civil War. Actually, I'd recommend watching the whole series. In my opinion, one of the best television documentaries ever made. 

The announcement of Philip's engagement to Princess Elizabeth was made on 10 July 1947. Ahead of this, Prince Philip had become a naturalised British Subject on 28 Feb 1947 and adopted the surname Mountbatten from his mother's family. At this time he also renounced his Greek citizenship, and his right of succession to the Crowns of Denmark and Greece. This was all to do with worries of public reaction to a perceived "foreign" prince marrying the heir to the British throne in the immediate aftermath of the Second World War. It was much better to stress the fact that his great-great-grandmother was Queen Victoria, that he had served with distinction in the Royal Navy during the war, and that he had formally renounced his claim to the (foreign) thrones of Greece and Denmark. [Interestingly, In 1957, by a court ruling in the case Attorney-General v. Prince Ernest Augustus of Hanover established that all descendants of Sophia of Hanover - including Philip - were already naturalised British subjects under the terms of the Sophia Naturalisation Act 1705.] 

Thus, it is quite clear that Sir Isaac Newton did not believe in witchcraft. Had he heard of the events occurring in Salem in 1692/93, he would presumably have judged them on that basis. 

I'm not aware of any evidence that Israel considered mass expulsions from occupied territories in the aftermath of the 1967 Six Day War. As I understand it, the civilian populations would have been protected under the terms of the Fourth Geneva Convention. In particular, Article 49 of the Convention states that: 

The plan to use atomic weapons of the Fat Man plutonium-cored type was mentioned by J Robert Oppenheimer in a memo to General Groves on 7 May 1945: 

It seems that Crown Princess Märtha and her three children, including prince Harald, didn't stay at the White House for very long. Several sources comment that they initially stayed at Roosevelt's Hyde Park estate, then (briefly) at the White House, before moving to Bethesda. For example, an article in the Washington Post observes: 

I suspect that most of the personal virtues in the list were extracted from the Conspiracy of Catiline, by the Roman Historian Gaius Sallustius Crispus. He defined a number of what he though of as typical Republican Roman virtues. He went on to argue that they were in the process of being corrupted because of the influx of wealth. However, I don't think you're going to be able to find anything like a single source for the whole list. Another famous source would be Cicero who wrote at about the same time as Sallust. For example, in De Legibus he remarked that good people have Mens (mind), Virtus (courage), Pietas (piety), and Fides (faith). All good, Roman, personal virtues. 

The fact that the death rate initially halved between 1779 and 1794, and then almost halved again between 1794 and 1813, must have had an impact on the families of sailors who often lived in, or close to, the Royal Navy ports. In terms of absolute numbers, this means that something like 19,000 men survived their service in the Royal Navy with their health relatively intact, who might not otherwise have done so. For the most part, the Royal Navy was based in Chatham & Sheerness, Deptford, Portsmouth, Plymouth & Devonport, and Woolwich/Greenwich. In terms of population, Portsmouth, the "home of the Royal Navy", was one of the larger naval bases in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. It had a population of 33,640 in 1801 (the first year for which we have accurate census data). This did not include Royal Navy personnel, who were enumerated separately. The populations of the other towns with large naval bases in 1801 were: 

As James Taulbee observed in his recent book Genocide, Mass Atrocity, and War Crimes in Modern History: Blood and Conscience: 

Although the Battle of Megiddo is often described as "the first recorded battle of military history", the truth is that we only have the Egyptian account of the battle. Clearly, that account is unlikely to be completely impartial. We cannot know what wasn't recorded, and so we have to speculate about many of the details - particularly as regards the actions of the King of Kadesh and the armies of Megiddo. However, with that caveat in mind ... 

What drove the change to intolerance and persecution? As J Asia has already pointed out, there really was no change in the 15th century. Witch hunts were by no means unknown in the Middle Ages. However, the growth of the Inquisition from the 13th century (initially in response to Catharism), and the development of the Reformation from the 14th century onward meant that religious crimes and heresy were being dealt with increasingly harshly. Of course, one other significant factor in the later persecutions was King James I/VI himself. We know that he was obsessed with the threat posed by witches. His book Daemonologie would become a key text in later witch hunts.