Finally, for a use for "contradictory" without "self": we say that statements (or sets of statements) p1 and p2 are mutually contradictory iff neither is self contradictory, but their conjunction (p1 and p2) is self contradictory. For example, the statements "there are no unicorns" and "I saw a unicorn at the park" are mutually contradictory. 

The Tractatus does not offer a theory of natural languages. What it says, in a commenting way, is that the structure of a natural language can, and does, totally contort and obscure the underlying perfect, logical language. So that a natural language is not expected to correspond to the world in any apriori specifiable way. So, no homomorphisms, or any other morphisms, are expected to hold. 

In addition, regarding the concept of causation in particular, Kant believed that causation without some sort of objective necessity was just not causation at all, so that accepting Hume's account would amount to giving up on the concept of causation entirely. 

Nietzsche's source for "immediate certainty" is probably Descartes. It was through Descartes that the link between the immediacy of "observing oneself" and certainty became an important theme and an ongoing topic of debate for subsequent modern philosophy. Here is a more precise excerpt from Descartes's Principles of Philosophy. 

Since the amount of motion must be preserved, and since this amount is not always preserved for individual bodies, it remains that the sum of the motions of the individual bodies is the preserved amount. And when bodies collide, some amount is transferred from one body to another. 

Dissolving metaphysical problems, as being meaningless, has been an old ploy of empiricism. It came to fruition especially with the logical positivists. Here is a typical passage from Alfred Ayer's Language, Truth And Logic: 

Human beings, according to the bible, have a divine essence in them, and therefore they must not to be killed. Human beings, according to Kant, have a moral rational essence in them, and therefore they must not be treated merely as means. 

Well, both. Aristotle says this near the beginning of the Metaphysics. He asserts that philosophy was, and continues to be, born from wonder. That is, from an acute awareness of ignorance, together with an accompanying desire to escape ignorance. A consideration that Aristotle invokes to support his theory that philosophy was historically a fruit of wonder, is that philosophy appeared at a time "when more or less all the necessary sciences existed". So that philosophy itself was not a "necessary" science - but a science for the sake of science. 

The two objects being, on the one hand the cat and the mat, on the other hand the expressions "the cat" and "the mat". We have just described the common structure, haven't we? It is just that the terms that we had to use in the description are "senseless" by Wittgenstein's lights. 

Hence the same logic that is supposed to justify induction, would justify reverse induction just as well: always assume that the future is the opposite of the past. 

It's true that in Plato's dialogues he never speaks explicitly on behalf of himself. Still, there has been a wide consensus to interpret the dialogues such that the always-present character Socrates represents either the original Socrates (in the "early" dialogues) or Plato (in the "middle" and "late" dialogues). In addition, the dialogues are not our only sources as to Plato's views. We also have the testimony of Aristotle, who spent about twenty years in Plato's presence, in the Academy. Aristotle discusses Plato's views in various works, usually criticizing these views, but also paying respect to Plato. Thus Aristotle discusses the Theory of Forms in the Metaphysics, the Unity of Goodness in the Ethics, and the Philosophical Republic in the Politics. So you are correct in that in general we can and do attribute views from Plato's dialogues to Plato, and/or to Socrates. Still, I suppose that it is your professor's prerogative to require that in his course you put this aside, and just analyze the dialogues on their own, without adding the interpretation that they do, or do not, reflect Plato's own views. 

So the only way to describe the picturing relation is in "Tractarian" senseless terms; using pseudo-concepts such as "object". This does not amount, by Wittgenstein's lights, to saying anything. It only amounts to showing something. 

The geometrization of matter is a large issue, and is very relevant in present day physics (through General Relativity theory). Spinoza in this issue, as in many others, stood on the shoulders of Descartes. Descartes officially identified matter with geometrical (three dimensional) extension. For example, he wrote: 

I don't know about the first case, but the "nothing is contingent" case is excluded by Aquinas's own assumption that we simply encounter contingent things in our everyday experience. Here is a translation of an excerpt from the original text: 

We have spoken about two objects. But there is really no way to count objects, as such. "Object" is not a true concept, but a pseudo-concept, a place-holder. As Bertrand Russell put it, in his Introduction to the Tractatus: 

The topic that you refer to seems to be what has been called the ethics of belief. It is old at least as Socrates's "the unexamined life is not worth living". Some related products of ancient philosophy are the skeptic (Phyrronist) doctrines, which linked epistemological purity to tranquility and happiness. In modern times, although many philosophers have brushed against the subject, there is a short essay from 1877 that stands out as a new beginning. It is an essay by W. K. Clifford, appropriately titled The Ethics of Belief. Clifford emphatically argued that forming beliefs is a deeply moral issue, on both practical and principled grounds. Because the essay does not seem to be widely known, I'll copy Clifford's apt opening example in full. 

Consequently, that fork has received the name Euthyphro's dilemma. Is has been discussed throughout history, under the aspect of philosophical theology. See the link to the Wikipedia article above, for a survey of arguments and views on the subject. Roughly speaking, there seem to be three main positions on the subject: 1. pagan/rationalist: the standard of the Good is separate from God. This was the view of Socrates and of Plato. 2. voluntarist: whatever God wills is the Good, even when His will is arbitrary. 3. essentialist: God and Good are one. God's essence is the essence of the Good. God's will flows from His essence, and cannot be arbitrary. 

Aquinas upheld Aristotle's doctrine that being is not a genus; even though Aquinas' concept of being was somewhat "thicker" than that of Aristotle's. Aristotle held that individuals are composed of matter and form. Some later Aristotelian philosophers, Aquinas among them, came to hold that apart from form and matter, an individual is constituted by a distinct "act of being", and that it was that act of being which held the matter and form together. This made Aquinas' concept of being more substantial than that of Aristotle's. Still, being was still held as not a genus. 

Too little has been preserved from the pre-Socratics, so building upon them is anyway a speculative business. By the way, Epicurus was not a pre-Socratic. He was a born in 341 BC, that is 58 years after Socrates's death. 

It seems that Badiou regarded religion as dogma and, as such, antithetical to philosophy. He took religion to be antithetical to "events", in his terminology, that is to truth. Therefore he found no place for religion among the four conditions of philosophy. Here is a relevant excerpt from a review of an interview with Badiou. It relates Badiou's disregard of religion to Heidegger's critical term onto-theology. That is, to one form of the confusion of being with Being. 

The main attraction of materialism is the ability of material theories to causally explain vast areas of phenomena. An adequate causal explanation by a material theory implies an instance of determinism. Because it consists in a phenomenon completely derived from material conditions and antecedents. And this implies, in particular, that no free will is required in the explanation. 

The existence of the concept does not seem to be a solution, because it is undisputed from the start. The question is whether (e.g.) Batman himself exists in some sense, not just the concept of Batman. Quine's use of the fictional philosophers Wyman and McX is, to my mind, an embarrassment. If one cannot name real philosophers holding some position, then the position one criticizes is often a mere straw man. 

In summary, the analogy of the divided line tells us that for Plato, at least at the time when he wrote the Republic, only the Forms, the Ideas, were genuine entities. Particular mathematical objects, in turn, were not believed by him to be genuine entities. There were no abstract particulars entities for Plato. Mathematical objects, concrete objects, visual shadows and reflections, were all, ultimately, just different grades of shadows, reflections and imitations of the Ideas. (*) For the purposes of this interpretation I distinguish between "objects" and "entities". I use "objects" for what we appear to think about, for apparent entities. There are then mathematical objects, that is mathematical things we (apparently) think about. But they are not genuine, self-standing entities, according to Plato. Our thinking is constituted differently from what it appears. (**) I identify here the views expressed by the character Socrates in book 6 of the Republic as Plato's views.