Just spotted this question and realize I'm a bit late to the party. Anyways... a mapped drive network disconnection on a workstation OS after 15 minutes indicates that the server service believes the connection is idle, and is disconnecting it. To fix this, enter this on the command line: net config server /autodisconnect:-1 

That's about all there is to it. Security Event Log auditing is a bit different but Application and System can usually be covered pretty well with the approach above. You can set up monitoring/alerting packages to watch event logs and alert you. There's 2 typical approaches to this: 

The config file or registry key that the settings are stored in may be protected against changes with the new OS' permission model. Try loading the VNC settings shortcut with 'Run as Administrator' option (right-click). The settings should now save. Failing this try editing the configuration file and reg manually: \HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\ORL\WinVNC3\ %Program files%\UltraVNC 

This technet article should answer most of your questions: $URL$ LDS is suitable for applications that will benefit from storing data in a directory, but as the article states, it's limited as follows: 

I'm slowly but surely perfecting a new user script. As it is, my script will do everything to add a new user to our domain, except one thing. We have an in-house program, webpage front end that connects to a SQL database. Typically I go to the webpage and open up a current user for reference, then add the new user with the same criteria (except name, email and username) as the current user. I was thinking it would be nice to add that into the script so that everything is in one location. And, I figured it would be easier to add the new user through the backend than through the webpage front-end (using PowerShell anyway). I don't actually have much SQL experience but I figured this would be a good time to learn some basic commands while learning PowerShell. So in summation, I'd like the script to go to the SQL server, look for the user I tell it (I already have a variable for current user for something else), create a new user just like that user with the exception of his/her name/email address/login name. There are a handful of fields that would be the same; department, groups, etc. Thanks for any pointers you can give! 

When you purchase a GSA or Google Mini, you're given a support login which enables you to get to the Google support resources for that device. You need to go through that channel to obtain support for your device. Alternatively, you probably purchased your GSA/Mini via a Google reseller. They should also be offering support for your device. There's a bunch of different GSA/Mini firmware levels with drastically different behavior between them, and lots of little bugs (of which this may be one) that get fixed in each version. Check in with your support channels and see if they recommend a firmware update. 

If you're using the -z switch on rsync, try running without it. For some reason I've seen this speed up even the initial enumeration of files. 

In this instance, you need to create an additional CNAME record subdomain.yourdomain.com and point it at ServerB-IP like the original A record. Then on IIS on Server B, you need to configure it to serve a different site depending on the Host Header Name. See the following link for a full explaination: $URL$ Apologies in advance if I've guessed incorrectly, and you're not in a Windows/IIS environment. There's another guide for this here: $URL$ 

I'm currently trying to setup a Polycom CX600 to test the operability with Lync. We have been using Lync for several months, but only really using the IM aspect. I didn't set the Lync server up initially but am trying to troubleshoot where the problem may lie. I'll explain my setup to better help track the problem down. Lync Server 2013 is installed on Windows 2008 R2. Domain Controller is Windows Server 2008, DHCP/DNS server role. To my knowledge there was no DHCP setup on the Lync server itself. My client is Windows 7 x64, fully patched. Lync client is 2013. We just have one Lync server being used internally, nothing on the outside, no federation, etc. Here's what I did: 

I've been looking online for this answer, but getting conflicting information. I was under the impression that you couldn't use a VLAN across a router, but maybe it's possible (according to some documentation I see online)? I was hoping someone could clear it up for me. Here's what I'm working with: We have a remote site with a handful of users. We recently gave them an access point (Cisco 1142n) for internal wireless. It's plugged into a switch and working fine (getting IPs from the same DHCP scope as the wired users are getting). Private wireless is set on VL50. At the home office we have private wireless for our internal network working and on VL50, with a test VLAN setup for VL60, which points to our DSL line for the time being. Both private and public wireless works fine internally (not crossing a router). VL50 is named the same at both sites for consistency in naming. If we wanted to give the remote site access to the public wireless (VL60), would that be possible across the routers? For more information, currently the site is connected to the home office via a T1 connection, Cisco routers on both ends. I didn't think it was possible due to the nature of VLANS being layer 2. But, I am from from an expert on this and would appreciate any instruction as to the actual truth of the matter. The end result I'm going for is, how to get our remote sites access to a public (outside) connection along with their private connection, without actually having a DSL (or similar type line) dropped at their location? Thanks in advance for your thoughts. 

You need a valid system state backup of the domain controller in order to recover it. Quite how you get that could be any number of ways, including booting into safe mode, or bringing the server online using the original disks in replacement (but very similar) hardware. Or safe mode. Without a valid system state backup in your hand I believe you either have to recover the original server somehow, or start again from scratch and re-add all your machines to the new domain. 

10 mins ago I posted a response where the problem is quite likely the same issue you're seeing - Consumer-grade hard drives have onboard error-recovery systems which can cause those drives to drop out of an active raid-array, as it stops responding for too long (and the raid controller assumes it's dead). You need enterprise-grade drives without these onboard error-recovery systems (as they're assumed to be handled by the RAID controller in enterprise deployments). As to your question of where to go next - Based on the above as you can probably gather, I'm very much in favour of utilising business-specced hardware in business scenarios, because consumer-grade hardware often causes unexpected problems with reliability and performance. Just as you're seeing right now! :) 

I've testd them manually and they work just fine to remove the entries and allow the machine to boot up without a prompt. The thing is, I can't find the exact place to place them in the task sequence. I want them to run before the first login, so I placed them In Postinstall, before the Restart Computer task. That didn't work, gave an error. I tried right before that, before Next Phase, same issue. I try putting them after Restart Computer, but before State Restore and they don't error out, but they don't seem to run until I hit "OK" through the one prompt, then it runs and never prompts again. So it's progress as before it would prompt me to hit "OK" through the disclaimer after every reboot, now I only have to hit it that one time and it removes the line from the cached registry and never prompts again. I just can't figure out how to get it to run before it gets to that first prompt so that it doesn't prompt at all. It's so close to being fully automated... My only other thought is to re-do my capture and run that line first, but I would love to avoid that unless it's my only option left. Thanks for any help or advice you can give. 

Also beware The Perils Of Methodology. Virtualizing a businesses environments takes skill, experience and a bit of creative thinking to pull off properly, and you'll have to thoughtfully pair-up the environment you can provide, with the workloads you need to support, while weaving in a whole bunch of business requirements and opportunistic infrastructure improvements along the way. You can write a manual for this stuff, but the outcome of that approach will not deliver the best value to the business. 

This is based purely on the info you've given and I can't cater for things outside of your description as it stands: You should lock down the external interface so that the only machine with outbound access is the web server, on ports 80 and 443 (if you serve SSL pages) If you internal AD DNS needs to resolve external DNS entries you may also need to open port 53 between it and the web. For clarification: are you talking about lock-downs in place on the Windows firewall itself? If so, check the settings on the hardware firewall between these servers and the internet link. That's the most common place to lock down network traffic, and you don't need to duplicate those rules on the local boxes. To be clear though, you should absolutely restrict internet access on ports 137-139. Check port 445 as well! 

I'm currently wanting to implement a backup Exchange server, and from what i read it sounds like SCR is the way to go. I currently have one Exchange 2007 server, pretty small and nothing special going on. I built another server and set the drives the same (as was recommended on technet). Online i see several sites saying, "all you need to do is this" run these commands: Enable-StorageGroupCopy -Identity -StandbyMachine -ReplayLagTime 0.1:0:0 Suspend-StorageGroupCopy -Identity -StandbyMachine Update-StorageGroupCopy -Identity -StandbyMachine But my question is even more basic i guess... I logon to the secondary server, and obviously Exchange isn't on there so i assume i'd need to install it first before i can set it as a passive/backup server. I run the install but when i select Passive Clustered Mailbox Role it informs me it needs to be setup as a Clustered Server first (which makes sense). But i'm wondering, do i need to set up two servers in a cluster to make this work? I'm not wanting real-time failover, just the SCR ability to turn the passive server into the active server in response to a disaster. Would i just need to install Exchange on the second server as if it were the only one in the domain (Mailbox Role) and then once done, run the above commands? Any help explaining this woudl be greatly appreciated, thanks!