Titles are just labels with little real meaning. Titles tend not to transfer well across organizations. Some companies use titles solely to derive pay level, and don't put much effort into the wording of the title. I once worked in a startup organization where everyone had the title of "Software Engineer" even if they were in QA, Support, Ops, or Development. It was odd, but management somehow thought it was the proper thing to do. Everyone ends up making a job their own. Everyone ends up doing many somewhat unexpected things over time. Don't worry about the title, worry about the contents. 

There is no rule regarding what you can list as a "skill" nor how much experience you must have for inclusion. List any skills that you honestly believe you possess and which will help attain the job you are seeking. But be prepared to answer questions about that skill. If a skill is important to a job, interviewers will dig in and ask questions to probe the depth of your skill. As an interviewer, it's pretty easy to detect when someone is faking it, or doesn't possess the level of skill that would be warranted for the job at hand. And when I'm interviewing candidates, I tend to mark down anyone who is either clearly faking it or who thinks their level of skill is far above what my questions actually reveal. Sadly, that seems to happen a lot. If you would fumble to answer even basic questions about a skill, you are probably better served leaving it off of your resume. 

Because it makes those applying the "pressure" feel better/more successful when a higher percent of the company participates. Companies typically assign an individual or group with the task of getting as many people as possible to participate in a company-sponsored charity (be it United Way or any other). It's some measure of "success" when all or nearly all employees sign up. Executives can talk about it to others, and some companies even put it on their website and point to it with pride. And those designated with getting the signups want to please the company and thus do the best job they can. Charities are very good at coming up with ways to gain high participation rates. When you describe as "high-pressure" is fairly common. Choose to participate or not, as you like. Don't worry about "pressure". 

This is a great approach if your desire is to get a quick answer, and cut out some of the back-and-forth. (It's also an approach I have used on occasion in the past). Most likely, one of two things will happen (assuming you are the candidate of choice, and they ask your salary requirements after the interview process): 

In the US, this sort of thing is best handled by HR - they are trained professionals. Either the individual is unaware of his habit, unaware that anyone notices him, is aware and doesn't care that others see, or is intentionally trying to make others uncomfortable. If this makes you feel uneasy, your best bet is to chat privately with your local HR rep. He/she is trained in handling these sorts of awkward situations, and can intervene on your behalf and probably find a way to get the individual to change his behavior, while allowing you to remain anonymous. Depending on the specifics of the situation, the HR rep will make a note of the behavior and follow-up to ensure the situation is eventually resolved. 

If I concluded that a recruiter lied on my behalf I certainly wouldn't let it go. I'd make sure that this recruiter personally apologized to both me and my new company. And I'd let the recruiter know that I would never recommend or personally do business with her/him again. My reputation is extremely important to me. I don't lie. And I don't allow anyone to tell lies as if they came from me. Not ever. 

It is to your credit that you want real feedback, including both the positive and negative. I believe this is a terrific way to grow. Hopefully, you have one-on-one meetings periodically (weekly?) with your boss. If not, you should ask for them. Those meetings are a great setting to try and get more feedback. Start by asking your boss for specific feedback on a particular project. Something like "What could I have done better here?" might get you there. If that goes well and you can pull out what you need, you can try to get your boss to make it more automatic. Something like "You know, I really appreciate it when you tell me that something wasn't done well. That can really help me to do my job better." Not all bosses are comfortable giving "bad news", even though I believe that is a critical part of a manager's role. Knowing this, you can convey that from your point of view it will be "safe" for you to receive that kind of feedback and that you won't be offended. I suspect after a few discussions with your boss he/she will really like the fact that you want this kind of feedback and that could help grow your relationship. 

Not at all. As long as you aren't bothering others (which argues for headphones or earbuds), and as long as you remain productive, what you listen to is unlikely to matter at all. Every software environment where I've ever worked had many folks listening while they worked. You've already seen the norm at your company. If you still have doubts, ask your boss. 

It does not happen a lot. The candidate said "his situation changed". By definition, situations don't often change in the middle of an interview cycle. 

We really can't answer "what should I do?" questions here. You should probably talk with your graduate advisor before making such a rash decision. 

Yes. The professional way is to listen what your supervisor and managers tell you to do or not do. Then do what you are told. Trying to do what you want in spite of your instructions because "it does not say that in my contract" is a great way to lose a job. 

Yes. Some talk about it, but few corporate environments really want self-organized teams. If you want self-organized teams, it must be part of the company culture. People must be hired and trained with this culture in mind. The company must reward behavior consistent with this goal, and discourage behavior that isn't consistent. The company must be willing to live with the ultimate results. This seldom happens. Your basic premise is significantly flawed, IMHO. Kids aren't all that good at being truly self-organized unless you don't really care about the outcome. Few companies fit that requirement. Perhaps your definition of what "self-organized" means differs from mine, or differs from the companies you have studied. 

I agree that it is completely unethical to lie on your CV and during interviews. Additionally, I would never work with a staffing company that wanted me to lie. As a hiring manager, I never hire people who lie. My career and my reputation are very important to me. I'd never let someone ruin it. 

Unless you did something intentionally, that's nonsense. You didn't steal his credentials any more than you stole his identity. 

As a hiring manager, I like to hire people for whom work is important. I feel this makes for better employees - people who want to work, who might take pride in their work, who care. So for me, I think you would be far better served to be working in whatever role you can get while you seek your education job. You'll have a good story to tell that shows you are hard-working, and you'll be less inclined to jump into an education job that you don't really want due to financial pressures. When I asked you "why are you working at X, when you want to be in education", you'll be able to impress the hiring manager with your work ethic. 

Look for ways to make the transition as easy as you can for your boss and co-workers. Look for all of them start to adjust to life without you around. That means you may be invited to fewer and fewer meetings, won't get assigned any new projects, etc. It might mean that your socialization with your current co-workers gets a bit strained. It might also lead to some scrutiny of your work hours, to make sure you aren't taking advantage of your impending departure and putting in less work than required. None of these have anything to do with exposing the name of your new employer. These are all normal, winding-down, actions - perhaps extended a bit due to a long notice period. At least in my part of the world, it is typical that the name of your new employer would be known. It would be considered very odd not to mention it. I doubt if there are any real risks that you need to mitigate. I think you are over-thinking this one. 

Yes. As a hiring manager, I always have in mind a salary range that I think an open position is worth. By that time, I have submitted the requisition to the powers-that-be within my company, and gotten the range approved. I am now free to make an offer within that range. While interviewing, I want to find the best possible candidate to fill the position who would be willing to accept a salary within that range. I'm never looking to fill a position with the cheapest-possible candidate. If I understand the premise of your arguments correctly, you are assuming you have found the best candidate for your position's needs, and that candidate is willing to accept an offer within your pre-approved range. For me, I see no need for further negotiations at this point. You have found your new hire, and you have an approved salary. Done. 

You are listing the location of the company, not the location of where you were sitting when you performed the work. Thus, I would suggest that you simply continue to list it something like this: 

You indicate that this was "recent" so it's not clear how long you have tried to work the expected 50 hours per week. If you feel you have given it enough time to be sure that you cannot adjust, then you need to be frank with your boss. You basically need to tell your boss that you cannot fulfill the requirements of your new position. Talk about the things you can do, the things you like to do, but also indicate that the hours simply don't work for you. Explain how you didn't realize it would be such an issue, and how moving has made things worse. Explain how you would like to find a real solution that works for both of you. See how the conversation goes from there. It's possible that your boss will offer solutions that could work for both of you. Or your boss may just ask what you want to do. It's also possible that you might need to offer a demotion to your prior position as a solution to your problem. The key is communication. Nothing will change unless you talk. In my experience in management for many years, I'm far more willing to compromise (when I can) with someone who talks with me honestly and openly, rather than just denying that there is a problem. I also feel much better when someone with a problem also has a solution in mind, rather than just dumping it on me. That's not always possible, but sometimes you will already have a good idea as to what kind of change you would like to see. It's no shame if your promotion simply doesn't work out for you. That happens - probably more often than you would think. Sometimes the schedule just doesn't work out. Sometimes the "weird culture" just doesn't work out. There are many possible reasons. But recognizing that there is a misfit here, and deciding to do something about it, is a really good first step. Follow through with your boss and find a solution now - one way or the other. You will both be better off for it.