1 By the way, looking back at an old answer of mine, it seems that all three characters were inspired by real-life people. Coincidence? 

One important thing to consider about the Federalist Papers is that they were republished. While they originally appeared in newspapers over the course of about one year (October 1787 - August 1788), they were later repackaged as a book, The Federalist, which was released later in 1788. An overview from the Boston University Law Review explains that Hamilton and Madison edited the essays prior to this second publication by John and Archibald M’Lean (the name is sometimes given as McLean; variants differ). There were a few major changes: 

Is this "A Case of Mis-Identity"? I haven't been able to find the story on its own, but I know it is in the author's compilation, Morse's Greatest Mystery and Other Stories, by Colin Dexter. I'm guessing you remember him as a writer of detective fiction because his main creation, Inspector Morse, is the protagonist of most of the other stories. This particular one is indeed a parody of "A Case of Identity". Holmes makes the same deductions about the mysterious would-be groom, Hosmer Angel, that he made in the real story (that he was the daughter's stepfather, James Windibank). Mycroft believes that Angel is a complete fiction, but Watson believes that Angel is a real and innocent man, who took sick before going to the wedding and was treated by none other than Dr. Watson himself! This is, of course, the real explanation. I'm a little sad that Watson's deductions were the result of his knowing things beforehand, but he certainly surprised the two brothers. 

This collection of folk-tales (The German Novelists) has a slightly different text, but all of the above connections are the same (although "Velten Meier" is "Valentine Meier", and the boy is a groom tending wild horses). Even if all of the above were not the case - which they are - there is an even more compelling reason to indicate that Peter Klaus is the main source of inspiration for Rip van Winkle. Irving ends his tale with a humorous note: 

1. Ligeia and The Conqueror Worm In 1838, Poe published Ligeia, a short story about a man struggling to come to terms with the illness and then death of his first wife (Ligeia), and then the death of his second wife in the same manner. Five years later, Poe published The Conqueror Worm, an extremely dark poem focusing on the inevitability of death, likely largely drawn from his own experiences with mortality - as was the case with much of his works; Poe drew quite a lot of inspiration from the lives and deaths of those he loved. Two years later, in a republication of Ligeia, he added The Conqueror Worm to it - written, or rather spoken in a fit of madness, by Ligeia herself. Shortly after finishing speaking the poem, she dies, after a brief addendum. The two works obviously do not take place in the same universe; one is simply a part of another. However, I feel that such a connection is worth including. This was the only other explicit connection I could find between Poe's works (though the characteristics of Dupin are not limited to that character alone). The theme of humans facing the horror of death does permeate much of Poe's writing, and it is perhaps a large part of his legacy. As for why Poe included the poem in the revised version of Ligeia - well, there are many interpretations. Wikipedia states 

The evidence pointing to Worth as another inspiration is largely circumstantial but quite apparent. He was once referred to as "the Napoleon of crime" by a Scotland yard detective (see Masters of Crime), a phrase Doyle my have appropriated for Moriarty. Like Moriarty - and like Wild - he was famous for creating a large criminal network in London to which he could seldom be traced. 2. Irene Adler Adler, who appears in A Scandal in Bohemia may have been inspired by several real-life singers and courtesans. The New Annotated Sherlock Holmes lists quite a few, including Lola Montez (mistress of Ludwig I of Bavaria, which hearkens to the story), Lillie Langtry (whose career is similar to Adler's), Pauline Lucca, Laura Bell, and others. The Doctor and the Detective also mentions one Ludmilla Hubel, whose love affair with Archduke Johann Salvator parallels Adler's relationship with the King of Bohemia. Viktor Adler, an Austrian politician, may be the source of the name "Adler". 3. Charles Augustus Milverton Doyle's famous blackmailer, who appeared in The Adventure of Charles Augustus Milverton, bears a striking similarity to the 19th century Charles Augustus Howell in both name and occupation (blackmailer and art dealer). London After Midnight states the Doyle himself admitted as such, although I'm still trying to confirm this. 4. John Clay It's also worth noting that Masters of Crime, which drew parallels between Moriarty and Wild and Worth, same book states that John Clay, the hidden antagonist of The Red-Headed League, can be similarly traced. He shares characteristics of Worth and a criminal rival of Worth's named Max Shinburn - even though Doyle did not, at the time of the story's publication, know about either of the two. The author describes Clay as a "dummy run" for Moriarty, although Doyle could not have had Worth in mind at the time. It seems possible that Doyle based Clay on Wild, though. The obvious similarity is the ability to hide behind accomplices, distance oneself from the crime, and avoid capture, which Clay has, according to Holmes, used quite often in the past. Both, too, seem to have spun vast webs - perhaps not quite at the level of Moriarty - covering a wide range of illegal activities, from petty theft to murder. 

One Year. Near the end, the Little Prince journeys to the wall and has an encounter with a snake - the same snake, I believe, that he met when he first arrived on Earth. He wants to meet death by its venom. The narrator saves him, and after some brief discussion, the prince looks up at "his star": 

That said, most of these do have a continuous meter. Blank verse has such a meter, while free verse does not. Frost once said 

If you want my opinion, these claims are absolute rubbish. I can find no independent verification that The Hartford Cabinet of Literature & Science or even Faulkmore or Griswold themselves ever existed. I include it here only as a curiosity; I'd be interested to see if anyone can find something truthful on them. I suspect not. A more academic study of certain claims is included in Outsourcing The Raven: Retroactive Origins, by Eliza Richards (the same paper is the source of the next few anecdotes and quotes about plagiarism). It seems to be acknowledge that Poe took the rhythm of The Raven from Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Geraldine's Courtship, published in 1845. Even Poe stated this outright: 

In addition to my own research, I found an interesting essay discussing some of the semi-autobiographical parts of Aurora Leigh, and how Barrett Browning's character was consciously and unconsciously influenced by her own life. I've referenced that in some places; other parts are from my own outside reading. Aurora's mother died when Aurora was four, leaving her without a maternal figure in her life. The consequences were extremely important, yet the character's memories of her mother are different from Barrett Browning's memories. For instance, Aurora remembers her mother visually most through a posthumous painting of her, which brought to mind 

The final choice to make "A Moveable Feast" the title was made by Hemingway's fourth wife, Mary. It was supposedly suggested by Hemingway's friend, A. E. Hostner. While the Hemingway quote is certainly the source of the title, the phrase "A Moveable Feast" clearly predates Hemingway. It originally referred to a Roman Catholic feast not associated with a specific day of the year. If we look at the phrase in a secular context, it can be interpreted as a celebration that can happen at any time. We can see this characterization fall into place when we consider the French title of the book, Paris est une fête ("Paris is a party"). Hemingway's life in A Moveable Feast is, of course, quite the party. Consider first the company he keeps. Visits to the always entertaining Gertrude Stein (along with her partner Alice Toklas) become a common staple and a source of news from and of other American expatriates. Dinners and other social events with F. Scott Fitzgerald and his wife Zelda also played an important part. The Fitzgeralds, if I remember correctly, were not ones to refuse a drink, and Hemingway was influenced by them. Their travels to Spain and coastal France led to further trips there for Hemingway, leading to his famous novel The Sun Also Rises. Another important element of the book is the classic Parisian café. Cafés could were sanctuaries for Hemingway, sources of company as well as sources of solitude and places to write. I'd suggest that it is not food that connects the cafés to the title, but rather simply the luxury of being able to sit, drink, and write at one's pleasure. Hemingway's leisurely walks through the streets once in a while - often ending at a café or bookstore - also allowed him time to think. I do agree that the idea of an eternal Paris - perhaps even an eternal Parisian spring - is expressed quite nicely by the quote. Recall the title of the last chapter: "There is Never Any End to Paris". Set as the Hemingway family vacations in the Alps, it marks the end of Hemingway's celebratory time in Paris as one of the young writers of the Lost Generation. He has matured, both as a man and as a writer (He then dates Pauline Pfeiffer, which leads to the end of his first marriage, and a different kind of end to the period). The chapter also marks the beginning of the end of the Roaring Twenties as a whole, leading up to the worldwide Great Depression. 

Quite likely not. Let's go all the way back to the picnic in Chapter 1, when Mole and Rat are discussing how Rat lives by the river: 

This is somewhat chronological - which makes some sense; I think Doyle's best work was at the beginning. 

I'm reasonably certain that Irving's major inspiration for Rip van Winkle was the German folktale Peter Klaus (text here). Almost all the analyses I've read give it precedence over other works (Karl Katz, for instance is a similar, though less-well-documented story). There are many similarities that quickly indicate some connection: 

There are several reasons Blair chose to use a pen name at all, one being that he thought that "Blair" was "too Scottish"2. He wanted something English, and, from the research I've done, all of the above names are indeed English in origin ("Kenneth" is an Anglicization, but its connotations are probably less Scottish than "Blair"'s). The reasons for "Orwell" even being on the list are a bit more complicated. Blair spent quite some time in Southwold in his 20s and 30s, where his parents were living. It's a coastal town in Suffolk, with the nearest large towns (relative to tiny Southwold) being Lowestoft, Norwich, and Ipswich. Orwell grew familiar with the area, including the coastal regions to the north and south. The River Orwell is about 40 miles to the south, running from Ipswich to the coast, and it is possible that Orwell was familiar with it.3 This page indicates that it may have been a stop during his journeys to London, which seems plausible. By using "Orwell", Blair was playing homage to the area that led to much of his early writing. There's also a village of the same name in Cambridgeshire, about 60 miles from Southwold. There are, however, some questions. If he wanted the name to be after a Suffolk river, why not, for instance, use the River Blyth, which flows right through Southwold (perhaps the name's Scottish roots led to the same distaste as with "Blair")? These questions probably will never be answered; there is no evidence that the River Orwell had any special significance to him over any other place in Suffolk.4 We do have to consider, though, that Blair did not want to choose something that could be easily traced back to him or his family. Around the time of the publication of Down and Out in Paris and London, his first longer work (a memoir), he wrote