As others have stated before me, soil, technology and biomass to Mars. In the beginning mainly minerals from Mars. Space Elevators are the key here. Once you have them in place the cost of lifting stuff out to orbit plummets. Stuff going down (we're surely mining the asteroid belt for minerals and ice) can offset the weight of stuff going up. Shipping 1000 metric tons of soil to Mars then becomes just a matter of putting a big enough container in orbit around the earth and then give it a gentle nudge in the right direction and wait. If we don't have space elevators... I suppose refined minerals of high worth can be exported from Mars and essential technological components from earth. But I think it'll more be a costly colonization effort rather than a viable two way trade. 

In order to produce the gas for the Charles/Robert balloon trip, Almqvist tells us, 500 kilograms of iron and 250 kilograms of sulfuric acid was used. Suggesting, once more, that industrial production of Hydrogen was well within the limits of late 18th century chemical science. A more effective and ultimately cheaper way of producing hydrogen is the electrolysis method where you use electricity to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. This is also well within the capacity of most steampunk type civilizations (although it takes us into the 19th century. 

Other answers address the obvious importance of elements other than appearance in courting behavior, so I'll ignore all that and focus on the core of your question: how does valuation of appearance change when people have complete control over it? The answer is: we'll be judged by our choices and the motivations behind them. You can already see this in the way people judge clothing choices: "that woman's clearly wearing a shirt meant to make her breasts look big" or "that guy's jeans are tight, he must think he has great legs". Natural features are currently met with disgust/pity or awe/jealousy: "I wish my nose was like hers" or "his feet are too big, poor guy". With your technology, people choose how they look, so the observations might become: "why does she raise the tip of her nose so much?" and "he must want to swim fast to keep his feet so big". Each person will become far more critical of appearances because of the level of criticism and control they direct toward their own bodies. If one person sees another making body shape choices they themselves actively avoid, the former is more likely to judge the latter more harshly and negatively. Appreciation of beauty, meanwhile, diminishes as it's commonplace and based on cultural standards leading to uniformity. With all of that pressure and the power to respond to it, we'll also see a lot of frequent adjustment. Consider the way people change their style of dress and even attitude when they meet someone they like, in order to match that person's tastes. Or how strongly some people react when they're judged negatively to their face. Cheap genetic manipulation would drastically impact those social dynamics. The concept of identity as it relates to physical appearance would become much more vague and amorphous. That will undoubtedly make conventional romance as it's presently understood far more difficult to maintain - how would you feel if the person you love the most was frequently and wildly changing? It's hard to picture the face of a loved one if it changes all the time. 

Extrapolating from this I'd say that it means the lighter than air properties (and the manufacturing/extraction of) hydrogen was known as early as the 18th century. Which coincides nicely with James Watts continuous rotary motion steam engine in time, suggesting that the components of a steampunk style civilization align rather nicely in time. For a history of Hydrogen extraction (And further evidence in the case of lighter-than-air-flight) we can turn to Ebbe Almqvist's "History of Industrial Gases" which states. 

"My hearts were in the right places," Zblu'tras defended itself. "But who knew they would take the gift of music and pervert it so? This cacaphonous 'pop music' is clearly not what we intended." "Don't forget that guy who made flesh sculptures out of his neighbors," another servitor of Miihyagaa squealed with delight. "My mistress especially enjoyed that part, even if the neighbors clearly didn't." Xaxhazztrax the Daemon Chairman sighed. "Oh well, we can't say we didn't try. Who votes we clean the slate with a comet and see what the bugs can come up with instead?" 

An artificial "designer" planet (like Earth in Hitchhiker's Guide) could have been built by an advanced alien race, designed to support life but never populated for whatever reason. This could have been done as much as a billion years before your story begins, and life could still not have evolved naturally. After all, it took nearly a billion years for the first forms of life to appear on our planet, and even then it was primitive and microscopic for another 3 billion years. It might never evolve at all, especially if the planet was designed to lack all the conditions favorable for the spontaneous formation of primitive life. 

In this scene, the formation of 9 identical ships, all relatively small (smaller than the Voyager which is crewed by 150), are generating enough combined power to destroy an entire planet. Larger ships are simply unnecessary. They'll also tend to be slower, easier to hit, and once a critical portion of a large ship is destroyed it's just gone. If one small ship in a megaweapon formation is destroyed, another small ship can take its place. It doesn't even need to be this advanced, either. Firing dozens of smaller missiles or other primitive projectiles can cause as much damage as firing one big one. On the other hand, a larger ship has more room e.g. for a railgun to accelerate a projectile to much higher speeds than smaller ships could. Here's another example from Voyager you might find interesting: 

Rats. Rats are cooperative, highly resilient, opportunistic eaters and pretty clever as it is. Rodents can grow to quite impressive sizes (citing both the Capybara and the now extinct East Timor Giant Rat) The ability to organize and hunt in packs is more dangerous than actual size itself (as the fate of various megafauna at the hands of humanity may attest to) but in order to make your predators fearsome I'd let the rats grow to where one lone rat may pose a plausible threat. Say around 10-15 kilos (about the size of a large Maine Coon cat or a small Wolverine or an European Badger) for at least the largest and most dangerous individuals. Rats are used to humans and are used to live in and around human settlements. This makes them a better threat than bears and wolves who are naturally shy. It would also make it crucial to devote a lot of time an energy just to keep rats away from your homes. Sure, you need to handwave a bit to make the rats larger and also move them from primarily scavenging to aggressive hunters, but once you do they'll be nightmarish indeed. 

Replace humans with robots by transforming humans into robots with cybernetics. The Ghost in the Shell manga/anime describes a near-future heading in that direction. Simply replace natural body parts with artificial ones until people start to question just how many parts can be replaced before the patient's humanity is affected. Solve that social problem, wait for the civil rights dissonance to settle, and when a generation arises that allows someone with a "full-body prosthetic", as they're referred to in GitS, to be elected to a leadership position, your mission is accomplished. 

Magic extends beyond the physical dimensions of our reality. From our limited perspective it's a dynamic thing, ever-changing, always shifting beyond understanding in ways we can't begin to predict. But if you can grab onto it briefly, and know just a fraction of it even for a moment, you establish a permanent bond. Through that bond you can commune with the unfathomable force that wills magic to be, and draw on its power at will. This affords the ability to "learn" how to use a spell repeatedly, even though knowledge of magic becomes obsolete faster than it can be communicated through the production and distribution of written word. So how do you distribute written knowledge that becomes useless before you can even finish printing one copy? Have the book write itself in the moment it's being read. The book is more than a collection of pages stamped with ink, it's a focus designed to channel the presently visible state of a particular portion of magic into a representation we can comprehend in our small dimension. As a reader's eyes scan the pages, initially blank, the book fills them with the arcane symbology designed to express magical knowledge. The reader must be skilled in interpreting and memorizing this information at the speed it appears, because it's only viable for a few seconds - there's not enough time to re-read more than a symbol or two. As for why the book doesn't just re-write itself each time it's read: enchantments require energy just like anything else does. A spell book, intended to be portable, can only carry with it enough magical energy to write itself about one time. This also explains why such a book would need multiple pages - it's more energy efficient to print on a blank page than to have to erase or modify a page already containing information first, not to mention it's a lot easier to follow the changes as they appear on a blank page. 

Philosophical differences is probably the easiest sell. A war could easily start over a sect of any major religion (or a new one) deciding that the human die off is God's will and either want to help out or hope to change the divine mind by appeasing it. ("We all must conform to these simple rules about food and clothes, then God will make us fertile again" ... basically the setting for Handmaids Tale thought... so I might end up feeling derivative.) As other users have already pointed out general hopelessness might very well cause an outbreak of violence. Look at, for example, Children of Men which has a rather similar scenario as the one described. However, while most fiction deals with the worst of humanity surfacing in a crisis most studies of real disasters do show that on at least a local level people tend to cooperate. So it might not be the best motivator, it's a powerful trope which we all know. But it is a trope.