Rather than 'faster' the question to ask may be, "Which is better?" Also the Buddhist view of 'rebirth' implies that death is no final solution. 

... in which case you have attached to water as the object of your desire. Similarly if you desire a person, then the desire is desire and the person (or more specifically your idea or 'reification' of that person) is the object of your desire and thus the focus of your attachment. 

"Dhamma" is a complicated word, or a simple word that's used in many different contexts. Here is a definition. I'd summarise it to myself as "described thing" or "anything you can identify". In the phrase "Sabbe Dhamma Anatta", I think it's used in contrast to the other two of the three characteristics, i.e.: 

Suicide isn't skillful; but skillful is IMO another of the core virtues in Buddhism. There are more skillful ways to deal with suicidal ideation. 

He then goes on to give a lot of other good advice: for example about how to prevent anger from arising. It's difficult to summarize what he taught because there's so much of it; but when he summarized it, he summarized it as "the truth of suffering, and the truth of cessation of suffering" ... i.e. he taught about what causes unhappiness, and taught a way which if you follow it will lead to the cessation of suffering. That 'way' includes many components: e.g. you have to 'understand' what the way is, you need 'will' or intention to follow the way, you need some mental 'concentration', etc. etc. 

It would be interesting to see a similar treatment with the word Philosophy, but I'm not informed on that topic. In summary, I'm in agreement with CrabBucket that Buddhism is in a gray area. Buddhism has a strong resemblance to both religion and philosophy, with elements of both, but not adhering strictly to either one. On the other hand, in modern times people use the word "religion" in the sense of world religions. In this case, the word describes practices that are similar, but which do not share essential qualities that somehow make them religions. 

Confusing Buddhism with Physics. Whether this particle is this or that particle is that, it won't help you become a better person and understand your mental reality any better. Although the above quoted paragraph would make an interesting question on physics.stackexchange.com. Speaking poetically in order to help the reader become absorbed with the idea. Perhaps this is the case. 

It can take a long time for practice to improve. But I can confidently say that my mind wanders much less than it did one year ago. In my 3 years of practice (one 6-day retreat, about 15 minutes per day on most days) I have found there are long stretches—perhaps days, weeks, even months—where no progress is made, followed by flashes of what seem to be insight, followed by the realization that they are just unusual experiences, and so on. Lastly, as for maintaining mindfulness throughout the day: I find this one quite difficult. It improves with practice just like the wandering as I explained above. Personally my daily mindfulness is quite weak but at the same time much better than, for example one year ago. Another side of this is that the monastic lifestyle or a meditation course will give you the opportunity to develop these skills more quickly. Be well. 

Anyway, back to the topic of the Buddha: you're asking whether he awoke to the ultimate truth of reality. Well, the main truths, the first truths, that he taught were that unhappiness comes from: 

The above are (and remain) universal truths regardless of X and Z. X and Z inherit their own kamma. One is and the other isn't ignorant of these truths, one does and the other doesn't suffer. 

It should be "14th Dalai Lama" or "14th Dalai Lama", not "14 Dalai Lama". I think that "Dalai Lama" is a title, not a name. According to Wikipedia, 

A canonical explanation for why Buddhism is necessary or desirable is told in the story of the four messengers (see here or here). My paraphrase of the story is that Siddhārtha Gautama was born a prince; it was prophesied that he'd become a Buddha or a World-Ruler; his father preferred the latter and so tried to keep the existence of "suffering" a secret frm the young prince, who lived secluded in a luxurious palace. Eventually the prince went outside and discovered that the world includes sickness, old age, and death; and, either poverty, or the life of a monk (or both, depending on how the story is told). Anyway on discovering this the prince was something like, "how can I be happy when everything is impermanent, everyone is going to die, etc.?" So he set off (literally, i.e. he left the palace and his family) to discover the antidote to (the escape or liberation from) suffering and so on; and eventually discovered enlightenment or became enlightened, including how to teach that, and for the rest of his life he taught people Buddhism so that they could be liberated too. Anyway, Buddhism as taught in the Pali canon includes doctrine that you cannot expect permanently satisfying feelings from sensual perceptions, therefore it's unwise or ignoble to seek sensual pleasure, that it's better to have Right View and so on, and pursue the Threefold Training. Maybe Buddhism would say that this is not against human nature but is against animal nature: i.e. pursuing wisdom and morality and concentration is something that a human can and should do, that an animal typically can't and doesn't; and that a human who doesn't is not unlike an animal. Also I think the "hedonic treadmill" you mentioned might be more-or-less analogous to "samsara". 

I'm wondering if there were any such occasions, and what suttas/sutras this is recorded in. Also if the Buddha gave advice to otherwise evil people besides Angulimala or Devadatta, or possible connections to psychopathy or sociopathy. 

In the Mahasi tradition we don't have the idea of beginner's mind, just a continuous refinement of the process. Many times throughout my practice, I've learned that some phenomena or thought process was just that—where previously I mistook it for a deeper reality. And I continue to experience these refinements. But to attempt to answer your question, try not to hang on to the desire for Beginner's Mind. It will come back on its own. In addition, I would say be gentle to your mind and body. Those particular helped me the most when I was struggling in my practice. Maybe it will work the same way for you, in that being gentle with yourself may allow the Beginner's Mind to return when you least expect it. 

The ultimate goal of this practice is to bring about the insight into the nature of reality. This means understanding—not by thought, but by having seen the truth for oneself—that all experiences are: 

It's partly an example of how ephemeral consciousness is. Imagine you can see into the water of a pond. If a frog jumps in then the water is disturbed, the surface is broken, and you can no longer see what's in the pond (you can only see the disturbed surface). Similarly I think the question ("Show me your mind") was a surprise, and a new mental object of consciousness, which disturbed or replaced the previous object of consciousness (anxiety). It's nothing permanent. 

I think they're all worth considering. If your partner becomes more enlightened then that would be occasion for mudita, for example. The recommendation that these are right attitudes isn't specific to people who are "in a relationship" but, given they're for "all situations", that includes someone with whom you have a relationship. 

making the dhamma-offering unselfishly the Tathagata (and something: compassionate, maybe) to all beings 

He also taught that it's possible to let go of that unhappiness, by letting go of all that wanting. If you stop wanting the wrong things (see above) then that removes the cause of your unhappiness. I don't know about you but this seems like a sensible teaching: 

This is the way the mind is, uncontrollable. Acknowledge their presence and gently try to return to your usual object of meditation. If this fails, acknowledge the failure and gently try to return to your usual object of meditation. If you get frustrated, acknowledge the frustration, et cetera. Being gentle and acknowledging whatever comes are important. And if the thought is something you want to write down for creativity's sake, that's not a bad thing. It's also not a good thing. It just is what it is. Just leave it until meditation is finished. If you forget what the thought was, then you simply forget. It is what it is. If you practice this way, you will become less and less invested with the content of these thoughts, causing two things to happen: 

How should I treat thoughts? You should strive to know thoughts as thoughts. If you are observing impartially, that's good. If you are ignoring the light, fleeting thoughts, it depends what you mean. You don't want to actively ignore anything as that will cultivate aversion or even a dullness of mind. If you mean the thoughts are just too light, too fleeting to catch, then you're doing what you can, and your coverage will improve with practice, if you strive for it. The other side of this is that it's more important to impartially observe whatever comes up, rather than simply impartially observing thoughts. That is, you should try to stay in the here and the now. A thought might become frustration, and you should observe that impartially. Then the frustration becomes hotness in the body. As soon as we are aware of the hotness, we should observe the hotness. Or perhaps coldness following fear. And then maybe the thought comes back, and we observe that, or we feel an irritation on the skin, and we observe that. I'm giving as many examples as I can from my own experience to try to illustrate that when a thought overtakes us, the here-and-now can be a swiftly-moving target. What is the conditioned reality of thoughts? The Buddha placed thoughts on an equal footing with all other sensations, as you can read in the very brief Sabba Sutta (found in the Samyutta Nikaya, Sutta #35.23): 

I think there are some ("false") teaching which sound kind of baffling, aren't really actionable, don't seem to point in any specific direction. I suspect there's something else important about any statement (dhamma or adhamma) you're considering i.e. the effect it has on you and how it may tend to affect interpersonal relationships. Some point in a wrong direction: perhaps they are flattery for example, leading to conceit; or perhaps they're meant to make you dependent, by making you doubt any wisdom you have; etc. 

Do you do them all together or at different times of the day etc? I think my capacity isn't that great (too small to do all of them at once), and that I'm lucky to do even one at any given moment. And to some extent I think I'm aware of one thing at a time. 

Assuming Uilium's answer is correct you can get a bit of a sense of what "hardcore" might mean by reading the book's Forward and Warning. He says he deliberately wrote it in his own voice, that some of what he writes (whole chapters of social commentary) "has a definite bite to it", and, 

Basically according to this professor, Nagarjuna makes the argument that "We're all in this together" and we should be helping each other reach enlightenment and not strive for it by ourselves. He also stated that Emptiness is a flashy re-packaging of the teaching of dependent origination. In my opinion, the concept of Emptiness makes sense, but I don't really see how it's useful above and beyond the teachings in Early Buddhism. If anything, an enlightened person is more able to help others, so there shouldn't be a problem in striving towards enlightenment. 

Might I suggest practicing metta. When you feel annoyed towards your family, start cultivating the reverse, by thinking: "May my family be happy and well". It will start small, but with repetition it will build up just like the skills learned in vipassana practice. Of course this won't change your family's behaviour, but it's excellent medicine for you. After all, who wants to be annoyed? Those who haven't considered the 2nd noble truth, that's who ;-) Maybe another note would be to make your practice unnoticeable to your family. Not that there is anything wrong with them observing you as you practice, but I have sabotaged myself many times while considering how others would regard my practice. 

The "Buddhist stress on celibacy" which you refer to is (arguably) 'stressed' for monks and nuns; and it is not stressed in exactly the same way for laypeople. Some of the other Vinaya rules too (e.g. not eating after noon), which are only applicable to monks and nuns, might or might not not be perfectly in line with every recommendation of "modern medical science", but apparently they are good enough for their purpose, which I think is to 'allow the holy life to be lived'. Also, science and Buddhism don't contradict each other on this subject, they say different things about it: 

Buddhism is kind of complicated though; people might resist it for various reasons, including the one you mentioned -- or for an opposite reason, e.g. that people don't want to see "suffering". Also I might have given have an opposite reply, and said that everything is suffering (or is, at least, unsatisfactory) -- sabbe sankhara dukkha -- that too is hard to explain, and even that is a topic which different schools of Buddhism may summarise differently, see e.g. Differences between the tilakkhana and the Dhamma seal 

I'm not sure that that is a conventional/orthodox view from the Pali canon. I mean, maybe there are views that are like that ... but maybe not exactly like that, or nothing phrased exactly like that? If someone weren't familiar with Buddhism then their first/naive interpretation of that phrase might be, "if 'the outer world is a reflection of one's own life state', does that mean so one's own life state is true and real contrasted with the outer world being less true or unreal (i.e. merely a reflection or illusion)?" But I think that (saying that the outer world is unreal) might be (or might be, if it's misunderstood or taken to a naughty extreme) a wrong view: