I would decline saying that unfortunately you had a previously arranged social engagement. I avoided going to a FTSE 100 employers Christmas do by doing this and also "forgetting" to register in time 

You need to talk to a lawyer or some one who understands TUPE, this can get very technical. If your bonus was contractual you should still have it - was this not covered during the consolation process. 

You need to work out what tasks need to be done as a result of the maternity leave and ask you boss which ones he doesn't want you to do. Make him or her make the Decision 

Up to a point but for Elite schools (Both University and High school) going to Oxbridge, ENA, Harvard or to say the Oratory or King Edward VII (or the equivalent in your country) is going to open doors that going to a lesser institution is not. 

Do you own the company? If not, hiring decisions are the company business, and you should not care about them. If you are really annoyed, consider looking for some new job. Managers make mistakes all the time and are usually incompetent (read about Peter's principle...). BTW, you probably won't manage better than your current manager (because the brain of the human species is not well suited for management). 

You are not giving enough details in your question, and the details are important. Here is what I guess (that you did not tell) about your current situation. I could be completely wrong, it is just a guess (and it is inspired by my own situation, I am a research engineer on software tools for software developers). My guess: You are some kind of software developer in Germany (I am guessing that because it is a job market in tension, and because in other questions you said you are in Germany). You are still new in software development. Remember that it takes ten years to become an expert software developer (however, in some companies, a guy with 3 years of software development experience is called a "senior"; IMHO that does not change the fact that he is still a newbie). And training (often self-training, but not only) and improving skills is an essential part of the software developer's job. You are offered to follow some training of one to three weeks in some new software technologies, and/or in software project management. e.g. training in some new programming language like Go. The cost of that training (for the company to pay it) is about (or less than) a month of your salary (e.g. 3000€). In fact, the cost is higher (during the training period, you won't do any work). But that cost is not big for company, even if it is big for you. The duration of that training is a week or two (or 3 weeks of training, costing 5000€) 

Walk away an accepted offer is an contract and if the company wont stand behind the offer then well that is a company to avoid. How did you accept if its in writing rather than verbaly then the company is breaking their contract with you. As you accepted an offer I would demand payment for the breach of contract on pain of legal action - say 3 months salary. 

I would go and see the Citizens Advice Bureau or preferably your trade union if you are member and suggest that they get a lawyer to set up a compromise agreement. You have written evidence of libel and threats of giving a bad reference which you could use as leverage. You could also risk going to work if they do strike or threaten do not retaliate call 999 (911) and report an assault - note any break in the skin makes it GBH 

Wrong reasoning. If you train on your own at work hours (intensively, full-time for several weeks!), you won't do your daily job, and your immediate boss cannot assess if you are actually learning stuff useful for your company. BTW, you are also creating a precedent in your team (and other people could ask to do likewise). Of course, if you accept some training, you also accept to have your job evolving to profit from the skills acquired in that training..... Your boss is... 

That is his problem, not yours. (If you follow the training, your concern is to learn stuff and improve your skills, notably stuff useful for your company). Your boss is not your friend. Your company is not your mother. They could fire you when needed. BTW, of course if the training is not interesting for you and push you in a career direction you don't want (e.g. if the training is about project management and you want to stay in the technical world) you should tell and explain why it does not fit very well your expectations. Also, from your company's perspective, not training you could require them to fire you and hire someone else with required qualifications. That costs a lot (typically several dozens of thousands of euros) and takes some time (months of bad productivity). Learn more -by googling german law or lander or industry regulations, by re-reading your work contract, by asking your union, ... but preferably not HR (they are not your friends!)- about your contractual obligations after your training (how much are you required to stay at your company, or to reimburse when leaving it). It is what matters. 

Yes a laptop is compromised in so many ways in terms of RSI and performance unless you are spending 70-80% of the time on the road out visiting clients a desk top is a much better choice (its also cheaper than the equivalent lap top set up). 

What privacy is violated by using CCTV to check when they entered and exited the building the build or are at their desk or not? Employers do have a right to check up on hours worked and in some country’s not logging OT hours correctly can get the employer fined. What code of conduct for CCTV are you referring to? And its not like you have been asked to look at the content of their email account which would be a privacy violation. You seem concerned about your relationship with other employees is there a culture of falsifying time sheets at your company – what I might term “Spanish” practices. Just get all HR requests in writing and make sure you conform this with your boss. 

Since it is a software development job, I would recommend to actively participate to some existing free software project (perhaps on your spare time). If you actively contribute to some quite large open source project (think of something with a million lines of source code), it has a large team of contributors and you'll learn a lot by working on that project. But it is really difficult. You could use some Linux distribution and choose some large software there (e.g. Libreoffice, Qt, GTK, GCC, ...). You may need several months of work before having your first (small) patch accepted! If you are unfamiliar with free software development, I would recommend to start first to contribute to some smaller open source project (e.g. a few hundred thousand lines, just a dozen of active developers). You'll find many of them (e.g. on github). Choose the one you are interested in. You'll learn a lot of things (both technically and socially) by actively contributing to some free software project. And prospective employers would notice you. 

You could possibly join the TA (Army Reserves) it would depend on what country you come from if you can or not. 

It means you only have a contact for a year The Guy in question probably Wanted a full time job A lot of employers are trying to get people to take short term contracts but only pay the full time rate and not the contactor one or in this case they may be trying to get around the maximum allowed probationary period (6 months). 

In the UK Employees are entitled to sick pay during any part of their statutory notice period when they are: •“ready and willing” to work even if no work is provided by the employer; •Incapable of work because of sickness or injury; •Absent from work wholly or partly because of pregnancy, childbirth, adoption leave, parental leave or paternity leave; or •Absent from work on holiday in accordance with their terms of employment relating to holidays. $URL$ 

Excellent idea. BTW, if working in the software business, contributing to some free software project (e.g. on github) on your spare time is an excellent thing to do (that you can show on your CV) and will improve your developer skills. What would happen afterwards: you'll start searching for new jobs in a few months. You'll find one say in September 2018 (five months from now). Your official resigning period could be of two or 3 or 4 months (I don't really know, details could be specific to your job or country). During that period, you'll work for your current employer and use your newly acquired skills. So for your company's perspective, they paid you a training, and it was useful to them for several months. That is enough. Notice that in most European countries, companies are required to spend a few percent of their work costs in training. Details vary from country to country, from one industrial branch to another, from company to company. So the company might not make you a special favor to follow that training. alternative situations Your situation might be completely different. Some rare jobs require very specific and quite long training (e.g. driving helicopters for someone who have no pilot license at all; or soldering nuclear reactors) and certification. In those rare cases you could have to sign some specific contract (defining how long you'll work at your company, or what part of the training would you have to pay back when leaving). But you did not mention that!