These outbursts are damaging the work environment and may emotionally affect the other employees. The work productivity is most probably affected, and as HR, it is your job to take action to keep your employees at their best possible shape to work productively for the company. You said you talked with him and I think that's great, but if it's still continuing, you have to devise other methods. Maybe he needs a short break from work to calm himself, or some other thing you can think of to improve his situation. But I believe action must be done, and it must be done fast. P.S. Take my advice with a grain of salt as I am no expert in these types of things. :) 

What are the advantages and disadvantages in inviting and accepting all people in your LinkedIn profile? Obviously the advantage is that you'd have a larger circle and you'd be easier to find for employers, but am I missing out on a disadvantage here? 

Here's my situation : I currently am in a contractual job and my contract will end on September. From the time of this posting, I would only be available 2.5 months from now. I am already seeing good job postings that I want to apply to, but I'm worrying that it might be too early that when I do get to the offer stage, it might be awkward to tell the employer that I'll only be available by the 1st week of October. Questions : 

If you like contact your old company and offer them your service for x amount of money for y amount of time. Maybe make a deal that you will answer phone calls and/or email for a certain amount of time. It seems they need your knowledge and probably it will be good for their business if you help them out for some time. It's business, you don't have to be shy to ask to get paid for the work you do. Deals like this are not unusual. And normally people who do this kind of consulting work get paid well - more per hour then before when they worked full time. 

If they know already they want to fire you why would they need a meeting for this. A letter would be sufficient. But maybe they think about that maybe they want to fire you and this meeting is about evaluating you before they make a decision. So make sure you are well prepared. 

I suggest you sell yourself (your work) as expensive as you can. But keep in mind that employers have to keep all employees satisfied. In some organizations there are clear rules who gets how much depending on their education (which documents can they provide) the position and the time they are working in that organization. Everybody knows their position in that pecking order and they (have to) accept it. Such an organization is normally not attractive for better than average people. But even in more flexible companies the management has to make sure they keep everybody reasonably happy. Let's say they would give you 50% more salary then others because they think you are very good. And lets say you do a very good job and they would give you even more because they know you are good. Consider what will happen when other people find out that you get so much more than they get. Some will understand that you are better and you earn more. But there will be others who won't like it at all when you get more. Especially if these people think you are not so much better and if they are longer in the company then you. What will the boss do if these people complain? Obviously he can tell them accept it and that's it. But this will be bad for their motivation. So the boss needs to balance what he does. If he is too good to you the others won't like it. If he is not good enough to you then you won't work there. Maybe the boss would be willing to give you more but he can't handle problems with the others. Maybe you can make a deal that you get a "normal" salary and a big bonus which the others don't have to know about. But depending on the company it may be difficult to hide such a deal. Edit: After all the comments I like to add: What I describe here is not the way I think things should be but the way they are. Personally, I negotiated often enough the payment I wanted (mostly freelance work). I work mostly for small companies and I talk directly with the boss and that is confidential between him and me. But in bigger companies other people will know and sometimes this information can’t be kept secret. And then, if the lower paid people find out and get upset, this can be a huge problem for the whole company. Smart bosses avoid getting in this kind of trouble. What the lower paid people do is human nature. I cannot change it. 

I am a contractor and my current contract ends on May 29. I have been in this position for a total of 3 contracts (including the current one), in contract lengths of 3 months, 3 months, and 6 months, respectively. I am fairly sure that they will offer me an extension after this contract as I am the only one in this job position, and if I leave, they will have to find someone new to replace me. According to my contract, I have to give a two-week notice period, however, I believe that is not enough to both find, hire and train someone new. Given that, I would like to give a bigger notice period to my company, preferably 1 month. How should I approach my manager about this, and would it be 'polite' to do so? 

I'm in quite of a bind here. Although this is unintentional, I've found myself in an awkward situation where I've been offered a job that I'm interested in while being on annual leave, and I'm not coming back for 1 more week. I'm currently overseas where coming back isn't an option unless I wait for my return flight which comes in a week. I don't exactly have the luxury of time to wait until next week to personally hand in my resignation letter, so I'm looking to do it by email. Is there anything I should be aware of? Anything ethics related, or when the notice period starts, and things I could do to smoothen the process? Thanks! 

You are not this person Stretch. If people want to talk with you or about you they should use your real name or a nickname of your choice. People who like or respect you should change their behavior. And the people who just follow what everybody else is doing should also get the message (maybe a little later) 

A lot will depend on which job you want and how much money you want to earn. Maybe a couple of years ago you were happy to take almost any job to get started. And maybe now you want a job doing this and that under those conditions. That is obviously more difficult. Make sure you match your expectations with reality. I.e. if you want a job which requires lots of experience in a certain field make sure you have that experience - otherwise there is not much point to apply for that job. Make also sure to look at more than just your "technical" qualifications. I.e. some people know a lot about technology and they think because they know more than others they should get i.e. the team leader job. But that job requires a lot more than just technical knowledge. Make sure you don't overlook these "other" requirements when you look for a job. 

It sounds like a good question to check your knowledge and attitude at the same time. Let's look at possible answers: 

If you answer 1 you basically tell him he does not pay attention to known bugs, not a good answer. If you tell him 2 he will likely be impressed (at least if it was something unusual). 3 sounds good because we all "discover" from time to time strange things. But more knowledgeable people probably will know many of these things already. 4 sounds like you have very little knowledge because you can't even imagine there might be something he does not know. 5 sounds like you have an attitude problem. And 6, your answer sounds very reasonable to me. You know some special things (you have knowledge) but you also recognize that the guy you talk to is an expert. Summary: I think your answer is a good answer. Maybe you don't get any "extra points" for it. But you also don't lose any evaluation points because of a bad attitude answer. One more detail about answer option 3: I would be very careful with that. If you tell the guy something unusual that he also maybe just discovered he will likely be impressed. If you tell him something which maybe 50% of all programmers know then you show him that you are 50/50 experienced. If you tell him that you just discovered what most programmers know after a week then you better shouldn't have answered like that... 

Additional details : I am from Australia, and it might help if you give examples in Australia's work culture, however, general answers are also accepted since we aim this to be helpful for anyone, not only the ones residing/working in Australia. 

Additional info : I'm planning to leave, in case I can't work under Y directly. So I guess that adds to my negotiating power. 

I was wondering if some recruiters would see it as negative, thinking I might not be focused or committed to my permanent job if I had a freelance project on the side. Obviously, more showable work experience is an advantage, but I'm wondering if I'm overlooking some disadvantages in listing concurrent freelance projects. 

The situation : I'm the contracted web developer for my company (which isn't an IT company). They are using a legacy framework that almost nobody knows, has a very small community, and the general reviews on it are just plain bad. (makes me actually wonder why they picked it in the first place) In short, people with this skill are very few, and I'm the only one in this company with this job description. My contract ends soon and the company has offered me an extension. I was hoping to ask for a raise, stating several reasons, but on the back of my head, the main reason is because I know my company needs me and if they don't get me hired, their website won't be maintained. The question : Is the situation where one specific person knows that the company needs this specific person a reason worthy enough of a raise? 

I'd also be inclined to refuse to sign the contract based on the inability to know what might happen in the next 12 months. An unforeseen circumstance could arise that prevents you from remaining in that particular employment and you don't want to take any risk that you may be lumbered with hefty reimbursement of employee training costs. Unless of course, you see something else in the provided contract that gives you good grounds to refuse to sign it. 

I would not expect an employer to use information you've listed under hobbies or 'outside of work' activities to determine whether you're the right candidate for the vacancy, especially if it isn't a direct line of work with the job being applied for. There are huge benefits in detailing any interests you have or recreational activities no matter how insignificant you feel they may be. This gives insight into you as a character to a potential employer and a lot can be learned from this. And as you state, another benefit can be that it shows you continue to develop or extend your skillset outside work. As long as you clearly state your level of knowledge with this particular use of working with JavaScript and that your skills in developing basic JavaScript games are still in their infancy then I don't expect this to be held against you during an job application process. 

As your employer is meant to pay you via a direct BACS transfer as per their terms in your contract of employment, this is reasonable ground to refuse to accept the cheque and request that they make payment via bank transfer. If they genuinely have problems with their bank however, it may be not be possible for them to make payment via this method until the issues are resolved (and you can't get blood out of a stone) so you may not have any option other than to accept the cheque or wait for them to resolve the issues at the bank. Providing you diplomatically explain your reasons for refusing the cheque due to failure to pay you on time, I would expect them to understand your grounds and it shouldn't cause any future uneasiness between yourself and the HR department. The bottom line is that it is the employer that is not adhering to their own terms of contract which places greater weight on your side. 

And then I guess take basically the first job you can get to prove that you can work full time. If you have that job for some time and do good full time work then that is a good position to look for a better job (if you want another job). 

Whenever something like that happens tell the guy right away that you don't like it. And in many cases that will solve the problem. The problem with some (many?) guys is that they consider no reaction is a good reaction. They think if you don't say no this means yes. You didn't say no the first time(s) so the guy thinks something like "It seems she liked it. If she wouldn't like it she would have told me so". And with this "positive reaction" in mind the guy thinks about what he should/could do next. It will be something more and he will look at your reaction. And if you don't react (he thinks you like it) then there will be more and more... You have to stop it as soon as possible. If a guy does anything to make you uncomfortable then tell him you don't like it and he should stop it. Or if it's bad then slap him in his face. He will understand that and likely he won't do it again. Obviously it would be good if guys would see on your reaction that you don't like what they do. But some guys (or maybe many) are blind in that way. They don't see what they don't want to see.