The U.S. likely did not target Tokyo for the atomic bomb strikes as it was the seat of the Emperor and the location of much of the high ranking military officers. These are precisely the people you do not want to kill if you want to negotiate a surrender, as they are the people you would be negotiating with. The U.S. decided to drop the bombs onto military industrial targets and centers that had significant military utility such as ports and airfields. Nagasaki was actually a secondary target, being a major port. Inclement weather kept the Bockscar from dropping the second atomic bomb on Kokura. 

I think everyone who has posted here (@ihtkwot, @mgb, @Russell) have all brought up important points. I agree with @ihtkwot and @Russell that Russia simply did not have the military capacity to challenge Britain's hold on India (a territory that the British would have vigorously defended). Also, Russia seemed far more interested in territories to the west and the burning desire to acquire a warm-water port on the Baltic and Black seas well explained by this commentator. While British concerns of a Russian military invasion of India are almost certainly unfounded (and as @mgb notes, rationality does not factor in irrational fears), Britian did have a much more legitimate fear of Russian economic and military influence of India, rather than outright domination. There is a very good analysis by Nikki R. Keddie on the Russian/British dynamic in Afghanistan's neighbor to the west (also a neighbor of British Indian territory at the time), Iran in her book Modern Iran: Roots and Results of Revolution. While there is a far more likely possibility of Russian invasion of Iran, the usual sparring ground between Britain and Russia was not on direct military engagement or even proxy wars, but rather focuses on influence of the government over economic and military concessions. Had Russia been successful in endeavors to dominate India's neighbors, they would have been in a position to influence actors within India. While this could have been a stepping stone to invasion, it is certainly a bit of stretch to worry about a grand invasion from a region as contested as it was (particularly later when German and American interests started getting involved). Given British interest in an area that often contained few exploitable natural resources or economic wealth, it seems quite clear that the empire was very interested in maintaining this border region to protect India from outside influence. 

The effects of Hiroshima and Nagasaki run quite deeply. One of the most profound effects is that Japan is very pacifistic and one of the few (if not the only country) that has outlawed war. Article 9 of the Japanese constitution prohibits the Japanese government from declaring war, although permits Japan to maintain a self-defense force. Since the end of WWII Japan's conditions of surrender and reliance on American markets has forced it to maintain US military bases which are widely disliked, especially in Okinawa where there have been numerous demonstrations against the American presence there (Blowback by Chalmers Johnson provides a very detailed analysis of Japanese concerns with US military presence). Being the only country that had been the target of nuclear weapons, Japan also is very much against the development of nuclear weapons. One of the conditions of American forces being deployed in Japan is that nuclear weapons not be deployed on Japanese soil, and Japan has been stridently against weaponizing their nuclear program. Unfortunately, the American military establishment routinely mocks this requirement by having nuclear weapons deployed on naval craft stationed "in transit" in Japanese waters. In essence, the relationship between Japan and America in the last 60 years has been complex. Japan's quick growth has been heavily reliant on preferential access to American markets and technology (to an extent where the US has been willing to harm its own balance of trade and allow Japanese firms to co-opt American companies trade secrets). In return the Japanese political establishment has allowed American forces to be stationed in Okinawa indefinitely. While this benefits most of Japan, Okinawa has had to surrender the best 20% of its land and has received the least of the benefits of Japan's growth. The Okinawans have thus been the most vocal opponents of the American military presence. TO SUM: The benefits of America bending over backwards to provide favorable trading terms for Japan, and the ability of the Japanese to exploit this, has lead to a more prosperous Japan. These developments have generally overshadowed not only the past animosity over the war and nuclear bombings, but much of the tensions that arise between American militarism and Japanese pacifism as well. (The exception being in Okinawa of course). 

I'm going to assume that you are referring to the classical Roman empire, as it is rare for someone to refer to the other two TED mentioned without someone explicitly adding Byzantine or Holy to modify it. Essentially, at the time of the classical Roman empire there wasn't a Russia to speak of at all. Here is a map showing what Greco-Roman geographers referred to the rest of the world. The area where Russia would develop was lumped in with the Iranian peoples known as the Sarmatians. It is rather clear that Rome had little contact with the people in the region. There isn't much that is known of the region until the eastern Slavs had both settled the region and developed a written language in around the end of the 9th century. Much of the first millennium AD simply saw various migrations through the area and a series of imperial encroachments in the land which would become Russia. As zefciu noted, its not until the 14th century that the modern Russian state developed with Moscow as its capital. However, it is possible to trace the decent back to the Kieven Rus, the precursor to Russia, 

I recommend that you do some research into World War I, at least read this Wikipedia article on the subject (note: the section marked "belligerents"). More important than knowing who was who's ally, you need to know why the war started in the first place. Knowing that will give you an understanding of why major powers acted as they did. From the wikipedia article outlined above, 

The emphasized text indicates that opium was grown throughout the Zhetysu province (in which Karakunuz resides), incorporated into the Russian empire in the nineteenth century and now a part of Kazakhstan. 

Essentially, while the US constitution grants the president to pick anyone they damn well choose regardless of qualification to the supreme court, judgeships seem to have more requirements on paper. Granted the high level of scrutiny of supreme court appointments and the presidential advantage of appointing a lifetime sitting justice has kept ham sandwiches from being appointed (regardless of one might think of Antonin Scalia or Clarence Thomas, they certainly are not sandwiches). Based on the fact that the US judicial system was modeled on the English common law system, the terminology almost certainly came from there and is likely to have a similar meaning. Although I couldn't find any etymological evidence to this effect, I certainly wouldn't be surprised if the terminology came from the relationship between the "justices" and the crown. While all magistrates in English common law of the early American period all served at the behest of the crown, the American relationship and the more lofty title seem to suggest a higher level of prestige awarded to a justice as opposed to a judge. 

From what I can tell, the International Brigades were mostly effective only for propaganda purposes and to camouflage the presence of Soviet assistance to the Republican government. The 32,000-35,000 men in the brigades were a grab bag of unemployed workers, middle class non-combatants, veterans from the first world war, etc; all motivated by a shared socialist ideology and anti-fascist outlook. Despite their generally noble intentions (a few were certainly adventure seekers), they were mostly unused to combat and lacked military training [2006, Beevor]. This was a problem given that one of the motivations of the International Brigades were to provide an example in military discipline and tactics to the equally unready Republican army. Soviet military advisors tried to provide adequate training to the brigades, but often ran into problems such as political squabbles between soviet and republican leaders, cultural differences, and varying quality of equipment (which was mostly poor). The International Brigades only lasted for about a year during which the battles in which they played a decisive roll appear to have been bloody stalemates or in the case of the Battle of Guadalajara, due more to the incompetence of the Italian allies of the nationalists. The International Brigades, were driven in their formation and ultimate dissolution by larger regional factors. The Soviet Union was unwilling to provide too much open support for the Republican government for fear of straining relationships with Britain and France, which they felt they needed to maintain as an anti-fascist block against Italy and Germany. Britain and France were unwilling to involve themselves because the general governments of those countries were ambivalent of the fascist countries (in some sectors, most notably the navy and business, open supporters of the fascists) and were put off by the left-wing characteristics of the Republican government. America was unwilling to get involved in another major European war, but many of her prominent businessmen (such as Ford) openly supported the fascist rebellion. The International Brigades were never able to achieve the same level of military effectiveness as the nationalist Army of Africa, and only appear to have made it more difficult for Republican Spain to gain the support of the non-fascist governments. It seems to me that despite the undoubted courage shown by the International Brigades, they faced the same insurmountable problems of the Republic at large; it is no wonder that they were not capable of changing what was ultimately a losing battle. 

I found two excellent articles on this question one in the 27th volume of Middle Eastern Studies vol. 27, no. 1, pg. 35-45 entitled "Iranian Nationalism and Reza Shah" by M. Reza Ghods, and the other in the journal Iranian Studies, volume 26 no. 3-4, by the Iranian expert Houchang E. Chehabi entitled "Staging the Emperor's New Clothes: Dress Codes and Nation-Building under Reza Shah". The first of these sources starts with an overview of the Shah's public support during his reign: 

My understanding, as confirmed by your intuition and this article in the New Yorker exploration into presidential biographies starting with John Eaton's 1817 work "Life of Jackson" was that it wasn't until 1824 that attitudes on running a presidential campaign substantially changed. From said article, 

Apparently, the Shah's initial support came from his appeal to nationalists who appreciated his strong and centralized leadership. In Iran at the time, nationalist sentiment was influential among virtually every sector of Iranian society, as most Iranians (outside of a handful of reformers) were outraged by the exploitation they were subjected to by foreign powers, namely Britain and Russia. Yet despite this common factor, most of Iran still was divided by warring tribes. It was Reza Shah's ability to unite Iran, and to develop a strengthened and centralized government/military power, which apparently won the Shah a great deal of power and public support, 

From what I have been able to research, numerous sources such as this and this trace back rap to the griots of pre-colonial, western Africa. Griots were essentially poets and bards who communicated history and political messages through song. According to the article "Politics of Diaspora: Sahwari poets and postcolonial transformations of a trans-Saharan genere in north west Africa" by Tara Flynn Deubel in The Journal of North African Studies, she connects Hassani Arabic poetry to the musical traditions of sub-Saharan cultures. So basically rap can be traced back to the combination of Arabian poets AND sub-Saharan African musical tradition.