In the early 1800s, when people in the US exported goods to Europe, how were those goods paid for? What did the buyers actually send back on ships crossing the Atlantic to pay for the goods? I can think of a few possibilities 

There's no citation listed, unfortunately. So is there any reliable archaeological evidence of this flood? Can anyone point me in the right direction? A few feet of sediment means there must have been a major event, so I'm surprised I hadn't run across this before. 

The main reason for the confiscation of Nihonmachi was that Japantown was close to major transportation centers—relatively close to the waterfront along Elliott Bay, and just a few blocks east of the railroad depot. Another (minor) reason is that the buildings in Nihonmachi tended to be more dilapidated than those in the rest of Seattle. Also, more importantly, until the repeal of the Alien Land Law in1966, most Japanese were not allowed to own property; so the city was not legally required to compensate the Japanese for their lost housing. 

What forts did the British keep in the Northwest Territory? (And did the United States then seize British-controlled forts by force of arms?) 

(A personal note: I believe the most honorable way to defeat foolish ideas is by countering them with the truth. Punishing people for what they believe is barbaric, even when their beliefs are wrong.) 

With those in mind, let's get to the answer. Native American technology had enormous variation, both in level of development and in the environment it was adapted for. In some places, living was easy enough that very little technology was needed. In harsh environments, survival was only possible through specialized technology. In other areas, cities and empires rose up, and technology with it. In Old World terms, I'd say you had everything from Paleolithic hunter-gatherers to Bronze Age city-states and empires. Specialized Survival In the far north, the Inuit had adapted very well to life in a place where no crops grow. They had developed excellent dogsleds and ocean-going kayaks, and were skilled at hunting whales, walruses, and other large and dangerous creatures using things that could be made in that harsh landscape. Their materials were mostly animal parts (like ivory, bone, and hide), but they made as much use of meteoric iron as they could. Their Arctic survival technology was very good, but given the climate and the low population, they didn't have much else. Plentiful Food, Low Tech Some areas had less technological development, like California. The Ohlone lived in an area where acorns were plentiful, the air was warm, and very little else was needed for survival. Unsurprisingly, their technology stayed at a low hunter-gatherer level. Cities and Empires At the other end of the scale, there were massive cities and empires in the Americas. The city of Tenochtitlan had a population of around 250,000 people at its height, with enormous stone buildings, streets, bridges, and marketplaces. The Incan Empire organized a massive feudal labor system to build over 20,000 miles of paved roads, from Columbia to Argentina. The Mayan city-states developed a complete writing system, recording kings, wars, stories, and impressive astronomy. In the more urban parts of the Americas (like around the Mississippi), vast trade networks developed to carry goods over long distances. You could find copper working, paper books, irrigation, and many other technological crafts. Things to Read Next As you can see, this is a huge range to explore. If you'd like to learn more about Native American technology, you'll have to get more specific. First, take a look at how you can divide up the Americas into similar culture/climate groups. As always, any division will be a crude one, but it helps you get a handle on what things were like. If you read about one southwestern pueblo, you'll have a better picture of life in the other pueblos, but it won't help you understand the people living in the Andes very much. Next, remember that the Americas were not static. Like in the opposite hemisphere, tribes wandered, traded, and conquered over very long distances. Where you find a tribe on a map might just be where they lived at the moment of first contact by Europeans -- they might have lived there for thousands of years, they might have just moved into the area, or they might not have existed as a tribe for very long. All that moving around and interacting means that technology (along with culture, language, genetics, etc.) spread along certain routes and not others. 

Beginning in the 1820's, Mexico encouraged Americans (such as Moses and Stephen Austin) to settle in their territory of Texas. It was this that led to Texas becoming independent of Mexico—something the government very definitely did not want. So why did Mexico encourage Americans to settle Texas — why not simply bring more native Mexicans into their territory of Texas? 

In 1942, as part of the plan to manufacture atomic bombs to drop on Japan, the U.S. Army began to seek out a suitable location to build a factory for producing plutonium, necessary for the atomic bomb which was later dropped on Hiroshima. Then in January 1943, after a years’ search, the U.S. Army decided on the tiny Washington village of Hanford, and began purchasing or condemning 560 square miles of land for the new plutonium production plant. Within a year, the newly government-owned Hanford had become home to 50000 workers. Why was Hanford, of all the towns in the nation, selected for this vastly important project which led to the Allied victory over Japan in World War II? 

There's a place in Alberta called Fort Assiniboine. Today it's a small village, but in the days of the fur trade, it was a fort and trading post for the Hudson's Bay Company. The Assiniboine people are an American Indian / First Nations tribe from the Great Plains, but all the maps I've seen of their territory don't come anywhere near Fort Assiniboine. 

I'm trying to find an example of successful treason, but haven't found any so far. What I'm looking for: 

During the Spanish-American War, the United States had told the Filipinos it was fighting to free them from Spain. But after the Spanish surrender, American newspapers and politicians began a campaign to "Keep the Philippines." Businessmen saw Manila as a center for trading with the great market of China. Military officers wanted an outpost in Asia. President McKinley was undecided for a time. The, he told a group of his fellow Methodists, he prayed for guidance and decided to “take them all, and to educate the Filipinos, and uplift and educate and Christianize them.” Filipinos had been Catholics for several hundred years, and they saw no need to be "Christianized" by the United States. Emilio Aguinaldo, who had led the revolt against Spain, now found he had to defend his country against its “liberators.” A fierce guerrilla war followed. The United States won the war and set up an American-controlled government in 1901. But Americans from every political party, region, and profession were outraged by the action. 

Theoretically, yes. The prime minister is appointed by the governor-general, who is the representative of the Australian monarch (currently Queen Elizabeth II). The queen could instruct her representative to appoint a new prime minister at any time. (If the governor-general refused, the queen could appoint a new governor-general.) In practice, however, the governor-general usually only appoints a new prime minister as advised by Parliament or a resigning prime minister. (In a rare exception to this practice, in 1975 the governor-general dismissed a prime minister whose party held a majority in the House. (Wikipedia)) Also in practice, the monarch usually only appoints a governor-general that has been nominated by the prime minister. It's important to remember that Elizabeth doesn't have these powers as queen of England, but as queen of Australia. Legally, Australia is a monarchy, with its own royal family. It happens to be that this royal family resides in England, and that the queen of Australia is also queen of several other countries, but only for historical reasons. 

During World War II, the USSR used nearly 200,000 horses in active cavalry fighting. The Russians' retention of large units of cavalry long after this ancient arm had been abandoned by other major armies gave the planners and the Red Army greater flexibility in operations over difficult terrain, and particularly in severe weather. Horses could operate in mud, marshland, and in any sort of broken ground; they could filter through forests and negotiate watercourses and ravines that would halt motorized units. The horses could survive at 22 degrees below zero ad keep moving in dust and sand that clogged and wore out engines. Cavalrymen could fight as infantry after covering immense distances, and, like the motorized infantry, they could exploit breakthroughs punched by tanks. In attack and defense their capability for concealment and rapid dispersal could catch an enemy off guard or force him to move with caution. When operating over broad fronts, the abler Soviet commanders advanced their tanks and infantry over main roads and used the cavalry to cover the higher and more difficult terrain in between. The Red Army's planners provided for expanding this arm, and by 1942 they were working towards 400,000 mounted cavalrymen organized into nearly 60 divisions. 

In 1893, the famed explorer Fridtjof Nansen set out on an expedition to reach the North Pole. The plan was to sail a sturdy wooden ship, the Fram, into the ice north of Siberia, then drift, frozen in the sea ice, across the North Pole, coming out years later in the North Atlantic. After almost two years in the ice, Nansen could see they weren't drifting far enough north to reach the Pole, so he and a single companion (Hjalmar Johansen) set out on skis. After a month of skiing north, Nansen realized they weren't going to make it, so they turned around and headed south. Since there was no way for them to find the Fram, they had to get home on their own. It looks like their plan was to ski all the way to Svalbard, then board a ship headed for Norway. 

My reason for questioning this is that the Saxon Wars had been going on for seven years before Charlemagne's invasion of Iberia. Logically, why didn't he simply go on and capture some more of Spain, instead of leaving and fighting the Saxons? Did he expect to gain more territory by battling the Saxons than by battling the Basques and Moors, or what? 

As recently as 150 years ago (I'm thinking of Lewis Carrol's "Through the Looking Glass"), the term looking glass was used to denote what we today call a mirror. I'm wondering, however, when the transition between these two words occurred, and I can't seem to find any historical sources for this. Could someone help me? 

Originally, everyone in the area claimed the Oregon Country: the British, Americans, Spanish, and Russians. Why did Russia give up its claim to the region? What did they get in return? 

According to the Treaty of New Echota, ratified by the US Senate in 1836, the US government was supposed to pay the Cherokee Nation $5 million for their lands in and around Georgia. In exchange, the Cherokee would leave that region and settle across the Mississippi. Did the government actually pay the $5 million? I know there was a division among the Cherokee of whether to accept the treaty or not, and most of them chose to remain on their land, then being forcibly removed (which is a different sad story). But the removal of the Cherokee was done under the auspices of the Treaty of New Echota, so was the payment required by the treaty ever made?