I came up with a concept for a shielding system for space vessels. The outer hull plating is made up of a special material, like modified steel perhaps. Energy from the ship's main power source is used to strengthen the atomic bonds in the material, making it extremely hard. My hope is that this could be used to defend against a variety of things, such as explosives, energy weapons, radiation, physical impacts, etc. Would a system like this be possible? 

What would happen to an airplane in space? Or to be more specific, would anything interesting happen to the plane itself, and would the passengers and crew be able to survive for longer than a few seconds? Please note that I am perfectly aware that a plane cannot simply fly into space. I simply want to know what effects being in space-like conditions would have on the hull, systems, and people on board. I wouldn't expect there to be a major difference between a plane in orbit around a planet, and one away from any celestial bodies, but I am interested in both scenarios. While I have no particular airplane in mind, a commercial airliner would probably be the best example. 

One solution would be to have the opposite of the normal problem: a disease that the natives are immune to but the invaders are highly susceptible to. The invaders died by droves trying to conquer the local population. Another possibility is at least some regions of highly rugged and inaccessible landscape that the natives could retreat to when under attack. They would know this area very well for some reason or another (mineral resources, religion, needing to go through it to travel, etc.). Their knowledge of this area and the close quarters imposed by the landscape would eliminate the advantage of the European firearms and horses and would allow the natives to essentially fight off a siege. Or they could live in such areas all the time to defend against attacks from other groups, like the cliff dwellings of the Anasazi. Still another possibility would be for Atlantis to have a handfull (maybe 3-5) large kingdoms constantly at competition and war with each other. They would be adapted to the sort of political intrigue and subversion the Europeans used against the Inca and Aztec empires, and would likely be prepared to deal with siege warfare in their own territory. Some combination of these factors would probably make for a good story. 

If your doing an alternate history, I would say you could change the whole context by changing the one simple fact of the Atlantic exchange that decimated the native civilizations of the America's. Without most of the natives being wiped out by disease the whole of the "conquest" would of been something much different then it turned out. My thinking is that not only would nations be possible, they would be likely and what the Europeans would be dealing with rather then the isolated groups of survivors that made the Americas a relatively easy conquest. It would resemble something more like our western relations with China and the east in the sense that the west while practicing varying degrees of influence over the area never really conquered them. The civilizations of the Americas would of continued to emerge. Maybe at an accelerated rate with an Atlantic exchange that resulted in an exchange of ideals and technology, rather then death by disease. just a thought. 

One possibility is to avoid the problem entirely by making the place you store the dishes also be dishwashers. So you put dirty silverware in the silverware drawer, and clean silverware comes out. The drawer detects dirty silverware and washes them automatically. The cupboard where you store your plates and bowls also washes those plates and bowls if they are dirty. The cupboard where you store your pots and pans cupboard also scrubs and washes those pots and pans. If you take it a step further, you don't deal with the storage at all. You stick your dirty dishes in a machine. The machine washes them, sorts them, and stores them inside itself. Next time your kitchen makes a meal, it knows exactly what dishes you will need and the machine provides them for you. The washing, storage, and retrieval would all happen on belts behind-the-scenes. 

unfortunately, there will always be insurance salesman and adjusters to make sure your wasting your money. 

Interplanetary empire in Sci-Fi seems to always be based on some sort of warp speed for good reason, there are few reasons to have an empire except to exploit others for the riches that can profitably be brought home. The technological limits of light speed would make empire consisting of other worlds across the vast distances of space simply impossible. A conquered Empire like the Roman Empire would be quite impossible to hold together by threat of force. However a settled Empire like the English Empire could have some sustainability much like the modern day Commonwealth. To be sure there would be a couple of pesky colonists like The Americans that much could not be done about if they were determined to be completely independent and hell bent on some set of principles that called for total self independence. If the colony was on a planet were there were indigenous people the colonist might hold some control for awhile like the Spaniards in America or the English in Asia, but that would end just like it did for the Spaniards in most places, with the original empire with little influence and much hostility. About all the Empire could do was cut them off from communication of new technology. There would be very few reasons for the Empire to even exist. The exchange would be limited to data and to a friendly port in the wilderness of space for the occasional space traveler. Even if there was an outside threat such as Borg or a competing Empire mutual defense would be minimal, consisting of the colonies being hostile cannon fodder that would slow down an enemy advance. No one is coming from the home world soon enough to save anything. 

Another solution is segmentation. Some organisms have multiple body segments, each with its own set of organs. Although vertebrates are segmented, we only have one or two of most of our organs. But a more strongly-segmented organism could have one complete set of organs for certain segments. There wouldn't even need to be a strong reason, it could just be imposed by their evolutionary history (like the fact that human segmentation is laid out for an animal that walks on all fours). 

Unintelligent but fast-reproducing nanomachines. In the same way that simple, fast-reproducing organisms dominate the world today (there are more bacteria cells in a human body than human cells by number, for example), simple, fast-reproducing machines would dominate your AIs. However, they could lack many of the limitations that keep biological microorganisms from completely replacing us, allowing them to replace their creators entirely. 

Retirement at the end of a long life like we know it now is simply not going to happen for most people that live 4-500 years. The genetic clock running out is not likely to be the cause of death for most people. Untimely deaths due to accidents and disease will kill many more people then old age. Planning for retirement may very well be considered an exercise in futility for most people. It is extremely difficult to come up with a number for people that die accidentally. About 250,000 of 2.4 millions of Americans who die, die accidentally each year. Of everyone who dies in a developed country, 7 out of ten of those deaths are people over the age of 70. With that in mind we can say that accidents and disease account for about 30% of the death rate each year, or about 800,000 people die of the 300,000,000 in the US. If your multiply the one third of a percent that dies of unnatural causes each year you have roughly 3% of a population dead every decade, about 30% every century who die from accidents and disease. We could lower that figure by removing a lot of deaths that occur from heart attack, making an assumption that we would not tend to drop dead from heart attack so much because at fifty we would have the hearts of twenty year olds. And perhaps when you add war into the equation the rate might go up. If you consider super bugs that are making antibiotics less effective, then the figure might go up to plague like stats in some years. Over the course of 500 years a lot of things can happen that make it the exception to live to be a 500 year old. This kind of begs the question, at what age does social security kick in? Anyway back to retirement, you would not retire. At some point in your life you might become disabled, unable to work and there would be some program to take care of you. For most people, depending on how mundane the job is, short retirements more akin to sabbaticals would be the norm. You might take a couple of years off to play. You may after fifty years in a job decide to change careers and go back to school for a decade then get a new job. You might sell a business and be able to cruise for a couple of decades, dabbling in shuffle board and basket weaving until the money ran out. You may just have a very good time with your career and never do much besides vacations. 

Electromagnetic waves can carry information, but as far as we know they can't process information without some sort of physical object to mediate the interactions between the waves. So the aliens could convert themselves to waves to travel from one place to another, but they would need some physical object that could carry out the computations their brains normally would carry out at either end. It would be like copying their brains from one location to another, they would not be capable of any thought while traveling in wave form. Even if they could be waves, there is a problem with the idea of them being "all around us". Electromagnetic waves face a number of problems when traveling over great distance that would degrade the quality of the information in the waves. They get smeared both in time and space, they lose energy, they get absorbed, their frequency shifts based on the relative speed of the source and destination as well as the general expansion of the universe. On top of that electromagnetic waves are pretty slow, potentially taking decades or even centuries to travel interplanetary distances. Further, the Earth itself is really good at absorbing electromagnetic waves, so if they were all around us they would be dying as the waves containing them were absorbed by the Earth. Of course you could throw out the rules of physics as we know them, but then there isn't really any way to answer the question.