There seems to be a confusion in the way you're phrasing the question. It is true for all moral systems that their imperative is imposed (almost) entirely upon humans. However, contrary to what you seem to be asserting, it's not true of all moral systems that the subject of their obligations is entirely humans. (In fact, it's not even true often.) In your hypothetical scenario where you're the only human alive, there are plenty of moral systems that would still apply to you, because the subject of their obligation is not necessarily humans. However, they would only apply to you because humans are still the object of those moral codes. Examples of moral systems that don't always impose obligations towards humans: -Western religions consider actions that are an affront to God to be immoral. This includes cursing in his name, according to the Jews, or desecrating a holy book, according to Muslims. -Utilitarians, such as Peter Singer, according to his book "Practical Ethics", believe that we have moral obligations towards animals that can be considered self aware and aware of their potential future. As do many vegans. So if your question is why are humans the subject of moral obligations for all moral systems, the premise is wrong. You can still ask why humans are the object of (almost) all moral obligations for all moral systems. As it stands, we never had a situation in which we ought to apply moral obligations to non-humans because we cannot practically impose a system of justice towards such. We can pragmatically account for the way non-humans behave, such as wearing protective gear against bears. However it is practically useless to come up with a system of ethical codes for bears to follow, which is based on concepts of deterrence or retribution. I did say "almost" all, because even then it's not true that all moral systems have only humans as the object of their code. You can consider a system in which the behavior of a pet is rewarded or punished with the intent of a Pavlovian response system to be a very rudimentary form of a moral code. As well, a new burgeoning field in philosophy is surfacing called machine ethics, which is primarily concerned about the ethics of AI. If we anticipate a society in which many of the rational actors will be AI, there is obviously a need for an ethical system to be imposed upon them. 

By the method of indexing, prove the following Boolean equation to be valid: (A ∪ B)′ ∩ C = (C ∩ A′) ∪ (C ∩ B′) What I tried to do - but somehow it doesn't go right, where did I made a mistake, Please? A - 1,2,3,4 B - 1,2,5,6 C - 1,3,5,7 1) A ∪ B = (1,2,3,4,5,6) so (A ∪ B)′ =(7,8) (7,8) ∩ (1,3,5,7) = (7) 2) (C ∩ A′) = (1,3,5,7) ∩ (5,6,7,8) = (5,7) (C ∩ B′) = (1,3,5,7) ∩ (3,4,7,8) = (3,7) so (5,7) ∪ (3,7) = (3,5,7) 3) So it comes to (7) = (3,5,7) what surely can't be right?                                                                                                                 

I'll start by saying that I can't prove it to you. For all you know, your experience constitutes the entirety of existence. That's not inconceivable. All you can really do is use inductive reasoning. For one thing, you know that you have reactions to external stimuli, and those reactions are driven by your experience. For example, when you are hit, you experience pain. And when you experience pain, you express it in certain ways. Others follow a similar pattern. External stimuli that would cause you pain, when imposed on others, cause them to express themselves in a similar manner as you would. The only thing missing from your perspective is their pain. However, you know that, for yourself, that pain is a necessary link in the causal chain from the external stimuli to the pained reaction. So you might infer that pain is part of the process for them too, even though you can't observe it. In science we often deduce things that are hidden from our senses when they're the best explanation for something. For example, the concentrated positive charge and dispersed negative charge of an atom was the best explanation for many experiment results, such as the Rutherford scattering experiment. So we deduced the structure of an atom without being able to see it directly. We simply accept it as the best explanation for the structure, until a better explanation comes along. Others' reactions to painful stimuli, and its consistency with your experience is one of many methods in which you can infer that something you don't observe - the others' pain - is present. There are other examples. You know, for one thing, that if a concept you're unfamiliar with is introduced to you and after a short time you make an inference that couldn't be made without understanding of said concept, then you necessarily had the conscious experience of deliberating on this concept. So if you introduce a concept to another individual, and after a short time, they make an inference that requires understanding of said concept, you might infer that the necessary step of conscious deliberation was involved. It's not necessarily the case, but it is another hint that others have a conscious experience. If things like this doesn't convince you that there are other conscious experiences besides your own, there are still other ways that there is still existence beyond your own experience. For example, as far as you're aware, humans can only come into existence through the birthing process performed by other humans, before that human is born. You are human, and you know that you didn't have conscious experience before you were born. Inductive reasoning would lead you to conclude that you likely came into existence by a process performed before you were born, which implies that events happened independent of your conscious experience. However, this is still inductive reasoning; it's possible that you're the sole exception to this rule, despite what your parents tell you. Similarly, you observe that existence carries on when others die, so you might infer that the same would be the case for yourself. Again, though, you might be the sole exception. There's plenty of other ways you can infer that existence occurs independently of your experience, but only through inductive reasoning. Again, existence outside your experience is a phenomenon you don't observe, and, as with scientific phenomena, we can only infer things about the world that we don't observe through inductive reasoning. But we cannot disprove solipsism, so you have to live knowing that it is a possibility, however remote. 

I am trying to read Smullyan A Beginners Guide to Mathematical Logic and there is mentioned under ' Complementation ', page 11/12 that A'' is A itself - so why to bother to mark it with a double apostrophe at all( I hope I am right how this mark is called) if it could be just be written A without any '? I suspect it is really a silly question - Sorry about that - but I am trying to understand what's the point of it? Any clarification really appreciated! 

It is said on page 15 Smullyan's A beginner's guide to mathematical logic, that What do we do if we have more than three unknowns, say, A, B, C, D? Well, we can no longer draw circles, but still the four sets divide I into 16 basics regions, and we can number them in such a way that : A = (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8) B = (1.2.3.4.9.10.11.12) C = (1,2,5,6,9,10,13,14) D = (1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15) Why does he say we can no longer draw circles? I did and there are less regions than he has - I got only seven per circle? This would give only 14 regions total in I. 

Depends on the probability distribution and the sampling procedure. If your samples are IID then no, it is impossible. IID is an acronym for "independent and identically distributed". The "independent" part means that the probability of draw for a given sample doesn't depend on the outcome of any other sample. (E.g. rolls of a die or flips of a coin are independent. Picking a card from a deck is not independent, because it depends on what you drew from the deck earlier. Picking a card from the deck with constant replacement and reshuffling after each draw is independent.) "Identical" means the probability distribution from which a sample is drawn is the same for all samples. For example, two separate rolls of a 6-sided die is considered two identically distributed samples. If you roll a 6-sided die and an 8-sided die, these rolls are independent, but not identically distributed. It's easy to prove that infinite IID samples from a distribution, whose probability of success is , cannot possibly have any number of finite successes. Simply take the limit of the Binomial distribution for any positive integer , in the limit as the number of samples approach infinity and you'll get zero. (Sorry if this paragraph was hard to read; the first sentence is really the key point, the second is only in case you want to try and prove it yourself, but can be ignored.) You can get one positive sample out of infinite rolls if the distribution is either not independent or not identically distributed. If it's not independent, you need only set it up as a Markov chain (which, loosely speaking, is essentially sequential probability distribution where each draw depends on earlier draws in some manner) that's set so that the probability of drawing a "success" doesn't start at zero, but can be irreversibly set to zero at some point in the sequence. (For example, this can easily be achieved by something called a "Hidden Markov Model".) If the samples are independent, but not identical then the answer is even simpler. Only have one sample draw from a probability distribution for which a success is possible, and all other samples drawn from a distribution from which a success is not possible. Though I suspect that this scheme would violate a certain implicit assumption in your original question. 

I noticed that Spinoza (Ethics, proof for Prop. XI) mentions cause and reason often in the same sentence, but what is the actual difference between these terms? Example: "If, then, no cause or reason can be given, which prevents the existence of God, or which destroys his existence, we must certainly conclude that he necessarily does exist." I always thought these words are synonyms, but now, when tried to find something about it in the internet, it seems that reason should mean something more mental, so cause is not mental? Or perhaps it depends who is causing it, in this example given is it then reason something what God is causing , and cause would be external, then? 

I think you might be torn between two different kinds of arguments. There's the explicit deductive statement: "X, Y is bad. Therefore X is bad." This is plainly a logical fallacy because the consequent simply does not follow from the premise. However, there's also the inductive statement: "X,Y is bad. X brings us closer to X,Y. So X is likely to be bad." The latter kind of statement doesn't directly impose the properties of X,Y on X based on a false association. It also cannot be a logical fallacy because it doesn't presume to make a deductive statement. It's an inductive statement, so that's when we can argue about things like probability, and render our opinions. That kind of statement can still range from reasonable ("it's bad to own a a gun without training because you might misfire") to ridiculous ("if you get a gun without training you might go into an unconscious ballistic trance and commit a mass-murder against your will"), but in neither case is a logical fallacy committed. 

[(~p) v (~q)] -> .... - Should read I believe "if it is not p or not q ,... "? Or if not, how is the correct way? 

I am not sure does the following parts of symbolic expressions read the same way or not when being the first part of the expression: 

(There was an example given in my book " if it is not p or not q, then it is not the case that p or q" - so this as a function would look I think like this: [(~p) v (~q)] -> [~ (p v q)]