Jobs directly posted on LinkedIn - There are some companies that will post positions directly on the site and you could apply to these for one route that can be taken. Update your status and headline on LinkedIn - Does your profile state you are looking for opportunities? This can be another useful option to consider. Mail your connections - Have you considered sending out a mass message that you are looking for something and do they know people looking for someone with your skill set? LinkedIn groups - Have you looked to see if there are groups that may focus in the industry you want to work or geographically new you? 

You call them up and say, "Hi, I'm Mr. X who came in for an interview on Dec. 17th. I wanted an update as I haven't heard anything in the past week. How is the process going?" The key here is that you want an update on the process, you state who you are and when the interview occurred that may help jog the other person's memory as they may not remember you by voice. At the same time, you may end up with voice mail where the idea is the same message applies though I'd probably add my own number to the message in that case so they know what number to call for me. 

You could tell her, "I appreciate your concern. When my status changes I will update you accordingly." that while it is a bit blunt, may work for some recruiters that just want to be kept in the loop as they don't want to waste time applying you for stuff when you are already happy in a position. 

Generally, you'd start with a known process that has a flow and then adapt the technology to that process. There would be ways to take in applicants, build short-lists, have interviews and then select who to make an offer as part of the overall solution. Some systems may cost hundreds of thousands of dollars for the really big companies that want a great deal of customization on these systems. 

While it is possible for them to use it, consider how basic this system would be that while you may create a base, someone else would have to maintain it, check styles and do a lot of other work potentially to get it into production depending on what else this would be used to complete. 

There are a couple of ways you could go about getting some feedback from your supervisor that depending on which way seems more natural here would be what you could consider: 

Some groups may have a "Call for talent" where some people looking for someone with specific skills can request if anyone present has the skills or knows of someone looking with those skills to come see them. Build friendships. In this case you may establish connections where someone may know of a company looking to hire someone with your skills. This does have the challenge of if you walk up and go, "Hi, I'm J.B. and I'm looking for work..." that may not go over well. It may be better to talk shop for a while and then ask if the person would pass along opportunities. Some groups may allow for someone to give a general call. In this case, you'd have an elevator pitch of what work you want so those that may be looking or about to be looking would come find you. 

In intern and trainee positions there is likely a much lower demand for you to have specific proficiency with certain skills. There can be a great deal of expected learning and new stuff for intern and trainee positions that isn't quite the case with other general positions. 

When the big client contract stopped, did you consider asking at that point if the raise would still happen? I could imagine they have trust in you sticking to your job at the current salary. While you may want more transparency, there can also be the question of what should force this to some extent as if the company is having serious financial issues, there could be the idea that the company doesn't have the money to give you a raise. You can't get blood from a stone and while you can ask questions, be prepared for stonewalling and vague answers as unless you are in a really small company, I doubt they would want you to look at the company books to understand the challenge they have in giving you a raise of X% here. I'd likely consider what exit strategy do you have in mind as if you try to bluff with a, "Tell me or I'm leaving," they may well tell you good-bye and call it on you. 

Freelancing at your old company reduces one a little as this may give you some wiggle room if the company says, "we want you to start tomorrow at 9 am," then you can return with, "my old company's current needs will take some time to resolve. Could I start in a week or two?" which may be fine. The second risk isn't reduced at all if someone knows you are working at another company. To give an example in the second case, imagine a Jim that worked at Microsoft, currently works at Amazon.com and is applying at Starbucks. Unfortunately for Jim, the people at Starbucks that would be his manager are friends with the people at Amazon.com that are Jim's current co-workers that over a coffee it slips and now Jim could be in trouble in terms of getting the job at Starbucks as they find out something that makes them question if Jim would be honest about his situation. Granted these are large companies that may not have the connections I'm implying, it is just a possible situation that could occur. 

As the question has been edited a little bit, let me add a bit here to cover this. A reference letter is slightly different as this is a one-time expression that is quite different than what I tend to imagine when I'm asking someone to be a reference or I'm a reference for someone else. In being a reference, I'm presuming there could be questions asked to cover various materials that is quite different than how I'd see a reference letter. Reference letters can be rather stock and copied to be used multiple times easily enough. Having someone be a reference can mean having that person's contact information handy so that it can be passed as well as remembering that person. 

While developing skills is an idea, realistically you'll be a junior developer that will likely not have awesome coding skills as expected but rather be willing to learn new stuff quickly and work long hours on projects. 

Some recruiters do face to face meetings if it is feasible to do so. I've worked with more than a few recruiters and for those in the same city as me, I've often met them face to face though there are some exceptions to this. For recruiters that are some distance away, it is usually through phone and e-mail that we communicate. I've had recruiters in California or Ontario that place people in Calgary where the job is as well as myself. The point of the meeting is to see the person in their entirety. How do they walk? How do they talk? What kind of facial expressions do they have? While some of these can be done via Skype, it isn't as good as what can happen in other circumstances. 

A component that you are missing here is how does the new company use the technologies that you don't know. For example, if you don't know C# there are more than a few components within the .Net framework, especially given the more recent versions that expanded how broad it can be now, that you could spend years trying to learn only to realize that you'll never master all of them to get into the job. I've had more than a few times in my life where I had to learn some new technology on the job and at times it can be frustrating though this is part of what the company understands in offering you the position. Another interpretation here is to consider what subset of the technology is used as well as with what kinds of conventions, standards, and practices. These are likely only to be known on the job and can change quite quickly. If the company is implementing a new Enterprise Service Bus that could replace the hooks for other systems thus making what you thought you'd have to know be no longer required. I did work at a place that was putting in an ESB and had to make decisions about where would we tie the Web site code into the ERP directly as the ESB components here wouldn't be in place for a year or more. Thus, while there is something to be said for what is currently being used, how long is that on the future road map is another point here. Perhaps they'll use some of the technologies for legacy systems that may mean you'll not touch it ever.