phpPgAdmin export uses pg_dump. You can read up on that if you want to know what it's doing. You may also want to export it as SQL instead of COPY. COPY is for Postgres and you'll need SQL if you want to try to use a different database. It's also easier to understand if your used to different databases. What you'll get with 'Structure and Data' is an sql file that will start with the database table structure, then all the data, then constraints and keys. As sascha has pointed out, you may be having issues with the permissions. I've always found it easier to just delete the permission lines or comment them out since this is just for a development database. Remove/comment/change the lines with 'OWNER' in them. Like 

I have a customer whom I will be hosting a website for, let's say it is . I'm still pretty new at this, thus the worry about what is probably something fairly simple: Right now is only used for email, and the email service is via which is a service provided by their broadband company. The domain registrar () is using the nameservers provided by The email service does not allow any access to DNS records. Or if they do, nobody on their tech support team knows how to allow it. Therefore, I can't simply change the A record to point to my http service. It appears that I'm going to need to eliminate the email hosting company as DNS and either use the DNS zone at the registrar -- or change DNS at the registrar to my own DNS servers - where I will establish the MX records. I just want to make sure my game plan will not cause them any impact to email services. DIG AXFR fails; connection refused. DIG @ns-0.airmail.net example.com ANY reports this: 

You have no persistent routes configured on your system, which means any you created were lost on a reboot. The only ones showing are dynamically added by Windows. Try adding your routes again but add "-p" to the end of the command. 

That link you posted may work, but you need to be clear on this: There is no such thing as merging / joining / combining / whatever Active Directory accounts - this is the same whether on a single domain, single forest, multiple domains, multiple forests with trusts etc etc etc In your case, an account on Network A is always mutually exclusive to an account on Network B - even if they were to share the same username. It may help if you always think of the username in terms of "DOMAINA\Username" vs "DOMAINB\Username" - you should see now how these two will always be different. With regards to Exchange, you have a mailbox belonging to DOMAINB\john.smith - by using that link, you're setting up permissions so that DOMAIN\smith.john can access the account. Just in the same way that, on a single domain, you may give a manager access to someone else e-mail. 

I've always liked Crucial. Guaranteed to work and all that. Good prices. Nice ram selector so you know your getting the right stuff. In general any ram with the proper specs will work in a Mac. For new hardware though a guarantee is always nice. Edit - I ALWAYS go with 3rd party ram in Macs. The prices Apple charges for ram is ridiculous. Edit 2 - I've never used them but I've heard good things about Mushkin. They are a bit cheaper and are currently the only 8GB Mac DDR3 kit on newegg.com. I've always found Neweggs egg ratings to be a good indicator and almost all of their rated hardware is 4-5 eggs (very good). 

Which is not very helpful. It's a Server 2003 R2 box on a very small 2003 domain. It does have GPO's applied, but I can't find any configuration relating to this and I know for a fact it's not a part of our standard rollout because otherwise I'd know about it! 

You could try a repair install - this should be painless. I assume it's the same if you create a brand new user, too? You don't mention what Operating System you're running, but did you install it in install mode? This is especially important if you're on Server 2003. 

Each CREATE TABLE statement will have one of these after it to set the table owner. IMPORTING If you have SQL errors (which I've seen quite often, depending on the data. Strings with odd characters can be a pain) it might be easier to split up the file and just copy out the structure first and run that as a standard SQL query. Then start with the data and import it one table at a time. It makes it much easier to find the error when you cut it into parts. Especially when dealing with the very unhelpful error messages. Yes, it's a lot of copy and paste work but it gets the job done and will probably take less time then porting it into MySQL and then having to change the PHP to connect and get data from MySQL instead of Postgres. PhpPgAdmin and pgadminIII both have the ability to run SQL statements. pgAdminIII -> select database -> select 'Run arbitrary SQL Queries' button. PhpPgAdmin -> select database -> select the 'SQL' link. Honestly this is the least irritating way of moving databases that I've found. It takes longer, but only if you don't run into errors. 

Seems like there are no TXT records. Given this, does it seem like I have all the information I need and my plan is sound? I will set a low TTL at first, even though it probably doesn't matter since the MX target is not changing. (edit: I think I also have to consider and -- how do I know all the possible subdomains I need to check for DNS records?) Thanks for any advice you may have so I can complete this successfully. 

There are two fundamental things you need to do: NB: Do these in order, and test the first section by using your static IP from outside of your home. Router If your server connects to the internet through a router, then you need to either add your server to the DMZ (This will direct all traffic to your IP address to the server. This is dangerous!) or forward the specific ports that you need to it. To do this, you'll need to log onto the router itself and find "Port Forwarding" DNS You need to configure www.mydomain.com to point to your static IP. Do this by going to your registra (The place you purchased it from), and figure out how to add an "A Name Record". This record will contain your static IP. This may take a few hours to take affect, so be patient. Test it first by going to the command prompt and pinging wwww.mydomain.com and looking to see if it's returning your static IP. 

I kind of like hard-coding the actual domain because that guarantees nothing else gets touched, but I would imagine once I have a few hundred of these it may become silly. 

Running WP multisite with client's able to use their own domain name. Works great - except the case where client does not use my nameservers and simply has an A record pointing to the WP static IP address. This happens sometimes when the client DNS has a ton of service records (e.g. Office 365), it is just safer to leave DNS there. When I control DNS, I can alias non-WWW to WWW, which makes WP multisite happy. When client is just using the A record pointer, the WP multisite trips on the incoming non-WWW request and lands at the sign-up page for the multisite. It really needs the 'www', to work right (unfortunately). I solve for each client by doing this in .htaccess: 

1) Local Admins - do this using a security group and Group Policy Preferences 2) Trusted Sites - group policy again 3) ActiveX Control - depends exactly what it is and how it installs. May be one for a script. Please don't cop out and bodge it, the first two are EXACTLY what Group Policy / Preferences were built for. You're using cutting edge server technology, so utilise it! There are loads of resources on the net to start off with. 

Don't forget to save the running configuration when you're finished, if required. *Edit: I've just re read your post and actually, I think you're doing exactly what I described in which case this is accepted practice and not crude as I initially posted. What would be crude (IMO) is using this as a way to automatically revert configuration in a weeks time or something!