In our universe infinite energy is not possible, at least given the known laws of physics. But in another universe what would allow for energy to be in the same amount as space? But how large is space, as we know our universe doesn't have magic walls that say ''hey the space ends there'' therefore,probably it's possible that our universe has no limits in space,that's why it never stopped expanding faster than the speed of light and it accelerates as it grows. This other fictional universe has the same amount of space as ours which is infinite plus an equally infinite energy. How to make that work? 

How strong can the bones/plates and muscles of a humanoid be when pushing biology to its absolutely maximum limit to allow the fighter to deal the most powerful jumping knee strike physically possible without injuring itself by breaking it's own bones or plates,muscles and tendons or whatever anatomy it has. and I'm Talking about a mid range straight strike without grabs and no rotations as in the picture 

If a tribe of homo evolves into a wild animal that doesn't resemble at all a hominid, is there any chance for this animal to evolve back to the original humanoid shape through atavism/other means? Like homo>large herbivore quadruped>homo. Is it possible for this to happen in less than 1 billion of years?and what would make it happen? And in case the ''large herbivore quadruped'' splits in 700 subspecies how likely is for at least 4 of them to become again something that resembles the appearance of a hominid? 

Short question, what events would induce the evolution from hands of 4 fingers and 1 thumb into hands of 2 fingers and 1 thumb like the hands of Yoda in Start wars?Would be 2 thumbs and 1 finger be better? Or more like this... cause Yoda has some really tiny hands with short fingers Between it's not necessarily related to humans, but I'm also interested more in wild animals too. 

Like a diluted smell of metro stations, Perhaps in places dominated by the smell of powdered rock and concrete dust. A metro station is underground and therefore never sees rain. The metro trains are electric, but this does not make them smell-free. Lubricants and heating of the brakes on the trains, as well as humans, contribute to the many metro station smells. If lower sections or horisontal sections of the sinkhole in the story is being excavated, there may also be the distinct metallic burnt smell you get when hammering on rock. Another related smell is that of freshly laid gravel. 

The Raccoons Originally a North-American species, it has dexterious hands and thumbs, can stand upright not unlike a meerkat, is an omnivore, good at problem solving and has a complex social life. These are all traits that have been proposed as crucial for the development of Homo Sapiens. Without human existence, present-day North America is full of large herbivores, with descendants of mammoths traversing the arctic from Scandinavia through Siberia and Canada. The Raccoons spread north and live on a mixture of scavenging on large prey and hunting down smaller or weaker prey in packs. Without human interference, the next glacial period arrives when it should and allow the Racoons to cross the Bering Strait. From there they spread rapidly throughout Asia and Europe. In Europe they become a terrible invasive species, decimating birds, amphibians and other mammals just as they have done to a lesser extent in real-world Europe today. A line of Racoons radiate out on open grass-land, either in central Eurasia or Africa and develop a truly upright posture, to better survey the land for prey and predators. This frees up their already dexterious hands and sets off a feedback-cycle between tool-use, more dexterious hands, brain development and hunting techniques. One sunny day, a million years from now, a young inquisitive racoon is left back in camp while her family hunts. Out of curiosity or boredom, she grabs a piece of flint and slams it against a rock laying in the dry grass... 

In my fictional world there are small organisms the size of a dog or smaller,some have the shape of mini-volcanoes, while some are stuck between rocks, they don't move and live in both sea and land. This organism doesn't have natural predators as not being edible, it's as hard as rock and isn't killed by the digestive system of any animal. However it releases a waste product, it's a red liquid similar to blood and some animals feed on it, if they find one while it releases it's waste product,some other colonial organisms farm them just like ants farm mushrooms on earth. If animals feed on it, then it might be nutritious and contain minerals or other things... so what reasons does this blood fountain have to give up this nutritious liquid? 

Given the chance to bring back from the jurassic any plant, which one would be the most adapted to survive and spread in our actual environment? 

Consciousness is the result of the brain, a mixture of senses,memories and a complex communication between the neurons. To make an example see neurons as people, having 10 people there doesn't do anything. But if you give those 10 people something to talk about they will create a conversation, this conversation is the consciousness of the group. If one of the ten people dies and gets replaced the conversation and so the consciousness will change and lose or gain new qualities. Over time these 10 people will die and be replaced causing the conversation to deviate completely from the original group. In short, we all die slowly over time until there's nothing left of what we used to be. Replacing the neurons of a person with nanobots would be exactly like killing that person and having someone replace them that thinks to be them. another Example: 1-Jimmy is alive and knows it. 2-Every single cell in jimmy's body gets replaced by nanobots. 3-Jimmy is killed by the nanobots. 4-The nanobots give life to Jimmy-bot. 5-Jimmy-bot is alive and knows it. 6-Jimmy-bot doesn't remember about the existence of the original Jimmy therefore now Jimmy-bot became the true original Jimmy leaving the old one in the oblivion. 

Imagine a country where once a year, the citizens file a sort of vote with their tax return, where each return decides how taxes will be spent. Each citizen controls an equal portion of the taxes, regardless of income. Taxes are allocated to programs. Anyone can establish a program by getting 0.5% of the citizen population to provide their signature endorsing the program. Programs are not allowed to violate any existing laws, and must publish an itemized report of where the tax money was spent. Each citizen who files taxes gets an equal say. They are allowed to split the vote between any number of programs with up to 0.1% precision. For example, suppose our country earns 1 billion dollars in tax revenue and has 1,000,000 citizens as population who file taxes. In this example, a program would require 5,000 votes to become established and each citizen would be responsible for determining the allocation of $1,000. Someone might choose to put 50% on a program to cure cancer, 20% on a program that repairs a highway they use regularly, 7.5% on a space exploration program, and the remaining 22.5% on a project to end homelessness by providing affordable housing for people. In that case, 500 dollars of the tax revenue would go to the cancer program, 200 dollars to the highway repair program, 75 dollars to space exploration, and 225 dollars to the homelessness project. Each year the projects would receive their budget based on the votes and the total taxes collected. Votes would be collected securely and projects would not be told who had voted for them. Now, I want you to come up with ways to break or game this system. Please assume the following: 

Laws develop over time based on major events. Where I would start is piecing together a timeline of rough events. The large events are ultimately what will create and shape public opinion regarding the laws. At some point, humanity is going to go to space on a much larger scale than present. Those individuals will feel loyal to their Earth nations and to their local communities and ideas they left behind on Earth. As more and more nations come to space, of course there will be a lot of different cultures and ideas brought to space. However, space travel is and always will be incredible expensive. So therefore, it's a safe assumption that the people who start out going to space come from wealthy nations or nations with sufficient wealth that make space travel a strong priority. Examples likely include America, Russia, China, Canada, Japan. Basically, look at what nations are already in space or planning space programs and imagine them all in a room together. Those are the interactions of early space exploration. For the early time, any space conflicts will base around these Earth nations. This is very similar to conflicts in the new world as it was being settled - all based around European nations. It will take a few, maybe even several, generations before people start to develop separate identities from Earth. This will happen as individuals are born in space. However, their parents will have an influence in shaping their lives, so they will retain many ideas of right and wrong from them. At some point there will be a separation event where those space civilizations decide to part ways with their Earth nation identities. Typically, this would be something morally opposed by those individuals, or something that creates excessive economic hardship. Some ideas may be an additional tax that is unpopular, a declaration of war which the space individuals don't see as agreeable, or the defunding of space programs, leaving the space civilizations to fend for themselves. You want to create this event as an emotionally significant event. People are driven by emotion. So the laws are going to be based on Earth-nation laws, with tweaking as that independent nation sees fit. Regarding your death penalty law, something of that nature is likely to have very strong opposition. Humans generally regard killing someone as wrong. In order to accepted, it would need to have: 

Why would an non-Eusocial animal have a caste of sterile individuals? Formicidae and Apoidea have sterile workers,but those outnumber the fertile drones and princesses or queens. In another animal that doesn't have queens or drones but just motile(male) and oogame(female) why would evolution support and want the existence of a precise caste of sterile individuals that does not outnumber the fertile ones like in eusocial colonies? In humans and many other mammals males outnumber females cause they die more easily and have a way shorter lifespan, and this seems to work for the most part. How would the males,females and sterile be distributed in this situation? 

What can people with the technology of 9th-10th century use to produce efficient and complex contact lenses with colored symbols on them like the use of machines is obviously excluded, I've seen glass workers that can do some incredibly awesome things by hand like this sculpture but I'm not sure if they could make something like safe and comfortable lenses or how they would color them... Or probably could they use some more comfortable materials at that time instead of glass? cause I imagine glass contact lenses could be bad for health and maybe heavy and painful. 

In the lord of rings the elves invented an incredibly nutritious bread/biscuit, as Legolas clearly says only a small bite is just enough to satisfy the needs of an adult man for 1 day. An adult person needs about 2000 calories per day... maybe 1600-1700 for extremely skinnny and underweight people or those who have jobs that require no physical skills. But I'm going with the 2000 calories one... obviously I mean kilocalories. Each bite of lembas needs to sustain a person so it might give 50 grams of protein, 250 grams of carbs and enough fats to avoid protein toxicity... maybe 80-85 grams of fat can make it. So how would a medieval society create Lembas without magic? Putting and compacting extreme loads of nutrients together is easy, the hard part is to make it edible and most importantly not deadly. Feel free to adjust the fat-carbs-protein ratio as you prefer but please keep it healthy and close to 2000 calories per bite. What it tastes like doesn't matter, after all is just a bite. 

Depends if you're writing for TV or a book. On TV, you are pressed for time and would typically be observing the reaction from outside. Then something dramatic, resembling an epileptic seizure with their hair catching on fire is appropriate. You can also go with the matrix-style download, where seizure is followed by a sudden revelation. In a science fiction book on the other hand, the author will typically focus on the first-person experience of having your brain over-loaded. Or if written from an outside perspective, at least make it more drawn out, like a prolonged illness. It's not uncommon to describe reactions akin to hallucinations and fever-fantasies, where the person is babbling about things the others around him can't see or does not understand. Fred Hoyle's "The Black Cloud" employ this strategy, where the overloaded person is bedridden and eventually dies from the massive re-organisation his brain is undergoing. A change in personality is another common trope in this situation. You could also go with a more heart-breaking angle where the person feels overloaded and where taking in and processing the information is at the expense of other tasks, like remembering to eat and dress yourself, find your way around a town or being unable to retain personal memories of the day. In short: You portray the onset of dementia. Again from a strict story-writing perspective, I think you have to first ask what you want to accomplish with the scene where the person is overloaded and where you want the story to go, and only then do you select the proper symptoms of overloading. 

Usage: The martians could use this calendar to predict repeating patterns of how the moons rises and sets in the sky. 

A definite yes for small low-orbit and high-orbit satellites as long as the cube does not rotate. Large moons far away should be fine The question was answered in the 2012 Physics International paper: "The Gravity Field of a Cube". (Available for free) The authors found stable orbits for a tiny moon or space probe to circle the cube. The gravity field of a cube is only distorted close to the cube and with a large moon you can presumably have a situation like the Pluto-Charon system where they each orbit a common center of mass, so cubeness shouldn't be a problem in that case. (Though I can't prove it :) The authors also provide us with great background material for writing a sci-fi story, such as how a lake on a cube will look, and what to do if you colonize the world: