Ascertain that the chain is not visibly touching the front derailleur. Check that your rear cassette is fitted correctly; lock-ring is tight and the correct spacers used between sprockets. Are you using a matching chain, chain rings and rear derailleur? i.e. are they all 'n' speed; i.e. do not mix and match a 9 speed chain with a 11 speed cassette or derailleur. Is your rear derailleur vertically aligned correctly, not subject to crash damage. Assuming you're on Shimano, is the b adjustment screw of your rear shimano derailleur correct such that the rear derailleur does not touch the cassette? Is you rear derailleur compatible with the large sprockets you have on your cassette? e.g. a short arm rear derailleur may only support up to 25 tooth sprockets. Do you have the correct length of chain to support the gear range you have. 

It could be that you've cross threaded the lock ring, although you should notice this within the first few turns. To prevent it coming loose again though you could try some loctite on it. 

Keep the bike and fix it up. In your situation I would consider a single speed conversion. The beauty of a single speed is that maintenance is lower, no need to worry about shifters, deraileurs, etc. Just find a gear that works for you and the area you ride, and all you need to do is give the chain the occasional lube. I had an old 26 inch MTB that I converted to a single speed, pretty much the same needs as yours. Where I live we don't get snow, but instead torrential rain. My reasons for going single speed were mostly around expense. I couldn't afford a new bike, and wanted to keep the spend to a minimum. I knew I would be riding in the rain, where I would end up having splashed up road grit and grime cause damage to my drivetrain. I also wanted ease of maintenance. After the initial build and setup, I don't need to worry about gear cables stretching and dodgy shifting. I just need to lube the chain every now and then, and I know I have a good reliable bike to commute on in any weather condition. As @batman says you need to consider things like whether or not you have a freehub or freewheel and the impact that may have on chain line, and the type of conversion kit. You also need to look at your dropouts and work out whether or not you need a chain tensioner, or go fancier and get an eccentric bottom bracket (they are costly). But I would still suggest it is worth considering a single speed for commuting in bad weather conditions. In 18 months of commuting I haven't had to spend any money on the bike other than using some of my lube that I already had. 

Initially I thought this was an Olmo but it looks like Japanese bike frame builder 3RENSHO. You can see some on Google or here: $URL$ 

I cannot answer the physiological aspect in any detail, however my understanding is that, given a recovery day with little activity, your muscles will begin the first phase of healing [inflamation etc], this is also coupled with your legs being heavy with toxins from the previous days racing. To avoid this, the healing part can be improved via active recovery - riding the bike. Everyone is different as to how much riding and how intense it has to be. I have heard Lemond, Fignon & Kelly et al state that experienced riders know what effort they have to do. Regards intensity: Lemond talks of doing anaerobic efforts on recovery days to trigger testosterone production, the increased testosterone levels aid recovery. Of course some riders have been known to just use illegal testosterone patches. Getting the amount of intense effort on recovery days is critical, do too much effort on your recovery day and you don't recover, you do more damage. Regarding recovery ride time: this is about flushing out those toxins by getting more blood flow to damaged muscles, oxygen and nutrients in the blood help the muscle to recover more quickly. This is the easy very low effort part of the recovery ride. The body becomes used to the effort and if you stop, it can seize up - become stiff; the above factors, intensity and ride time impact that. With regards to the Mountains vs non Mountains stages, the type of effort is considerable different to flatter or rolling stages; you will use more watts on a long climb, there is less opportunity to coast or get dragged along in the slipstream, and, you use more fluids due to the higher effort and there being less of a cooling effect from the wind as you are going slower. In the mountains, it can feel like doing weights as the cadence is lower and the effort higher - so the build up of toxins in the muscles is higher; the flatter stages involve more opportunity to spin-out for periods whereby its like a mini recovery ride within the stage. 

I'm not too familiar with handcycles, however you can get some really good electric assist bikes these days. Not sure what the situation is with your knee, however if you are able to pedal to some degree this might be the thing to help you where your knees would typically feel the strain like on the hills. I am currently considering a dutch cargo bike with electric assist, as the hills around my place are too much to manage 20kg bike, plus to toddlers and a bunch of groceries. From my limited research they'd get you about 15-20 miles at about 18mph, so not the full century, however it might be enough to let you do the recreational ride 

Best place to look is Sheldon Brown's famous site. $URL$ I would suggest given the difference in diamaeter you will run into issues attempting to put your 700x23c tyres on a 650c rim. 

There's yet another reason to replace tyres, not covered above: When the bead snaps and pierces the sidewall. An unusual failure mode for a Schwalbe Marathon Plus. 

Don't attempt user service. The rubber front-piece doesn't give access to the body, the case body is tightly shut, and there is no way in through the power button. All you'll do is ruin the pre-existing water resistance by damaging the seal on the rubber front-piece. Do leave the light indoors in a dry area and allow natural movement of moisture to clear the light. In some cases this will allow the light to return to normal functioning after 2-3 days or more. If you have removed the rubber front-piece, carefully and gently use a flat nose screwdriver or plastic probe to lift the plastic body of the light and try to use finger pressure to cram the rubber gasket back into place. It will be held by plastic alligator style jaws that come together when the body of the light reseals. Just be gentle and keep at it and you'll get most if not all of the way there eventually. 

The crank arm should definitely be lubed before installing into a bottom bracket. This is because of the long term rotations that are going to occur, and you want cranks to spin as freely in the BB as they can. As for other things like BB into the frame and headset, the reading I have done doesn't indicate that the BB needs to be greased prior to installation like you would a threaded BB; nor do headset cups into a headset. Park Tool have a couple of good tutorials for these two items ($URL$ & $URL$ Ultimately the reason you don't need to grease/lubricate those items at installation is because they don't move within the frame. The bearings will move inside each of the items. I.e. BB bearings rotate inside the BB shell and you will install headset bearings inside the cups. So it is the rotating parts that you would grease. The reason threaded BBs should be greased is to assist in the installation of them as the rotate into position (i.e. thread onto the frame). So ultimately there is no need to, however it shouldn't cause any harm if you do grease them before installation.