My professional historian girlfriend suggests (somewhat tongue in cheek) Patty Hearst - because in America "princess" is a loose term. I've lost track of the number of teachers who argue that "celebrity" is equivalent to "nobility" at a minimum. Slightly less tongue in cheek, I'd challenge the question; take for example Caroline of Brunswick, who was shipped off to a foreign land to marry a Prince. The decision was made against her will (arguably; she'd never met the man). Most royal women were the instruments of foreign policy, not participants. Kidnapped princesses were the norm, not the exception. I just re-read the question and noticed that OP is looking for a military operation to seize a princess. I'd argue that Boadica still applies - the Roman's invaded the Isceni lands to seize the women. Mary Queen of Scots should still qualify - although technically it can't be a "military" operation, since both Bothwell and Mary employed Scottish troops. I'd argue that in most cases in both history and fiction, a military operation to seize a person is rare - a covert op is much more plausible. If you're going to exclude cover ops and police operations, then the question becomes artificially narrow. 

Even more worrying, though: this phenomenon is so inherent to human nature, we don't even notice it's going on all around us: After 9/11, Bill Mahr caught some slack for saying the suicide attackers were not cowards. At the same time, Howard Stern stated that America should choose "any Arab country, they're all harbouring terrorists, and just nuke 'em". Bill Mahr was fired, Howerd Stern wasn't. Look at the people who have used the quote: "You're either with us, or against us" in various forms here: Lenin (Communist), Mussolini (Fascist), George W Bush (US president), Hillary Clinton (US Foreign Secretary) and Vic Toews (Canadian public safety minister). Since the Communist and Fascist dictators, the phrase has always been used in a context of threads to national security, mainly terrorism. This threat is also used to justify mass surveillance, invasive searches in airport security, The patriot act (Christ, patriotism and (extreme) nationalism is in the name), active prosecution of whistle-blowers like Edward Snowden, and racial profiling. Now think about these things, and read the quote by Göring a second time: 

From the off: The phrase "Wir haben es nicht gewusst" is a lie. Many Germans have later admitted that the deportation and mass killing of Jews, Gipsies and political prisoners was a public secret. At first, it could well be that not everybody was equally aware, and yes, the German economy was headed in the right direction, and yes the Nazi regime did manage to create jobs, and instill on the people a lost sense of pride. So it's not unlikely that, at first, people were willing to subject themselves and others to the nasty sides of the regime. By the time the ghastly things that were going on had become this public secret, the Nazi apparatus had managed to infiltrate every aspect of daily life, though. There are recorded accounts of children that got sent home from school, and were expressly prohibited to attend classes until they joined the Hitler Jugend. Though this does not serve as justification, with the rise of fascism, there grew a sense of terror among the population, too: if they didn't contribute, that was seen as a sign of rebellion, and thus they, too, could fall victim. But that's just one of many reasons why the Nazi's could keep on doing what they did, and does not answer your question. For that, we need to go back to the end of WWI. Germany had capitulated, and was heavily punished (Treaty of Versailles). WWI was in part caused by the Germans wanting a part of the colonial pie that the rest of Europe were having (among other things of course) as you may know. While the Treaty of Versailles was said to be about making amends and repaying war damage to those countries involved, it also prohibited Germany to expand its borders (ie: no colonies). Do not underestimate the social trauma a nation can sustain when, already having had to admit defeat, being forced to forego the perks (colonies back then were seen as a nations right) other countries so happily grant themselves. A nation is a mass of people, and a mass behaves irrational and emotional (like a toddler). Tell a 3 year old it's done wrong, punish it and then tell it, it has to watch while other toddlers are eating its sweets, it'll cry, kick and scream. So there was a genuine feeling of betrayal and disgruntlement in Germany. There had also been a long tradition of antisemitism in Europe. Couple that to the rise of Communism (Russian revolution happened during WWI) and you have: Anger, Fear (of Communism) and a not-well-liked minority. That's an explosive mix, no matter how you look at it. All you need is a spark: a charismatic leader, preferable one that also manages to restore some of the national pride that the country in question seems to have lost. An interesting read in this respect is "The Nuremberg Diary". Gustave Gilber, an American psychologist interviewed Hermann Göring and wrote their conversation down: 

Combine the above, and I can almost guarantee you that there is a long bubble in some commodity right now, and nobody is paying any attention to it. So the question becomes very difficult to answer - easy to argue about, but difficult to authoritatively answer. IF I had to make a guess, I'd advocate the housing bubble. Although we normally refer to the housing bubble of 2007-2008, the real housing bubble started probably back in the 1970's - 

First off, I think you're looking for popular sanction, not population sanction. Second, 12 out of 13 states would definitely indicate popular sanction. (or, more precisely a majority of the voters of 12 out of 13 statues - or, since Pennsylvania cheated, a majority of the voters in 11 out of 13 states, plus enough of Philadelphia. (Pennsylvania never alerted non-English speaking voters of the vote; they pretty much just declared ratification without actually bothering to issue or count ballots). Remember that in the end, Rhode Island refused to ratify the Constitution until the other states threatened to treat Rhode Island as a foreign power - which would have doomed Rhode Island. Rhode Island was pursuing a populist free money policy that was extreme by any standard. So Rhode Island was irrelevant - your textbook overestimates the importance of Rhode Island. I don't think anyone's calculations included Rhode Island any more than I consider the vote of my pet turtle. That said, the Constitution needed popular sanction - everyone needed to believe that the Constitution represented the government the people chose. One of the things that doomed the Articles of Confederation was the requirement for unanimity; the 13 states couldn't have passed a resolution that there were two digits in 13. By the time of the ratification debate, if New York had advanced the notion that water was wet, the South would have voted that water was in fact both flammable and solid, but never wet. The Articles of Confederation had taught the States that the best strategy was to be the last vote cast and that it was wise to vote against your own interest if by doing so you could extract prices from the other States. I can't call the examples to mind, and I can't find my copy of the book, but Klarman offers some examples of strategic voting that were almost as silly as my example of "water is wet". So the level of popular sanction was set at a majority of the voters in 2/3 of the states. (the Constitution was not submitted to the states, but to the voters, but that is outside the scope of your question.) A majority of the voters in 2/3 of the states was sufficient to ensure that everyone would accept the legitimacy of the resulting government - that's the way "popular sanction" should be interpreted. Best references are Maier's Ratification and Klarman's Coup. The origin of the Constitution is complicated and fully of wonderfuly juicy politics, but it is difficult to distill down to fit within the requirements of a High School Textbook (which is usually the first introduction to a complex subject, but must be written to contain nothing complicated, objectionable or confusing. They are written to be fairy tales to pass the scrutiny of the Texas School Board, an institution respected more for it's ideological purity than academic standards). 

Leaders are indeed the ones that make out the policies, both domestic and foreign. It is they who stand to gain from conflict. Economic and geopolitical factors come into play, and quickly overtake humanitarian considerations. As far as the leaders of a country are concerned, human casualties become statistics, and are seen as part of the cost vs benefits analysis. Basically, it's as Joseph Stalin (allegedly) stated: 

When you speak of WWII and the Holocaust in particular, it stands to reason that the same "rule" applies: the people aren't actively asking for pogroms. But Göring continues: 

Göring, however, does not see things like this, and actually summarizes the plot of Orwell's yet to be written novell 1984: 

Back to Göring, though, Gilbert points out a possible flaw in Göring's logic: the fact that a democratic society couldn't possibly elect a gouvernament that institutionalizes the prosecution of certain groups of people: 

Disclaimer: As I was made aware of this by Drux' comments: my answer may lead some people to believe that I am in some way justifying people not intervening, or even actively participating in the Holocaust. If read the comments below, I hope it is self-evident that this is not the case. Just to be clear: I absolutely and unequivocally condemn any action that discriminates on the basis of religion and or race, be it in the past, present or future. My main interest, as far as history is concerned, is 20th century geo-politics. The question of how could this happen is one that we all ask about every genocide. What I tend to do (and attempted to do in my answer) is to shift that question to could this happen (again) today or is it happening again. Of course, when attempting to apply this very sensitive subject (WWII genocide) to modern-day politics, I recognize the fact that bad choice of words or phrasing can lead to misunderstandings. It also stands to reason that a 1-on-1 "projection" of past events onto the present is, by definition false/flawed. But the cliché of history repeating itself is, IMHO, not all together absurd. Anyway, it is not my intention to hurt people, I am not trying to negate or minimize any of the atrocities that were committed. My only goal is to communicate what I believe are genuine similarities between the rise of Nazi Germany and today's political tendencies/evolutions. And to avoid any further misunderstandings, let's not beat around the bush: I have no sympathies towards anything even remotely resembling fascism or (neo-)Nazism whatsoever. So if you are a neo-Nazi looking to recruit: try your luck at the local asylum, or try reading a book, instead of using it as a hammer. If the contents of my answer below offends anyone for any reason, do not hesitate to leave a comment, and I'll be happy to clarify whatever needs clarification, or edit my answer in accordingly. 

The local Korean deli uses cheese in many of their dishes; my friends from several other East Asian countries have commented that they still consider cheese to be unusual and not part of their normal diet. It is entirely possible that this is a sampling error, but I'm curious when cheese entered the Korean diet. (I did some google searching, but the results about modern Korean diet overwhelm the historical sources, and the historical sources don't refer to cheese at all.) 

There are very few things in history that have a simple cause and effect relationship. (or perhaps there are, but we don't study them because they are trivial.) Slavery was a cause of the war. Fundamental tensions originating before the Constitution was a second cause of the war. Cultural divergence was a cause of the war. The North didn't start the war; the South did. The South started the war because they didn't believe that the country could encompass the visions of both the South and the North, and because they believed that a non-military strategy would result in unacceptable losses for the South. They believed that the North wanted to eradicate the Southern way of life. The symbol of this was slavery, but their concerns were broader - there were irreconcilable economic and cultural differences - the 3/5 clause in the constitution, the Jay treaty, etc. etc. etc. The North sought a future for the country that included both freedom from slavery and prosperity. The North had made that clear from the foundation of the Republic. The Southern political position was idiotic. The South sought a future based on a fantasy recollection of medieval life. Their vision was utterly unconnected from reality, and their economic principles were less sophisticated than your average third grader. They wanted to get rich by selling commodities in an unchanging world. They rejected industry, credit, capitalism, and every vestige of modernism. They created a fantasy reality based on a bygone era where land was more important than capital. They held dances and wore fancy clothes and each generation was financially, intellectually and morally inferior to the last. It is not possible to predict a person's view based solely on their economic class/interest By the middle of the 19th century there was a consensus that abolition and civil rights were the right choice even if that choice involved some economic hardship. Britain endured huge economic hardship to fight slavery on a global scale. The New York Abolition society had existed since the beginning of the Republic. For some people, civil rights were a religious imperative; for others an ethical or moral imperative that trumped their economic self-interest. The South rejected this consensus, slowly transforming from irrational to delusional to pathological zealotry. In the end they started what was the bloodiest war in human history to that point in order to silence the people who kept demonstrating that the Southern way of life was delusional, disconnected from reality, immoral, and economically stupid. 

How could something like the Holocaust happen, and could it happen again? I'm afraid to say that I believe it can happen anywhere, and if it were to happen again in our life-time, we wouldn't realize it before it's too late, and even so: few of us would actually have the courage to step up and do something about it. A couple of books that are loosely related, in the sense that they touch on, or identify similarities between nazi- or communist dictatorships and current western foreign policies: Gore Vidal: Permanent war for Permanent Peace William Blum: Rogue State 

In Germany, the people were brought to the leaders' bidding by first: creating jobs, improving the economy, breaking the Treaty of Versailles and reinstating the sense of National pride. Targetting Jews and Gipsies was, in a way, self-evident: they could be the scape-goat and play the role of the enemy that has already infiltrated the country. They were seen as the ones that stole the wealth of the German people. People are worryingly gullible when it comes to things like this as American schoolteacher Jane Elliott's infamous experiment has demonstrated time and time again. Here's a clip There have been many experiments like this, and all of them seem to come to the same conclusion: When people are put in a situation where they feel they have the right to exercise power over another group, violence ensues, and is even seen as justifiable. Ironically, a more recent example of this can be seen in Israel, and the way people treat muslim refugees. They aren't even referred to as refugees, but "Infiltrators", in the same way the Jews were seen as the enemy that lived within back in WWII Germany...