There are different kinds of mathematical truth, and depending on what you would want in a notion of absolute truth, some of these may fit - or not. My personal stance would be that absolute truth is not a fruitful concept, and probably not worth thinking about too much. The agreement about truth amongst mathematicians A defining feature of mathematics as a field is that mathematicians can generally reach consensus about the truth of a particular mathematical statement, by providing a purtative proof, critizing its weak points, shoring them up, etc. This process can require clarification/abstraction: If the a priori assumed axiom systems of the involved mathematicians differ, they may have to move from "X is true" to "Axiom system Y proves X". If a statement written by a mathematician using classical logic is read literally by a constructivist, it will often be false - but constructivists know how to read classical mathematics in a way that retains truth. Even on the "fringes" of mathematical foundations, say the ultrafinitists would typically attack results as being meaningless, rather than being false. We thus see evidence of a notion of truth that trancends individual view points or perspectives, in manner that most fields of philosophy are not privy to. This also differs from the one in the natural sciences, where experiments can provide an arbiter of truth. On ontology The notion of truth described above is - on purpose - divorced from any assumptions about the ontological status of mathematical objects. One can refuse to entertain this question at all (which essentially leads to formalism, and the unresolved questions of why we are playing this game, and why math works so well to describe nature). The stance that most readily leads to a notion of absolute truth would be platonism in the strict, "one mathematical universal", form. This does not mean that any mathematics not done in the "one and only correct system" is invalid - since we can translate between the various systems, we can recover (almost) all other systems as a fragment of the chosen true reality. A stance that seems widespread amongst mathematicians working on foundations is that of mathematical relativism (described very nicely by Andrej Bauer here). We just accept a plethora of mathematical universes, and study those we find most fascinating. Depending on what is meant by absolute truth, this might be incompatible with such things. Conclusion Mathematics offers far more absolute truth than other areas, but asking for perfectly absolute truth probably doesnt make much sense. 

Telling truth is the product of an intention. If the mind of the truth teller is uncluttered by an intent to deceive, he/she is not subject to disapproval, in normal circumstances. But the intent to tell the truth bears a specious connection to what is actually true. We are begging questions of epistemology - what it is possible to "know." We shall assume, however tentatively, that there is such a thing as "the truth." A person's intent to tell it, however sincere, is only a guarantee of the teller's intention, nothing more. Experience with the human mind teaches that mistakes are such a commonplace, their absence in our thinking is the exception. 

Referencing oneness does not establish a duality if the agent of awareness (in this case the self) is a subset of the One. As you observe, we can see that the One would have nothing outside itself for reference. The One itself is incongruous with categories or divisions of any kind. However, a point of self-consciousness that exists in the context of time, place and other references, is bound to relate to them, in fact is defined by them. One of these references can be the relationship of the self to that which is beyond reference. The neo-Platonist philosopher Plotinus identified a continuum of relationship from the individual item to the perfect unity of the One. His view was that we as individuals find bliss and fulfillment insofar as we approach "likeness" to the One, as opposed to the veil of tears he called "differentiation," fraught as it is with ambition, competition, desire. I believe this is a similar construct to that of Buddhism, but I defer to those with expertise on the subject. I know I have heard consistent advice from esoteric teachers that we should eschew our individuality, try to blend back into the All or the One through various techniques, including meditation, and various life choices, such as asceticism. However, given our natures, and assuming that we take our present form only for a time and in a particular place, it appears our differentiated selves are the only window we have on the One, which is our source, and in some way our home. So, I must account such awareness as precious, even if its existence only reinforces how temporary and fungible are all subset constructs in contrast to the great construct that includes everything. So identifying the concept of "oneness" strikes me as entirely worthwhile, in that it helps us understand ourselves. 

Fundamentally, category theory does not seek to model "having a structure". It rather starts from the realization that the way how we use the structure is typically via the structure-preserving or reflecting maps; and that it is only the maps that really matter. For example, in topology the topology is just to define what continuous functions are. Everything else can be expressed in terms of continuous functions (not at least because we can recover the topology on X by looking at the continuous functions from X to Sierpisnki space). Sticking with topology, one can then see that for many results in topology, the precise nature of the continuous functions is irrelevant. Most theorems have natural counterparts in the setting of computable functions. This is because the relevant categories have very similar properties. 

In a), you essentially want all pairs $(n,m)$ with $n < m$ in your relation. For b), consider the following process: Start with some element $a_0$. Then pick some $a_1$ such that $R(a_0,a_1)$ - you can do this by Sentence 2. Then pick $a_2$ such that $R(a_1,a_2)$, etc. In a finite structure, there would need to be a repetition at some point, meaning that there are $i < j$ with $a_i = a_j$ (Pidgeon hole principle). Then you use Sentence 3 (possibly very often) to obtain a contradiction to Sentence 1. 

An approach to make sense of the necessary vs contingent truth distinction is by considering a theory $T$ and a model $M$ of that theory. Theorems of $T$ are the necessary truths in $T$. Statements that hold in $M$ but are not theories of $T$ are the contingent truths. If we follow this approach, then the question of whether AC (if true) is a necessary or contingent truth essentially depends on the question what our chosen foundational theory is. We could consider all models of ZF as potential mathematical worlds, and just explore one where AC is true right now. But we could just as well start with ZFC as theory, and thus deem AC to be necessary. Ultimately, this question does not really lead us anywhere, I believe. 

Your argument shows that a naive implementation of utilitarianism that defines global utility as the sum of personal utilities would not work if utilities are allowed to include both positive and negative infinity. For this argument to have any bearing on utlitarianism at all, you would need to argue that both positive and negative infinity are indispensable as potential values of individual utilities, and you will find this to be very difficult. Note that we already run into big problems here simply by considering probabilitistic events: What would be the expected utility of tossing a coin to either receive $+\infty$ or $-\infty$? All formal approaches I am familiar with tend to demand that utility values are real numbers, and hence disallow infinite utility values. In particular in a context where we are going to aggregate different utility values, it may even be prudent to demand that utility values come from a bounded interval, to avoid running into this situation: SMBC comic 

We do not respond to ethical dilemmas with binary switches and levers, but with complex and nuanced human behavior. Our ethical obligations in a scenario may or may not be relative to a lot of things, real or imagined, but it is undeniable that it will be relative to the capacity of the agent in the moment to make the ethical judgment. That agent may seek to act according to objective, universal norms, but we can guarantee that another agent will see those norms differently. Ethical relativism can be slammed as a means of avoiding ethical decision making altogether, and there is some credit to that criticism. However, ethical absolutism can fail to take into account the varied make up and judgment of the agents who must carry out ethically sound behavior. Or the position of an ethical absolutist may be that all agents should surrender their independent agency to some supposedly objective judge. To my mind, such an idea is itself unethical, and would obviate the whole scheme of objective enforcement. So I believe there is a position between the two extremes: If we posit a moral and social obligation for all persons to strive to act according to ethical norms, we must acknowledge the agency of those persons, which is to say the necessarily flawed humanity of those persons. We should understand they may disappoint and even anger us when they appear to fail in this obligation. They may disappoint and anger us even as they strive with undeniable integrity to act according to objective ethical norms that we may profess to share. 

I believe you are up against semantics. The term "void" is commonly used to describe any expanse that appears to contain no objects. However, the true void described by Parmenides is different - that which is not. I truly wish that there were two terms for these two, distinct ideas. I distinguish them this way: The first void can be measured or described in terms of space/time dimension or some other feature, whether concrete or abstract. The true void cannot be measured or described. It is not, therefore there is nothing to measure, nothing to describe. It is not a place you can go. It is not the edge of the universe. It is not even a concept you can form in your mind. Ontologically speaking, and using the terminology of my native Nebraska, it just plain ain't. I would welcome the wisdom and knowledge of trained philosophers who might come up with two different terms for these two different ideas. In popular usage, however, I believe they are forever confounded. 

The point raised in the quote is not the same as the question that you are asking. In the quote: It is a difference whether we define what one is, and then we define what two is, and so on, or whether we define the abstract concept of (natural) number (as pointed out by Mauro Allegranza in the comments). Of course we can say that natural number refers to the totality of the numbers we have defined, and that is a separate definition, and we may or may not be happy with it. (If you want to learn more about problems with this, look for non-standard models of Peano arithmetic). Your question: There are many concepts of numbers of some kind that differ from the natural numbers. Examples are integers (including negative numbers), rational numbers, real numbers, complex numbers, (transfinite) ordinal numbers, (transfinite) cardinal numbers, surreal numbers. They have all nothing to do with the point raised in that quote, though. 

There are some misconceptions here. First, we do not know whether quantum computers are better at some stuff than classical computers. There are problems where we know quantum algorithms that are faster than all known classical algorithms, but so far noone has been able to prove that are no equally fast classical algorithms. Second, there are many computational tasks humans are very bad at, despite the tasks being very easy. A core aspect here is that for something like combinatorics calculations, we are using concious, higher level style reasoning. A "hardware" implementation in our brains might have been much better, but just never evolved (being good at combinatorics is probably not strongly selected for). So from us not being good at something we cannot conclude that the basic computational machinery of our brains is not suited for that task. 

What is going on here is the implicit use of a criterion like Popper's falsifiability to assign the burden of proof; and a helping of Laplace' "I have no need of such assumption". If a sufficiently specified God is discussed, then it becomes reasonable to ask for evidence for either existence or non-existence. We have climbed Mount Olympos, and found no sign of Zeus, etc. However, typically such debates are about very unspecific notions of God. The believer could still offer evidence, by specifying God however he wants, and then suggesting matching evidence. The New Atheist argues that until that happens, the default position should be to assume non-existence - just as we do with many other hypothetical constructs.