The technical term for what you need, I think, is a xanatos gambit [warning - link is to very entertaining/addictive site] What you need is a very long plan, with lots of ways for you to win, and as few ways out for him as you can possibly make. A xanatos gambit essentially has all paths leading to victory, including paths that superficially appear to be failures. Since he has 24hrs lead time, you will likely need several "apparent" failures in a row first, to get beyond his window of prediction and to bait him into actions which look like victories to him at first, but actually leave him in increasingly worse positions when other branches of your plan are revealed. To put it more concretely - there is a plan which has a trap closing at 24hrs. Obviously, he will see the trap, and figure out a way around it - in fact, there's a nice, easy escape route in only five hours...unfortunately, it was planned, and is leading him straight into the 30hr trap! Maybe he can faint and dodge around that trap, but he has less time than he might have because he was focused on the earlier trap (and it's still active, so it limits his moves anyway). And if he dodges around that trap, well, the 36hr trap is really clever, it will take a lot of time to get around that one - especially if avoiding the 30hr trap lead him to commit a chunk of time he can't exit in the middle (say, a long flight). He has considerably less than 24hrs at that point, to dodge the 36hr trap, and there's a easy-to-predict way out leading straight into the 40-hr trap. If he gets past that, the 41hr, 42hr, and 44hr traps are all lined up to catch him, if he starts counting on having more time between traps. And in the meantime, you should have enough time where he's dodging, distracted, and generally paying more attention to what he's doing rather than what he's predicting to make the 48-hour trap absolutely inescapable, or at worst the 50-some hour traps all lined up next. That's why you need a trap longer than 24 hours, not because he can't see further as it comes closer to time, but so that you can shape his actions in the beginning hours in ways he can't yet see the end results of until he's already committed to a course of action - the dodge that would actually let him out of the 48-hour trap is lost because he can only see, and feel arrogant about dodging, the 24-hour trap. And of course, not only does dodging out of earlier traps set him up for later ones, it can also (in proper xantos gambit style) achieve other objectives for you along the way - delay or destroy his own plans, or encourage him to be hasty with them (and thus easier to thwart), prevent him from creating or executing new plans, distract him from your various events and plans (to make his predictions less and less accurate), separate him from allies, show those allies he will turn on/abandon them (so they won't be future allies), enlighten oblivious pawns to his true plans so they won't help or may turn against him, give yourself good press, give him bad press, get him to underestimate you so he falls into a trap, get him to overestimate you so he ends up with paranoia or decision paralysis, triangulate in on his datacenter (by noting movement, his need to get access and his methods of getting it, or following various breadcrumb trails) in order to to destroy it or feed it false information or protect your own plans from it, deny him access to said datacenter because he's too busy running to log on and see the latest updates, deny him access to other resources, get him to spend resources in a non-optimal-for-him manner, and, well, anything else you can think of. And if he manages to get out of that? Just keep going. If you don't have him in hand by the end of 48hrs, then start planning a new set of traps for the next 48hrs, since he's already exhausted and distracted from the last set. Don't give him time to stop and reflect, don't give him time to predict, and make plans based on his predictions (that plays to his strength, not yours), just hit and keep hitting until he's down. Don't pre-plan the traps exactly, in case he finds a genuine gap out or can see them further in advance because he knows the predictive events better, you should have enough flexibility built in to change things around depending on what he does, alter your plans (so maybe a bit of xantos speed-chess[previous warning still applies]), keep a couple people who are brilliant at improvising plans, or flying without plans altogether, so he finds it harder and harder to predict ways out of them, and continually scrap what isn't working and elaborate on what is. Remember, there's only so much a person can genuinely concentrate on at once. if he's running about plotting and planning, and then thinking about how to get out of each trap as he predicts it, he is less able to concentrate on predicting what will happen with the next trap. And, he needs to know enough about events to add them to his prediction - so fast, flexible decisions and last minute alterations and adaptions are hard for him to see anyway. Between the two - hit him hard, keep your plans moving, and keep the attacks coming (including traps, outright fights, unofficial tricks, official maneuvers, betrayals, reversals, anything) and at some point he will be busy, distracted, and annoyed enough to start making mistakes. He will end up overdriving his predictive window, so to speak - trapping himself in situations where he can't see a way out, or even if he does see a way out, he might not be able to reach it in time with the resources he has because he spent those resources dodging previous plans. 

I'm interested in methods of creating realistic fake bruises (or other injuries, if possible) that will pass a close inspection (possibly the inspection would happen up to several days after the fact if that would help) but either cause little harm, or none at all, to the person who is given them. Bonus points if a person who was given such bruises might be reasonably tricked into thinking they're real. One one possible option I though of to create fake bruises - or possibly real ones by technical definition, but without underlying injury - by collecting blood (for best results, the person's own blood) and injecting small amounts under the skin. Possibly allowing bruises to be different ages or levels of healing by varying times of injections, as they would change color and "heal" naturally, or making a deeper injury (instead of broader) by repeated injections in the same spot as the bruise "kept bleeding". The injections marks would need to be accounted for - perhaps using very fine needles and odd placement, or else coming up with some other reason they're there. Also, what about the usual preservatives used when people collect blood - Whatever is standard in test tubes or blood bags (anticoagulant, maybe?) which might show up on a blood screen, even a few days down the road - but would omitting it work, is it necessary to actually collect blood or is it just for longer term storage? Would these "bruises" hurt, and if so, how much? I'd guess they probably wouldn't hurt as much as real ones (I think) but between the needle and the extra fluid and pressure, the area might be sore for a while, maybe. So my question is, is this idea I already came up with plausible? Are there any obvious reasons why this wouldn't work? Are there methods that might work better, for realistic fake injuries? Bonus questions - Would a method be detectable at a glance, from detailed visual inspection, or from lab tests - routine tests, while not suspicious of the bruising specifically, or even specific ones testing the bruises - after several days? As the story is set in mildly futuristic world, is there a level of technology that could tell the difference between natural bruises and artificial ones, possibly after several days of healing? Two possible uses for this trick would be a character trying to appear more injured than they are, to fool someone or spring a trap, or else a character trying to make it appear they've harmed someone else, who they actually don't want to harm. I am specifically interested in if a character woke up with such bruising, would they or someone checking them over assume the bruises were real - especially if the person were also drugged, and maybe a fake concussion (dilating drops in one eye) to explain why they didn't hurt that much, so if there's a better way of doing this, that would also be helpful.