Skim "The Linguistics Wars" by Harris to get a bit of political history for the field. Then you'll be aware that you might be served only a very small slice of the pie. For a bit of culture/humor, read the "Speculative Grammarian". The more linguistics you know, the more funny it gets. For phonetics, phonetics is great fun if you go in for actually being able to pronounce it all. Will there be any articulatory phonetics? Try to load the entirety of the IPA (International Phonetic Alphabet) into your head anyway. Find a private space with a mirror so you can see what you mouth is doing. There's lots of online more-or-less good resources for learning the IPA, bookwise have a look at the "Handbook of the International Phonetic Association", and "Phonetic symbol guide" by Pullum. Handy reference works. Phonology is, naturally, less hands-on and come in several schools: optmality theory, autosegemental theory etc. etc., I haven't kept up. Semantics/pragmatics: "Understanding utterances" by Blakemore, and "Women, Fire and Dangerous Things" by Lakoff. Then look up Montague-semantics. Syntax: Now that's the tricky one. There are several frameworks for doing this. If it is claimed that no framework is being used it's probably a variation on Basic Linguistic Theory. See books by RMW Dixon. If there's lots of binary trees it's probably Minimalism. See Chomsky. If boxes, lots of set theory and unification: LFG, HPSG or something else ending in G. See Pollard & Sag, Bresnan, Dalrymple. If matching the same analysis to several languages at once in order to map out the possibilities it's probably some Construction Grammar. Croft's "Radical Construction Grammar" is fine but he is not a good writer so be prepared to struggle a little. There's no doubt lots of new frameworks, it seems there's a new one at least twice a decade. Hmm. Skim Dixon's books, that should give a good overview of all the latinate terms. Analysis goes on top of those. On that note, also get "A Dictionary of Grammatical Terms in Linguistics" by Trask. 

Common sense guess: The northern lights have been known in the west for a much longer time than the southern lights. Maybe the ancient greeks themselves knew of it and named it. The southern lights were discovered (by the west), and thus named, much later, by people who had neither greek nor latin as their first language. Maybe they didn't see a problem in mixing greek and latin terms. Notice how many of the older scientific terms for animals and plants are a mishmash of greek and latin (now they are a mishmash of just about anything). If following that tradition, a mix of greek and latin to describe another natural phenomenon is perfectly understandable. 

For many languages it is claimed that they lack adjectives (for instance Thai), and that either nouns or verbs are used instead. Others claim that all languages have adjectives, if you look closely enough. Japanese has two types of adjectives: noun-like and verb-like. However it can also be analysed as having no adjectives, if the verb-like adjectives were considered just to be odd verbs and the noun-like adjectives were considered just to be odd nouns. In some languages adjectives are a closed class of words - are they still then adjectives? Not if being an open class is part of the definition of adjective :) (An open class may gain and lose words while a closed class is of a much more stable size.) Ditto for languages that are claimed to lack nouns or verbs, it's a matter of how "noun" and "verb" is defined. AFAIK there is not yet consensus on any language lacking nouns or verbs. Lacking articles (the, a) is not so uncommon, but I don't think there are languages that lack determiners as a whole (articles are a subset of determiners). 

Might simply be that they trust dictionaries too much. If it's in the dictionary it's real. Unfortunately, collocations (transparent combinations of words preferred for a specific meaning, like "lack of clarity" instead of "missing clarity") and multiword expressions (MWE, non-transparent collocations, like "kick the bucket" for "die") often aren't in dictionaries even if they need to be memorized just like "spaceless" words. Hm, maybe it's the spaces they object to? English uses more spaces than other Germanic languages. You can make large compounds in English too but recently made ones are written with spaces and thus probably insufficiently word-like for the sort of posters you told us about. Then again, it might be they consider it prestigious to use spaceless words instead of collocations and so strive to replace the latter with the former. So, to your question: other languages use spaces differently, if at all. The other Germanic languages aren't afraid to write newly minted compounds without spaces, and languages like French (if my Francophile French-teacher in high-school is to be believed) and Russian do tend to prefer "spaceless" words to standardized collocations. I don't know of any research specifically looking at this, anyone? 

The 22 categories of words used in Carl Darling Buck's "A Dictionary of Selected Synonyms in the Principal Indo-European Languages" (1949) are quite different from for instance the categories in Roget's thesaurus as of 1911. There is no background in the book itself on how the 22 categories where chosen. Did Buck make the list himself or was he following some (undocumented?) tradition? Buck's categories are used in at least two other projects, IDS and WOLD, which attribute the categories to Buck. It is a little odd that the history of this categorization-scheme seems to be missing. 

I'm currently investigating the typology of subordination, or to be more precise adverbial subordination, and would like to see the data that the existing analyses, like for instance Cristofaro (2005) Subordination, are based on. Is there already an existing, accessible collection of interlinear glosses or must I keep on hunting down reference-grammars? Primarily examples of non-Indo European languages are of interest. 

Since it seems impossible to highlight inside a pre-tag in this variety of markdown, below is just the magic bits of the css: