From my understanding as a Buddhist, the worldview is that only 6 things truly can be said to truly, truly, exist. These 6 things are seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, touching, and thinking. Anything beyond these 6 things such as "the body" "the brain" "the economy" "the world" "the internet", is a mental construct, a thought. All these mental constructs we make are for the sake of convenience, or comes from misunderstanding. This understanding goes against the grain of the world, goes against the view of the status quo that "we" exist, that the outer world really exists. Modern Psychology comes up with data through using these 6 senses. In order to gather data through these 6 senses, these 6 senses must be accurate and reliable. According to Buddhism these 6 senses, the idea of these 6 senses, is deceptive. There is no real 6 senses, it is just a mental construct, a thought. Anything besides seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, touching, thinking, is not "real". 

In this last link, one of the posts as dhammawheel.net mentions, very apropos of Bodhi's comment on Spk: 

Big long word happily rendered as "beer-cider-carelessness-intoxication-condition" by Kare. This is talking specifically about fermented things like beer, wine, etc. Neither coffee nor tea are fermented, nor do they cause heedlessness. I've heard of monks drinking tea. (I've heard of monks smoking too, which I think isn't forbidden by this rule, although perhaps by others) It's all well and good to look past the behavior prohibited by the precepts to see what further kinds of attachments you have that can be abandoned, but not, I think, at the cost of going back to change the meaning of the precept. But I do occasionally see attempts at redefining the precepts to be stricter than they are. Take Sulak Sivaraksa's reinterpretation of the five precepts: 

The term Hinayana's usage is confused at best. It's mostly used now as a synonym for Theravada along with some other early Buddhist schools, but some people think Theravada needs to be specifically excluded from that group. From Pali Buddhism, Hoffman/Mahinda: 

I would start with keeping the five precepts and then doing meditation. For a beginner one of the most important lessons to learn is practicing restraint and overcoming our resistances (I feel too lazy to meditate, I want to gossip/trash talk about this person who I dislike, ect). We call this "balancing the faculties". When you feel lazy you push yourself to do what you is correct and wholesome, even if difficult. When you feel restless and agitated you stop feeding the negativity and cultivate the opposite. When possible you should find a teacher who would be willing to give you advice on meditation. A monk or nun is best, but if you have none nearby, you can trust a experienced layman, or laywoman who can give you a meditation object and help guide your practice. 

You see dukkha quite clearly and do not want to continue to dwell in Samsara. I would suggest considering ordaining. It seems in line with your insights. 

Let's say you're studying pottery and throwing a vase on the potter's wheel. Your teacher comes over and says "Too thin. This will collapse in the kiln." The teacher has not predetermined the destruction of your pot, merely used his accrued experience and skill to predict an outcome. Presumably the Buddha knew enough to predict who would be a future Buddha, how many future lifetimes they would have, how many centuries the dhamma would last after his death, etc. 

So I've been a Buddhist since around 2007, but I've never been to a temple. I don't think I've ever actually met another Buddhist. I just go by what I read in Bodhi's translations and Thanissaro's lectures and practice on my own. A few months ago, I started working in Raleigh, NC, and my drive home now goes right by this Dhammayut temple (map). It's only something like 8 minutes out of my way. I had called their number a few years ago and asked if--I forget what I said specifically--something like do you have any services? (I may have said "Sunday services." Ack.) The response was something like: 

The Theravadan Buddhist perspective says that Buddhist has a pluralistic view of religion. The Buddha was suggested to say the following about the validity of other religions in the Mahaparinibbana Sutta. "In whatever Dhamma and Discipline the Noble Eightfold Path is not found, no ascetic is found of the first, the second, the third, or the fourth grade. But such ascetics can be found, of the first, second, third or fourth grade in a Dhamma and Discipline where the Noble Eightfold Path is found. Now, Subhadda, in this Dhamma and Discipline the Noble Eightfold Path is found, and in it are to be found ascetics of the first, second, third or fourth grade." The "Noble Eightfold Path" is a group of 8 "corrects" that when put into practice lead to Enlightenment. These 8 are correct view, correct intention, correct speech, correct livelihood, correct effort, correct mindfullness, correct meditation. Note that these 8 "corrects" are qualities that can be done and are done in other religious (and non religious) groups. While all Buddhist accept these 8 "corrects" as needed to reach Enlightenment, they have a lot of disagreement of how to define them. Some Buddhists sects view "correct livelihood" to mean vegetarianism is necessary, while other sects view it is not necessary. Some Buddhist sects view chastity as necessary to achieve "correct meditation", other sects do not view chastity as necessary or beneficial towards "correct meditation". Within the religion, many Buddhist accept the view that there are many roads leading to the same place. While other religions may not call living virtuously and with self-restraint, the "Eight Noblefold Path" and may call it "The Ten Commandements" or "The Word According to the Book" are they not really the same thing? 

Not having children will not stop those beings from being reborn. There are plenty of other organisms to be reborn as on Earth and there are other realms like the Deva world as well. 

There are Uposatha days, wherein one makes increased effort at following precepts (either being more conscientious of the five precepts or temporarily adopting the eight). I gather that there is often more deliberate meditation or study as well on these days, in addition to precept following: 

I gather from reading around that the rising/falling pitches that appear in Pali chanting by Thais is due to the tones in the Thai language. But when I see English-language chanting by monks from a Thai tradition, they still have rising/falling tones. See excerpt from the Abhayagiri Chanting Book, with the tones marked: 

But what I found was that after considering this table of past lives, I would see an insect landing on my face (trying to collect water, I guess) and I would instantly think "this is what I may be born into" rather than "what an annoyance this is." So I think this kind of experience has to do with the Buddha wanting you to view every kind of sentient being the same as any every other kind of sentient being. This is contrary to what we tend to do, which is separate beings into various kinds of classes of beings, some of which are acceptable to kill with a fly-swatter and others, which aren't.