There are a number of epistemological issues with Situation A. First, which specific group is "notorious for violent behavior and extremists beliefs"? In the US, profiling typically focuses on Muslim, Arab, or African-American men. But (again in the US) terrorist attacks by conservative white men were much more common than terrorist attacks by Muslims. Second, even if terrorist attacks by Muslims were more common, because there are many more conservative white men than Muslims in the US it might still be more rational (in a Bayesian sense) to suspect the culprit was a conservative white man (because of the base rate fallacy). Third, as presented there's no evidence other than "a terrorist attack occurred" and "this ethnicity is notorious for violent behavior and extremist beliefs." Which is weird; in real-world cases there would typically be forensic and eyewitness evidence, which would be expected to make various suspects more or less likely. Fourth, the stereotype about "this ethnicity" — whether it's accurate or not — doesn't tell us much about the particular individual suspect.[*] I've called that fallacious inference "statistical essentialism". None of that justifies racial profiling, of course. My point is that your presentation of Situation A evokes (but does not endorse) a simplistic consequentialist argument for profiling various social groups, and that argument has serious epistemological problems. But your question was actually about the ethics of the two cases. From an Aristotelean perspective, one major difference between the cases is the importance or significance of the goods and bads involved. Situation A involves the good of criminal justice — punishing someone who committed a grave evil — and the bads of false imprisonment and perpetuating white supremacy. Many consequentialists regard goods and bads as commensurable — we can measure them in terms of preference satisfaction and dissatisfaction, say — and recommend that we should pick whichever policy maximizes expected net good. But this is a substantial mistake from most Aristotelean perspectives. Because there are serious goods and bads at stake, and these goods are incommensurable, the police need to be thoughtful and judicious — exercise the virtues of prudence and justice — and not rely on broad generalizations (much less false and pernicious stereotypes). For the same reason, prosecutors, judges, and juries should take steps to avoid the vice of implicit bias. By contrast, the goods and bads at stake in situation B are much less severe, as well as apparently one-sided. In the contemporary US context, I don't think there are any racially charged stereotypes at work in saying that Chinese guitars are notoriously poorly made (though perhaps I'm wrong about that). Given that the generalization isn't racially charged, it seems like the only goods involved would be musical ones (and the constraints of your budget). [*] But isn't it statistical essentialism to infer from "many Chinese-made guitars are very poorly made" to "this Chinese-made guitar is very poorly made"? One critical difference between humans and industrial artifacts is that industrial artifacts are very deliberately constructed to be uniform. To misuse some statistical language, there's much less variation between guitars of the same make and model than between human biological siblings. So the inference from the statistical trend to the individual is more less likely to go wrong in the case of a mass-produced guitar. Note that hand-made guitars will be closer — perhaps much closer — to the human case. The inference would be highly misleading if we're talking about a bespoke guitar made by a master Chinese luthier. 

jobermark does acknowledge that these "standards of evaluation" can be inconsistent with each other, so maybe they didn't intend them to be universally applicable across all fields of science, past and present. But it seems like the question was asking for such universally applicable standards. Cort Ammon asserts that "Science has always been an empirical discipline. I don't think that would ever change without fundamentally redefining science." However, as the practice that we would call science developed in Europe in the 15th-18th century, empirical methods were quite controversial. Descartes' rationalism is well known today — Descartes was willing to accept evidence from the senses, but only if they were put on a foundation of certainty by the kinds of arguments he gives in The Meditations. Thomas Hobbes was also a rationalist, and was involved in a heated debate with Robert Boyle, who argued for an empiricist approach. I recommend Shapin and Shaffer's Leviathan and the Air-Pump. Cort Ammon also suggests repeatability and reproducibility; but, as the comments below that answer note, these are only valuable for experimental fields. This paper by Carol Cleland discusses the differences between experimental and historical scientific fields. 

A relevant distinction here is between "ontological materialism" and "methodological materialism" (compare the discussion in the SEPh article on "naturalism"). Ontological materialism is the claim that only matter exists. (I'm assuming you're using "matter" in a broad sense that includes the kinds of energy and fields studied by physics. Otherwise early twentieth century field theories are already incompatible with materialism! Given this assumption, string theory and the Everett interpretation of quantum mechanics are both entirely compatible with ontological materialism.) Methodological materialism is roughly the claim that we should investigate reality by focusing on things made out of matter. Ontological materialism requires methodological materialism; but methodological materialism is compatible with the existence of non-material stuff. Methodological materialism fits well with the view that Stephen Jay Gould called "non-overlapping magisteria": science and religion are concerned with different issues, aspects, or components of reality, and therefore there's no logic conflict between traditional religion and evolution by natural selection. However, some theologically conservative philosophers — most notably Alvin Plantinga — still argued against methodological naturalism. Presumably Plantinga's arguments would also apply to methodological materialism. Of course, ontological materialism is flatly incompatible with most if not all traditional religions. Moti Mizrahi distinguishes "strong" and "weak" senses of "scientism." Strong scientism is the claim that "Of all the knowledge we have, scientific knowledge is the only 'real knowledge.'" Weak scientism is the claim that "Of all the knowledge we have, scientific knowledge is the best knowledge." A view like ontological materialism seems to point strongly towards strong scientism — if only matter exists, it's hard to see how anything other than scientific knowledge could be real knowledge. Methodological materialism is compatible with both kinds of scientism, and could be consistent with the rejection of weak scientism depending on exactly how it's understood. Specifically, if methodological materialism says that "we should investigate material things" but doesn't proscribe how we should investigate them, then some non-scientific forms of knowledge (perhaps traditional ecological knowledge) could be just as good as scientific knowledge. So, all together, ontological materialism fits tightly with a rejection of religion and strong scientism, while methodological materialism can be compatible with both traditional religion and non-scientific forms of knowledge. 

Here's where we need the non-glib answer. If you study philosophy properly, you're not pushing through a dense thicket of words on your own. Instead you're following a steep but well-traveled path, being guided by your instructors and the authors whom you read. Aristotle tells you how he interpreted Plato. Aquinas tells you how he interpreted Aristotle and Plato. You're also watching everyone involved — the authors, plus your instructors, as well as your fellow students — criticize and debate with each other. So initially you can use the interpretations given to you by people who have already traveled this path. As you continue to study philosophy, you'll learn more of the details and context, as well a skills of close reading and argument. By applying those skills, you'll be able to identify the strengths and limitations of different interpretations of what you've read, and eventually develop your own interpretations. 

You're confusing two different systems of logic. Sentential or propositional logic uses variables to represent whole sentences (hence the name), and connects them with operators such as if-then. Truth tables are used in sentential logic. (First-order) predicate logic extends sentential logic by adding object-predicate constructions (like "x is a cube") and quantifiers ("there is an x such that"). Truth tables can't be used in predicate logic. To see why, consider the sentence (for all x, x is identical with x). This sentence is logically true. But if you tried to represent it in sentential logic, you would get simply . And is not logically true — one row of its truth table is false. (Also, logical truth, logical necessity, and tautology are all synonymous. So in sentential logic, finding a row of the truth table where the sentence is false shows that it's not logically true.) In more-or-less natural English, your sentence is equivalent to the following: "either something is not a cube or everything is a cube." It will probably be easy to see that this is logically true. (Maura ALLEGRANZA's answer gives more detail here.) But that's not yet a formal proof. Here's a formal proof using reductio ad absurdum: 

Note that philosophers use the terms "inductive" and "deductive" differently. Specifically, in logic, deductive arguments (attempt to) guarantee the truth of their conclusions, given the premises; they provide certainty. Inductive arguments don't offer this kind of guarantee. Deductive methods used by social scientists will often be inductive in the philosophers' sense: the assumptions of the theory don't guarantee that the data must be analyzed in a certain way. And exploratory data analysis (an inductive method, in the social scientists' sense) involves mathematical analysis of data, which is deductive in the philosophers' sense. To respond to your question, these three pairs of distinctions are independent. You can have qualitative, observational, deductive research; or qualitative, observational, inductive research; or quantitative, experimental, inductive research; and so on. Specifically, observational research (what you call "descriptive research") can be quantitative and deductive. But it could also be quantitative and inductive. Or qualitative and deductive. Or qualitative and inductive. 

After the Cold War, analytic philosophy gradually began to return to metaphysics. Some important figures in this movement include Saul Kripke, Alvin Plantinga, and Ruth Barcan, who made important contributions to modal logic and the linguistic analysis of necessity and possibility; David Lewis, a student of Quine's who developed a kind of radical empiricist metaphysics; and Peter Strawson, who developed an approach he called "descriptive metaphysics," a kind of descriptive unpacking of the metaphysical assumptions of natural language. Importantly, this movement happened at the same time as philosophy of science moved out of the "core" of analytic philosophy — logic, philosophy of language, epistemology, and later metaphysics — and became a more distinct subfield of academic philosophy. While philosophy of science was absolutely central to German-speaking[*] analytic philosophers before the rise of the Nazis, today there is relatively little interaction between "core" analytic philosophy and philosophy of science. [*] Philosophy of science was much less central for major Anglophone analytic philosophers. Bertrand Russell's contributions to logic were important, but he didn't really engage with empirical science. As far as I can recall, G.E. Moore and A.J. Ayer had even less contact with science, and neither wrote any significant work in what we would consider philosophy of science. Today there is some work in metaphysics within philosophy of science. Two philosophers of physics, Ladyman and Ross, published Every Thing Must Go in 2007, a kind of polemic against analytic metaphysics and for metaphysics based on (philosophy of) science, especially (philosophy of) physics. This stimulated several conferences, as well as an anthology titled Scientific Metaphysics. The second paragraph of that review suggests that there is relatively little contact between scientific metaphysics and analytic metaphysics.