One other consideration before you provide feedback. If you are the ONLY former colleague from "Company A" at "Company B", this can be readily discovered (LinkedIn?) and the manager has a good first interview followed by a bad second interview with a lot of pointed questions about staff turnover and non-delivery at Company A there is every chance that your old manager will guess that you are behind it and blame you for his failure to get the job. He may therefore retaliate in the future if the opportunity presents itself. If he's quick witted enough to figure this out during the second interview and is as good at stakeholder management as you say he is then there's a chance that he could divert blame onto you and make it harder for you to progress in the company. That might sound paranoid but I have seen this sort of thing done. 

The term "man-hours" is a somewhat antiquated and it does carry some baggage but you shouldn't take too much offense. The continued use of it is really not any more sexist than the term "manhole". Can a woman go into a manhole and does she feel less welcome in the sewer because of the name of the entrance? That said, this is being replaced over time. You could advocate something more specific based on the kind of work. If you are in software, you can use terms 'developer-hours' or 'dev-hours' vs 'arch-hours' to distinguish the kind of work. Another option is to change to 'days' and while you are at it call them 'person-days'. 'Man-days' sounds strange. It's really hard to measure how many hours of work a given person has put in. One man's hour might not accomplish as much as given woman's hour, for example. On the other hand, there is no ambiguity around when a day has passed and how many days are left until a deadline arrives. 

Two months ago, our IT team received an email that a new position had been created in our department. We were informed that our positions would not be impacted. Strangely, my direct manager scheduled and held a call later in the week with just myself and one other person in the department for the exact same topic. After a new hire was found for this position, I was scheduled a one on one call with my direct manager which was called "IT Update". When attending the call, the HR Director was also on the call (I had no knowledge of this). My direct manager told me that my position no longer existed in the department and that if I did not accept a newly created position in the data department, I would be laid off. I had two hours to accept the new position otherwise I would be laid off anyway. In order to keep income, I was forced to accept the new position which doesn't fit my skill set well. After signing for the document for the new position, my old job was immediately posted for hire. It is well known that my direct manager does not like me (I'm not sure why). I'd like to go to the owner of the company about this as I've known him closely for the entirety of my career. There was no layoff package mentioned. Is this legal? Would it be worth taking steps to apply to my original position? When looking for a new position, what would be the best way to put a positive spin on this on my resume and during an interview? 

Your third option is probably ideal at this stage before you know the company dynamic around bugs. Some (badly run) IT departments can be quite dysfunctional and a helpdesk ticket is a permanent record of "incompetence" that can be brought up during salary reviews. So, wander over, introduce yourself and have a quiet chat, giving them the option on how to proceed. You don't want to start your relationship with a key stakeholder group as "the guy who cost Joe his bonus" 

Depends on where you are, a recruiter told me that a lot of companies have a system whereby the first recruiter to put in the CV for you gets the commission. So it could turn into a fight between the recruiters. Anyway, how do you proceed? Telling recruiter 1 about recruiter 2's job would be unethical. I'd call the person who interviewed you and ask if the two roles ARE the same and express a strong preference for permanency. That way you might be able to negotiate getting job 2 without upsetting recruiter 2 too much and getting recruiter 1 paid because they did the introduction. If the jobs are different you have to treat them separately. Possible permanent vs definite contract? I'd aim to prove myself on the contract and get moved over to permanent. Good luck 

I take it that this is your first job out of school. It's a rough time and since you don't have any experience to draw on, it can be a little unnerving when someone takes advantage of your newness. If I were you, my first step would be to get some intel on this guy. Do you have any friends in the company yet? Do you feel good about your manager? I imagine this must be a fairly small company since the CEO is personally handling the hiring of someone at your level. This guy must have some sort of reputation by now. You should start asking people you trust "what's with [insert freak's name here]?" And tell them (in confidence) what he's been saying to you. If you don't have any friends at work, make some. In the meantime, you might want to ask him what he wants from you. From what I can tell in your post, there doesn't seem to be any point to these conversations other than you intimidate you. I would try to come across as casually bored by these conversations but start asking questions like "is there a point to this?" I had a coworker at my first 'real' job that would take it upon himself to put me down, one-up me, or minimize my achievements regularly. Years on, I think he was just threatened by me. I worked with him for maybe a year but it felt like a long time. My guess is that this is what you are dealing with. The best thing to do is be the adult and act confidently. 

I recently transferred to a different location within my company, which caused changes to my title and duties. The role in question is a programmer role that involves communicating with the end users the changes he has made. The team member who was promoted into the position is extremely difficult to talk to due to his negative attitude and racist comments to others in the workplace. In the past, he has had several complaints lodged against him, however he is essentially exempt from discipline as he babysits for our direct manager. The programmer recently made a large change to our system and many users do not understand the change. They've been reaching out to me for answers to avoid working with this programmer. I can now be disciplined for answering their questions (this has happened already), even though I still have visibility to the coding changes. Unfortunately, I'm unable to go to my manager due to their special relationship. Note that my relationship is strained with my manager due to ethical issues outside of this situation. How do I go about getting the end users to communicate directly with the programmer? 

Depending on how the organization is structured, this can be a difficult situation because the manager is in a position of power. In some companies (e.g. Google, from what I read) it's normal for people at lower levels in the organization to push back hard on management. If you are in a company with a more traditional stratified power structure, it's probably not the best option to directly challenge the manager. If this is a concern and it seems like it is, you will probably need to get help for your manager. Explain the situation and convince them that it is leading to issues with their team's performance i.e. your ability to deliver. If your manager is a peer or senior to the manager in question, they can address this. If not, they will need to look up the chain of leadership for assistance. Your manager may know what to do immediately. If not, suggest they attend the meeting and make sure the agenda is followed. This should prevent the other manager from monopolizing the meeting. 

Putting yourself in a new environment can be daunting, but with commitment and hard work, it can be really rewarding! What kind of developing are you doing? If the tools are available to you, try to build your own standalone environment. This will not only give you a sandbox to play and learn with, but it should help you understand some of the basics in your IDE (integrated development environment). Using free learning resources are also very helpful! Again, based on what you're developing, there are sites you can register to. 

I recently had my duties reassigned so that I'm heading a new project for SSIS DTSX Packages. The instructions I were provided were very vague and did not make much sense, but since I've been affiliated with the system for so long, I had a good sense of what direction my manager was going. The project requires several DTSX packages to be created, with the first package having a deadline to prove that I'm capable of doing the project. I created the DTSX package and provided it to my manager about a week prior to it being due for testing purposes or to see if there were any additional features that were desired since the instructions were so vague. After about six days, my manager responded stating that I did not follow the original directions of creating a DTSX package and that I need to send him the project as a DTSX package. He threatened that if it was not completed prior to the deadline that there would be consequences. After receiving the email, it's clear to me that my manager has not utilized anything within SSIS. How do I tell my manager that I've already sent him the DTSX package without being disciplined? 

Lots of good answers here but I think there's another aspect to this that you aren't considering. You got a job that was supposed to be a programming job but wasn't and then you turned it into one. That, my friend, is called 'success'. You found an escape route out of the trap of a dead-end job. But now, instead of parlaying your achievement into a real satisfying career, you are considering squandering it? This won't last forever. At some point this company and/or this legacy system will no longer be around. And then what? You put on your resume that you were a spreadsheet jockey for X years or do you tell them that you actually are a programmer but haven't been doing anything because you never told your employer what you were doing? I'm a father too so I get that spending time with your son is important but you also have a life. I think you are wasting your talents and this will ultimately make you less happy. You work remote now. There are tons of jobs on SO that allow remote work. I think not telling your employer is the worst choice you can make here. At the very least they should employ you long enough to integrate this solution into the actual application. For your own good, you probably shouldn't admit to doing nothing for any significant length of time.