Whatever you say to her, you need a new holiday party plan and you need to examine your beliefs as reflected in your wording of the question 

Her arm may have been broken by a neighbor, her boyfriend, a stranger who assaulted her on public transit, or in a genuine accident. The social worker could have been checking to see if her "story" held up and may have concluded her husband didn't assault her. All you really know about this man is that his wife needed medical assistance and social workers are now investigating his private life. I would silently extend him some pity and save my "I can't sit next to him" for when it's clearer what has happened (which may never happen.) I don't stick up for abusers, but you've put 2 and 2 together and got 7. If you think the wife recognized you, you could mention something sympathetically about "both having partners in the hospital this weekend" and see if he wants to talk about it. If you think she didn't, say nothing. Meanwhile be 100% by-the-book as you do your job of liasing. Don't let the substandard work go by because he's having a tough time personally or because you are afraid to challenge him. Do you what you would do if you had never learned about his wife. It will doubtless be difficult. Whether he creeps you out as a vicious arm-breaker, or whether you feel sorry for him and the difficulties his family may now face, setting your personal feelings aside will be a challenge. Rise to it. Do what your company needs around the contractors, and do it well. The moment you feel threatened, go to your boss and ask to have him removed. But that moment may never come. 

If [reasons] happen again, you can email the PM or update the ticket and set a new completion date for XYZ based on you pushing it off again. This can go on all project if you like, until you reach the date that XYZ really truly is needed. By working out the new delivery date yourself, you achieve several things: 

Generally, an angry person gets angrier if told to calm down. This effect is intensified if the person telling is not in a position of authority. On top of "I don't need to calm down!" you get "Who do you think you are, telling me what to do or how to react!" A useful sentence in this case is "I don't think this is as bad as you are suggesting." A variant is "I think this is something we can handle calmly." These sentences have several advantages: 

Everything on your resume - everything! - needs to support the claim of your resume: I am the person you should hire. It's fantastic that you are thinking in advance about how your actions will look on your resume. All you need to know is that you are the person who writes your resume - it's not an objective recitation of only facts, it's a true story that you tell. So, right now, you're not telling a good story at all. Barely a few years into your working life, you're "tired" and want to go randomly "take some tours in some cities around the world for some time." If I ever see this on a resume later, I won't want to hire that person. I will, as others have said, worry you will do the same thing after starting to work for me. And having a blank spot - the cake shop job ending in 2016, and now here you are sending out a resume in 2019 with that as the most recent job - is awful too, because I will make up my own story about what you might have been doing, and it won't be flattering. Does that mean you shouldn't go? Absolutely not. But at some point, you will need to decide what you are going for and what you are going to. Right now, you want to go away from your cake shop job. You may not know yet what you are missing, what you are looking for. But at some point, you will be energized, you will know what you wanted and who you are and all of that. And you will be ready to work again. When that happens, you need to look back at the time away. What was it for? What did you learn or achieve? How did you support yourself? Who are you now? And once you know that, you can write a section on the resume that describes that time in words relevant to the job you're applying for and makes that time part of your true story that shows you're the person who should be hired. Say you're going to be a baker forever. You travel around the world and eat a lot of pastries. In some countries you actually visit people's homes and learn how to make certain breads or pies or whatever. In others you briefly work in a bakery when you run out of money. You return to your home country after three years knowing so much about breads and pastries around the world, an experienced traveller, and fluent in two new languages. That's going to look amazing on your resume and every bakery in town is going to want to hire you. Now if instead you want to be a reporter, or an actor, or a history teacher, then the parts of the story you put on your resume won't be about breads or pies, they'll be about things you saw and did that relate to those professions. Many people have times they didn't work. Because they were at university, because they were raising children, because there was a war in their country. They can easily explain their gap. Your gap will be harder to explain. But because you have thought this through in advance, you can structure a gap that doesn't just have to be explained, but that makes you more employable when you return. Go for it! 

These benefits are in rough order of importance. I'd encourage you to take a look at why you need to know this one thing about a person before you can talk to them. You don't need to know their age, marital status, race, religion, ability to walk, see, or hear, so why do you need to know gender? Relax and address the person politely, in the ways we do when we don't know that piece of information. 

Everyone hates interviewing, on both sides of the desk. (There may be some rare exceptions to this rule, but trust me, they are rare.) So it's really tempting to cancel all your other interviews and stop applying. But don't. Sure, sure, because (downer, bummer, pessimist) you might not get this offer and you might still need these other jobs. But really because these are free interviews with nothing to lose at a time when you have demonstrated that you are really good at spotting jobs you're qualified for, applying to them, getting chosen for an interview, and doing well enough at the interview to cause a director to believe you should get an offer! It's rare that any of us can walk into situations knowing we're good at them. In fact, that's what most of hate about interviews: we worry we're not going to do well at all. But you already know that you did great at least once! And what's more, if you mess up this interview, it probably doesn't matter, because you're probably getting an offer. So you have nothing to lose! Go to your interviews. Enjoy them. Observe how they work. Notice when you are doing it right (you'll have more processing power for this, because you won't be worrying if you're going to get an offer or not.) What might happen? Well, maybe none of your upcoming interviews are a great fit and they don't make you an offer but this current one does. Great! That's the same as if you cancelled those other interviews, but you had a little less leisure time because you went to them. Ideally you learned from them more than enough to justify the time. Or, possibly everyone makes you an offer and you have a choice to make. That's a great problem to have. Or, possibly the current offer never materializes, but one of these other ones does, and you can pat yourself on the back for having hung in there just in case. I suppose it's also possible that everything falls through, and you have no offers, but at least in that (super unlikely; you've already aced an interview) case, you'll know you did all you could and didn't commit hubris by cancelling the interviews you had scheduled, or stopping applying to likely-looking jobs. 

I suspect the freelancer's perspective on this story would be quite different. I expect they were woefully unprepared for the amount of input you would have into the design. They probably thought you would give them a brief, they would make a thing, you would pay for it, have a nice day. But instead: 

I think you should tell the CEO. It will make you feel better, and since you are already going to a new job, your need for a reference from this one is unlikely to be important in the future: all you are likely to need from them is confirmation of the dates you worked, and that's assuming the startup still exists next time you switch jobs. However, do not tell your CEO your conclusions. It's easy for the CEO to dismiss them and believe you're not qualified to draw them. Instead, share some observations. Not of results (we lost the XYZ contract) but of behaviours (A never reviewed the XYZ contract, and when B said we hadn't taken disaster recovery into account, A just said don't worry about it) then let your CEO draw the conclusions. It may help to have a small written list of these behaviours to guide you in the meeting, which is likely to be intense at times, but that might result in your handing it over, which would be a bad thing. Instead, practice the details of the 2 or 3 incidents you want to describe until you are confident with them and won't get flustered. If you need notes, they should be super terse (XYZ DR) and not embarrass you should someone physically hand them to the CTO later, or call the CTO into the meeting and hand the notes over on the spot. But let me end with a question. What do you think the CEO should do? Getting rid of the CTO may not be an option. You were technical enough to know the CTO was wrong, but were not able to do anything about it. Should the CEO bring in someone who can report around the CTO and highlight these issues? Should the CEO learn a little more about some aspect of the company? Should a particular person be promoted to a level where they can override the CTO's bad choices? If there's nothing the CEO can do about this "incompetent" CTO, requesting a meeting to report all this will just upset the CEO for no benefit. You're leaving, so your reasons for wanting the meeting are to "get things off your chest" and possibly to "make life better for the friends I'm leaving behind" - but if there isn't a way to improve their life as a result of your report, why report it?