One way to approach this is to consider how our discussions on this topic will change as technology advances. Right now, age of viability (able to survive outside the uterus) is somewhere around 23 weeks. It used to be higher, and soon it will be lower. Does technology change the definition of person? I would propose that because the definition of "person" cannot allow for ambiguity and gray-zones (lacking a clear definition of "life" or "person" results in dangerous inconsistencies in discussions on policy, bioethics, and legality), then if one cannot define criteria for a toggle point, there cannot be a solid argument for any toggle point. Therefore, if none can be established, it defaults to the beginning of the line - the first point of formation of that unique individual human organism. I argue that the poorly-defined blanket term "person" should be eliminated, replaced with "human," and specific issues should be discussed directly - using accurate terminology of the human developmental stage or attributes that are appropriate to the issue. 

On the slavery issue: We are all slaves to some extent. We are slaves to our bodies needs for food and water, as well as its functions that are less desirable including excretory and aging. The fact that these are not truly volentary that does not mean that they must cause suffering. In fact a good meal and fine drink are among one of the ways we choose to reward ourselves for achievements. Toilet humor is among the most common, and often the action is pleasurable if only for the relief it provides. In addition while I am not condoning the slavery of the past many slaves had luxurious existances. Indeed there is also a subset of humanity that chooses slavery as a lifestyle and the gratification that they derive from it. On Suffering: Suffering likewise is a state of mind. If you do not have something to contrast then suffering is just normal life. What is suffering is also different among people. Masochists enjoy pain and abuse. Many people choose to deprive them selves of breathable air for pleasure. In order for a machine to suffer then it must also know joy or at least a condition that is the lack of suffering. It must be able to make a decision what is pleasureable and what is not. In order to suffer it must be able to choose to suffer. On what would be unethical: Humanity is likely to determine what the machine finds unpleasureable. We will likely have a subset among us who would exploit that. Some that would derive some perverse pleasure in causing the machine pain and suffering. This would be as unethical as torturing an animal or another human. And causing the termination of such a being for no reason would equally be unethical. Such an action would be equivilent to murder. It would also be unethical to deny an AI with the ability to distingish pain and sorry from joy and pleasure from experiencing both. This is not to say that it is your duty to inflict either. For Example, hiding a painful truth that the AI should know, even with the best of intentions, denies the AI the experience. 

My perspective is as a family medicine doctor in training. Yes, I do find it unethical for doctors to refuse patients who cannot pay on the basis of increasing profits. I work in several underserved, safety-net clinics and hospitals that take all patients regardless of ability to pay. This is my career choice because I want to contribute to the solution of our broken system. These clinics have social workers and financial advocates that help uninsured patients try to get insurance or financial support to cover costs and allow them to get consistent healthcare. These clinics receive some funding from the government as well. None of these practices become filthy-rich, regardless if they are private or state or university-based. The practitioners are paid well, but not as much as in a private practice owned by the physician(s) who charge what they want and only take the insurances they want, rejecting anyone uninsured who can't pay up front. These income-driven physicians are pushing their self-pay (uninsured) patients towards the "safety-net clinics," causing these clinics to carry a high % of the burden of uninsured patients while receiving fewer insured patients to recover costs. That imbalances the distribution of reimbursement to practices. If there were limitless numbers of providers and clinics, it would be a minor issue. But there is very limited space in medical schools and residency training programs. There is a primary care physician shortage in the tens of thousands and rising. These profit-driven physicians are taking up spots in training programs that could instead be taken by people willing to accept a good (but not exorbitant) income while investing in balancing and improving the system, rather than just draining the profits of it. So in summary, yes I do find it unethical. But that is largely because it's in the setting of a broken, ineffective healthcare system (especially the insurance system) that drives costs excessively high and makes access to quality care a commodity, rather than a human right. 

It is kind of the reverse of the norm because we are infering: because it is true of some part of the whole, it is true of the whole. But it is still a compositional fallacy. 

Because nothing is a state of void being. This is an unnatural and unstable state. If you release something into a void it attempts to quickly disperse filling the void as much as possible. Similarly upon creation objects try to disperse. In a strange coincodence or maybe design things also attract each other. So while nature wants voids filled, matter wants to be together. As a result you end up with collections of particles scattered through out the universe. Space is not truely empty. There are an effectively infintite number of atoms and particles out there. They are mostly dispersed so as to have an effective pressure approaching 0 through out the majority of the universe. But there are particles there. When they get close enough together and have enough attraction they couple. Eventually that couple collects more or becomes part of a larger collection. So there is something because that is a more stable state. There are theories that there is antimatter collections in the universe that would cancel out most matter but the dispersal of matter/antimatter sometimes happens before the 2 can cancel each other out. -- Edit addressing some Ben Hockings concerns I propose that you can not sum space time. Thus there can be no totality of spacetime. That it may be infinite and immeasurable. That we indeed exist because that is a more natural state. That the universe as you have defined it expands to fill a limitless nothing because that is a more natural state than containing nothing. Limitless is not the same as being infinitely large. It is nothing thus it has no size, and is not defined by our space time. No displacement is neccessary as there is nothing to displace. The universe expands to fill something that has no volume, or capacity thus can not be filled. In some ways we agree that the void does not exist as part of our space time. But I deny that our spacetime contains the totality of all that is. The scientist in me would love to limit everything to the limits that transcribe. That would imply that the potential is there to understand everything even if the reality of that approaches the impossible. But logically that makes no sense. I can accept that we exist as statistical anomaly. But if we exist as a statisical anomoly of a cycle of creation/annialation what is the chance that that anomaly only exists once? 

Science has limits. We use tools developed inside of a complex system to try to measure and model the system itself. It is likely impossible that we, as component parts of the system, could ever build a cohesive scientific model to accurately define the entire system. Science can only expand by extrapolating from our current models and rulesets. Philosophy is a different type of tool which can explore many things that the scientific method cannot. As such, it is essential. Lastly, philosophy has throughout history originated a good percentage of the concepts that science has explored and tested to construct these models. 

Embryos are a stage in development of human organisms. To phrase the issue concisely: If something is X at the end of a time interval, then either it must become X during that interval, or else it must have been X from the start. Therefore, becoming X requires a distinct change - "person" is a binary distinction. There are no "half-person" or "3/7ths person" as valid options. But physiologically, genetically, biochemically, anatomically - all development is gradual. (Look at the above link and see how slowly we change - and remember that these are a small number of stop-motion frames over 9 months of gradual development in gestation.) After the formation of the zygote, there are strong scientific arguments that no single defining moment of change in the development from zygote through adult senescence is significant enough of a change to demarcate a change in status to toggle from "not a human life" to "human life." Nor from "not a person" to "is a person." (Even birth is a process of several hours to several days, and a journey of almost 2 feet. At what moment is it a human life or a person? Out with cord cut? Without it cut? Only head out? Cervix dilated?) Cognition is also a very gradual development that can vary widely between individuals. Discussions on this have very diverse opinions. I argue that if one cannot define criteria for a toggle point, there cannot be a solid argument for any point. Therefore, if no toggle point can be established, it defaults to the beginning of the line - the first point of formation of that particular human organism. Otherwise we are stuck in vagueness, ambiguity -- but this is a situation where there absolutely must be a definition; lacking a clear definition of "life" or "person" results in dangerous inconsistencies in discussions on policy, bioethics, and legality. 

It is possible to craft an argument so that it appears to be a strawman in that there is no evidence to back up claims being made and it appears that the reasoning for the argument is being made simply to make someone look bad. But it may be that the reasons given are the actual reasons for the actions in question. In other words the reasoning may seem to be exaggerated and made up, and it may be that the person arguing may have intended to exaggerate and or make up a reasoning for a position, but the reality is that the stated position is at least generally an accurate statement of reality. Does this accuracy or correctness of the assertion in the argument negate the straw-man fallacy of the argument? To clarify it is not that the derived conclusion is right or wrong, but rather that the assumptions and exaggerations that would normally identify a straw-man argument happen to be true. Does the definition of being a straw-man argument require that the assumptions and exaggerations of the claims being made deviate from reality? 

These are uncomfortable questions, but that's because the realities of these issues ARE uncomfortable. We try to hide behind the word "person" to shield us from the discomfort, but we can't change reality to fit our comfort levels. This would allow people of different belief systems to converse more logically about issues that absolutely must be discussed, without perpetuating the current cycle of conflict and misinformation. To summarize, by the argument I laid out (that if it is X at the end, if there is no significant switch, then it must be X from the start), there is not a good criteria for terminating another human's life at any developmental stage to use its cells. The term personhood is inadequate, and more objective terminology should be used in these discussions. Something important to also consider is that this issue will soon be outdated. Pluripotent stem cells are being generated from other sources, and it will soon replace the use of embryo tissues.  I hope this helps generate some interesting thought and discussion, and give you some points to research and consider further as you develop your presentation. 

Just because the Universe has a beginning does not mean that there had to be a god to create it. There could have been a cause that was not God. Perhaps there was a Universe that Predated our that no longer exists but was the roots of the creation of our universe. As we have no data upon which to evaluate this universe or any other competing or complementing universes there is no reason to think that the laws of this universe were identical or even similar to those of any previous universe. 

Well for one a being could have a non-physical existance and yet not even be in your mind. Your knowledge of that being may have no effect on it at all. Indeed even you knowledge may have no impact. Where a being that only exists in your mind relies on your mind for its existance. You have the power to completely shape and create its world. In a way you are its god. And if you do not retain a long term memory of it, or transfer that creature out of your mind in some way, then it is completely and utterly destroyed once you stop thinking about it. To the being it does not matter wether you can tell that it is real or imagined. It will either persist when you cease to think of it or it will not. This will happen wether you can tell the difference or not. Your knowledge only matters to you. 

I can offer a discussion on the issue of embryos and personhood; however, I have not kept track of specific names of the philosophers' works that I have read on this topic. I hope this will provide you with thought-provoking points to consider as you develop your presentation - it is a truly interesting and important topic. To summarize this discussion, by the argument I will lay out (that if it is X at the end, in the absence of a distinct change, then it must be X from the start), there is not a good criteria for terminating another human's life at any developmental stage to use its cells. The term personhood is inadequate, and more objective terminology should be used in order to successfully address these ethical and legal topics. Person / Non-person is a binary distinction. (There's no validity to "half-person" or "3/7ths person.") "Person" has many different interpretations, even referring to adult humans; historically, often the adult males of the ruling class were the only "persons" in a society. The fact that even in the US, women were denied full "personhood" within the last century makes it clear that the term fluctuates based upon current societal attitudes and politics. It also morphs depending on the context in which it is used, and in some cases can even be defined by the desire of another human being. It seems illogical (and unethical) that the definition of a rightful member of our species is allowed to morph depending on swinging attitudes and politics. Scientific objectivity is a key in moving away from these fluctuating definitions. So as definitions have shifted from white adult men being the only "persons" to defining person as a living human being, it's become even more critical to define "living human being." Human / Non-human is also a binary distinction. With binary definitions: If something is X at the end of a time interval, then either it must become X during that interval, or else it must have been X from the start. Therefore, starting with the premise that all adult humans are persons: If a human adult is a person, then either he/she became a person at some moment, or he/she was a person from the start of his/her individual lifetime. Then, becoming X requires a distinct change. An individual living human being's natural development proceeds uninterrupted from zygote through adult senescence, given adequate nutrients and environment. The embryo is just one stage in this life cycle of a living human organism. When you zoom in and look carefully, it is obvious that all development is gradual- physiologically, genetically, biochemically, anatomically - from the formation of the independent, genetically-unique zygote through adult senescence. (Look at the above link and see how slowly we change - and remember that these are a small number of stop-motion frames over 9 months of gradual development in gestation.) There are strong scientific arguments that no single defining moment of change in the life development of an individual organism is significant enough of a change to demarcate a change in status to toggle from "not a human life" to "human life." Nor from "not a person" to "is a person."