Either postulate can be described with just two words: fanciful thinking. Answering now the rest of your questions: 

No, because it is inconsistent with the conclusively established finding that the expansion of the universe has been accelerating during the second half of its history [2] [3]. Taking into account this finding, anyone postulating a cyclic cosmology must necessarily also postulate: 

Jesus Christ, according to Christianity, is the Son of God Who assumed a created, finite, human nature. Before and after assuming that human nature, the Son of God Is eternally the same and only Subsistent Being as God the Father Is. So the Incarnation has nothing to do with anthropomorphism. 

I interpret that the intended question, when accurately stated, is "how has He chosen ONLY the earth", because otherwise it does not make sense. Thus understood, the question is equivalent to "Why did God create so many billions of galaxies if He was going to create life in only one planet of one galaxy?" This can be answered on a strictly scientific basis, encompassing the fields of biology, astrophysics and relativistic cosmology. From biology we know that life requires a certain concentration of heavy chemical elements. From astrophysics we know that present heavy chemical elements were produced by past supernovae and neutron star mergers. From the previous two points, the appearance of a planet with a chemical composition which is suitable for the development of life requires that the time elapsed from Big Bang be greater than some minimum value, since Big Bang Nucleosynthesis produced only hydrogen, helium and lithium. From astrophysics we know that both ultra high energy (> 10^18 eV) cosmic rays and gamma ray bursts have extra-galactic origin. Therefore, a higher large scale matter density, since it means closer distances between galaxies, would imply a higher incidence on Earth of these highly dangerous particles and radiation. Thus, the good of living beings requires that, at the time of their appearance, large scale matter density should not be higher than some maximum value, which we can safely take to be the current value. From the Friedmann equations of relativistic cosmology, assuming a closed (i.e. finite) universe with cosmological constant whose expansion starts to accelerate at t=ta, we derive the following inequality, where Rho_m(t) is the combined density of dark and baryonic matter and a(t) the scale factor: Rho_m(ta) a(ta)^2 > c^2 / (4 pi G) In general, at any time, if large scale matter density cannot be higher than a certain value, then the scale factor cannot be lower than a certain value. If we add the requirement that the scale factor at time t_life when intelligent beings live is 1,78 the scale factor at time ta when the expansion started to accelerate, so as to enable those intelligent beings to conclusively discard cyclic cosmologies when they become scientifically and technologically advanced [4] [5], we eventually derive this inequality: a(t_life) > 1.18 a(to) sqrt[-Wk(to)] Where a(to) and Wk(to) are the current actual scale factor and curvature density parameter. Thus, for Wk(to) = -0.001 (Planck 2013): a(t_life) > a(to) / 27 And for Wk(to) = -0.0001, the smaller magnitude which can in principle be observationally distinguished from zero (Planck 2015): a(t_life) > a(to) / 85 So, you cannot even in principle say if the universe is actually more than 85 times larger than the minimum size it must have so that: 

I think you are missing the point of epiphenominalism, or I don't understand it, or I misunderstood you. As I understand it, epiphenomenalism means that our phenomenal experiences are caused by nothing and therefore cause nothing. nothing causes phenomenal experiences or consciousness, and consciousness cannot cause anything. The world is "causally closed" meaning that the physical can only effect the physical. physical causes are "un-grounded", meaning they happen for no reason and there is not first cause. The example you gave of humans causing changes in the world are not physical. They can be traced back to the intentions of a person and therefore are "grounded". I think your objection to phenomenalism would go away if you did not confuse these two different meanings of the word "cause". For example, a person can decide to do something and "cause" their limbs to move as an action, but they cant "cause" their body to rotate around the earth or move through space. Causes of the first type are considered "epiphenonmenon" since they are concurrent with physical causes but have no effect on them. It is just useful to use the "intentional idiom" as causes because it allows for better prediction of human behavior. physical causes however are not limited to human actions and behavior. 

I saw a flyer for a talk about this on a college campus. I am thinking of hate speech as specific names that are intended to harm. Initially, there has to be a motivation for making hate speech. So, the existence of A motivates hate in B. B therefore tries to satisfy their hatred by harming A (by calling them a name) A retaliates by trying to harm B (through some sort of punishment for hate speech) B objects to A retaliating (appealing to freedom of speech) A objects to B objecting to A retaliating B objects to A objecting to B Objecting to A retaliating etc. So it seems like there really isn't a debate but instead some sort of struggle for something impossible, which would be to harm another person without them retaliating. Each side thinks their harm is a form of justice and therefore any retaliation would be disturbing the just order and would therefore require another harm, and this would go on forever. What would be the solution here? 

It is not just that "it seems", it is indeed the case that Russell's Paradox starts with something logically invalid in the first place, namely a logically inconsistent universe, as seen after (3). An alternative way to perceive it is by noting that Russell's Paradox is plainly incompatible with the axioms of a logically self-consistent universe. A logically self-consistent one-tidy-and-respectful-barber universe is based on these two axioms: 

Whoever those "we" may refer to, they certainly do not include Christians. The God that Christians believe in is the Subsistent or Absolute Being: one, absolutely simple, absolutely infinite in every perfection, spiritual, eternal and immutable. That's hardly an "anthropomorphic" conception. 

Yes, the Son of God could also assume an instance of the nature of another rational species living on another planet. Which, for a Christian, is an argument for the unlikelihood of the existence of such species, on grounds of economy of Incarnations (and of Passions, if the members of that species have sinned). 

God brought and sustains into being everything which exists outside Him, i.e. the entire universe and any other universes He might have created. (To note, the multiverse hypothesis, even though it is not science because it is unfalsifiable, is not strictly incompatible with Christianity.) 

"Discover" in both flavors of Platonism and "build" in fictionalism is just the same activity viewed in different perspectives. Everyone agrees that mathematicians can develop only those self-consistent formal systems that can exist, and in that sense they may be said to "discover" them. However, for an atheist those formal systems existed nowhere in any way before being "discovered", and therefore they are strictly "built" by mathematicians. Further, both Platonism and fictionalism can be "plenitudinous" [1], meaning that all self-consistent formal systems are on an equal standing, so that 

Big Questions often resolve themselves into two camps, such as between rationalism and empiricism. This happens when some sticking point is reached that cannot be resolved. Why is it so common for the emergence of two camps to occur, rather than three or more? I have some explanations. 

Climbing this ladder would require a minimum of years spent at each stage, with short circuits for migrants with education or wealth, and testing of some kind, such as native language proficiency. There would also be quotas allowed for each stage, such that the system is a pyramid and not all progress from one level to the next. 

This gradient would provide not a locked door, nor an open door, but a ladder. I believe blocking migrants from entering B at all is, while not wrong, hard-hearted. A country befitting the character of country B would not be so parsimonious with its opportunities. Likewise I believe that opening the borders could very well destroy country B's culture and economy, as with a huge influx of people from A the culture will change in ways that make B more like A and therefore diminish opportunities for all and drain resources from B to A that would be more wisely invested in B. My gradient, or ladder, is different levels of residency and citizenship within B. These would be 

Migrants from country A have a chance to better themselves Citizens from country B do not have their culture disrupted or their wealth taken 

Guest - able to work and live in B, must pay taxes, may not collect benefits, may not vote, may not pass on status to children Resident - able to live and work in B, must pay taxes, may collect benefits, may not vote, may not pass on status to children Citizen - able to live and work in B, must pay taxes, may collect benefits, may vote, may pass on status to children