Sometimes at a crossing, when one wants to turn right for example, the "new" street has a different surface and there is a small step (2-4 cm) to get there. These kind of steps are already unconfortable to apprehend when getting the from the front but when one's turning right, even getting a 45 degrees angle is not always easy. How should one proceed? How big a step can a wheel handle? should I stand up? hop somehow? And when one is facing the obstacle, how to proceed? angle is not a problem, but should one ride slowly towards it? or as fast as possible? What is the safest way? 

Of course, when in trouble, when you have no spare tube, and you have a flat, patch it no matter what. That is a no-brainer. A properly patched area might be stronger than the intact area since it fixes the hole, but apart from the hole, it adds some thickness to the tube so puncture resistance. You will (almost) never puncture a patched area: the patch might fail, but you will not puncture the patch. That downside of the patch is that it does not expand (or just very little) compared to the intact tube (try to inflate a patched tube outside of the tire, you will see the diameter is smaller in patched areas). So an overly patched tube will be less expandable in the tire than an intact one. This causes the whole physics of the tube inside a tire to be less perfect than it is conceived for; which is why you must not over-patch a tube (and solves the apparent contradiction). 

Yes I know it is mid-August and Winter is not here yet, far from it. I am just thinking way forward on how I will be able to do my daily 18 km commute in the Winter weather of Paris (yes, it's not a very harsh winter, but there will be some negative temperatures some ice etc,...). I ride on a trekking bike tranformed into a touring one (Trek FX 7.2) with skinny tires (23 mm) which I love for their reactivity when starting and their speed thanks to their low weight (I know skinny tires are debatable but that what I do and love it). What should I do to ride all winter long? I'm pretty sure I will need spiked tires for ice and snow, however little of it there is in here, but still,.. And since they do those only in fat version (which completely makes sense, obv.) I will need a new set of wheels. I think I will go cheap on that part, a fully built set of 700c wheels for trekking (which will fit my 135mm axle on the rear). Remaining wonderings are following: 

I just purchased a lezyne super gps and have had no problems on out door rides but indoors where there is no gps signal it refuses to record the data from my power meter. Is there something basic I am doing wrong? 

I've recently upgraded my road wheel set on my cross bike to a set of hope hoops which came with hope mono rs hubs. At first they required me to adjust the rear dérailleur so that the shifting was working properly after a few weeks I finally put my cross wheel set in realising that the rear dérailleur required adjustment again. Is this because the hubs are different sizes or my poor mechanical work. The rear hub on my cross wheel set is a tiagra 4600: $URL$ road wheel set: $URL$ 

Is there an argument against the use of road shoes if your were planning on time trialling and criterium races? 

My cantilever brakes have roughly 1mm movement in them and can be moved backwards and forwards very easily by hand. Is this because the shoulder bolt is too long or should the setup have some extra washers in place to stop this? Will braking be improved by changing this? 

If you were to change the rear hub on your hypothetical or real zipp 808 wheel set to a large diameter internal gear hub like a shimano alfine or a rohlhoff hub would there be a measure able aero dynamic effect? 

To flesh out the question with more (hopefully useful) information: The average speed of this particular local flat criterium race is 47 kph (achievable with a cadence of 90rpm in 46-11) and a peak speed of 58.3 kph (achievable with a cadence of 115 rpm in 46-11). In this instance it would be my first crit race, my expectations would be to not get dropped. I have raced cyclo cross before and consider myself to have a poor sprint. If I was to attempt to win a race like this I think I would have to be on my own. whilst it seems achievable I assume I am missing something key here and there is a good reason why 53-39 on the front appears to be the most common gearing in racing. 

I am currently riding Conti GP4000S tyres, in 700x23mm version, inflated at 115 psi. The grip is great, the (light)weight is amazing. I have punctured twice with them (in 1500 km) which is more that I would hope, but I can live with that. Still, when I look at my tyres, I see minor cuts on the tread. Nothing major but let's just say that any time I am stopped at traffic lights, and I look down, I can see at least a "wound". Do I run the risk of increasing the number of punctures? are those tires really too road-training-oriented to use them for commuting? I like Continental, I like the 23mm format, I like this (lack of) weight. So I was considering 4Seasons which are a few grams heavier but offer an extra layer of protection against puncture. I have plans for a long ride (~150 km) and would want to avoid more than 1 puncture in the day. 

You could maybe cut it where it is not frayed and put a cap if the slack is long enough. Or you could put a piece of duct tape just to avoid the fraying from reaching a place interfere with the derailleur. Or you could try to gather the frayed-out strings and put a cap anyway Or if you really don't like it, you can change the cable completely though it is overkill. 

Don't know if it helps,... but I use Sora shifters for Alivio rear derailleur (switched bars from straight to drops). So I would think they are compatible. 

I mostly commute and have never had trouble climbing a hill sometimes by using my lowest speeds (or close to them). How do I evaluate even roughly what grave %age I climbed? What I mean is that I would love to tour someday in a real mountain-y region, and would like to know how to approach climbs like this. For example, I see profiles with %ages as high as 10%. I know I never rode 10km at 10% but how does 10% look like? how do I know I won't be forced to give up after the first mile or two? How about 5%? 7%? or the extreme 12.5% I see on some climbs? I do have a GPS device that gives a reliable path of where I've ridden, but the altitude is not reliable to the profiles of my rides are not either. 

I would like to add I'm not sure how to extract the data for just the vo2max intervals or whether that would be more useful or not. Do I train each separately to give myself the best chance of improvement in each discipline? 

If you were to create a power profile based on those seen in training and racing with a power meter by Hunter Allen and Andrew Coggan. What would it look like a sprinter or an all rounder? To help answer the question I have found an article which lists some of the power put out in certain zones by Ryan Trebon during a cyclo cross nationals race. Rider weight: 80kgs estimated ftp is: 415 watts or 5.19 w/kg (rounded up by .25, not sure if that's the right thing to do?) Max power is: 1431 watts The article goes on to state that he produces 'between 400w and 800w, or between about 95 and 190% of his FTP. He accelerated more than 120 times at or near 850w for 20 to 30 seconds (10.6w/kg). 120 times!'. To top it all off 'He goes on to produce 11 more maximal sprints at 1200+w throughout the race, ending with a final maximal kick within the final 500m of 1190w'. Link to the article: $URL$ 

How to pros go about developing the strength to be able to sustain this kind of position (specifically the bent fore arms, not so much the flat back) for more than a minute and what type of yoga would you do to be able to sustain this position? I ask as even after a bike fit I struggle to get past the one minute mark whilst trying to hold this position. 

I recently bought sram cx1 for my cyclocross bike and was hoping it to put it on tonight. I didn't do enough research before purchasing the product to realise that 11 speed cassettes will not fit onto 10 speed hubs. Can the rear hub on my tubular race wheels be changed with out ripping off the tubular tyre (and saving the expense of buying a new one)? 

As your Scott is a modern bike, I'd be inclined to agree with some of the other answers here and say that I don't think you will require any modifications to your frame if you switch from Shimano to Campagnolo. There are some areas which are not strictly frame related where you may need to be careful. If you're switching to an EPS groupset then it's likely that your frame won't have specific mounts or routing for the electronic cabling. However, in my experience you've often got options to run the cables externally quite neatly. As already mentioned, you will need to either change your wheels (or the freehub body if possible on your current set) so that they can take a Campagnolo specific cassette. If your frame was much older, I'd also suggest that you check the spacing between the dropouts to ensure there was sufficient room. One area I have run into that's worth checking, is that if you intend to use an 11t sprocket at the rear with a compact chainset (or triple) that there is sufficient practical space between the chain and the chainstay. You should be mindful of the bottom bracket setup on the R2 and make sure that any new Campagnolo system is compatible with it, or that you have a relevant converter if required. The same goes for the front mech, make sure your new one is the same (band or braze on) as the existing Shimano one. Again, not a problem for the R2, but if your frame was setup for longer reach brake calipers, I'd also suggest that you measure the existing ones before you order, to ensure that the new ones have sufficient depth. If in doubt or if you want extra reassurance, I'd check in with your local Scott dealer to get their confirmation, they may also be able to offer advice on subtle changes they make when setting up for Campagnolo which will make your transition smoother.