Don't forget, the study of history itself can and has advanced. Before we had writing, we relied on oral tradition to pass down historical knowledge. This was prone to degradation - ala the telephone game - and besides, the goal was not necessarily to preserve objective truth, but usually to tell a good story. Real figures get mythologised, aggrandised and combined, animals gain extra limbs, and stories had to have heroes, villains, lessons to tell and so on. Herodotus, the "father of history", was a key figure in changing that, and so people became interested in knowing history for its own sake, started to question those oral myths, differentiate sources by reliability, and look for hard evidence. But pre-Enlightenment histories were often heavily biased. Herodotus attributed supernatural causes to many events. Official histories in Imperial China often cast the previous dynasty - especially the latter emperors - to be morally corrupt, justifying their rule using the Mandate of Heaven narrative. Historians such as Voltaire brought these issues to light, of the political bias - and sometimes outright fabrication of evidence - prevalent in traditional records, as well as demonstrating new ways of looking at history, apart from biographies of important men and chronicles of polities. In more recent times there has been an explosion of different schools of historiography, and different ways of studying history. Marxist historiography recasts history through a Marxist lens, and how history is affected by conflicts between social classes. Feminist history focuses on the effect of patriarchal narratives, forcing us to take a second look at women who were perhaps unfairly judged - like Cixi - or ignored entirely. Each fresh perspective offers opportunities for discovering new things hidden in known sources. It is therefore easy to conclude that the study of history will continue advancing; it would be hubris to assume we are at the end of its development. For a fictional example of where we may go, consider Asimov's psychohistory, which applies statistics to history in order to extrapolate future events. But it might also be used to interpolate known, past events, and discover anomalies that change our knowledge of history. 

This idea originated in S.L.A. Marshall's controversial book Men Against Fire: The Problem of Battle Command, which claims that during WWII, 75% of US troops in actual combat did not fire for the purpose of killing. His ideas found a ready audience in many circles, especially the military. But other scholars have since tried similar studies that reached the opposite conclusion: that most troops fired their weapons during combat. Other writers have cast doubt on Marshall's methodology, claiming that he cherry-picked or outright fabricated his data. There are personal anecdotes that paint him as an unreliable narrator. But I have not found conclusive evidence to the contrary either. Also note that Marshall looked at WWII, which may be different to Vietnam (where many of Marshall's suggestions were already adopted), and different to modern wars involving all-volunteer forces. Unfortunately there doesn't seem to be rigourous studies in this area of military history. Marshall's numbers may be overblown but perhaps they contain a kernel of truth. 

No, Manhattan as it relates to 90 degree features is the only one of its kind - a geometric property that is named after the geographical layout of a city. This definition comes from Manhattan distance, which also has other names like taxicab distance, since it describes the actual distance it takes to travel between two points in a city like Manhattan by taxi. The analogous metric that includes diagonals is known as Chebyshev distance, named after a mathematician. Also known as chessboard distance, as it describes the distance it takes a king to move to a position. The only other geographically-named metric is Canberra distance, which has nothing to do with diagonals nor the geographical layout of Canberra. Its name comes from its inventors, who lived there. 

Knowing why a dead person believes something or not is hard; but what we can tell is that Mao believed that the Great Leap Forward would work, either out of incompetence or arrogance, and he had managed to silence his critics and those that would have forseen the disaster. In this sense he is far from alone in history; a most similar example would be Stalin and Lysenkoism. In both cases a nation blinded by revolutionary zeal chose to place their faith in ideology and pseudoscience, causing a massive famine. The myriad reasons for the failure of the Great Leap Forward can fill books. Mao was economically incompetent but a master politician; he trusted pseudoscience and political will over his intellectual critics, whom he purged ruthlessly. The only voices he heard were those similarly blinded by revolutionary zeal; his critics were too fearful and powerless to question the decisions until the disaster could not be ignored. Decisions on production quotas were made from the top down, they were highly unrealistic, and criticising or failing to meet those quotas only resulted in retribution. This created a toxic echo chamber where peasants were worked to exhaustion and records were falsified to create the impression that the whole plan worked. A good example of this happening: Mao believed that a key indicator of economic performance was the production of steel, and so he encouraged everyone to smelt steel literally from their backyards. Peasants tried to smelt everything they can find, like pots and pans, stripped forests and even burned furniture for fuel. The result was mostly economically marginal pig iron, at the cost of large-scale capital destruction (pots and furniture are useful, you see). 

This doctrine was held, with minor amendments, almost to the end of the Cold war. From 1964 - the first successful nuclear detonation - to 1985 when Deng abandoned People's war, China's nuclear strategy evolved from anti-nuclear blackmail to minimal deterrence. Neither strategy could guarantee MAD but can prevent war by making attacks unnecessarily costly. Combined with People's war, this was called "People's war under modern conditions". But it would take time for such deterrence to become credible, especially against adversaries such as USA and USSR, whose nuclear arsenals were advanced enough to eliminate the second strike capabilities of China. Interestingly, the same views were shared by the Soviets; their anxiety was that due to People's war, China could shrug off a nuclear first strike and launch an overwhelming conventional retaliation. Further reading: Impacts of China’s Nuclear Doctrine on International Nuclear Disarmament, Xia Liping $URL$ 

"Sector" has also been used metaphorically, as in "the sectors of the Hospitality industry". I believe this usage stems from the popularity of the pie chart, which dates to 1801. 

Wikipedia has an article called List of countries and islands by first human settlement. The latest by continuous habitation is Crozet Islands, which was discovered in 1772 but was only intermittently inhabited (by sealers) until 1963 with the establishment of the Alfred Faure research station. However it is part of France, which is obviously much older. Another contender is Antarctica, which did not have a permanent settlement until 1948. By treaty it does not belong to any country, but this also means it is not a country itself. This leaves Seychelles, which was first permanently settled in 1770 by France, then Britain, but gained independence in 1976. 

This kind of attitude can be traced back to Shang Yang's reforms. Shang Yang was a statesman in the State of Qin, who is best known for introducing sweeping reforms between about 359 to 350 BCE, which laid the foundation for transforming Qin from a backwater state into the most powerful, eventually unifying China and ushering in its imperial era. An important part of his reforms was the promotion of agriculture and the farmer class (垦草令, An Order to cultivate Waste Lands), at the cost of other industries and classes, merchants in particular. This suited Qin at the time, which lacked manpower and had lots of undeveloped land. Even after Qin, and after many of Shang Yang's policies were reversed, the negative attitude towards merchants persisted. Among the policies goals (from The Book of Lord Shang (translation)): 

So for a period of approx. 4 years, between the invasion of Jing province by Wu and the reaffirmation of their alliance, the three states of Wu, Shu and Wei could be said to have been at war with each other. In terms of scale (keep in mind the numbers are inexact and may be unreliable due to the age): 

Is this true? I could not find any censored photos or articles of him, and the primary source for this claim - Sugawara Yutaka, Yamatogokoro: Fukumen shogun Yanagawa Heisuke Seidan - doesn't seem to be on the internet. Another claim I'd like to verify is the reason, which is that although he was a member of the Kōdō-ha faction, he didn't support their coup so the censorship was a form of payback. I'm skeptical of this as the faction largely disappeared following another failed coup in 1936, and Yanagawa was forced into retirement as part of the purge, only to be brought back during the Second Sino-Japanese War.