I have a simple question. Since emotional eating is connected with the drive of hunger, it is difficult to tackle. What would be the Buddhist method of combating such a drive-related issue? Here, I use the term 'emotional eating' to encompass: 1) eating for mere pleasure (attachment) 2) eating to avoid negative emotions (aversion). 

Would mindfulness of breathing be as easy as other meditations on public transport? Would mindfulness of sight be more appropriate in such a context? Is mindfulness of breathing suitable to walking, or is it preferable to practice mindfulness of stepping and so on? 

I noticed that when I am in a good mood, namely when I have enthusiasm, I am likely to practice meditation and avoid unwholesome behaviours. When I am in a bad mood, with low enthusiasm, I almost always succumb to some kind of unwholesome behaviour. How would Buddhism go about remedying such emotional volatility? It doesn't seem like these moods are actually caused, but merely arise in a fluctuating way. Thank you. 

I have the intuition, from what I've heard within Buddhism, that formal meditation is rarely ever "wrong", and provides benefit if even slight form is held. Nevertheless, I am struggling to create a regular schedule. It has been years that I know of meditation, have investigated the techniques, and still I seem to avoid practising formally. Despite contemplation and walking meditation, I fail to progress to a formal routine. I wonder: 1) Is there really any remedy to this types of procrastination and laziness? I feel it may be pointless to try and seek advice on this topic, that my capacity is absent despite my present desire. 2) If they exist, what are the remedies to such a basic and pervasive laziness. Perhaps I should specify that the reasons I often tell myself against meditating (or other things) are: 1) Lack of obvious suffering 2) Lack of ultimate goal 3) Aversion to effort. Thank you for any reply. 

I had conjectured that a few things could increase my energy. Lately, I wonder about physical and mental energy. I thought of reading as expending effort, but I realize now reading is mostly a mental activity. Aside from physical activity, what activities can help with energy? Here, I ask specifically about: 

I'm a writer, and I tend to write parts of factual information, such as insights or impressions, mixed with other fictional aspects. Therefore, I am worried about what constitutes a lie, and what isn't. My intention is never to deceive, but I feel others may gather things in my writings that I didn't mean, or that are untrue. They could easily conclude stuff which isn't factual through them. What are your thoughts? Thanks. Edit: I make many claims in my writings, grandiose or vast claims, which I cannot be truly certain of. Yet, I don't mean them to be taken literally. I'm unsure what is considering lying, or pride, or boasting: is fiction really a realm wherein these things are considered, or is fiction free of judgment? Thanks. 

I had the sudden realization that my main current affliction is physical discomfort, i.e. physical effort or pain. I am aware a distinction is made in Buddhism between such affliction and emotional or experiential pain. I therefore wonder: what is the best means to reduce and diminish the experience of physical pain, or at least undo aversion towards it? What is the best way to reduce physical discomfort in meditation? Thank you. 

When we consider attachment as something we want to stay present with, and aversion as something we try to push away, can we say there is a continuum present? More specifically, does reducing attachment simultaneously reduce aversion, and vice versa? I have diminished a lot of attachments lately, and I still dreadfully struggle to tackle aversive tasks and engage in effort. Are they completely unrelated? EDIT: Also, what is the best way to tackle aversion? Thank you. 

I've eliminated many addictive fetters which deterred me from practising meditation. However, now I've noticed that getting into a meditative posture leads--perhaps because of the addictions such as social media which gave me dopamine are gone--to a kind of lethargy, a low energy. I have thus a few questions. 1) I've always had trouble with the breath as meditation object. I enter a state of less thoughts when I'm focusing upon it, and seemingly it diminishes my total experience of the body, mind, etc. Which meditation object would really increase my awareness and energy? Is it possible to achieve shamatha with outer objects, or even inner images? 2) Are there alternative ways to raise energy, such as physical exercise or other things like this. Will such activities increase my meditation energy specifically? 3) In terms of interior images, which seemingly arouse my mind slightly when I let myself visualize random things: are these recommended as meditation objects? I'm a very visual person, but I've been afraid of interior images as meditation objects for a few reasons. First, the images that arise during meditation, in my case, sometimes seem disturbing. Second, I have always had a difficult time separating my inner impressions from reality; although, to be fair, I always am conscious of what's real and what is not, but I am very superstitious and attribute a lot to images or impressions that arise in me. If any of my questions are answered, I thank you in advance. 

I'm wondering if Buddhism has any notion of visual defilement. What I mean is that in Christianity, there are notions of one's purity or person corrupted by pornography, lustful gazing, etc. Is there an equivalent in Buddhism? Also, if a person perceives pornography or gazes lustfully, is this sufficient to be a kind of attachment if there is no action or consequence? I.e. What is the consequence of visual pleasure without further action? What is the consequence of perceiving a pleasurable sight without intention, e.g. mindfully? Thank you. PS: What is the scope of such pleasure compared to say orgasm or eating? Is there a pleasure specific to vision, e.g. one becomes accustomed and insensitive to visual pleasure specifically with overuse? (But not, say, other sensory pleasures) 

This might seem like a metaphysical or trivial question, but I think its quite significant. In (1), diminishing suffering might involve tolerating its presence, more and more. In (2), the ideal is neutrality, and suffering is diminished by elimination. So, I think this question wonders whether Buddhism advocates (1) the existence of sensations and phenomena, positive or negative or neutral, but the equanimity towards them. Or, does it advocate (2), the equanimity towards sensations as in their diminution, and the return towards neutrality? Does Buddhism experience suffering with tolerance, or diminish suffering by elimination? Thank you. 

I noticed I sometimes feel anger when someone treats me unjustly, or criticizes me or one of my works. I know Buddhism advises waiting, or not acting upon anger. However, every time someone irritates me this way I am extremely tempted to say something mean, or when I get criticized I often delete my works or remove a comment. In a sense, these are respectively fight and flight responses. What would Buddhism advise to avoid reacting to anger in either way described? Thank you. 

I've read about the existence of mental lethargy, and have experienced it for myself. But, when it comes to physical lethargy, is there any meditative practice that counters it? Also, I'm saying this especially in relationship to willpower (avoiding attachment activities) and effort (practicing aversive activities). Ideally, I'm looking for the best practices to counter these things, and ultimately have more energy, willpower and effort in the day. While we're at it, can anyone give me their opinions on activities which involve attachment but which aren't necessarily so for everyone, e.g. facebook and junk food. These activities, in me, seem to create a strong attachment and consequently I'm trying to rid myself of them, but keep experiencing a failure of willpower and determination. Thanks 

I would like to ask a question about the psychology of emotions in Buddhism. I am aware, from reading books on this topic, that emotions are complex phenomena distinct from vedana, or feelings. But what exactly are they? And how does one process such emotions? Similarly, I wonder which method is most conducive to either processing an existing emotion, or release and allow unfelt (repressed/suppressed) emotions to arise. I am particularly curious about the relationship of these meditative techniques towards emotions: (1) breathing meditation (2) visualization (3) body awareness (4) reappraising/re-framing cognitively. Lastly, I wonder whether it would be more beneficial to focus on feelings (vedana) or emotions themselves as an emphasis. Thank you for any response. 

I have read much about meditation and stress and anxiety, but I'd like to have an experiential perspective from people on here. 1) What's the Buddhist view about stress? What are the solutions to stress? [I don't mean suffering as in dukkha but the physiological reaction of stress linked with cortisol, or just the feeling of being stressed.] 2) Same thing, but with anxiety. 3) How much are stress and anxiety, or their exacerbation, barriers to spiritual practice? Thank you. 

I have two simple questions. 1) What is the Buddhist view on procrastination, and its solution ? 2) What is the solution to a specific lack of motivation, e.g. school work ? Something not related to an overarching goal, or even linked with spiritual values. In other words, how does one prime oneself to do something ? 

I am curious as to how Buddhism deals with demotivation, in the sense of lacking goals and aspirations, and with nihilism, in the sense of feeling things are dissatisfactory and devoid of reasons to crave them. I am aware the second aspect of my question is intimately tied with Buddhism, but I am somewhat asking: for someone lacking craving, what is there to be done in life? From the Mahayana point of view, I feel compassion is a noble aim, but I have trouble developping compassion. From the Theravada point of view, spiritual development is a goal, but without much obvious suffering to propel our spirituality we can get caught in cycles of lethargy, complacency. How does Buddhism deal with lack of motivation about mundane, every day things? What should one do in the worldly sense, when one isn't practicing? Thank you. 

How detrimental are noises in meditation? I don't live alone and the people I live with often watch TV or make noise in other ways. Should I seek somewhere peaceful to meditate or is there a way to deal with the noise otherwise? 

I dunno if we are allowed to answer our own question this way -- someone may inform me -- but I think my answer can provide some clarity on this topic. I realized after asking that my emotional reactions are immensely blunted, while also occurring immensely strongly in rare instances. For example, I will have no compassion, then feel a burst of immense compassionate feeling, and even cry sometimes. This leads me to suppose my feelings are bottled up, filtered. The idea of a bottle, which has pressured contents, causing it to burst, is this phenomenon: I would think, perhaps, emotions and feelings -- and experiences -- function this way. This leads me to question if the way I studied Buddhism and other philosophies was not totally misguided, and ultimately caused me to filter feelings in an avoidant way. I feel Buddhism advocates feeling rather than avoidance, it makes sense to me now. I think this answer has some use in that the bottled up phenomenon seems to suggest something about my mind, or emotions themselves, or provides a good example for what not to do in Buddhism. If such answering is not well received, then merely delete it, or notify me.