Tsela's answer is very thorough, but I wanted to point out another aspect of the question. There are some basically universal cognitive biases about linear order in language (basically, new information goes later in the sentence). Languages with a strict word order (in terms of argument positions) will have more resources for shuffling arguments to meet this property. An extreme example of this would be Malagasy, which has strict VOS word order, but has morphology that allows you to put almost anything in "subject" position.* "Free word order languages" on the other hand may lack some of this morphology, since they can satisfy the cognitive order requirements by reordering words in a sentence. However, in a given discourse context, only one word order may be grammatical. To use an example from Basque: 

English has done this rather extensively -- the "-ation" you quote is originally Latin. The verbalizing suffix "-ize" is originally Greek (and entered the language via Latin (borrowing) and French (descent from Latin)). And "-ify" is originally Latin. Both these are unambiguously productive (as is "-ation"). More recently and colloquially, English speakers have borrowed "uber-" as a prefix (from German). Attached to an adjective ("uber-tired," "uber-happy") it carries roughly the meaning of "very." On nouns ("uber-linguist") it means something like "very exemplary." For a non-English example, the Basque past participle suffix "-tu" (the only pp. suffix which is productive today) is widely (though not universally, as I understand) held to be derived from Latin "-tum," the neuter past participle suffix. These are just examples from two languages I happen to know something about. So I'd say that this happens all the time, both as a colloquialism or "joke" and also as a part of core linguistic meaning. 

So describing a language as having "free word order" can be misleading, since speakers are often constrained by context to use only one order. When we discuss word order we should talk about which languages have more or less morphology for marking word order permutations. 

The adverb "normalmente" isn't the right kind of diagnostic for these languages, as evidenced by its free placement in the sentence. The fact that it it prosodically "heavy" also leads one to be suspicious of its status -- in general, the right kinds of adverbs for these tests are relatively light. For Spanish, Suñer (1994) proposes the following sentences as adverbial diagnostics of V-movement (example 14 from the paper): 

The infinitive-taking version is a control verb (as opposed to a raising verb, which you discuss in your question). This online syntax book (direct link to relevant section) has an overview of control structures, diagnostics, and the differences between control and raising. 

Guglielmo Cinque wrote a book called Adverbs and Functional Heads: A cross-linguistic perspective wherein he (ambitiously) tries to construct a cross-linguistic universal hierarchy of functional categories. He relies on adverb placement, for example facts like the following: 

The language has ergative/absolutive marking in simple (monoclausal) sentences. Ergative and genitive are marked identically. The subject of nominalizations is marked with ergative/genitive. Progressives are biclausal, and derived from nominalizations. 

It's tough. On the one hand, in phonetic changes like the Northern Cities Shift, it is possible to record successive generations of speakers and measure acoustically how their vowel production (in this case) slowly moves through vowel space. It gets trickier for change that is categorical in nature (rather than continuous). Johnson's dissertation tracks a known merger (between cot and caught) along the boundary, and identifies certain families in non-merged territory where children appear to suddenly merge these sounds. Predicting entirely new changes is a tricky business – it is possible to say what changes are likely to happen in a language, but their realization depends on many factors, some of them completely random. In general, I'd say that we don't yet have the ability to predict a novel categorical change in a specific time window (50 years, like your question). To give one concrete example, English has been "likely" to develop negative concord (NC) for centuries as the next step in the Jespersen Cycle. Optional NC is nearly ubiquitous in low-prestige vernacular speech, but it has not entered the standard language in a unified way, due (in all likelihood) to prescriptive norms against it. 

One example of a non-argument of-phrase would be of-possessives. (Possessors are by definition not arguments.) The best way to make sure that an of phrase is really a possessive is to mark it (redundantly) with 's: 

This is a failed example of what you are looking for, but perhaps it will be interesting for you nonetheless. At a certain point (in the late 70s, if my memory serves – but I could be off by a bit), linguists working in the generative tradition started describing certain languages as "non-configurational," meaning that they belonged to a class of languages which lack word order (by contrast with most languages familiar to linguists, which were of course acknowledged to have word order).* Various explanations were pursued as to how non-configurational languages could have a grammar (making sure that morphological agreement happens, that verbs have the right number of arguments, etc.) without traditional syntactic notions that are often dependent on order. The paragon example of such a language was held to be Warlpiri (Pama-Nyungan, Australia), but it has now been shown to be analyzable in terms of familiar syntactic theories. This 1983 article by Hale in NLLT is an example of a non-configurationality analysis of Warlpiri. This 2002 MIT dissertation by Legate** argues for an analysis of the language in line with standard syntactic theories, and by extension that "non-configurational languages" do not form a separate class. 

The general organization of how a verb distributes its semantic roles is called "argument structure" (this is part of the more general field of inquiry called "lexical semantics"). It is very common for verbs (especially those with 3 or more arguments) to display alternations. The most commonly cited of these is the so-called spray/load alternation (because of two verbs that show it). Here are examples with "spray" 

However, the essence of the hydrangeas case is not temporal. Modal semantics are understood (especially by Kratzer, one of the architects of this theory) in terms of possible worlds. It is possible to understand tense also via possible worlds, but this is orthogonal to what is going on with the hydrangeas. Look into some of Kratzer's work on ordering sources to unpack the nuances of the modal interpretations further. (I can give a reference if you want; I don't have that paper in front of me now and Google is not being helpful.) 

Since subject movement to Spec,IP isn't obligatory in finite sentences either, the subject can also intervene it these sentences (ex. 17b) 

I don't know the history of the Miskito case, but doubling up on morphology is a known development in the history of language. Here are two examples from English/Germanic: 

Modern Spanish has a construction (called a personal in Spanish) that (in some dialects) has an animacy requirement. This involves the insertion of a (homophonous with the preposition translated "to"; whether it is a preposition in this context is debatable) before a direct object: 

*If this is unfamiliar to you, it can be understood by analogy to English passives, which work by putting the object in subject position (John kissed Mary -> Mary was kissed). Malagasy has "more passives" for putting things like an instrument or location into subject position. 

If I had to guess what happened in Miskito, I would say that these words were originally in an infixing class (duri ~ *dwari), and were subsequently reanalyzed as being a suppletive stem in the -ka class. (Suppletion is the operation that occurs when a stem changes form after the addition of a suffix. An example from Mod. Engl. verb inflection is the alternation between bleed and bled (< bleed + ed).) But that analysis is only a guess. 

Wikipedia has these two factoids; they are tagged "citation needed" but could be avenues of investigation: This sound occurred historically in Polish, where it was written "rz", but it has since merged with "ż" [ʐ]. This sound is also used in local pronunciation of Spanish "rr" in region of Ibarra in Ecuador. (source) 

I just read about a study on this which used a fascinating methodology. Here's a description of it from Arends et al. (1994) Pidgins and creoles, An introduction Johns Benjamins ch. 9 (p. 108): 

Thus, in a perfective sentence with one argument, the argument will be marked with the absolutive (by point 1). In a imperfective/progressive single-argument sentence, the argument will be marked with ergative/genitive (by 3 and 4). In sentences with two arguments, ergative/absolutive marking is observed for both perfectives and imperfectives. The above analysis and underlying data are from an abstract (pdf); the author has several papers on the subject whose bibliographic information can be found in her CV (pdf). So, at least in this language, the appearance of split ergativity is the result of a confluence of quite common linguistic traits (2, 3, and 4 above all occur independently of each other very often.) 

Romance languages have (generally speaking) three classes of verbs, inherited from Latin. In French, these correspond to the infinitive endings -re, -er, and -ir. These are like gender in that they don't correspond to any semantic property of the verb. Unlike gender (as expressed in Romance), it's difficult to point to a single morpheme as the "gender marker." However, the different verb classes have differences that pervade the paradigm of tense and agreement marking. In the Romance context, this is sometimes called the "theme vowel," hearkening back to a stage of the language when the morphology was more segmentable. Many other languages have a notion of "verb class" that is even less morphologically transparent. Old English for example had seven classes of strong verbs; each of these had a different ablaut pattern. (There were also three different weak verb classes.) 

The exact parallel to the English sentence "John often kisses Mary" can't be tested, since it is possible that "sucio/limpio" is base-generated to the right of the verb instead of to the left like "often." But these diagnostics demonstrate that verb movement of some sort is occurring. (I don't know Portugese, so I don't know how well they translate to that language.) Costa & Galves argue that the Portuguese verb movement is shorter than the English/French kind. Though position is optional with respect to some adverbs, it isn't with others: 

Spoken creoles are developed in environments where many languages are mixed (for example, in the Caribbean region, there were several major colonial languages and many African languages spoken by slaves). For deaf children learning sign languages, there is the opposite problem – they may have no input that is "linguistic," but only some non-linguistic gestures or non-native sign. There are two sign languages that have been "created" (i.e. arisen by some means other than descent from an extant language) in recent years and have been the subject of research by language-acquisition researchers: Nicaraguan Sign Language and al-Sayyid Bedouin Sign Language. So I'd say that these are the closest thing to a sign language "creole" (although not much is known about the historical genesis of older sign languages, and it's quite possible that all of them arose spontaneously in deaf communities without influence from aural languages). For the concept of "pidgin," there are so-called home sign systems, which develop when deaf children and hearing caregivers do not have access to instruction in an established sign language. These generally lack some of the traits than linguists ascribe to natural languages (as do pidgins). If you're interested in the families of sign languages and the phylogenetic relationships between them, you might want to check out this section of Wikipedia, which lists the currently accepted groupings. 

Cinque's universal hierarchy plus the Mirror Principle plus some version of the Head Movement Constraint (no skipping positions as you move up the tree gathering affixes) gets you what you want. If some relatively high functional head is expressed as a verbal affix, the stem must have moved at least that far, so the lower head must also be affixed to the root, closer than the higher one. I don't know Bybee's work and my recollection of the details of Cinque is hazy, but they seem to roughly align in the order you say. 

I think that Zhen Lin's historical explanation is essentially correct: in order for tone to arise in a non-tonal language, some other phonological contrast is reanalyzed as tone. Tone languages can both lose tone and regain a complex syllable structure over time, but in general tone languages are likely to be closer to their "starting point". (Another way to think of this is that tone is part of syllable/phonological structure. Under the communicative requirements of human language, which seem to be fairly universal, individual languages can allocate their complexity to tone and other aspects of phonology in different ways.) As for the typological claims, it is simply not true that there are no/appreciably fewer agglutinating tonal languages. The WALS (World Atlas of Linguistic Structures) allows you to cross-tabulate different linguistic features. Here's tone and a measure of morphological isolationism. There are 8 languages with a "complex tone system" and "concatenative [=agglutinating or synthetic] morphology"; only 5 have complex tone and isolating morphology. The tabulation of tone and syllable structure illustrates the generalization that more tonality correlates with less syllable structure, but the intersection of "complex tone" and "complex syllable structure" is not empty. 

Thus (and with other arguments) they conclude that the verb movement targets a lower position in Portugese. References Costa & Galves (2000) "Peripheral subjects in two varieties of Portuguese: evidence for a non-unified analysis." In Romance Languages and Linguistic Theory 2000. John Benjamins. Suñer (1994) "V-Movement and the Licensing of Argumental Wh-Phrases in Spanish." NLLT 12:2. 

It is less than clear, syntactically/semantically speaking, what is going on here (Why the double-marking of possessive? Is there some kind of partitivity? What, if any, is the difference in meaning between the above and "John's dog"?) – but it is clear that this is a non-argument of-phrase. 

The original study is Huttar (1975) "Sources of creole semantic structures" Language vol. 51 (link to JSTOR). The quantitative methodology is a little dated, but the basic approach to collecting the data is very interesting (and, so far as I know, not being practiced systematically these days). 

I don't think that there is any deletion going on. The word decline in English simply has two possible uses – one followed by an infinitive, one followed by a noun phrase object. This is similar to "want": 

The loss of verbal conjugation has happened in other Indo-European language families as well. For example among Germanic languages, English, Swedish, and Norwegian have lost the conjugations inherited from the proto-language whereas German and Icelandic retain them (these are not exhaustive lists). For details on the phonological processes which led to this change, see aedia λ's excellent answer. Interestingly, (some dialects of) French appears to be redeveloping conjugation, this time in the form of prefixes derived from subject pronouns. Culbertson (2010) "Convergent evidence for Categorial Change in French" (Language vol. 86.; link goes to Project MUSE) is a recent paper that gives evidence for this view. 

These two sentences are approximately equivalent in meaning. Levin published a book called English Verb Classes And Alternations: A Preliminary Investigation, which consists of a list of English verbs and which of these frames they can appear in. She has a ton of other work on this topic, some of it co-authored with Rappaport Hovav. In your specific example, "assign" and "set" are displaying different behavior. First I would point out that these sentences seem most natural to me in the context of computer programming operations. I would tentatively explain this by saying that "assign" treats its direct object (non-prepositional argument) always as a location, metaphorically speaking. "Set" on the other hand can apparently operate on metaphorical locations or metaphorical pointers. Why this is, and how it links up with other uses of these verbs, I couldn't really say. (Also, as a native speaker of English "set X from Y" sounds quite unnatural. Technical writing is not always idiomatic, even when done by a native speaker.)