If you want to forecast it is common practice to split your sample up into two parts - the "estimation sample" and the "forecast sample". The estimation sample is used to, you guessed it, estimate your model, which you then use to forecast the data for which you already have true values contained in your forecast sample. You then compare your forecast predictions to known data and to those of other forecasts. You can do this using r2 or adjusted r2 over the forecast sample. We also commonly use measures like means squared error, mean absolute percentage error, Theil's U, etc. etc. 

Is CPI accurate relative to... what? If you are asking whether CPI is accurate as a measure of the true cost of living, the answer is no. One reason for this is that the CPI is computed using a weighted Laspeyres index of prices of different goods and services, weighted by their share in consumption. Prices are continually updated but weights are not, and hence the headline CPI index neglects substitution effects. Let me present a highly simplified example; two goods in the economy, apples and oranges, both consumed equally (weights 0.5 / 0.5). At the start, the price index computed using CPI methodology will be 100. Now the price of apples rises 10% and the price of oranges stays the same. As a result, people substitute out of apples and into oranges - so apples' share of consumption falls from 50% to 25%. The consumer price index would now stand at 105, implying a 5% increase in the cost of living. However, the true increase in the cost of living is 2.5% - CPI has overstated inflation in the cost of living through failing to take account of substitution. Most countries reset their CPI weights yearly. Some, e.g. Japan I believe, reset once every decade only. Obviously the less frequently you reset your weights, the worse CPI will be as an accurate measure of the cost of living. 

There are a few reasons why, at least in a broader theoretical context, substantial government influence in a market economy may have negative consequences. A few are: Crowding Out Effect Increases in government spending can potentially lead to a decrease in investment from the private sector. This can be thought of in the more formal definition of the term (that an increase in government demands for loanable funds can lead to an increase in the interest rates faced by the private sector) or in the more informal one- that government involvement can change the profit motive faced by private entities in the field. If you assume that those private firms are, on balance, more efficient with resources than the governmental agency, it can lead to negative economic outcomes. Market Distortions One potential problem of increased governmental activity in the economy comes from unforeseen distortions that can ripple through other sectors. For all their problems, one nice feature of market equilibria are their ability to reflect private information and demands, and aggregate the individual actions of hundreds of millions of people effectively. That is no small feat; it is hard for a centralized agency to mimic that effectiveness. One of the major problems with centralized economies in practice is their practical inability to allocate resources "efficiently." Modeling government interaction in a repeated game-like context. Another (albeit more philosophical) problem some see is that, even if a larger government would be optimal for right now, it is often difficult to cut bureaucracy once it becomes entrenched. Therefore, we should consider that "future value" of inefficiently large government spending in the future (even if it is optimal to increase government's size today) into today's perceived "payoffs" of different actions. Problems with the Multiplier Effect: The multiplier, as learned in econ101, is a bit oversimplified in its presentation. While there almost certainly is some multiplier in every case, it isn't really just a single number that turns on an economy wide "marginal propensity to consume." Instead, it's far more subtle, and often depends on who is receiving the benefit, what the context of the payment is, etc. Furthermore, some conservative economists argue it is often too small to justify the expense. Now, note that I personally don't really believe much of what was said above. I'm not trying to suggest that Mr. Corbyn should or shouldn't increase the size of government expenditures (I haven't studied the issue enough to make an informed opinion). Furthermore, I think it should be noted (in the interest of fairness) that many times these theoretical concerns can be misapplied in practice: for example, The Laffer Curve may be the most poorly applied theoretical concept in political economy. Let me know if that didn't answer your question, or if you'd like more detail! 

A common calibration for depreciation rates within RBC models is to assume 10% depreciation rate (based on NIPA stats, for instance). This implies a half-life of about 6.5 years. But this estimate seems a little low for advanced economies where capital is often in the form of computerized technology etc, which would seem to depreciate at a much faster rate (say 25% pa, implying a half-life of more like 2.5 yrs). Further, with technological advance you have the problem of obsolescence - the useful life of a capital good may end long before it depreciates away fully using the 10% pa rate. There is an element of unpredictability around obsolescence as well. How can this be accounted for within RBC and DSGE models? Would obsolescence pose a problem for calibrating a model assuming delta is approx. 10%? Thanks in advance, R. 

To answer the specific question, I believe the largest hf in the world is Bridgewater (assets under management of around 120bn USD). Assets of around 500m USD would be considered average and north of 1bn usd large. Bridgewater is an outlier. I do not know if one larger has ever existed but I doubt it. As to what effects they have on the economy well, funds can serve as catalysts for economic events (e.g. Soros' fund and others catalysing the UK exit from the ERM). They serve as vehicles for pooling and allocating capital and so act as intermediaries between those who wish to lend (investors in the hedge fund) and those who wish to borrow (firms issuing bonds etc. which the hf buys). This function only applies when the hedge fund is making a primary investment though - when it is buying something in the secondary market rather than a first issuance funds do not have this role. They largely determine things like commodity prices, exchange rates through the bulk of money they control together, although no hedge fund is large enough to control these markets directly. 

There is a broad literature that attempts to address the very question you pose- what is the impact of immigration (legal and illegal) on native wages? However, if you're interested in the 'real world' evidence, I'd suggest focusing on empirical labor economics as opposed to more theoretical labor models. The reason for my suggestion is that theoretical economics makes no clear prediction without a lot more information. There are a variety of factors, such as the production function being considered, the labor market conditions observed, the relative substitutability of immigrant and native workers, etc. which tends to make answering the question more of an empirical exercise. As far as the findings of the empirical papers, they actually tend to find relatively little impact of immigrant labor on native wages, with a few notable exceptions. For some examples: This survey paper, though a bit out of date as it's from 2005 outlines the results of 18 papers and finds wide discrepancies depending on modeling techniques and underlying assumptions used. Borjas, 2003 is one of the better known works, and finds what one might expect based on Econ101 models- that an increase in immigrant labor supply leads to a decrease in wages for native workers. A couple very well known articles have tried to tease out the impact of immigration on wages by focusing on particular events (called supply shocks) where the number of immigrants increased "suddenly" for reasons having nothing to do with the economic climate at the time. A pair of papers examined the impact of the Mariel Boatlift, which led to a spike in Cuban immigrants in Miami: The first, a paper by Card 1990 found no evidence of a negative impact of immigration on wages, while Borjas 2015 finds a substantial decrease in the wages for the least educated Miami residents. Several other papers have found either no negative effect, or even positive effects, of immigrants on various worker wages. For example, this paper by Peri in 2011 finds no negative impact of immigrants on wages, but a strongly positive impact of immigrants on productivity. This paper from 2013 finds significant positive impacts of undocumented immigrants on the wages of native workers in Georgia. Ultimately, the exercise of determining the impact of immigrants on wages really depends on the method of analysis and a number of underlying parameters, and applying "standard" (i.e. Principles of Micro) models can lead to erroneous results and a false sense of certainty. If there's anything else in particular you're interested in, let me know and I'll try to improve the answer! EDIT: Sorry, I forgot to include a link to this additional survey paper in the original answer! 

Well, adjusted R2 has more merit than R2. R2 will always rise (or at least stay the same) as you add more variables (even if the variables are not statistically significant). Thus in theory you could achieve a very high R2 by just bunging a load of nonsense variables into your regression. Adjusted R2 compensates for this by adjusting the R2 by a penalization factor that increases as the number of variables rise - hence adding a new variable will always raise r2 but will raise adjusted r2 only based on its explanatory power. Information criteria such as the Bayesian information criterion (also called Schwarz criterion) or Akike information criterion can be used to choose between competing models. Intuitively, they measure explanatory power but penalize for "bigger" models which are more prone to overfitting and other problems. The BIC penalizes additional parameters more heavilly than the AIC, for example. You would prefer the model which minimizes the information criterion score. Note that, unlike R2, the values of information criteria are not inherently very meaningful - you cannot say "this is a good model because it has a BIC of -50", but you can use them to choose between. What matters more than either P values or measures of goodness of fit is that the model is theoretically sensible and that the Gauss-Markov assumptions hold. This is what makes a "good" model - ability to explain a high proportion of the variance is the icing on the cake, nothing more. If I regress rainfall in the UK on US GDP for instance, I will get a P-value of close to zero and an R2 of above 0.95 - yet obviously there is no genuine economic relationship here. So a sensible model with solid theoretical foundations which satisfies the OLS assumptions is a good model even if its explanatory power is limited. Conversely a model with high r2 / low p values which doesn't satisfy econometric assumptions or lacks theoretical credibility can never be a "good" model. 

Interesting observation, but I think the answer is partly explained by several factors: First, any calculation of real GDP would eliminate the year-over-year variance that could be due to taste shocks leading to significant price changes. Second, I think your observation is partially true, however. What makes an iPhone more valuable than an old Motorola smartphone? Sure, some inputs might be slightly different, but the "production technology" of the iPhone makes it such that we (in general) do value it higher. While some measures like CPI try to account for some of those issues by considering benchmarks for certain performance criteria (like processing power, memory, etc.), in the end, there absolutely is some taste-based component. I think it's partly accounted for by aggregation, as you mentioned, but I think the third point is that there's a bit of a disconnect between what value is trying to measure, and what GDP is interested in. Theories of value attempt to explain why we attach certain "utility amounts" to different goods. But that doesn't mean the output of any particular "theory of value" is subjective: the observed prices and quantities are quite objective. GDP (like other macroeconomic indicators) is more interested in tabulating those objective outputs of the theory of value and observing their change over time. For example, I know I value the green mechanical pencil in front of me at \$2, despite the fact I only paid \$1 for it. Assuming the production costs are negligible, GDP would observe that as \$1 of economic activity. It doesn't consider how much I would have paid for it, which is what different theories of value attempt to explain. Furthermore, why I value it at \$2 might be for any host of reasons- perhaps its a subjective value, or perhaps that valuation reflects what I think the pencil will be worth in a year's time. Regardless of what that reasoning is, the objective measurements that GDP considers are the price paid and quantity. 

I don't think cash could be described as a security... one of the characteristics of securities is that they have imperfect (if very high) liquidity and provide a return (be it fixed or variable). Cash is the definition of liquid and inherently provides no return - you could earn interest on cash by depositing it in a bank but then you are creating a debt obligation in effect - the cash inherently, as in cash in a physical safe, generates zero return nominal by definition. You could think of cash as a debt security where a debt is theoretically placed on the issuer. But: in practice the debt is impossible to pay. You cannot bring a bill into the fed and demand they honour it. So I suppose it would be a debt security in the theoretical sense but it lacks almost all properties of debt securities: cannot be repaid in practice, never intended to be repaid, perfectly liquid etc, and it has a value that cannot be expressed in terms of anything but itself. 

I'm not sure I fully understand what you mean by computing it endogenously? The nominal interest rate would be endogenous in the NK framework because the output gap and inflation are endogenous. There'd be feedback between nominal interest rates and inflation, which both feed into each other for example. So in that sense I'd consider the approximation of interest rate policy using a Taylor rule as entailing that interest rate policy WAS endogenous wrt. the output gap and inflation. As for why we'd use the Taylor rule as opposed to some more complex but accurate approximation for interest rate policy... well I can only suppose that the Taylor rule is a sufficiently good approximation such that the marginal benefit of adding more complexity / accuracy is minimal and perhaps less than the computational cost of doing so. There comes a point where you start to prioritize parsimony more and more. Perhaps this is the motivation. 

From a quick glance, it looks like the difference is that the new finance minister is including promised payments that the government had previously made, but hasn't had to pay yet. For example, say I borrow \$10 from you. At the same time, say I had previously promised (in an unrelated interaction) to give you \$5 at the start of June. What's my current debt to you? Officially, it's \$10 (from the loan you had given me). But come the first of June, if I haven't paid you back yet, I'll find myself in debt to you for \$15: \$10 from the loan, and the additional \$5 from the promise. Effectively, the new finance minister is counting the debt to be the entire \$15 (that is, current debt obligations, as well as promised future payments to different projects in Malaysia), while the official figure only considers my debt to be \$10 (since I don't yet technically owe you the additional \$5). Technically, the government official figures are correct, since the government can "get out" of the future payments by (I'd assume) changing the law to remove themselves from that responsibility. At the same time, since (it looks like) those payments are to Malaysian government/private company partnership projects, simply refusing to pay would ultimately undermine Malaysian projects, which would hurt citizens. Which is more important depends on the context, and the interests of the individual.