I have seen a lot of two-sided opinions for sticking through it and getting the experience, as well as starting to look for a new job. I think that looking for a new job is the only viable option for you. Being a software developer with similar experiences (small start-ups, alpha-type leader, team-leads leaving shortly after I start) I know that although it is great for a resume and quick experience - your overall well-being is going to slowly go down. It is a lot of stress to take up a lead role in a product, especially when people around you are getting fired so often. Not to mention - if you are disinterested in the product there is not much point in working on it. Again - speaking from experience working on such projects is monotonous and makes you less passionate about programming. Do yourself a favor - start looking for a new job around your experience level. You will grow at a more sustainable pace and enjoy your work significantly more. 

You contact the person responsible for the grammar in your business. It could be HR or PR. The main thing is not to say how you are annoyed and hate this stuff, but how it reflects badly on the image of the company. For your clients, just deal with it. Unless you are an image consultancy, but even then I would not directly contact the person that is the issue, but the person responsible for the grammar in the client organisation. 

Work hours It is already in wide use, especially when talking about contracts. It also fits other units of time like weeks: work week. There is no man weeks, or at least I have not heard of such. Man hour is appropriate because of its history. Man is a synonym for worker in many jobs like soldiers and other physical labor; and to engineers and business men. While the use might create some mental barriers for some, I would say that promoting other words is better than making a confrontation. Many have more meaningful business to do, and will only be annoyed if there is some HR organised workshops about promoting diversity in their every day terminology. Promoting can be done by talking to close people. You can easily get your team to change a term. Maybe once actually asking people if they would be so kind and take your feelings into consideration. That could be done after the alternative word has already spread to maximize its effect. If some already use the alternative, the small minding of word choice will be more efficient. They will slip and use of man-hour term will stick for long. These cases should not be attacked, because that just annoys them similarly to Grammar Nazis. It will be a slow change. 

If you meet all the requirements in the description for a "Senior X" job, then you should consider yourself a "Senior X" for that particular job. Job titles really don't mean that much, but if a job descriptions says "looking for a Senior X with 7 years of experience and knowledge of X, X, and X" and you meet that criteria then you can consider yourself a "Senior X" for the purpose of applying for that job because that is what they consider a "Senior X" to be. Another job may consider "Senior" to have 5 years and so-and-so education... it all depends on the job. 

This could mean that they think that you are the only one that is qualified enough or that they like enough out of the candidates that they've seen so far, and possibly out of all of the candidates they have left to interview (because they have all the resumes of the people they still have to interview), but they can't extend you a formal offer until the interviews that are already scheduled are over. And this is what I think it is. Three points for celebrating early: 

Yes, you are acting in bad faith for the company Why are his salary demands not met? I would guess finances. To answer this I would need all sorts of information about your profitability and such and you probably know the situation better. Why is it a problem that a person may leave soon? Using him in key roles is a risk. It may be critical that there is an immediate replacement for him. If he is already leaving, it is too late to start looking for such. During a project if the main architect, or a manager leaves, the impact to the project is huge, no matter how well documented standardized procedures they are only to mitigate the problems of such risk. I have seen top performers being put as in-house trainers or consultants and to do some small tasks for a few months before they leave. This is because the time before they are leaving is too short for a new project. 

They know that they want you, so that will taint all of the remaining interviews with an attitude of "this is just a formality that we have to do, even though we've already made up our minds". The director is (apparently) in your corner, so if someone were to suggest that they like someone else who interviews after you, he will probably swing them back to you. Interviewing sucks. 

We all suffer from Imposter Syndrome from time to time because of a mistake that we have done or a lack of specific knowledge that we might have. It's not unusual to make mistakes and mistakes can be good. If you learn from them and do better next time, a mistake can be worth the initial embarrassment. I wouldn't worry about the confidence of your teammates. This one thing won't color their whole opinion of you. It might actually work in your favor. They could think "Hey, he's not perfect either!" and possibly think better of you. Because I'm sure that everyone else on your team has made mistakes too. And they won't hold it against you because I'm sure they wouldn't want you to hold their mistakes against them. I have the same experience as you and I make mistakes all the time. I've also been around even more senior people than you and I and know of tons of mistakes they have made - everyone does it once in a while! 

It can be seen that you like the person and helped him. If he does get the job it is kind of late to say that you hate him, if you did not all the time say not his guy so actively that everyone remembers how badly you did not want to have that guy in. That would naturally have been suspicious already during the process. If he does not get the job, and there is proof of your sabotage you will look really nasty person because you never told the information, why the person should not be hired. Even if there is no proof, you seem a bit dubious. People may assume that you have some grudge and let that affect your work. 

I expand my comment to an answer to list the cases to explain why the outcome is challengeable, if you do not disqualify yourself. There are two axis: