The problem with most answers to this question is that they render Buddhism worthless to many people. None of us here know exactly what the Fifth Precept means. It is quite possible that what it means is to abstain completely from drug and alcohol usage; but it is equally possible that there is something else behind it. In Christianity, literal interpretations of the Bible have lead to hatred, violence, and stupidity. The examples abound. Imagine someone who is suffering from some sort of chemical dependency - call it psychological. Hypothetically; this person only knows how to feel confident meeting new people when they are drinking. For this person, believing that they can only practice Buddhism by abstaining completely from intoxicants, will be completely dis-empowering. Using the 'realms of existence' metaphor - we could say that this person is in a certain level of 'Hell'. Since one can't attain liberation while in 'Hell', they should do nothing, right? But of course this is not the case. Inaction is mostly less useful than incomplete action. Wittgenstein, a German philosopher once famously said, 

Dis-identification as a practice is really, really, hard. Probably also not as helpful as you would want it to be either. Even as you try and explain insights to yourself, you will find yourself confused, identified with your insight. Given the way our language is constructed, we are hopelessly bound to conventions in our thinking and everyday experience. An Example: "I think it is going to rain". That sentence is just f*cked from the get go. First: I think - implying that you are there apart from your thoughts, and you are taking the action called thinking - and as you're taking this action; thinking has revealed to you some content called going to rain. Second: it is going to rain. - It is? Who is going to rain? What will he do after he is done raining? Why is he doing it? But there's no clear language for saying something like: "Consciousness says wetness coming", or whatever. If you talk like that, people will stop listening to you. So, as we are bound by convention, trying to disentangle the threads of identification is extremely difficult, because in our language; there is only identification. The more you try and disentangle yourself, the tighter the trap gets (think Chinese handcuffs). 

Well that's it isn't it? The answer is in the question. The beauty of the nonsense we tell ourselves is that as we become aware of it, it ceases to have power over us. For example: I suspect that somewhere in the background you are harboring some notion that something will happen when you become sufficiently mindful - enlightement, happiness, perhaps something more subtle. I suspect also that you think (I'm not picking on you - I promise this isn't personal to you) something like 'being mindful is a place you get to, and then you know you are mindful....maybe other people will notice too and treat you accordingly - and once you are there that's kind of it - that's now who you are and things work out nicely after that.' Bad news - It isn't like that at all. Good news - It isn't like that at all. It's good news because there's nowhere to get. Thus, you can't fail. You can't succeed either, but you can master the game (mastery is not an endpoint). Thus the most self-aware / mindful thing to notice is when you are not being mindful. "Huh. I was just lost in my mind for like fifteen minutes." As soon as you notice, you have the opportunity to return your attention to the present, regaining awareness. You go to 'sleep' 2 seconds later - start thinking about your favorite movie - no problem! Notice that you went away - don't make it wrong or scold yourself - just notice - and then come back; ad infinitum. As I said; mindfulness is not the end - it's not even the goal - I sometimes allow myself to flow along with my thoughts for long periods at a time - I like my thoughts. However, mindfulness allows for certain side effects. The side effects of awareness include but are not limited to: 

That is a question that emerged from a previous discussion, but here I would like to focus on this story. From the background story: "Venerable Sir, is the wife of the hunter who is a sotapanna, also not guilty of taking life, if she has been getting things like nets, bows and arrows for her husband when he goes out hunting?" To this question the Buddha answered, "Bhikkhus, the sotapannas do not kill, they do not wish others to get killed. The wife of the hunter was only obeying her husband in getting things for him. Just as the hand that has no wound is not affected by poison, so also, because she has no intention to do evil she is not doing any evil." Question: Does it mean that if you work for a company that sells weapons or intoxicants and you do not directly sell or produce it, you also had no opportunity to find another job (it is what you got to pay your bills), you are blameless like the wife of the hunter? 

I'm talking about a peaceful demonstration against a corrupt government. The point is: It can be seen as divisive speech because there will be people against it. 

Does anyone know how long did it take for Gotama Buddha to appear in the world, after Buddha Kassapa? The interval between the 2 Buddhas 

Based on the lifestory of Shakyamuni Buddha, one can see that there is an evolution, from disciple to boddhisatva until the Buddhahood stage... like a path his mind was following, but we know minds just go around samsara up and down, nothing except seeds of kamma goes along with the mind, no such thing as a soul. So how can one relate that to Anatta? 

I think the aim of meditation is not to attain super powers, as Venerable Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu once said: "Super powers are a kind of byproduct of the process" we must always remember why we practice meditation and keep the right motivation, this is more important, trying to attain super powers might lead to attachment to such powers or desire... it is more beneficial to use meditation for insights that lead to disenchantment, deattachment and so on 

It is hard to trace the source of this lovely story, it is present in different religions from India. In some versions of the story, the Buddha was there, in other versions the Buddha only told the story and there are also versions without the Buddha (participating or telling it) Is this story on the Dhammapada? Is it from a Sutta? I would like to know if it is present somewhere in the Pali Canon Can anyone help? 

Reject it completely. Do not for one second take pleasure in the victory, and ignore the admiration. Make sure that at no time do you in any way gain pleasure or conceit from the admiration, and focus at all times on the fact that you are not special; they don't admire you, but rather your position or accomplishment. Know that it is impermanent - and the success can be taken away at any moment. Allow yourself to freely indulge in the admiration. Become dependent upon it for self-worth, and freely step into the role you are playing. Define yourself as your accomplishment, and embrace the status it bestows upon you. Live in the role with all of yourself for as long as you can, and ignore any concerns you have about what the future may hold. Love god and do what you will. 

People always tell you everything. They may not say it in a way that you are comfortable or familiar with; and they may not say it such that their words clearly match what they intend to communicate (mostly they don't). But they reveal almost everything in their experience when they communicate. It's there if you listen. Now this is the tricky part. Mostly what we do when we try to improve our listening skills is to try to listen better. Maybe there are some pieces of advice we employ, or some tips on being a better listener we follow (e.g. Ask lots of questions, etc). The vast majority of those tips are absolute garbage. They do nothing but strengthen the ego's ability to appear to be listening while providing nothing in the way of authentic listening. Authentic listening is magic. This quote from Siddhartha by Herman Hesse does a very good job of expressing what is possible with real listening: 

In any moment, your access to awareness is recognizing that you are not aware. To listen to people better - notice how you don't listen. To meditate more effectively, notice what it is that pulls you from the present. To be more compassionate - notice where you're being a jerk. You have everything you need to work with wherever you are standing, because the only things there are to work with are what you bring with you. By becoming aware of what is already there, you allow for the disappearance of what is there. When what was in the way is no longer in the way, you can move freely. Mindfulness is not the 'mindfulness'. 'Mindfulness' is a word. Mindfulness is emptiness. Mindfulness is like a master gardner preparing soil for growth. 'Mindfulness' is like trying to plant in rocky, weed infested sand. 

In Buddhism the merit created is greater if you give food to a monk when compared with giving to a prisoner for example, it doesn't mean you should not help the prisoner, it means that you create more merits by helping pure and enlighted beings to survive, there are many stories on the dhammapada about it. Think as if you are helping the Sangha to survive, so they can benefit inumerous beings, the impact in the world is bigger and so the merit earned. 

Once in a Dhamma talk I heard a Theravada Monk saying he did not believe in such stories, because some of them contradict the Buddha's teachings (suttas), I don't know if that was his personal opinion or a general view in Theravada Buddhism. 

It looks like a loop. We know desires cause us suffering, however the desire to abandon desire looks like a desire too, right? I'm sure there is a trick, something to explain why it is different, so... who can help? 

Meditation is a key practice in Buddhism, however some Buddhists say you can reach enlightment by reasoning, using your intelect and contemplating things. In many Buddhist stories people achieve great results only by listening to the Buddha or practicing sila/dana. A great monk from Theravada tradition once told me that meditation should be the 8th part of the noble eightfold path, not the 1st. Lay people should focus on morality, precepts and dana. I'm sure this can be questioned, not all buddhists will agree, so I'm just offering a point of view. I would say: Meditation is great, helps a lot, can be a short cut for your insight into reality, so why not? 

Mahayanas say that if you ask your teacher to come back, he can choose to come back out of compassion, he doesnt have to, he does to help sentient beings. 

We should try to see everything as "impermanent, unsatisfactory and uncontrollable" When you see and contemplate that you can not control anything, not even your body, then you will understand that nothing is really yours. I mentioned the body because the Buddha used to give this example, as you cannot control it, you cannot prevent it from getting old, sick or die... then what is really yours to control? Another good technique, very common in Mahayana Buddhism, is to see "emptiness". When you see that everything comes from something else you will understand that everything lacks a self, a true identity, our bodies are just pieces of this planet, combined in a certain way based on the DNA of our parents... See dependent origination In Theravada Buddhism, they would probably recommend you to focus on anatta (non self), as the Buddha used to say: "This is not me, this is not mine, this is not my self". There is no soul, a permanent soul would contradict impermanence, there is only a everchanging mindstream, so where is the identification? Hope it gives you something to think about! 

While on the surface there are more distractions in today's day and age than any other before, there are in fact not any more distractions than there have ever been. While it would appear that what pulls you away from meditation is , these are not what pull you away. What will always pull you away, and what has always pulled any human away is the stream of incessant chatter that you hear when you sit down and close your eyes. There is nothing in the external world that is capable of causing distraction by itself. There are stories of Zen Monks who did not stir from Zazen as an earthquake struck. Distractions happen internally; not externally. I'm going to limit the scope of my answer to a specific kind of meditation - the kind of meditation where you sit and focus - but for the record, meditation is in no way limited to that one definition. Meditation is available always; independent of circumstances. For now, what would be powerful, I think, is if you really tell the truth to yourself about some things. First - I don't know anything about your circumstances; but I'm gonna go out on a limb and suggest that time is not the issue. If you really confront how many hours you have in a day, and what it is that you are doing during each of those hours; I would be shocked if there were not 20 minutes you could claim for uninterrupted meditation time. Most people live their lives in a haze of abstractions and stories about reality. Few people live their lives grounded in reality. In reality, you can only ever do the thing you are doing when you are doing it; and whatever that thing is doesn't take a long time or a short time - it takes some specific relatively predictable amount of time. In our stories, "I have too much to do", "I never have enough time" , etc. In reality, quoting Werner Erhard: 

If this is actually a goal, I'd like to suggest that you may have wandered off from your true intention. Mindfulness during daily activity can produce a sense of peace and satisfaction, but if it is so self-contained that it forbids laughter, it becomes restrictive, and won't produce anything lasting. While concentration is important, mindfulness includes the entirety of your environment, not just the task at hand. That means mindfulness includes attentiveness to others; to the dog across the street wagging his tail in such a way that you can't help but laugh; to the non-restrictive space that grants being to all that exists. A couple quotes: