Many tyres can be made to work without a tube, but tubeless tyres tend to work fine with tubes. The bead of a tubeless tyre is smooth and moulded more accurately than non-tubeless tyres, to form a tighter seal with tubeless-compatible rims. You may be able to achieve tubeless running with a non-tubeless tyre, but it's likely you will need to use more sealant compound. Some tubeless systems use a standalone valve, others use a valve integrated into the rim strip. For "ghetto tubeless", you can take an innertube from a smaller size and cut it to resemble the tubeless rim strips that have valves. (I've never done this, YMMV). If you don't mind getting messy with sealant, try it. If you fail, fit a tube! 

Frames which use Shimano BB86/BB92 pressfit BBs use a wider BB shell. The pressfit cups will have a thick lip that prevents them pushing deeper into the shell. The shell inner diameter is 41mm, so the diameter of lip should be about 43mm. Cranksets with 24mm axles can be used in frames originally designed for 30mm axles, either by fitting a special BB whose bearings have a 24mm inner diameter or are sleeved to 24mm, or by fitting an adapter which reduces the shell diameter to allow a normal BB92 or external threaded BB to be used. BB30 shells have 42mm ID; PF30 shells have 46mm ID. If you have a Trek, you might have a BB95 pressfit BB with shell ID 37mm. 

Since you live in the Hague: There is a good chance these guys have experience with espressowheels. For a more general answer: just go to a bike shop with the hub and rim and they'll be able to help you. 

Currently at your top speed one revolution of your crank leads to 38/11th of a revolution of your rear wheel. This will become 52/11th or about 1.37 times as much. This is not the whole story however. You probably know that wind resistant is much more of an issue at higher speeds than rolling resistance. So (unless you are really strong) your actual maximum will be quite a bit lower than the theoretical maximum calculated above. This tool allows you to set your speed or power output and calculate the other. If I assume your current max as 30kph, your bike weight at 9kg, your weight at 70kg (don't be offended, I'm just guessing), and you are on MTB tires and in the "hoods" position (whatever that is) then your power output at that speed would be about 220 Watt. With the extra chainring in front your theoretical maximum speed would be 41.1kph (all other variables being equal) but to attain it you would need to about 470 Watt! More than twice as much! Obviously in your current situation you are not pedaling efficiently at your maximum speed because you are spinning your legs like crazy, but a 1.4 times speed gain is probably too much to hope for. As a test to see where you can get you could ask your friendly LBS owner if he'll lend you a bigger front chainring for a test ride and see if you can find out from that at what point you max out. 

If you want to upgrade gradually you need to follow the compatibility of the groupsets. If your Tiagra groupset is the 4600 series of 2012, the 10 speed components should be compatible with other Shimano 10 speed road components, so you can use Dura Ace 7800 and 7900, Ultegra 6600 and 6700, and "105" 5600 and 5700. The amount of cable pull per gear is different between Shimano 10sp road and Shimano 10sp mtb. SRAM 10sp doesn't use the same cable pull as Shimano 10sp road or mtb. 

According to these pages: $URL$ $URL$ These brakes both use the same hose kit, SM-BH59-JK-SS. In document EV-BR-M446-F, the connecting bolt unit has part number Y8H298010. In document EV-BR-M395-F, the connecting bolt unit has part number Y8H598010. For both, the Olive & Connecter Insert (barb) has part number Y8H298020. I can find no information on the difference between Y8H298010 and Y8H598010, which may be superficial. If you have the fluid and funnel necessary to bleed the brakes, I suggest you unscrew the two hoses and measure the threaded fitting. 

Increase tyre pressure Reduce impact energy by reducing weight or reducing speed Use larger tyres, which would increase the distance between the rims and potential hazards and could also be more comfortable. Use your arms and legs as suspension to absorb some of the impact force. Ensure your weight is not excessively biased to the front or rear of the bicycle. 

Quality-wise bikes are a lot like chains. The total quality of a bike (where with quality I mean stuff like durability, smoothness, ease of use, ease of maintenance, etc.) is very dependent on the weakest link. An expensive frame with cheap components makes for a worse bike than a mid-range frame with mid-range components. So given the choice I'd go for the (relatively) cheaper frame with the (relatively) more expensive components, all dependend on what I actually wanted to spend on the bike. There are "ride quality" differences between carbon and aluminium and steel. Carbon is usually less stiff, so the ride is a bit more comfortable. Steel has the same properties as carbon and is more durable, aliminium is usually a lot stiffer and hence the ride is harsher. For that reason you get aluminium frames with carbon fork and stays. The main disadvantage of steel is of course weight, but you have to look at this critically. The 0.5-1 kg weight reduction you get by going from a really good and durable steel to a carbon frame disappears in the 15-20 kg of fat you are lugging around anyway, and unless you plan to go ride a lot of serious races you will never notcie the small gain of the lighter frame. Where I'm going with this: In the standard bikes you buy the frame is often of higher quality (and price) compared to the other components. You can get a better bike for less money if you pay attention to this when buying your bike. Spending some time talking this over with you friendly LBS owner will help here. 

To accelerate faster, reduce rotating weight and increase bike & component stiffness. Reducing non-rotating component weight will not have much effect unless your races involve a lot of climbing, especially as lighter components are usually less stiff unless you're swapping cheap alloy for good carbon fibre. To cruise faster, reducing drag, rolling resistance and drivetrain friction will help, in order of impact. Your body and clothing are currently the greatest contributors to your drag, especially since your frame doesn't use round tubes, has internal cable routing, and your rims are deep. Rolling resistance can be decreased by increasing your tyre width, since you're not racing on perfect surfaces (such as wooden velodromes). The current fashion in the pro peleton is 25mm. To decelerate faster, use soft-compound brake pads. Reducing rotating weight also decreases the load on the brakes. This review of a bike which I think matches yours lists the weight as 8.08kg. This isn't bad, and losing 1.3kg to get down to the 6.8kg UCI minimum will be far more expensive than eating less and riding more to lose body weight. Things I would consider upgrading: 

$URL$ is supported by the City of Melbourne. They provide Advanced Bicycle Mechanic Training. In the UK, Cytech are the most recognised body; Contact them and ask if they're aware of an equivalent organisation in Australia. 

Well, if you switch to 3 in front, and then make it a 52/38/24 set (equal steps) then your theoretical new maximum speed would be: 

One of the best safety improvements I've seen in recent years is the conversion of wide inner-city roads to narrow roads with a separated bicycle path on both sides. Streetview example. Of course, outside cycling nations you'd need a very bicycle friendly city council to realise stuff like this. 

is at least 15-20 litres. is waterproof in standard setup (no rain-covers). does not interfere with my biking. attaches and detaches with minimal effort. (bonus points) is aerodynamic. (bonus points) looks good 

A bike such as that one should be able to take drops of that kind with no problem. The only issue I see is that your rear-wheel might take a beating if you land on a sharp edge such as the edge of a sidewalk. Your front-wheel has springs, so no problem there. It will deteriorate a bit faster of course, depending on how often you do this. 

A 10K commute is pretty short, I would say almost too short for a racing style bike for several reasons. I would recommend you look at tourer or hybrid bikes. Allow me to explain. You say you are not really interested in comfort. I assume you will ride in your regular clothes. This is a bad combination. When done regularly, no matter the amount of discomfort you are prepared to take. A hard saddle and stiff frame, combined with the seams-in-stupid-places of your regular outfit will wear you down. Moreover, 5 days a week, regardless of weather means dirt everywhere, even on paved roads. Your clothes will get dirty, and you might even get mud in your hair, so you'd need to shower. But with a 10K commute the time it takes to change clothes and shower takes up a significant part of the total time you spend commuting. (if showers are available at your place of work). Some comfort -a good saddle and fenders- will save you time and pain. Then there is the matter of durability. Think about the appointment you will miss because you had a flat 5K into your commute and you had to either walk 5K or take the time to fix the flat. This is just one of the many things that can break. Remember: "regardless of the weather" so dirt will accumulate, oil will wash off, things might rust. I expect you are not going to spend every weekend meticulously cleaning, checking and oiling everything, so you want durability. My suggestion for a good commuter bike for 10K one way in your regular clothes would be a touring bike with full fenders (to keep away the mud) a chain guard, puncture proof road tires and a relatively comfortable saddle. This will be heavier, so your top speed will be lower, but any time that costs you you'll easily gain not showering, changing clothes, and fixing your bike. 

If your BB uses a threaded interface, there will be a tool interface. For Shimano Hollowtech II style cranksets, threaded BBs sit outboard of the frame with notches needed by the tool clearly visible. 

This depends on: Rider's centre of mass relative to the front axle (x and y). Fork spring rate or air pressure. Fork damping settings. Braking force over time. Fork offset and frame head angle. Could be calculated with something like Matlab but you're looking at university-level vehicle dynamics modeling. Far easier just to test it. 

BB92 is also known as PF41. The shell width should be 91.5mm and the inner diameter should be 41mm. 30mm: According to SRAM's 1x11 frame fit specifications, the inner part of the XX1 "spider" sits 45.5mm from the centreline (Dimension W1). The equivalent dimension is 43.5mm for X1 cranksets. MTB BBs compatible with Hollowtech 2 should have a fully-assembled width of 96.5mm. Road HT2 BBs should have a fully-assembled width of 91mm. It won't be possible to fit SRAM 30mm cranks to a BB92-spec frame without permanently modifying the frame. There are various systems which use a 30mm diameter axle and greater lengths, including Rotor, Hope, and eThirteen. GXP: Many brands produce BB92/PF41 bottom brackets for GXP cranksets, but this combination is not common so many retailers won't have them in stock. Hope offer converters to allow GXP axles to be used with their 24mm bottom brackets. These should not be used with Shimano BBs as they already have a plastic "top-hat" spacer between the bearings' inner casings and the axle, whereas Hope use bearings with a 24mm. 

You will have a very straigth posture on the bike. This makes quick steering more difficult even though it might be a matter of life or death in traffic. The straight-up posture with your pedals almost directly in line with your torso is not very comfortable when you have to put some effort into your cycling. The small wheels make this type of bike unnecessarily unstable. A luggage rack on the handlebars leads to unpleasant/unresponsive handling. It looks dorky (but that is just my opinion)). 

Your ride was 1.5 times longer than your regular trainings -maybe even in a race context- and you (however so slightly) changed your setup. This is a recipe for spasms or cramps in the active muscles. The muscles you use are not used to that kind of activity, so some protest is to be expected. To prevent in the future: 

As other people said this is difficult to answer within the subjective field of "decent" "good quality", etc. There are two main components to the price of bike(part)s: 

Search some more for secondhand bikes. EUR 300,- should get you a nice enough used bike from a couple of years back. A tip I was given when searching for my first bike was to search the bike or racing bike category on ebay and similar sites for "ultegra" or the name of some other sufficiently high-end groupset rather than the brand. This filters out a lot of bad bikes, and a high quality groupset is very desirable in a secondhand bike because it is expensive to replace yet wears out very quickly (unlike (most) frames that are also expensive to replace but don't wear out so much). This search on the dutch e-bay equivalent gets you a few good options in your price range. As to your question, I agree with Daniel R Hicks' comment that beyond about 1000-1200 euro's you are mostly paying for weight reduction (which might even impact durability) rather than 'just' for quality. I also agree with your "experts", you cannot buy even a descent new bike for that price, secondhand is a whole different story however. 

MTB rims branded 26" measure 559mm to the bead seat, which converts to... 22 inches. You already have 26" wheels. They're called 26" because when you put an ordinary 2" wide tyre on them, the outside diameter is about 26". 

That sounds like 3/8 inch. Take the hub to a bike shop, they'll be able to pick out a compatible axle for you. 

The Park BBT-22 should work, but if you don't already have one, you might find the Shimano TL-UN74-S cheaper. 

Shimano Hydraulic brakes are often sold as a kit, with the hose already connected to the caliper and lever and the system already bled. These kits are listed according to which hand the lever is for (the front brake's lever can be on the right or left according to country and preference) , whether the caliper is intended for the front or rear (the caliper body is usually the same but the fittings can vary) and hose length (to allow for different frame sizes and suspension designs/travel). The lever clamp is almost always about 22.2mm (7/8th inch). The caliper mount on the frame or fork will be IS-mount (bolts from the side) or post-mount (bolts parallel with the rotor). M640 brakes are natively post-mount. Adapters are available to fit PM calipers to IS mounts. Adapters are also used if a larger rotor is used. The normal rotor sizes for calipers without an adapter, or using a "+0mm" adapter for mismatched mounts, are 160mm at the front, 140mm at the rear.