Your image looks very similar to rocks we get here on the West Coast of Vancouver Island. We have some rock boring bivalves that will effectively drill into the rock which breaks off and erodes into a shape similar to what you are showing. $URL$ or $URL$ There are also echinoderms that will bore into rocks, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, $URL$ $URL$ but the holes from these creatures tend to be larger than the image you present. I a confident that the holes are created by some form a boring bivalve. 

Given your description of the base rock and the age of the mine I would suggest that what you are seeing is what in a cave we would refer to as flow stone (A deposit of Calcium Carbonate in one or more of many crystal structures). Simplified Process: Ground water often has varying degrees of dissolved carbon dioxide in it. This carbon dioxide within the water creates a mild acid, carbonic acid. The acid in the ground water will corrode out Calcium Carbonate in the base rock. Most ground water will be saturated with Calcium Carbonate, the lime, depending on the concentration of dissolved carbon dioxide in the water. When the water seeps out of the walls of the mine it has an opportunity to off gas some of the dissolved carbon dioxide. When this occurs the water can no longer hold as much dissolved Calcium Carbonate and the excess is deposited on the walls in various forms. The mechanism of dissolving the rock and re-deposition is driven by various equilibrium reactions( involving temperature, water mixing, partial pressures of the gases...). A karst hydrologist/geologist would be able to give you much more detailed information on the processes. It is this process that forms caves and causes the formations with the caves to form. The following web site gives a pretty straight forward explanation of what I believe you are seeing. $URL$ 

Robert Mallet is sometimes referred to as the "father of seismology." He was helped (around 1850) by the newly created science of photography, which enabled him to create seismic "maps" of the earth, at different depths. He has started life as an iron engineer/manufacturer, but turned his talents to seismology after a number of devastating earthquakes in Europe. His earlier work with iron gave him a background in the use of explosives to "open up" the earth at critical points. Paleoseismology is a related field that relies on paleontology to form estimates of various properties of the earth. 

The Pacific coast of South America is affected by the Humboldt Current, a wind-driven "upwelling" system running counterclockwise that is cold and windy but nutrient rich.. The "six o'clock" position indeed touches Antarctica, and then the right edge of the "clock" reaches Chile, Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia, as far north as the Galapagos Islands near the equator, making those areas cooler than equivalent latitudes on the Atlantic coast. The reason the currents don't "originate" in the Antarctica is because they are part of a circular system that spans a whole ocean in the southern hemisphere. But they "make stops" there. The ocean and atmosphere mutually interact to create a "coupled" system that brings about the so-called ENSO El Nino (La Nina) Southern Oscillation, with its characteristic weather changes. 

I am pretty sure that it is bulk or recycled glass. It might have been a discarded or lost piece left from previous users of the land. Glass rocks have also been used for landscaping which might fit with the discovery location. I haven't seen any natural rock with such blue and uniform coloration. At various rock stores you can find similar material, it is often called "Slag Glass". I encountered material very similar to it in Quartzite Arizona. Slag Glass Slag glass for sale Slag Glass on eBay 

Building with timber is more sustainable than building with concrete at least in terms of the production of green house gases. A timber building is using a raw material, trees, that have been sequestering carbon till they are cut. Cement, or concrete, on the other hand is made by cooking off carbon dioxide from the calcium carbonate, limestone, to produce the lime which makes up a large part of the concrete. In the production of lime you have CO2 released from the limestone and from the fuels used to heat the limestone, see Lime in Wikipedia. In addition the timber panels are significantly lighter than the cement components which should also make the timber construction more sustainable. Most trees used for timber production are grown in sites that are not generally ideal for other types of agriculture, though this is a gross generalization. They get their phosphorous through local sources, primarily the soil, so forest growth wouldn't have an impact on the phosphorous used for agricultural processes. The following quote from the North Carolina State University project site summarizes the overall impact on timber construction. It is important to note that until the advent of CLT, cross laminated timber, it was effectively impossible to build larger structures out of wood. 

It mainly depends on where you are "coming from," rather than where you are "going to." In September, you are "coming from" a hot summer. The earth has been hot recently, and will take some time to cool down (in your part of the world. In March, you are "coming from" a cold winter. The earth has been cold recently, and will take some time to heat up. "Cold and "hot" are where you are "going to," in September and March, respectively, but the weather on the equinox days are dictated by the "rearview mirror." Put another way, the amount of solar energy that reached the earth "today" is less important a factor in the heat than what happened "recently" or just before. 

To build on Drew's excellent answer, I would note the following: Weather forecasts of the future are built on historical frequencies. A "forecast" of a X percent chance of rain (however defined), means, based on the current configuration of casual variables (temperature, humidity, air pressure etc.), there has historically been an X per cent chance of rain in 24 hours. Therefore, we forecast X percent for tomorrow. Sometimes a forecaster will try to incorporate unusual events into the equation. (Chernobyl comes to mind.) Then the argument might be, historically the chances of rain were X percent, but we're bumping up the forecast to y percent, because of all the atomic particles released by Chernobyl. 

I have found a wealth of information using Harmonic Constituents to calculate tide levels. H(t) = Amplitude * cos ( t * harmonicSpeed + phase lag). Yet when I try to apply this to constituents from the NOAA the results never match the tables produced. I have since found that the NOAA constituents require an additional term, the Equilibrium value with the resulting constituent function looking more like H(t) = Amplitude * cos ( t * harmonicSpeed + EquilibriumValue + phase lag). I am looking for any hints on how this Equilibrium value is calculated or derived. Addendum: The constituents are found here, this for San Diego, Ca Constituents for San Diego. Sorry cannot find the source of the Equilibrium value but will when I get home from work. 

Your rock looks like a concretion. The varying hardness of the layers are typical of concretions in many areas. I don't know exactly how they form but they occur in sediments or sedimentary rocks. Often the center contains some impurity or fossil that was likely the nucleus of the concretion when it formed. There are many locations with concretions. The Wikipedia page Concretion contains many examples and includes mention of a location in Kansas where concretions are found. 

The currents run counterclockwise. That's why the Humboldt Current cools the Pacific coast of South America, because the water is coming from the "six o'clock" position in the Antarctica. But in the Northern Hemisphere, the "six o'clock" position is warm water near the equator, which warms Oregon and Washington. In the northern hemisphere, the cold Labrador current cools land to its west. That's because the water is coming from the "12 o'clock position near the Arctic. On the other hand, the west coast benefits from warm water currents running in a counterclockwise direction. That's because the "6 'oclock" position in the northern hemisphere is near the tropics, which brings warm water to Washington and Oregon at the "2-3 o'clock" position. All other things being equal, colder air carries less moisture than warm air, and land near cold water currents is dryer than land near warm water currents. 

There are several factors that determine the spectrum of wave frequencies of earthquakes. They include the following: 1) Size of the earthquake. All other things being equal, the larger the earthquake, the larger the spectrum of frequencies. 2) The texture of the rocks or other materials. Hard materials have a wider range of frequencies than soft materials. 3) The ratio of "body" to surface waves. Waves emanating from the body of the earthquake have higher total frequencies (and greater variation), than waves emanating from the surface of the ground. 

The face of the rock with the round center portion looks strongly like a Rugosa or Horn Coral. I suggest it is a Rugosa coral because of the center with the radial lines out from the center and the clear edge surrounding the radial lines. See $URL$ 

I would suggest that the rock is a lava rock "Basalt" from a Pahoehoe flow. I have collected similar rocks in California, Arizona, and New Mexico, but I haven't managed to get as far East as Texas. One area I have collected similar rocks from is the Pisgah flows in California. Pisgah Crater I have also seen slag that is similar looking but slag almost always has some iridescence, and has some differentiation of crystal size or texture over short distances within a single sample. Lava is also used extensively for road ballast in areas where it is available. I will try and search my yard for an example piece I can use to post a picture. This type of lava does has a distinctive sharp "ting" type noise when struck lightly with a rock hammer. In the meantime this site has an image of Pahoehoe lava, similar lavas from the Western states are normally duller black with some reddish interiors through there is a lot of variability. Washington University Lava