Is there evidence supporting the claim that 7-Keto DHEA can permanently raise the metabolic rate in humans? 

An Indian anatomical department did a study where they directly examined 332 dried sacra, and found: 

I probably wouldn't draw the same conclusion based on that evidence, as I wouldn't have included these studies from the 1920s and '30s. But is there anything more recent and scientifically rigorous available? 

Mar: Revoked protections for LGBT workers against discrimination in hiring employment True - his action was limited to discrimination limits relating to federal contractors. 

There are some suitably gory images of sewer pipes showing root incursions on that site. You should note that this is not the same reasoning for not flushing toilet paper in some other countries - plumbing systems need to be of an appropriate diameter, with pipes at specific angles and with few bends. If those criteria aren't met, flushing toilet paper can also cause a clog with or without any root incursion. An example of the fairly specific regulations for Orrville, Ohio (PDF) state: 

In 2008 there was a report (Wikipedia mirror, trying to download the original ends in broken links) released by a federal panel of scientific experts and veterans and commissioned by the Department of Veterans' Affairs which found that: 

Infants can contract Hep B from a number of sources (infected persons, latent blood/saliva, needle stick injuries, etc.). The aim of infant vaccination is to eventually lead to the elimination of Hepatitis B. 

Asthma Australia has warned against salt therapy, stating that it may actually trigger asthma attacks: 

Unfortunately in addition to being vague, that line does not cite any sources. So, if one believes (without basis) that ghosts somehow cause "unexplained" fluctuations in electromagnetic fields, the EMF meter would be a valid piece of equipment for hunting ghosts. Considering the other methods and equipment listed there include dowsing rods, ghost boxes, psychics, clairvoyants and demonologists, it's unlikely that any ghost hunters have commissioned scientific studies into why background EMF levels would fluctuate without an explainable cause. But really, to a ghost hunter (or TV watcher) an EMF meter is a beeping, flashing device that can "go off" seemingly randomly (though why that might occur is a separate question), which makes things exciting. 

It is also highly likely that they were actually seized in Iraq by Iranian forces that had crossed the border. That said, a leaked US military report about the event claims that their presence in that region may not have been purely recreational: 

Another reason that Apple likely had little impact on adoption of USB was their tiny market share at the time. In November 1998, over 84% of retail sales were PCs just from the top 4 brands at the time, with Apple coming in at under 5%. This also doesn't take into account business PC sales, which were at the time even more heavily lopsided in the PCs favour. 

Feb: Rescinded protections for transgender students on their use of restrooms in public schools True 

No. While you're not going to find a scientific study on the matter, Dateline commisionned an assessment of a very expensive ($1800) system with all of the bells and whistles (fuel heaters, tuning to make the car run a leaner air:fuel mixture, fuel line magnets(?), etc.) They had the cars performance measured before and after at an EPA accredited facility and with a couple of steady-state cruising tests. From the video transcript: 

The link above is dead, but another example is this video clip from the Dr Oz show where he spruiks forskolin, and googling "Dr Oz Forskolin" leads to many dodgy looking websites peddling the stuff. Is there any evidence that forskolin promotes the breakdown of stored fats in humans? 

The three were working and living in the middle east, and decided to take a holiday to Iraqi Kurdistan. 

Although many potential causes have been considered, has any one specific cause or agent been shown to be more likely than the others? Yes. The report states: 

For application development. It's difficult to argue that a Symbian device is "powered by Java", and indeed many Symbian users have likely never run a Java ME application on their phone. But Oracle only claim "3 Billion devices run Java", and if you interpret that statement in a certain way it's probably fair. 

As you can see, the Polyphosphate chemical process was effective, and the magnetic one was not. The Army Corps of Engineers also conducted a study on three magnetic water softening devices which found: 

No. An "undigested protein stuck in our tissues and cells" implies that somehow untouched proteins (polymer chains made of amino acids linked together by peptide bonds) get through the process of digestion unscathed and are absorbed into the bloodstream. This doesn't happen, and someone would have to have some very serious problems with their entire digestive tract if it did. This thinkquest article outlines the process of protein digestion in quite a straightforward manner: 

(image credit) Is there any evidence that this is a genuine image taken by the Mars Global Surveyor, and is there an official explanation from NASA or any other space agencies? I would expect that these images, if real, are of a specific type of rock formation. 

2. USB 1.1 Specification release The USB 1.1 Specification was released in August 1998 (though peripheral manufacturers would have had access to draft revisions much earlier than that in order to have 1.1 devices ready for market). The USB 1.1 spec had "Updates to all chapters to fix problems identified". Texas Instruments' assessment of the adoption of USB identifies the updated standard as a key driver for vendors: 

No. There have been a few studies on the efficacy of magnetic water softening systems. This one (PDF) from the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory compares chemical and magnetic systems against a control. The table of results for scale buildup are pretty compelling: 

Image credit, the disc where the white arrow is pointing is more commonly not present. There is no evidence to suggest this would make a person taller or affect their flexibility, and is probably not even associated with increased lower back pain. Pubmed (paywall) has a study from the Australian Spinal Association that studied around 500 spinal x-rays and found: 

Yes. There are hundreds of historical accounts of this, though it obviously didn't happen universally across all cultures prior to a certain time. Some cultures used single combat to resolve disputes in place of a battle, but others used the single combat as a starting point: 

As to the rate of adverse reaction, this page cites Vaccines: What You should know, 3rd edition for the following stat: 

The technology he demonstrates for welding is well known and understood (see this patent from 1962), and is generally called an oxyhydrogen electrolytic torch or water torch. Water is decomposed into Oxygen and Hydrogen on demand. This has some benefits in difficult environments (e.g. underwater) and others where you wouldn't want to have cylinders of compressed flammable gas, as well as for some other niche applications. It's not commonly used today. The core problem with his "100ml of water for 160km" claim (not that that's impressive, he just re-captures the water after the combustion) and similar efficiency claims is that the splitting of H2O into "HHO" (actually 2H₂O → 2H₂+O₂) requires energy. The combustion of "HHO" produces energy, but there is always a net loss - heat, friction (as in a car engine), and losses in the original splitting. His claim is that he has refined this process to get more energy out than is put in, which puts his claims in the realms of perpetual motion machines, and breaks a lot of very well understood laws of physics. Without making a more specific claim - a special catalyst he uses or some new technology, this is not even a claim worth investigating. The electrolysis of water is well understood, as it is widely performed on a commercial scale. Most plants have overall efficiency of less than 70%. 

This agrees with the chemistry/physics that the amount of hydrogen generated is simply to small for there to be any significant effect, even with a sufficient and properly managed flow of Hydrogen gas. Mike Allen discussed this in a separate column: 

Essentially, all of the major technology players had decided to support USB as a standard and peripheral makers were switching over. Prior to the release of the first Apple with USB support, USB devices and computers with USB ports (for example: the Dell GXa, one of the best selling business PCs of the era, IBM's PC 300 Series) were both widespread. There were well over 50 USB peripherals on the market prior to the launch of the iMac in 1998, and hundreds more came onto the market throughout that year 

Edit to satisfy Macke's suggestion below, the first study I cited doesn't list the median, but judging from the histogram it did include, it seems doubtful that that median woman is significantly more talkative than the median man (and the sample size would probably be too small to draw anything meaningful from that if it was the case): 

In summary: There is not sufficient evidence to show that Vitamin D has a preventative effect on dental caries. It is plausible, and following the recommended intake of Vitamin D is important for a number of health reasons, but there is no solid evidence to show that it alone is adequate for the prevention of dental caries. Fluoride, on the other hand, has been shown to prevent dental caries. 

It should also be noted that vaccinating all children is not done purely for cost reasons. From this CDC page: 

ComputerWorld released an article in December 1997 which describes in more detail how peripheral manufacturers were waiting for Windows 98 USB driver support before fully backing the standard: 

Probably refers to this paper (PDF warning) "The Action of Vitamin D in Preventing the Spread and Promoting the Arrest of Dental Caries in Children" (1928). 

It's unlikely that Apple's support for USB had any significant impact on the adoption of the standard. There are two other events that, in combination, "jump started" USB adoption. 

Salt inhalation may have modest short term positive effects on respiration and mucus clearance rates for those with cystic fibrosis, but I would expect the amount of inhaled salt in this study (5ml of 7% NaCl solution, 4 times daily) is much, much greater than one would receive from lounging around in a salt cave for an hour. I have searched for other studies on halotherapy and speleotherapy, but many of them have obvious conflict of interest issues that are not addressed, for example one study was authored by the employee of a salt aerosol manufacturing company. Similarly, I don't know how reputable the Russian "Journal of Aerosol Medicine" is. There be dragons here.