Also, I think perfect ontological chaos entails perfect epistemological chaos. Firstly, I would think perfect ontological chaos would entail an infinite domain. Assume an unchanging binary sequence 1011. Assume we consider it as a closed system, then we might reconfigure our own interpretative system to give it order: 'First half is opposites; right side is all 1s'. Or we might say, 'Alternating sequence, except for last item'. We can collect up all of these interpretations to give the required information resources of the observer system, and the information associated with the observed system. In any case, the information content will obviously be finite, and therefore we have not reached perfect chaos. Likewise, if we consider this a peek into a larger system, such as ..1011.. , then we still will develop strategies for defining the extension of our knowledge. Strategies that would extrapolate this in unusual ways would be weighted low; obvious strategies would be considered likely. For instance, if we flip a coin a hundred times in a row, and it comes up heads every time, we would expect it to be a trick coin, and therefore would guess heads on a fair toss; our strategy would be 'heads'. In any case, let's just assume our observer system is not 'perfect chaos'. I think a strong argument could be made that perfect chaos cannot 'observe' or 'make meaningful representations'. I also propose that the 'unchanging binary sequence' example can be generalized to any finite system under observation while maintaining these conclusions. So now, in order to approach infinite information, we must approach infinite resources for storing our interpretive program and the data under consideration; therefore perfect chaos entails infinite domain. Now, if we are dealing with an infinite domain but consider ourselves finite 'strategies', then we can only observe this infinite domain partially at any given time. We must make assumptions as we go, but we cannot make sense of it, therefore perfect ontological chaos entails perfect epistemological chaos. To show this in better detail, let's say that, as we go, step by step observing, we constantly restructure our strategies. Our strategies might make sense to us for some steps, but over all steps, the information content must be infinite. In this case, it doesn't matter that things made sense 'in the moment', and that we were able to handle them with our finite resources, we can be assured that we cannot in the full scope fall back on old information. Whether we actually can experience infinite 'steps' is a question for Zeno, Planck, or spiritualists. In this case, we may be 'saved' from the possibility of perfect chaos by our own finitude. Either that, or we might redefine perfect chaos to be the maximization of disorder related to one's own perceptual system. But then it no longer seems a philosophically pregnant term. Our perceptions have a great ablility to 'scope' information, such as when a complex rhythm played quickly enough becomes a 'timbre', and also to link perceptions together, such as when moving images kick in proprioceptive feelings. 

Firstly, these disciplines may have different reasons for their separation from philosophy, and it may simply be their own fault. Ethologists have made claims relating animal behavior to human behavior that did not pan out. It's an interesting discipline, but there is conjecture that sometimes emanates popularly (not that hypothesis is bad, but ethics is a deep study). (*)Both in ancient and in recent times, 'reasons' for biology are somewhat apt to be offensive or wrong. I don't know that this is necessarily the case due to an alteration of the scientific method, but it seems a tendency in popular reading. I have heard Desmond Morris described as the man who thinks human women are shorter so they can get turned on smelling men's sweaty armpits. I love Desmond Morris, and this is certainly not a balanced representation of his work. Even stated in this contentious way, this very particular notion is not necessarily entirely wrong. Still, one can see how a scientist putting forward a notion like this could be perhaps rightly put to task. You mention ancient observers, which are sometimes almost definably wrong, such as Aristotle's notion of women as similar to castrated men, due to their higher pitched voices and certain other traits. Not that anything is invalid about the experience of a castrated man, but a statement such as this carries with it all kinds of notions. It detracts from the other great organic studies of Aristotle. Whether such popular ideas are prevalent for their shock value, or due to a concerted effort you describe is maybe hard to determine. (*)Perhaps you are somewhat right concerning 'hyperidealism' making understanding one-dimensional in terms of Economics. I think this argument is problematic, though, because 'value' is determined by all sorts of factors in the non-ideal world, so of course economics is not an ideal. It crystallizes all sorts of bad ideas into a so-thought perfect form. Economics can describe goods shared by a community as well as an individual. It can weight factors against environmental exploitation. A value can be placed on many different types of 'independent' material properties, thus making it more than one-dimensional. In the sense that Economics places maximizing ownership of production for oneself a rational goal, I agree that the 'ideal' is not ideal. Secondly, confusion exists in many disciplines. Look at the odd state physics is in. Perhaps physics is resting on a fundamental misunderstanding. Perhaps philosophy or natural science has experienced its own fundamental misunderstanding. (*)Physics has split into multiple disciplines, and experiments often cost an exorbitant amount of money. In the year 1969, a person stood on the moon, string theory was stated, the first message on the ARPANet passed, the first laser printer made, the first back-propagated neural network run, the UNIX operating system developed. Five years before that, quark theory was proposed. Since that time, minaturization, usability, reproducibility, and maintenance have ruled the day, I'd argue. Physics cannot make predictions as well as it used to. (Whether such inventions were good is something else, but I think they index a general trend of physical application in at least the US.) Thirdly, perhaps the problems have just gotten harder and therefore more difficult to apply. It takes specialized devices to study molecular biology. Much information may be accessed through databanks and papers, but making statements of the sort William James made in earlier days of physiology may be harder to evidence or understand. (*)William James made statements concerning sensations as related to fundamental understandings and emotions. For an instance, to argue that humans can make sharp modal changes in perception, he described how a pendulum when hit at a certain frequency will swing in one pattern, then lock into another as the frequency is slowly adjusted. He compared this to the human auditory system, to sort of describe how humans can experience rhythm differently than pitch or timbre. (*)The size of humans as compared to materials of interest has changed. Equipment is therefore necessary for physical observation, and it is costly. Perhaps the material properties that should be of interest should be different, or perhaps the interest should not be in materials, I dunno. Perhaps it should be in animals, or ourselves, or newly created materials, or old forgotten natural materials, or preservation of the Earth, or in metaphysics, or in story-telling, or in silly putty. Your propostition is that what controls interest and spread of ideas is control of capital, historical materialism (although I don't like the term, since it is really about control over certain kinds of material, not just materialism). I didn't realize that (5) was not your argument. Fourthly, the connections may have been extended past their obvious limits. Regarding evolution, it is more difficult to agree on speciation of ideas than it is speciation of animal life. Fifthly, it may be a natural occurrence. History has gone through periods of dissociation in understanding before, also great destruction in various areas. What is to be considered natural and unnatural today? (*)The 'awful aversion of some scientists' has always existed. Partly, it is due to disagreement, partly it is due to ontological commitments and comfort/survival, partly it is due to personal conflicts. Darwin understood that deism, Lamarckism, and saltation were common intellectual understandings of his time. His wife implored him not to give up spiritual concerns. He of course had a famous debate with Owen. I think perhaps the danger is really that 'scientist' has lost its meaning. If you are arguing that 'scientists' are no longer scientists, then what you are really arguing is about the loss of science. You therefore believe science has broken down, and must be revitalized. What is your suggested solution? Regarding (3), how are these people able to ignore experts while remaining empowered? How are they silencing anyone? How are they making a more effective appeal to the mass? (*)How churches do this is a long and contentious answer I don't entirely know, and won't attempt to make. I'd guess Max Weber probably still reigns here. Regarding (5), how is this to be understood as the cause and not the result? I think my deepest contention, and perhaps this is just a personal thing, is that it has that negative outlook of Marxism. I fear that by investing oneself in such things to one's total ability, one makes their spirit temporary and alienates the ideals they wish to strive for by assuming the power does not already exist within themself, an opportunity. (*)By 'spirit temporary', I mean, socialism describes a perfect ideal in which there is no conflict, so where does one fit in this conception, if one has committed themselves to the conflict? How does one even envision that future? It is a notion that I think acts in many ways in philosophy, in the tension between anarchism and republic, criticism and idealism, and 'becoming' and 'being'. The danger in that, by describing a 'disease' of the present it becomes 'infectious'. Or by accepting 'the goodness of now', we lose sight of 'full health'. 

So I think you are right; 'circular' is formal. Take the example of a triangle contains 180 degrees. It is necessary due to the all the constraints in the representation; it cannot be otherwise, therefore what is 'responsible' for this is a formal idea (eidos, causa formalis). However, I am guessing Aristotle is wanting to put a fundamentally empirical or pragmatic outlook to work on this. There is still debate over what exactly a generalized reference is (how it is or isn't related to the collection of representations it references), so it has not been settled. Firstly, a geometric understanding of 'circular' contains a set of relations that must be observed and can take multiple appearances and representations related to the circle's being. What is it that you think about when you think of a circle? It might be its roundness (can you conceive it perfectly round?), or the proportion of its radius to circumference, a curved line joining itself, a plot of sinusoids, a collection of innumerable points, a highly symmetrical object. If you think of its symmetries, which of them? What size is the circle in your mind? In reference to what? Its position? The circle we observe or imagine is relatively not far from a form, but it is still a relation of finite constraints, and it cannot be represented perfectly. The circle will therefore have a 'logical necessity' as well as a formal one. Any representation, drawn or imagined, will make certain concessions and could be considered simplified in some sense or wrong in some senses, so it is not the ideal form. It is represented by definite, possibly finite materials that at any rate describe it and caused it to be. Therefore, it has a 'material necessity'. We have certain understandings of why a circle exists, in what context, where it comes from, what it is meant to achieve, what it reveals or is of interest, therefore it has a 'moral necessity'. 

I don't plan to lecture much tomorrow, but in order to better understand this lesson, I'd like to know more about what philosophical grounding this statement has, especially as told by Epictetus, about whom I know little. My specific questions: Was this meant to be taken literally as a morphological justification? Is the proportion meant to be exact? Am I completely missing the point with questions like this? 

What might happen were the speed of light to be exceeded is a subject of hot debate in the philosophy of modern physics. Therefore, this is of interest to philosophy. The most straight-forward way I know for expressing relative motion is the Lorentz equation, and I assert the most straight-forward answer would be to attempt to extend its results past the speed of light. Therefore, I am referencing the Lorentz equation for this question. My studies of interest in regards to this are the following articles by physicists: Einstein's special relativity beyond the speed of light Revisiting Barry Cox and James Hill's theory of superluminal motion On the infeasibility of superluminal velocities as an extension of relativity The implication of Cox-Hill's proposal is that there are two possible simple extensions to the Lorentz formulation. Although I do not understand the details yet, that idea seems intuitive in a very notional way, since the Lorentz equation normally gives complex values (which we represent as two parts) past the speed of light. Cox-Hill mention, if I understand them right, that their extension possibilities might both be true in a sense, and represent a bifurcation of relativity theory into two equally likely possibilities. I am not quite clear on what observable facts actually bifurcate once the notion of spacetime is extended in this way; it may be clearer to Cox-Hill, however. My question regards precedent: Has anything been written, probably in metaphysics or philosophy of space and time, regarding the possibility of choice at/near/past the speed of light or at pure energy (as observed relatively)? (Please do not reference science fiction, unless it has a reference in academic philosophy. If you propose your own idea, please try to keep it brief and give as many good references as you can.)