In conclusion, the way I configured my bike's equipment was partially based on what I saw other bikes look like (e.g. with the bottle cage) and partially based on the quirks of my bike itself, which enforced constraints on where I "thought" accessories were supposed to go. Is this in fact what everyone does, and the second factor is what contributes to the variations in different riders' setups? Certainly, at least my "common sense" when it came to placing weight low and to the rear was actually a bit nonsensical. 

Is there a verifiable reason for the ubiquity of flat bars on bikes these days?-- if so, what is it? It seems that 90% of the time I see people riding a newish bike that isn't a Dutch bike/roadster, they are holding their arms straight out in order to grab onto some flat piece of metal covered in rubber. Moreover, if it's a typical "hipster" bike (i.e. an older frame possibly with newer components), even if it has drop bars, the brake levers are not typical "drop-bar-style" brakes but are rather mounted horizontally along the bar tops, meaning that the hooks are more or less useless because you can't brake from them, and the drops are even more dangerous because it's just not possible (for me at least) to quickly move from the drops to the tops quickly while keeping myself stable (My Google-fu doesn't seem to be good enough to find a photo of this phenomenon online). 

I found a very cool and bizarre-looking bike in Berlin (in Germany) and was very confused about what it in fact "is"; Has anyone got an idea? — To me, it almost looks like some sort of cannibalized bike/moped/mini-motorbike hybrid: 

About six months ago, the thing worked for a bit, even with its ancient, yellowed wires and bottle dynamo from a different era, but then suddenly stopped. About a month ago, I replaced the ancient incandescent bulb with a new one and cleaned the whole thing inside and cleaned the ancient bottle dynamo but that didn't make a difference. This weekend, I replaced the wiring for both the front and back with new double wiring†. 

The plates and connectors on my old quill pedals "move around" in relation to the pedal axle itself: In the photo below, I'm pushing the pedals to opposite sides to show how the pedal cage "distorts". The fact that the plates and these connectors are loose in this way causes them to "wobble" while riding, which means not only that the pedals move around a little bit while riding but— more importantly— they make horribly annoying metallic rattling/squeaking sounds when riding. 

Considering that e.g. a Raleigh Super Course doesn't have eyelets for a rear rack, would it then be possible to install a rack via this latter "clamp" method? Would it be able to hold a proper amount of weight, e.g. 20kg? Likewise, how would one put fenders on such a bike (if this is indeed possible)? 

You haven't mentioned what a "cycling vacation" is for you: Is it a four-day wine tour in France, or is it a month-long trek across Kazakhstan? You mention "100+ km/day", which implies a decent pace, but it still leaves the riding style open as to how often you take breaks, how tough the terrain is, etc. Easy/short/safe rides The closer you are to civilization and the more frequently you take breaks, the less important the actual handlebar choice is: If it's not comfortable or you don't feel confident using them, take it slow, take more breaks, etc. If you really don't like them, spend an extra day relaxing in some nice town and cut your trip a bit short. The cost of changing out handlebars in terms of money, time and hassle just may not be worth it. Hardcore tours On the other hand, if you're going to be in the middle of nowhere and absolutely have to e.g. get across those mountains and to a specific village by nightfall or else you're in big trouble, the costs of using a new handlebar style may be more critical. In fact, if this is the type of tour you're envisaging, the "cost" of renting and riding a bike you're not used to (and possibly don't trust) may be higher than the cost of bringing your own bike along. 

Although this isn't exactly a "Welding Stack Exchange", perhaps someone here has experience in (trying to) repair this sort of metalwork?-- Is it possible and feasible from an economic and/or usage perspective, and if so, how can it be done? Of course, such a small front rack would never need to carry a truly heavy load, but it should be strong enough to hold a significant amount of weight without bending or breaking (again). It would be a shame to throw it away, since it seems that Motoconfort/Motobecane luggage racks aren't all that common any more. 

†In this regard, possibly the only places in the world which can safely be called idiot-free are all in the Netherlands or Denmark. 

I've got an old steel-frame road bike which has started making a very unpleasant and worrying buzzing sound when riding over rough/uneven terrain (e.g. roads with lots of fissures/cracks, cobblestones etc.). I've tried 

I know of at least one peer-reviewed article which shows that wearing a (proper) filtering facemask does have noticeable effects on one's vital signs compared to when not wearing a facemask. However, some people still say that they make very little difference in terms of long-term health effects. Moreover, the actual quality of the "filtering" of masks varies wildly — Each has different tests done on it by different companies... and even on different parts of the mask: Some certify the filters themselves but don't have a certification for how much air goes through the filters as opposed to past the sides of the mask (and is therefore unfiltered). Finally, although it is merely a personal anecdote, for about a year I commuted on a heavily-trafficked route and would have a runny nose and a scratchy throat when I arrived at my destination. I then ordered a mask from totobobo and saw that the filters were indeed getting visibly dirty over little time, so something must be happening. I also noticed less nose-running and throat stratchiness — but this could just as easily have been a placebo effect, a random change in average pollution levels or a number of other confounding variables. So, I'd tentatively say that yes, a good facemask can be (somewhat) effective at reducing the amount of particulates and other pollution a cyclist inhales while travelling through heavily-polluted areas. Whether the amount it is reduced by is enough to make a significant health difference, I can't say. However, when riding on especially heavily-trafficked roads for a longer period of time (either on a pushbike or a motorbike), I do still get out the mask, 'cuz I'm paranoid like that. 

As you can see in the picture, there is a spring on each caliper arm (in the blue square) which needs to be "set" between a hook on the center piece and a hook on the arm itself. When doing this for only one side, you can simply manipulate the arm into place by squeezing it in your hand and then letting the spring settle in. However, when trying to assemble the other arm, I run into huge problems: 

very carefully take the tire off of the rim without moving the inner tube: You want to be able to inspect the inner tube in relation to the rim itself. Very carefully remove the inner tube up and away from the rim, once again without moving the tube in relation to the rim. Check the underside of the inner tube for punctures-- if you find one, find the corresponding spot on the rim, where that part of the inner tube contacted the rim while riding. If the puncture lies directly on top of a spoke hole, your rim tape isn't doing its job; Get some new tape. If your rim has recessed spoke holes, you'll have to be extra careful to get rim tape which is designed specifically for the pressure you intend to pump your tire up to, e.g. Schwalbe High Pressure tape. 

Well, I did it again: While working on a bike with rod brakes I lost the bolt which connects the two "actuating" rods to each other (I have no idea what these parts are even called; The measuring tape is in centimeters): 

How can I fix my shifting setup so that it doesn't go out of whack due to the cable stop moving under stress? — I've tried putting rubber tape between the cable stop and the frame, but that doesn't seem to accomplish much (as visible in the photo above). 

While looking for replacement pedals for my old French bike, I've come across products which are labelled as having thread size "M14/125". Does this denote the "traditional French" threading of 14*1.25mm? 

However, while working on the bike, I removed the rack and now don't know how to properly wrap the tether so that it stays tight: It used to have some sort of "sailor-esque" smart looping method which kept the hook at the end taut, but my landlubber self undid the knot and now doesn't know how to tie the tether properly, so now there's a huge amount of extra slack and the whole bit is loose. What sort of knot-fu do I need to make the tether taut on the rack?