I think you are giving him exactly the right advice. He should maintain his dignity and go about his business like the good employee he has always been. That will help things in at least two ways that I can think of offhand: 1) Your Dad maintains his dignity and integrity. 2) It may give the new boss pause. Depending on how smart and honest he is, he may realize that although your Dad might not be as productive as he was a decade ago, he contributes certain "intangibles" that make it worthwhile to have him around. It seems pretty clear that your dad is a man of integrity and would never consider doing little things that might make it easier for them to fire him, but in some situations people do such things. 

Don't bring all of your 6 kids at once - your wife and one or two well behaved kids at most. (Babies are often the best as long as they don't cry a lot - people generally like babies, and it's understood that sometimes babies have to "tag along" somewhere with mommy or daddy, etc.) Keep it brief and low pressure. Don't go around introducing them to everybody - that's potentially disturbing and might make some people uncomfortable. Probably best to wait for those interested to come over to you and you can then introduce the family - your friends and co-workers will probably do that. (If you have a personal connection with the bosses or your manager, then maybe bring them in for an introduction - a token of your respect.) Half an hour is usually plenty of time. Again - take your cues from what others are doing. Time it right: Don't do it the day after someone else just did it, and don't do it at a very busy time, etc. Friday afternoons or lunch hours seem to be popular times for bringing family around. In all such matters, be practical and use common sense - it's a workplace, not a living room. 

You might believe it's good for the company that your developers share their home projects with others. However, the developers themselves may believe just the opposite, and their reasons may be quite important to them, and have nothing to do with fear of rejection. For example: 

You say you didn't get into any major trouble with your supervisor, so I think you should just take a deep breath and let it go. Follow the instructions of your supervisor and carry on. If you detect a persistent pattern on the part of this particular co-worker - that she really seems to be "out to get you" - then you may have a more serious question to post up here. Let's hope that won't be the case. I do agree with @Socrates that reporting that you left early is a red flag - it's none of her business. So, watch carefully, but don't act rashly or jump to conclusions. 

The first thing you need to keep in mind is that if the firm has started a mentoring program, its purpose is to help you sort out the kinds of issues you mention. What else would a mentoring program be for, unless you believe it's some kind of trap to get people to expose their weaknesses? That being said, your first point: 

Nobody has ever seem disturbed by any of this (myself included), and my impression has always been that the bosses liked the idea of an employee showing that they feel a personal connection to the firm and are comfortable enough in the workplace to show the family around. 

I was in exactly the same position about ten years ago. Very difficult to negotiate this - there are very few managers of this sort, especially if they are new on the job, that will appreciate "friendly" recommendations from their underlings about how to manage things when they've just come in and intend to "do things their way". If you are not careful, you may find yourself out of a job. In my case, there was someone "higher up in the food chain" that did understand something about managing developers, and I turned directly to them. They told me I could safely ignore the new manager. If you have that option, perhaps try it. Still, be very careful - make sure you know the territory well. Otherwise, IMO, if you don't want to look for a new job, your best bet is to play the new guy's game for a while - kiss up and be good: In six months or a year, if you do good work, you'll have established credibility with the new guy. Then things will loosen up and you'll be able to gradually move back to your old mode of working. 

What do you think? Would you look unfavorably on a worker that disrupted the day to bring his spouse and kids into the office, or am I way over thinking this, and it's not a problem whatsoever? I work in the USA, for what it is worth, I also have 6 kids (and two of those would definitely be noisy/distracting to others at times). You're not over-thinking it - no. Company culture is important - you should always consider it, just don't obsess over it. Doing something that "isn't done" won't help you on the job, especially since you're fairly new. As a general rule for you, I'd say you should wait a while and see what others are doing at your new firm. If you see others who are on your level, to exclude high level management etc (important distinction...) occasionally bringing up the family, then it should be OK for you to do the same, with a few stipulations: 

I think requesting outright that they be terminated now might be pushing it - it depends on your relationship with your own superiors and your familiarity with the firm's power structure: You run the risk of making the one who hired them look bad, which could end up being bad for you... A better course of action might be along these lines: 

IMO you should just keep doing what you're doing and wait. You still have some time. As the deadline draws near, try to finish up a piece of work very nicely and talk over that work with your boss - then slowly try to move the conversation towards the subject of permanent employment, based on your excellent performance (but don't sound boastful, just sincere and gratified that you're able to do good work and make a contribution.) But, take it easy on socializing with co-workers - you are exposing yourself to potential competitors or enemies. Don't be a loner but mix only with great moderation and selectivity - 'keep your powder dry'. Also, don't look like you're trying too hard, even if you are. In your situation, keeping a low profile might be better. 

I think this conveys appropriate appreciation in a warm but professional manner, and also shows humility and a desire to please your employer. That's what an employee should be working to do, and that's the way you "make progress as a professional". 

You're a developer, not HR or a manager whose job it is to concern themselves with the company's professional image, or others being offended. As long as it doesn't directly interfere with your own work, "Let It Be". If someone with a legitimate personal gripe or appropriate authority takes up the matter, so be it. If not, then not. 

If possible, bring it up at an interview: "At my previous job, I sometimes took a few breaks during the day to clear my head. They knew I was a good worker so it wasn't a problem. Would that be OK here?" Note: This is a subject that should be taken up with extreme care - with the right person, at the right time. Before you start taking many breaks, establish yourself as a good, industrious worker. Create some kind of track record of productivity, so that you won't be branded as a new slacker. Observe your co-workers: What do the veterans do? What is considered acceptable for them? That will give you an idea of what is within bounds. 

is not quite as straighforward because it doesn't directly concern your current career trajectory with the firm, but is dependent on several "what ifs" which would have to materialize for your concerns to be at all relevant. So on that point I'd say hold off on delving into the subject with your mentor until the good news arrives that you have been promoted to the position of technical lead, and then you succeed at that post. At that point you'll be in a position to be worried about "what's next" and have something important and relevant to discuss with a mentor. (Assumming you still need one then - which you may not.) Regardless, it doesn't seem like a good idea to say to your mentor "I see this job coming to an end and I'm probably going to have to move on..." Assumedly the purpose of the mentor is to help you further your career in the firm, not to provide you with a personal career coach. 

This seems so simple - not sure why someone has yet to answer quite this way: If you don't know where the potential position is located, your first question to any recruiter is: "Where is this position that you suggesting?" I've done exactly that myself, many times. 

Alice is a different story: Alice wants to better herself by moving, and her move may well benefit Branch B. Branch A doesn't like it because it will hurt them? How is that relevant? Why should Alice be held back because her team doesn't want her to leave? The question here is what's better for the firm at large: Will Alice add more value as part of Branch A or Branch B? Is Alice good enough/important enough that her desire to move should be accommodated, regardless of what Team A thinks? Should the company "bend over backwards" to accommodate Alice? Again, that's a decision for management to make. 

I'm very puzzled as to why you insist on taking the most negative outlook on something that is clearly positive. My hunch is that you believe that becoming a "team player" will somehow compromise your abilities and feeings of self-worth - perhaps you'd rather "do your own thing" without any undue responsibility. IMO this is a mistake: Contrary to what @MeredithPoor states, I can honestly say that in my 20 years in the industry as a code jockey, I have met neither a "team developer", nor a "solo developer", who was any good! A good developer mixes and discusses and learns from the team, then goes back to the work and writes code alone - solo, incorporating what has been absorbed from the team. No matter how good you are, additional perspectives and insights are always helpful and important (even on apparently simple matters), if you only allow them to be. My advice to you is to grab this opportunity and make the most of it. Forget about what you think you "ought to be" and what you anticipate, and just do what you need to do to succeed in the role you are being offered. Perhaps some people are indeed hoping that you'll fail - there's no denying that those things do happen - office/company politics can get very complex. But if that's the case, it should just be an incentive for you to make sure that you don't fail. If you come upon situations that lead you to believe your being forced into failure, cross that bridge when you get to it, probably by going to upper management, in a very delicate way. Not everyone gets such a chance - you'd be a fool to turn it down. 

Short-sighted and a bit arrogant on your part, IMO. Why not see it as a good thing: The candidate is open to taking advice from others who are older and wiser than they are - perhaps the mother is savvy and has experience in judging people, workplaces, etc. Maybe you and the business were getting checked out by a smart woman, while you were doing the interview...