I recently started running again after a several-year hiatus. Most of my running so far has been on a treadmill indoors, because the weather has been bad, so I have relatively solid data for my progress so far. I've worked up from a 12-minute mile pace for 20 minutes to around 9 minutes per mile for the same 20 minutes. Then I bought some minimalist running shoes, and have knocked my runs down to 10 minutes (and increasing my pace to almost 8 minutes per mile) this week so as not to overdo it. I'm now at a sort of critical junction in my training I think. I'm training for the Ragnar Relay Wasatch Back in June. My position has 3, 7, and 4 mile legs, the last of which climbs about 1600 feet. I used to run a lot, and I did the Army Ten-Miler in 68 minutes, but that was 13 years ago, and for the last 4 or 5 years I haven't run much at all. Is it realistic to think I can both increase my average pace and at the same time increase my mileage to be ready for the race by June 17? I ask because I'd like to get my pace to 8 or less minutes per mile if possible, but with only 9 weeks I'm not sure I can do this and still build up the serious mileage and time I'll need to be properly conditioned for the race. 

Breathing only through your nose will force you to run slower until your body adapts. There is a major emphasis on speed training, intervals, etc in the running community, and most people are unable to function without gulping down huge mouthfuls of air. When you take a way that air volume, you have to slow down for a while while your body builds its natural aerobic efficiency back up. Many people have a hard time being patient during this retraining period. It feels a little stressful if your nose starts feeling like its getting clogged, or runny. This is your body telling you to slow down a little bit. Again, many people don't want to slow down. 

In the USA, if it's a public high school, the track will typically be open to the public after normal school hours (with maybe a buffer of a few hours for after-school sports practices), since the track is paid for with taxpayer money. If it's a private school this will not be the case. The best bet, regardless, would be to check with the local school district or the principal of the school in question. 

I run only as fast as I can breath through my nose. Our respiratory system is designed such that for any level of aerobic activity in which we regularly participate we can obtain sufficient oxygen by breathing through our nose. I don't know what kind of pace you want to run at, or how long you mean by long distance, so there's considerable room for interpretation here, but in the long run most people are better off breathing through their nose as much as possible. Upsides: 

Start now. Even though at the moment you'll probably be limited in length and regularity of workouts, you'll need the slow ramp up, especially if it's been a long time since you have done anything with those muscles. So start slow, learn how to do it right, and do what you can for the time being. When things get moved off your plate later, then go ahead and make the real commitment. Once you make that commitment, the fact that you have been doing something will make the transition much easier and can help prevent the excessive soreness that comes with jumping headfirst into a new training regimen. 

You say yourself that your calves are looking better. What you have been doing, with somewhat constant, slight-to-moderate soreness, hasn't hurt you. However, our bodies dislike stress, and pain (even soreness) increases our stress, reducing our bodies ability to perform. Taking it easy for a week to allow the soreness to subside also hasn't hurt you. The soreness has apparently gone down and you feel good and ready to run some more. You've (had to?) rely on icing and massage, in part at least, to get the soreness to go away. 

First, kudos to you for cutting back your training enough that soreness was all you encountered. I see far too many people who say they cut back, but still overdo it and injure themselves. Here are three points and a personal anecdote to consider: 

If I'm starting running again after a long hiatus (I don't run much when we have a new baby so as to help my wife out) I do stationary barefoot running at a low (130-140 bpm) heart rate for 2 or 3 weeks both to build up the strength in my feet and to start conditioning my respiratory system. I start with 15 minutes every other day for a week or so, then move up to 20 for a few times, then 25, then 30 for maybe 3 times. By then I'm usually ready to run 2 miles (ish) outdoors without completely overcooking myself. It can get boring, I usually run in place in front of BBC Earth documentaries to ease the monotony, but I've found it to be very effective. It's (for me) no more boring than running on a treadmill, and you don't have to go anywhere to get a noticeable health benefit. 

Our sinuses and nasal passages are designed to clean, humidify, and heat or cool the air we breath to provide optimal oxygen uptake in the lungs. Our mouths provide no such service. Dust and particulates flow quite freely through the mouth and throat. (I'm not saying our noses can filter out everything, but any filtering is better than none). Running at a pace that allows for breathing through the nose will encourage you to slow down enough to build your aerobic base, enhancing your bodies ability to burn fat and use the oxygen you breath. As time progresses, this pace will increase, and eventually you will be able to run as fast as you previously were while breathing through your mouth. Breathing through your nose helps your body stay relaxed, and helps keep your heart rate lower for a given rate of exercise. Translated to running, this means you don't feel like you're working as hard as you do when you breath through your mouth. 

A good way to practice good form is to run in place. Start with about 5 minutes max of just running in place 3 or 4 times per week. Even less if your feet start to feel tired. Focus on lifting your foot about 4-6" off the floor and keeping your knees bent to keep the impact of your heel light. This helps get the hang of a relaxed, easy landing and helps you get used to standing up straight to run. Add about 1 minute every week, but not until 5 minutes doesn't result in your feet feeling tired or sore muscles in your feet/calves the next day. You've already noticed the warnings about overdoing it, but I'll add this: a major factor in learning to run comfortably/properly (mostly interchangeable IMO) barefoot is to pay attention to how your feet feel. If your feet start to feel tired, numb, or sore your form will suffer and you're cruising straight for an injury. Most of all, have fun. It took me almost a year to return to the running volume I was doing before I switched to minimalist shoes and just plain barefoot running. But the result is truly enjoyable. 

+1 for squats. Lunges are another good biking power builder. I tend to mix running stairs with squats to provide a little variation. Riding on the road can help you build fitness too. Generally speaking, road riding is lower impact than mountain biking, which allows you to log some serious miles without the off-road pounding. As far as training on the bike, hill intervals are the best way to strengthen your legs and build power. Find a hill that you can do in a decent gear (granny gear doesn't make you much stronger) and that can be made into a loop of some sort. Sprint up the hill, then ride the rest of the loop to cool down before sprinting the hill again. The ability to adjust the length of the loop gives you longer/shorter "rest" periods. 

Rubberized tracks are a very forgiving, comfortable surface to run on, so I wouldn't rule it out if there's one available. But for me, at least, running more than a couple of miles (more than 8 laps on a standard 1/4 mile track) gets really boring unless I listen to an audio-book on my iPhone or something. If you're really good at tuning out and letting your mind wander, or you have something interesting to listen to (or a running partner to talk with), running on a track is a convenient, consistent way to go. Running cross-country (on non-paved surfaces) is certainly more interesting than running on a track. Unless you run a regular route, it's not as easy to gauge your progress, because there will always be differences in elevation from route to route that can mask or simulate fitness increases. But I don't get as bored, especially when I'm running cross-country on trails. Running "cross-country" on paved surfaces is about the same, but a little more punishing on the joints if you don't run with good form, and a little more boring, as paved trails/roads are usually in less-interesting locations than unpaved trails and dirt roads. 

One way of looking at aerobic function is as the bodies ability to burn fat for fuel at a given pace or speed. Anaerobic function then is the bodies ability to burn sugar for fuel when we move beyond the pace at which we can burn primarily fat. Heart rate is often a good indicator of which mode we're in. Intervals and speed training, then, burn mostly sugar for fuel. Weight loss when engaged in this type of activity comes from the elevation of the metabolic process extending long after the workout, and is the net result of how elevated the metabolic rate is and for how long, and the caloric intake necessary to provide sugar to fuel this type of workout. Training at a slightly lower intensity, where we burn primarily fat for fuel, can do two things: 

Try taking your shoes off. Or, probably better, buying some zero-drop, low-stack-height shoes (the Merrell Vapor Glove is my personal favorite). This will provide immediate feedback on over-striding and the accompanying heel-striking because it will hurt. As you build up strength in your feet, ankles, and calves, it will probably also help with the excessive supination. Also, stubbing the ball of your foot on sidewalk cracks, curbs, etc. a few times will also help with getting your feet high enough off the ground fast enough. BUT: please don't expect to keep whatever volume of running you're currently doing if you do switch to barefoot running or running in minimalist shoes. Start off very small and work your way up very slowly. It will take longer than you might think to build your atrophied foot architecture up to the appropriate level of strength. 

I'm also going to disagree with Kneel-Before-ZOD. There's nothing wrong with running completely barefoot outdoors. You just need to look where you're running, stay relaxed, and run properly. Regardless of whether you're running actually barefoot or with minimal shoes, the keys to remember are: 

Don't think you have to gain lots of weight to "look less skinny". While there's nothing wrong with building muscle and bulking up, joining a gym and lifting weights is something you have to commit to for long-term, otherwise (as in if you start and build some muscle mass, then stop) the muscles you grow will go slack and you won't look a lot better than you do know. You don't have to put on lots of weight or grow big muscles to look better. Getting fit in general and toning up will improve your appearance (and make you feel a lot better). An alternative would be calisthenics (such as pushups, crunches, free squats, etc) and other exercises you can do anywhere with minimal equipment. I wrestled and ran the 400m dash in high school, in addition to doing farm and construction work during the summer, but when I went to Basic Training for the Army, I actually got a little thicker in the shoulders just from all the different kinds of pushups we did, and from the drill sergeants' best friend, the Overhead Arm Clap (looks just like it sounds). So I'd suggest 3 or 4 variations of pushups for your chest and shoulders, some crunches, planks and leg lifts for your core strength, free squats for your legs, and running/cycling for aerobic fitness. These can be done in about 20-30 minutes per day. I'd personally recommend the 100 pushup challenge, the 200 sit-ups challenge (I just do crunches), and something like Couch-to-5k (never tried but have heard good things about it) to begin with. Any form of exercise needs to be committed to and continued long term to be of worth; calisthenics and running just require less equipment and expense. On a side note, you also don't have to grow lots of muscle mass to be strong. The guy in our platoon that hit me the hardest of anyone else in pugil sticks was skinny as a rail. Edit: Me in high school vs. me now The major difference (besides 15 years): not being able to spend 4-6 hours every day working out.