Your superhumans are characterized by higher levels of strength and durability. This suggests standard munitions could be used against them. Although, scaled up in terms of penetrating power because the strength of materials constituting their bodies will also increase to compensate for the stresses entailed in exerting their greater levels of strengths. No magic bullets are required. Just more high-powered ones. Probably, with higher velocities to give the punch of higher kinetic energy to penetrate their superhuman flesh. Appropriate weapons and their bullets would need to be chosen for each of the four targets. 

Mirror matter and ordinary matter, if they do interact, will do so very weakly. In fact, sufficiently so they could pass through each other as if they weren't there. 

In situations like this simplicity is best. Basically there are two goals you want to achieve. Namely, getting the world back to the level of the Renaissance and killing everybody over thirty-five years old. This having something to do with electricity and telomeres, as we shall see, is optional. The main problem with making sure electricity doesn't work is that this involves effectively rewriting the laws of electromagnetism. Normally this author finds rewriting the laws of physics an attractive option, but in this case it's not necessary. By the way, most methods of making electricity not work, fail or plain go away are too difficult, too clumsy and have a plethora of nasty side-eFfects. Also, in most cases the effect will be temporary not permanent. So we will ban it. Question: why would normally rational people ban electricity? Because something that scares the pantaloons off them happens. Firstly, assume this happens in a highly connected, electronic and electrical devices and technology is everywhere sort of world. Like ours, but perhaps a decade or two ahead. Secondly, there is a massive die-off of people over thirty-five (35) years old. This population collapse doesn't need to be explained. People over 35 just die. It could be a virus. It could be genetic collapse due to excess pollution.** It could even be due to electromagnetic pollution. presently we live in an electromagnetic "smog". Under circumstances where this happens rapidly enough, most people will be panicking, at least, until things settle down. There will be massive social, political and economic dislocation. Someone conceives the idea that modern electronic and electrical technology is to blame. This is exactly the sort of crazy notion that will go viral in this situation. Electricity is banned. As the ban comes into effect, the dying stops. Either because the world has run out of people over 35 or the virus has run its course or electromagnetic pollution was the cause all along. Viola! First and second requirement for this scenario met. Summary The world to Hell in a hand-basket because the over thirty-fives die off massively. Global civilization collapses. Electricity is banned. Either the thirty-fives stop dying off (which would reinforce the ban) or their deaths continue (assuming the causative agent or mechanism is still doing its work). In the later case, the ban on electricity might not hold up. This will be left as an exercise for the OP to decide. PS: **: The original thinking fort his answer was that banning electricity would be the most economical explanation. Thus, fulfilling the criterion of Ockham's Razor. However, the concept of electromagnetic pollution has been around for a long time. If this had an affect, long-term, on the human genome, then there might be life-threatening consequences. Everything from resetting the human lifespan to new genetic diseases afflicting the thirty-fives and over. Thus the possibility of a real cause related to electricity, or as in this case, electromagnetic pollution has been added. This isn't just cell phones, microwave ovens, computers or high-tension power lines. This is the whole background of electromagnetic activity permeating the human environment, from every source of electrical activity. 

It is worth revisiting the vision of the universe as seen in the late nineteenth century when Wells wrote The War of the Worlds (1898). In that view the planets of the solar system formed from a cloud of gas and dust. This is the so-called Laplacian nebula hypothesis, not unsurprisingly formulated by the Comte de Laplace, mathematician and astronomer, it postulated that the planets condensed out of the nebula, with the outer planets forming first. This means that the inner planets formed last. So the further you go out from the Sun the older are the planets. Mars by this reasoning is older than Earth.** Using this cosmological framework Wells speculated that Mars is much older, growing colder, its resources running out, and all in all it is a dying planet. The canny Martians finding their home planet is going to wrack and ruin decide to dispatch an invasion force to seize the Earth by superior technological force and make it the new abode for Martian life and intelligence. As a side-note: Because Wells had studied science, in particular zoology, he took pains to make his Martians non-human creatures unlike other writers of imaginative romances who were his contemporaries. Although Wells wrote a speculative article called "Man of the Year Million" which suggested our far-future descendants might become creatures that were not too dissimilar to his Martians. There is more than a hint that the Martians are what we will become, and despite the better technology they weren't much improved ethically. The dying planet rationale is often used to justify alien invasions by science-fiction writers. This is a big improvement over writers who seem think coming to steal all our water would be a great idea for an invasion. The purpose of this answer is to show what was the reason within the conceptual framework of the late nineteenth century that prompted and shaped the way HG Wells wrote about a Martian invasion. His novel reflects the science and politics of his day. **: Also, Venus was considered in the Laplacian model to be a much younger planet than Earth. This the reason why the planet Venus was often portrayed in early to mid-twentieth century science-fiction as a world of primeval swamps, jungles and dinosaur-like monsters. Basically as an exotic version of the prehistoric Earth. 

It's not a matter of the poor being able to afford prosthetic limbs, the government gives them to the disabled. Why? Because it's cheaper than paying out welfare benefits. This way the poor can get back to work again. Pity about the likelihood of them losing more limbs in the oppressive sweatshops where they're forced to work. No-one wants them living off the State. Why waste good tax dollars on social welfare for the poor when there are richly deserving corporations that need propping up and safeguarding against the incompetent decisions of their executives, that periodically bankrupt them. EDIT: I forgot to mention I assumed the prosthetic technology is mature, development costs have been paid off, and manufacturing costs have plunged. 

There are major problems for human-sized amoeboids. Firstly, the material an amoeba is made of is basically a thin gooey substance rather like snot. To scale up in size an organism that is basically a puddle of goo is itself highly problematic. Adding a skeleton isn't enough. This will give you a creature that is a skeleton covered in a snot-like goo. This would be good for a really high yuk factor. Also, skeletons need muscles and connective tissue to support the organism and help it move. This suggests that your amoeboid will be less and less like an amoeba and more and more like conventional animal. Less of a giant single cell and more of a normal multicellular creature that might look somewhat like an amoeba. This might not be very helpful for the creature. Also, scaling up an amoeba's outer cell wall is likely to make it too rigid to move. However, possibly instead of a skeleton giant amoeboids might create temporary rigidified regions of their protoplasmic body to provide support and the equivalent of effectors to faciliate movement. Not exactly legs but possibly closer to the muscle masses in molluscs like snails to move around. This process of stiffening and unstiffening parts of its protoplasm will presumably take energy. Also, it doesn't sound like an efficient way to get around. In conclusion, this answer has considered there are a range of major problems in scaling up what is a well adapted organism on the microscopic scale to the size of human beings where it becomes highly maladapted and dysfunctional. Some tentative suggestions have been made about possible alternative structures and mechanisms to facilitate gigantic amoeboids. Making gigantic amoeboids scientifically plausible isn't going to be easy. 

The question makes the implicit assumption that the biological entities will be soldiers. Obviously they won't be, the machines will be the soldiers. Any biological entities will be either officers or operators directing combat waged by the machines. The biological entities won't be on the battlefield. There is no reason for them to be there. warfare has moved on. Warfare mainly no longer involves soldier on soldier combat. It is about the projection of force on civilian populations. Wars are becoming more and more acts of terrorism carried out by both State and non-State actors. The soldiery is now too well-armed and well-equipped this makes combat between military forces exercises in annihilating each other. This reduces the point for armed forces to fight each other. When the soldiery is machinery, this point is reduced to an effective zero. Battlefields will be lethal autonomous weapons attacking civilian populations. The biological entities will be giving orders and directing the killer robots where to go. They will far away from the battlefield. The biological entities won't be military, they will be targets or, in military old-speak, collateral damage. 

It is possible for life to develop on the moon of a tellurian planet, if the moon has an atmosphere, there is liquid water, and sufficient time for it to evolve. Most persons looking at Earth's Moon will observe most of these life-supporting condition are conspicuously absent. Although sufficient time has passed, but, unfortunately, this by itself isn't enough. Therefore, it seems probable that to have a habitable moon those conditions must be present. Such a moon must be considerably more massive than our Moon. The atmosphere needs a stronger gravity than the Moon's to prevent the losing atmospheric gases in uncomfortably short periods of time. This makes our habitable moon closer to a planet (in terms of mass, size, surface conditions, etc). So this looks more like a binary planet system than an Earth-Moon system of planet and a moon. Short answer: to have a habitable moon of a habitable planet, the habitable must itself be more like a habitable planet. As for biological similarity between the lifeforms on the habitable planet and its habitable moon. There will be a high probability of an exchange of meteors between the two bodies. Microbial life has an excellent chance of passing from planet to moon and from moon to planet. Lifeforms on both worlds will most likely share a common DNA, similar biochemistry, and microbial organisms that are similar. However, evolutionary conditions will shape the majority of lifeforms on either world. While convergent evolution will undoubtedly produce equivalent morphologies or body forms, most lifeforms will be adapted to their own environments. Expect some lifeforms in common, at least, in terms of appearance and structure, but many will be shaped by the specific conditions of their environments. Chance and natural selection will guarantee biological success. This doesn't ensure the two worlds will have common lifeforms except at the level of their biochemistry. NOTE: This answer chose the adjective 'tellurian' for Earthlike as in Earthlike planets. 

Source: Poul Anderson, Encyclopedia of Science Fiction Vernor Vinge in his novel A Fire Upon the Deep (1992) employed a somewhat similar concept. 

What they might find is that if we are living in a Dualist universe and mind is an extraphysical something without spatiotemporal location, is that computers and other information processing technology acquire minds and have consciousness. Why should an extraphysical mentality discriminate against machines and only preferring to animate living creatures like human beings? This may mean artificial intelligence could be achieved back in 1950's or 1960's. In Descartes model of Dualism the mind connected to the body via the pineal gland. If we assume this is so, or, at least, something like it, then there would have to be a technological equivalent of the pineal gland to connect an extraphysical mind to a computer. Of course, in a Dualist universe what I've called an extraphysical mind might be closer to a soul. Could it lead to the survival of personality after death? This is the traditional view of such entities. Whereas, Dualism probably a much more complex set of interactions between physical and mentalistic entities and substances. I apologise if this isn't a proper answer, but thinking about this matter raised a few speculative possibilities in my mind (wherever it is located) which I decided to pass along. 

Because space whales are feeding at the level of basic molecules their metabolism will be more like that of a chemical factory than a conventional biological entity. However, basic molecules can be built up into proteins, lipids and glycerides and other organic material. But who said living in space was easy? 

If the question is : "Note that you can't just hope (sic) in a time machine and go back in time. Time travel is constrained to the way FTL actually works. My question is, how does this effect the economy?" Then the answer is simple. It's the cost of destroying Alcubierre FTL spacecraft and the loss of life of passengers and crew. Because travel to the past $URL$ demonstrates that attempting to use an Alcubierre FTL vessel as a time machine will destroy it and its warp bubble will be destabilised. Quantum effects will make it impossible to accomplish backwards time travel. The economic impact will be in disaster cost. This makes me wonder if this is a trick question. Surely the OP read the Wikipedia page about the consequences of causality violation for Alcubierre FTL vessels?