You need to meet with your direct supervisor and discuss: her goals, your perceived technical expertise and your responsibilities. All the arguments regardless of their technical merits will do you no good if they don't fit in with the supervisor's goals. In areas of your responsibility, ask if you can take charge and seek out the help of others as needed. If people make suggestions, you're in the position to make the decision, but you need to get the authority first. As far as your technical expertise, pick and choose your battles. Push to have your opinion heard in these cases. Let the rest go. You don't want people to disagree with you because they think you're always disagreeing with everyone else. Also, I think this will help alleviate some of the mental frustration. Technical people too often ignore the politics of working with others. Concentrate on developing strategies to communicate and to get what you want instead on expecting everyone to recognize you having the right answer automatically. 

It all boils down to what you are worth relative to where your skills fit in the market. I don't think this should be just a matter of: What were you paying before that the company is paying now? They will factor all that in but you don't have to. This is a negotiation. Benefits of Being an Employee Check your taxes and consider what they're going to pay compared to what you paid. Healthcare could be a little tricky. Let's say you pay 100 per month (pick your currency this is hypothetical). The company offers a similar plan (good luck comparing the two) and you will only pay 25. What does the difference of 75/month mean? This is going to give you an idea of what you may be willing to settle for along with some knowledge of what their offer is going to be based on. Do the math. What you're really worth. Was your contracting rate at the level of your expertise? Some people start out in contracting and may have been payed a lower fee because they were not experienced with a proven track record. Has the market changed since you were hired or do you now have some better insight into what the market is like? You should be able to leverage the fact that you are a proven employee and that is worth something or they shouldn't be hiring you. Depending on how far off you were on your contract salary, you may try and negotiate for no paycut at all. You should still be testing the job market to see what you can get. Don't get locked into purely basing it on the contract salary minus full-time benefits. Edit a little clarification: If you are the full-time employee of the agency (W-2?), they are paying your salary and possibliy benefits. There is a markup because they had to seek the candidates, do some screening and then replace them if they don't work out. I don't think any of this has to do with your salary. You need to clarify what is your salary and does that include benefits (and the value of those benefits). Are you working on contract independanty or as "someone's" full-time employee with benefits? 

Get someone to commit the expectations to you in writing. What do you have to do to prove yourself? Do they expect you to work additional or off hours? Ask for a fixed date of evaluation. The timeframe should give you enough time to prove yourself. Beware of making it too short. Change your bonus structure. If you prove yourself, they should want to give you something in return. 

Respond to your boss indicating the other person asked you to wait. What's the big deal. No one is perfect. Who knows, you may actually get an apology out of it. It's not your place to just call out her error and I realize you don't want to do that. She's already made the mistake by responding to everyone. Certainly the stakeholders realized you were told to wait and she missed it. I don't think they'll hold you responsible regardless of her criticism. To keep your sanity, instead of worrying about how to defend yourself, think about how to help your boss. Could you have pushed this request further to the top of the email chain to make sure your boss has the relevant information? Exactly how far down the chain do you really expect your boss to read? You're probably not the only person on a particular project she has to be concerned with. Make your job easier by making your boss's job easier. This may require a meeting to see how you can help and prevent this from happening in the future. Communication is key. These things happen and I'm sorry it happened to you. Brush it off. 

You're going to be naturally curious early in a job. but not all situations are the same, so you need to go through a process of evaluating this for yourself. 

Sorry, but everyone should have code reviews. Writers have editors. Athletes have coaches. Other fields of engineering have inspectors. It is very easy to fall into bad practices out of habit, time constraints, and low skill levels. You're benefiting these people by pointing out problems and encouraging the continued use of best practices. It's the only way they're going to change. No one should expect to be perfect. Someone gets fired as a result of a negative code review? What is the alternative? Let them keep checking in bad code? You'll be the one cleaning it up and ultimately, your users will have to suffer. These people have an opportunity to learn from a senior developer, so if they don't take advantage of it and try to improve themselves, they need to go find another job and not you. Pardon the Rant Can anyone take criticism any more? Do they really think they're perfect? Companies go bankrupt because of incompetence. School is over. Time for people to grow up and do their job. 

It is very common for new employees to have a period of time before they work on production code. It doesn't matter how much experience he has, he is starting from square one with the current technology. The problems should be addressed with "Roger" and he can either clean up his code or it doesn't get checked-in or released into production. If you are responsible for training this person, he can't keep fighting you or none of his work sees the light of day. Change his security access if you have to. Work with him and let him review your code as well. Maybe he'll learn something. Projects will fall behind, and management will want you to do the work for him (bad idea at this time) or put his work into production (really bad idea). Clients shouldn't have to suffer this fool. Keep pushing the issue that you are still training him. Who knows, it could take years. Don't bother complaining about him or his progress because they want him there for some reason other than competency. Hopefully he can come around, but you need to make sure he can't do any harm. In the long run, you're better off doing all the work instead of cleaning up his messes. It is very difficult to determine what level of pain the company (or their users/clients) has to suffer before management fixes this problem by getting rid of him. 

You thought your current salary was good enough/competitive until you discovered at least one company that will pay you more. This is why it's important to interview for several jobs and continue to interview. It's good practice and you get to learn what you're worth. You're reluctant to ask for raises in general and/or you're no good at it. This happens. I wonder how many people go their whole career and never ask for a raise? Your boss indicated the company can't afford to give you a raise. Doesn't seem to be the issue here, but some companies give the impression that it is frowned upon to ask for a raise and could bring negative consequences. Doesn't seem like that's the company you want to work for. You could get a raise by telling them you have a counter-offer or not, but they're going to hold back on your next raise and/or bonus. You could make less money in the long-run. 

It's not just you. HR asks these questions a lot and I'm sure they get tired of the same answers. Also, it doesn't have to be job or programming related. 

Most of these differences are painted with broad strokes. If you're making a choice between two jobs, it is more determined by the people involved. No one wants to have a jerk for a direct supervisor regardless of company size. Startups risks: 

I don't think you need to bluff about another job. What you need to do is let them know you're concerned about this lengthy hiring process. "This is a new position for us" is kind of a weak excuse. They need to assume you could be getting other offers without the luxury of waiting for you to tell them. It puts you in a awkward position. Even if you truly get another offer, are you going to be able to prove it to them? Are they going to interrogate you to see if you're lying? Who wants to work for people like this? Let them know you understand their situation, but you must continue your search. If they ask you if you've had other offers, tell them you don't want to answer and make it look like you're trying to pressure them. They need to get their act together. Unless they feel they need the time to gather more information, they're just procrastinating. That's a sign of poor leadership. 

I feel you've been trying to be more than accommodating and are cognizant of their social issues. Sometimes people need consequences when they don't do what they're supposed to do. You work with smart people whose strengths are problem solving. Put that to work. 

They want people who can build games, so start building a game. I can't emphasis this enough. Create a well-built game and don't get caught up in whether it will be popular/fun to play. They're not hiring you because they think you can come up with the next big idea. Show your skills. Don't hold back. Get as much feedback as you can and improve on it. Either put the game on some app site or make it open source or both. They want smart people who can figure things out and get them done. If you can't hold down a job and build a side project you may not have the horse-power to work in that industry. It's admirable that you're willing to sacrifice income to improve yourself. A willingness to do the work and put in the time shows a lot. If you find jobs in your area require certain credentials, then by all means, get the degree. Find game devs in your area if possible. Hang out with them and learn something. Play some games!. 

Go through the excercise of updating your resume and focus on tailoring it to this job. Many interviewers will want you to discuss previous projects that are relavent or one you're most proud of, etc. You may have a skill they require, but you haven't used in a long time. Basically, refresh your memory. I wouldn't spend all your time on it, but it will be helpful in the future.