Not in any way to be a trick answer, but in the Pali Cannon, Shakyamuni told followers not to take what he said on his word, or any teacher’s reputation, but to investigate oneself. I treat my Buddhism practice as a big experiment, on myself, testing, trying this or that, this teaching or that, this meditation and find what seems to work. But I don’t settle evers than I have any final answer, but follow what seems to work for me. And, my experience is that the Buddhism path is very personal. 

Eckart Tolle describes what I understand as a spontaneous awakening in his book “The Power of Now.’ His experience was not within the context of Buddhist meditation practice, and for me it misses the connection and explanations of an individual ‘experience’ to Buddhist teachings. Though American Zen Buddhist often adopt the ‘no scriptures’ rebellion of monks forced to endlessly recite and memorize scriptures, I believe study of Buddhist scriptures is beneficial to American Buddhists in order to build framework of reference for walking the Buddhist path. In short, it might be good to look to Buddhist teachings to put your experience in that framework. Then again, you could work with your experience within any frame of reference, or none or none. 

Somebody asked me these questions, and I am having a difficult time answering them. I don't know if it's just me and my circumstances, or if it is my Buddhist practice that keeps me from verbalizing the answer. In Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind, Shunyru Suzuki Roshi says a Buddhist should stay away from excitement which I agree with and try to follow. If I knew I wouldn't wake up tomorrow morning, I don't think I would be particularly upset. Is this a normal feeling Buddhists have or come to after they have been practicing? 

Many people aren't aware that software developing and programming also requires creativity when at an impasse. When I get stuck, I want to try harder to solve the problem and get it over with (almost in a forceful way) which usually makes things worse. I notice that my eyes fatigue much faster and I get a sense of generalized restlessness. My body wants me to take a break but my mind wants the problem solved. Even if you don't have the will to meditate at this point simply getting up and doing something will work wonders. When John von Neaumann was working on the Manhattan project, the breakthrough occurred to him when he was stepping off a bus. During these ordinary moments when we are separate from the problem, we have the most freedom to solve the problem, and although just getting up from the computer may not be beneficial as sleep or extended meditation, thinking about the problem on the couch away from the computer works great. By that time you've learned enough about the problem to think about it while not physically at the computer. 

I think the question is a little too broad and vague. Binary, duality questions and standings are not useful. Please read Narjarguna. It’s not his or that,,,. A work or teaching’s value is in its fruits. Look at the results. I feel positing Buddhism is not intellectual is ridiculous, and shows a lack of any understanding of the Indian context of the arising of Buddhism, not to mention Buddhist teachings in general. Nothing could be more scientific and analytical the Buddhism. Because the object of study is human consciousness and life, and not gravity that can be epresse mathematically, does not mean it is not scientific. Robert Wright’s new book Why Buddhism is True is on this topic. All said, there is a significant strain of anti intellictualism in the US, but those whose IQ is 3 digits, should not be shamed to have intelligence and use it. 

It really depends upon the level of the disciple. The Buddha taught different stages of understanding of reality and each progressively works on adding subtlety to the understanding of reality. In the First Turning of the Wheel of Dhrama, the Buddha taught about the five aggregates and how they are impermanent and the self itself is impermanent. He went on to explore the self and how it cannot be found as one with the aggregates or separate from the aggregates thus expounding the concept of selflessness. Then in the Second Turning of the Wheel of Dharma, the Buddha taught the perfection of wisdom where he refuted the existence of even the five aggregates. However since these were two rather extreme views, the Buddha taught in the Third Turning of the Wheel of Dharma about the view that things exist in the mind-only. The above is a rather simplistic essence, but what the Buddha was doing during the three turnings was introducing the nature of reality from the less subtle to the most subtle understanding. We have to realize, that we may not be ready for the most subtle understanding of reality just yet and have to work our ways up the levels of subtlety. Sometimes it does help to look at metta as truly existing. At times it helps to look at a basal consciousness and karmic imprints as existing. It can also help by looking at conventional and ultimate reality as two modes. Or you may be better of looking at the Madhayamika Prasangika view of the absence of inherent existence and the reality that is solely based on dependant origination. So to answer your question if metta is real, the best way to look at it would be from understanding your own understanding and how it corresponds to the four schools of tenets and working the way up. $URL$ 

I'm not aware of any supernatural powers that can be attained through meditation. An interesting scientific phenomenon comes to mind though. Birds are keenly aware of the Earth's magnetic field when migrating. They know which direction to go even without Google maps. Personally, I believe humans are capable of this as well but parts of our mind drown out these instincts. Dogs know when a tornado is approaching even without the Weather Channel. In a way, that seems unbelievable. It comes down to what you believe is supernatural. 1000 years ago a horseless carriage or penicillin may have been considered supernatural. One time I did an experiment if I could tell where I was going by banging two keys together. I distinctly remember walking up to the wall and feeling the sound waves reverberate back without knowing the wall was there by sight or touch. Turns out this is called echo location and some blind children can navigate a playground by making a clicking sound with their mouth. Initially, I would have thought echo location to be supernatural, but a scientific reason exists. Another example I can give is with aging. Most people would find it hard to believe that anything can reverse aging. However, meditating activates the parasympathetic nervous system. It is responsible for accelerating the process of digestion ("rest-and-digest") It's like Wolverine's natural healing factor in a way. If a person is in a steady state of rest for years, won't he or she be younger than those who haven't? You can notice what going two nights without rest feels like, and sleep deprivation is a cause of many fatal traffic accidents. Another example, when I feel pain in my eyes from too much typing, I lie down and actually feel the pain. Initially, the pain sensation will intensify but then it subsides and then disappears altogether. I've heard Kusala Bhikshu say, "When you become one with the pain, there's no one to feel the pain." It certainly sounds supernatural, but there's a scientific explanation, and that's what Buddhism is, a scientific examination into suffering. 

Earliest Buddhist texts I think define right view as seeing, understanding, and realizing three characteristics of this world and life: 1) All things are impermanent and continuously changing 2) (because of number 1 and our grasping at things that are ephemeral) there is an undercurrent of dissatisfaction and unsatisfactoriness in life. 3) All things, a person, and the world we live in is without an inherent self (selfless) (though we do experience an experiencial self of ourself and the world). I find the third the most subtle and useful. 

I can’t disagree with any others answers advocating this or that practice. But what jumps to my mind is the Buddhist teaching all conditioned things - those arising from causes* and conditions are impermanent. Thus ultimate extinguishing, Nimbanna, is beyond conditions or causes. But, as one uses a raft to cross a river and then abandons it, causes and conditions may be used to reach the unconditioned, and uncaused, which I think cannot be spoken of, or should not if it could be. 

Don't let the four parts of the karmic path get completed. The four parts are basis, intention, action and completion. In this case, the best way would be to stop at the last step and develop intense regret for the action. However if this is a regular action, the regret will not be genuine. The other is to put the four opposite forces into action. $URL$ This requires you to commit to not doing the karma again, at least for a specific duration of time. The last way is to do the 35 Buddhas confession practice: $URL$ 

It is not that there is no self. There is no self in the way you think of a self. That is, there in nothing inherent in what you refer to as "I". When you understand this, you free yourself and your actions are able to transcend limits. With this understanding, your actions become perfections. Which is why everything you do should be with an understanding of selflessness. 

Ending one's life prematurely or self-mutilating behavior does not change one's karma for the better, that is to say, if they are in a situation with extreme suffering in the present life, they will continue their suffering in their next lifetime as well. So, one can not escape their suffering. Reverend Kusala Bhikshu is fond of saying, "Karma has no eyes, karma has no ears." No matter how much one tries to escape their suffering they will not be able to escape their past deeds. Suicidal behavior goes against the first precept which is to avoid killing. A loving kindness (metta) meditation may be useful. This can be done by first wishing happiness for people that are hostile to the meditator. Then wishing happiness for people that are neutral to the meditator, and then finally wishing happiness for those that are close to the meditator(oneself). This is usually done with eyes closed while sitting on the floor or a chair with some kind of timer. 

Thus it may have been under Manjushri's guidance that Je Tsongkhapa adopted this order. You are of course right about the order in which the Lamrim points are presented is different in the various Lamrims. While Jowo Je Atisha used Bodhichitta as the first step on the path, Gampopa in his "Jewel Ornament of Liberation" begins with Buddha Nature. While Patrul Rinpoche begins "The Words of My Perfect Teacher" with the precious human life. Atisha begins his Lamrim after explaining the three scopes with the following verse: For these excellent beings Who aspire to supreme enlightenment, I shall explain the perfect method Taught by my spiritual masters. Thus the Lamp on the Path to Enlightenment is primarily addressed to Mahayana practitioners and thus generating the Spirit of Enlightenment is the first step he presents. Gampopa has a very interesting presentation in "Jewel Ornament of Liberation". Buddha Nature is the primary cause, the precious human life is the working basis while reliance on a spiritual master is the contributory cause. Patrul Rinpoche's combines 'Reliance on a Spiritual Master' together with generating the spirit of enlightenment and development of Bodhichitta. One of my teachers has explained that the above are three levels of refuge and Patrul Rinpoche uses it as the preliminaries before the introduction of Mahamudra, Chod and Transference teachings. Since the Lamrim Chenmo is a sutric text it does not go into the tantra except towards the end where Je Tsongkhapa mentions that the disciple has to practice the teachings of the Vajrayana before undertaking the four methods of gathering disciples. However the Vajrayana is a part of the entire path and thus from Je Tsongkhapa's point of view the preliminaries should include guru devotion. This is explained further in Panchen Chyoki Gyaltsen's 'Easy Path' where each section is divided into the preliminary, the actual meditation session and time in between sessions. This format is adopted by Kyabje Pabonka Rinpoche as well in 'Liberation in you Hands'. In the preliminary, is the primary practice of Guru Yoga and supplication which helps you understand the meditation topic better. Thus in the Gelug Lamrims following Tsongkhapa the importance on the Reliance on the Spiritual Master being the root of the path is emphasised. This can be best explained by the benefits of relying upon a spiritual master as found in the Precious Master's Instructions Outline to the Lamrim. The eight benefits of relying on spiritual masters: * Coming closer to achieving Buddhahood * Pleasing all conquerors * Being invulnerable to demons and misleading friends * The automatic reduction of disturbing mental factors and incorrect behaviour * The increase of all grounds, paths and realisations * Never being deprived of a teacher in all future lives * Not falling into lower rebirths * Effortlessly achieving all temporary and ultimate goals