On Rand's view there's no reason to think of inequality as bad in any way--whether inequality is to the benefit or detriment of the least advantages is utterly immaterial. 

To expand upon Mauro's excellent response: "Nothing" isn't a name of a thing that doesn't exist. Words like "nothing" "something" "everything" "most things" and so on don't refer to objects the way that proper names like "Shane" do. Rather these words, called quantifiers, show how many objects are being referred to by other expressions. So "nothing exists" doesn't mean "the object which is nothing has the property of existing", rather it says that the number of the things that have the property of existing is 0. That resolves the paradox you mention above. 

(4) if not P then Q. (by 1 conjunction elimination) (5) if R then not Q. (by 1, conjunction elimination). (6) Suppose not Q. (assumption) (7) Not S, by 2, 6, (conditional elimination) (8) R and not P (7, 3, conditional elimination) (9) not P (8, conjunction elimination). (10) not not P, (by 6,4 modus tollens) (11) P (10 double negation elimination). (12) Contradiction (P and not P by conjunction introduction on 9 and 11) (13) Therefore Q, (by conditional proof 6-12) 

No, says Aristotle. The pot comes to be out of the clay. The pot doesn't pop into existence out of nowhere, but neither does it simply gain or lose existence. Rather, what Aristotle says is that the lump of clay at 2:59 is potentially, but not actually a pot. Compare the clay with a cubic meter of empty space. The empty space is also not a pot, but unlike the clay the empty space is not even potentially a spot. In short, there doesn't have to be some actually existing dead person from which I come to be when I become alive. Rather, there just has to be some material stuff which is potentially, but not actually alive. Hope that helps. 

I remember as a teen studying Macbeth thinking that the quoted text was the most rational thing Macbeth says in the whole play. Why doesn't he take his own advice? (There wouldn't have been much drama left). I you believe that X outcome is will necessarily occur, as a matter of destiny or fate, why engage in any action A to bring about X? Furthermore, isn't it irrational to engage in A when it incurs some further cost (as indeed it does for Macbeth)? This is a common leitmotif in stories concerning fate. It always makes me wonder why people, who apparently do believe in prophecies about themselves, go to all the trouble of helping to fulfill the prophecy - often with tragic consequences. It's pretty clear that [spoiler!] things don't turn out well for Macbeth. His overall behaviour is not rational, even by the metric of achieving his own ends. Let's imagine the play turns out somewhat differently and he gets away with his crime. Even in this scenario, he has to live with the knowledge of killing a "graceful and renowned" man. The cost of attempting to bring about his destiny is huge: a significant risk of things spiralling out of control and a murder which must be, even from a self-interested perspective, emotionally traumatising. The cost of waiting for things to happen 'without his stir' appears modest by contrast: perhaps waiting slightly longer to be king. On the model of expected utility, he should heed his own advice. I think there are parallels with Newcomb's paradox ($URL$ This trades on a similar concept: the idea of infallible (or near infallible) prediction. What are the philosophical approaches to fate and rationality? What would they make of Macbeth's behaviour? 

This paradox was first described by Derek Parfit in Reasons and Persons. There are plenty of resources on this: 

Try a proof by contradiction. Assume that you are deciding between average utility and total utility. If you deny total utility, you are left with average utility. But then it turns out that a world consisting of a single person who is averagely happy (albeit lonely...) would be as good a world as the one we currently live in. Even if you value some goods that come from community or variety or difference of cultures, you could have a world that supports these with a fraction of our world's current population. Imagine a world consisting of 0.1% of our population (7 million). One in which people were no more happy nor materially better off than in ours. Wouldn't such a world be worse in respect of its smaller population? Think of how vanishingly unlikely it would be for you to be included within this lucky 7 million. Assuming you think your life has some value, ask yourself why the world would be no worse (or negligibly worse) if you were simply not to exist. Or consider the birth of someone who turns out to be happy, but less than averagely happy. On an 'average' view, the world made worse by the birth of this person. You can play around with these examples to create intuition pumps against average utility. A plausible way to deal with these problems is to say that each person's happiness makes the world a better place irrespective of the effect of this on the average. The problem with total utility you point to is sometimes called the repugnant conclusion (or Mere addition paradox), 

Deductive arguments aren't non-falsifiable because arguments aren't either true or false. Deductive arguments are either sound, valid but unsound, or invalid. Here's an example: (1) All men are mortal. (2) Socrates is a man. (3) Therefore, Socrates is mortal. It's only the conclusion, or one of the premises that could meaningfully be said to be falsifiable. And of course, you could falsify (3) in one of two ways, which the argument makes clear: either by showing that all men aren't mortal, or by showing that Socrates isn't a man. I don't see any reason to think that Popper would have a problem with deducing (3) from (1) and (2). 

The efficient cause is always a form, not a substance, that's why it's the art of sculpting in the mind of the sculptor that is the efficient cause of the bronze statue. In this sense the "art" isn't an abstract object--it's the real, concrete feature of the sculptor in virtue of which he knows how to make the sculpture. It's an individual feature of an individual artist. That's the solution to your three questions--the art is particular, not a universal, and hence there's no problem about how it's going to play a causal role. The harder thing to explain is the relation between the sculptor's art and the sculptor. Presumably Aristotle has in mind something like: the art is the efficient cause, but it operates through a whole bunch of intermediate causes, which are changes that the art produces in the body of the sculptor. So, for instance, knowing how to build the sculpture is what moves my hand here and there, etc. 

You need to be careful with the use of quotation marks here. A word in quotation marks is being mentioned, not used. The sentence "'French' is not French" is true. Because there I am mentioning the name of a language, and noting correctly that that is not the name of the french language in the french language. But the sentence, "French is not French" is a falsehood, since it asserts that the French language is not the French language. In other words, in the second sentence the word "French" is being used as the name of the French language. When a noun or adjective is being used it stands as the name for an object which the predicate describes as having some property. When a noun is being mentioned, the subject of the predicate of the sentence is just the word itself. There are a bunch of great examples of fun autological sentences: my favorite is from Hofstadter. "'Is meaningless unless preceded by its own quotation,' is meaningless unless preceded by its own quotation." 

It sounds like a pretty silly argument when written explicitly, but I've come across it in science from time to time. It sometimes happens that if one assumes a hypothesis (A) to be true, then one can make progress on some important unanswered question (B). This sometimes leads the hypothesis to be treated as a principle (i.e. a postulate that must be accepted without explanation). It can then become difficult to question A, because this also means questioning all the progress that has been made towards B under the assumption that it's true. I note that this form also comes up quite often as a (perfectly valid!) step in solving logic puzzles. Its validity in this case comes from knowing the puzzle has a unique solution, so one can correctly conclude that it won't be left unknown. Please note though that this point about logic puzzles is just an observation - my question is about the situation in the paragraphs above, which are about the cases where we do not know the problem has a solution, so we cannot correctly make this inference. I guess it's a form of appeal to consequences, but I'm wondering if it has a more specific name. It also seems related to the streetlight effect, though it's perhaps even stronger. 

This question broadly regards the Denettian "intentional stance" to agency, which says that on the most fundamental level there are only physical things in the world, but nevertheless for certain complex physical entities (and people in particular) it is often pragmatically useful to treat them as if they were agents acting according to beliefs, goals, etc., rather than try to understand them fully on the physical level. In order to do this, we have to decide which parts of the physical world constitute the agent and which its environment. In some cases there may be more than one useful place in which this boundary can be drawn - Clark and Chalmers give the example of a person called Otto who has to write everything in a notebook due to a memory disorder, and they argue that the notebook can reasonably be seen as part of Otto as an agent. With that background in place, my question is as follows: is there a name for the "cut" that we must make in order to apply the intentional stance, between something we wish to treat as agent and its environment? There are two other "cuts" that seem related, but not the same. The first is the "Cartesian cut" between the world of the physical and the world of the mental. This cut is different because it is a cut between two parts of the physical world - one that is to be considered an agent, and one that consists of everything else. The other related cut is the "Heisenberg cut" in quantum mechanics, between the system we wish to measure (to be treated using quantum theory) and the apparatus we use to measure it (to be treated classically). This cut shares the property that we have some flexibility in where we draw it, but it deals with a different domain of enquiry.