Magic is a product of attention and intent. The magician's effects are produced by the direct application of his will. What this does not produce is a "mechanistic" process which applies to things which she does not perceive and concentrate on. As a result, any magician is vulnerable to being stabbed in the back, or shot from a distance by a hidden marksman. To put it differently, a magician can produce an impenetrable shield between him and a known threat, but not a Sphere of Protection. Since the powers of a magician toward the things which she knows about are potentially unlimited (up to an including death, depending on your concept of a magician's powers), each magician is potentially an enormous threat to the mundanes around him. Killing magicians is, after all, the only way to ensure that one does not wake up one morning as a toad. 

The idea of bicycle-borne lancers does not seem feasible. At the very least, it would take the defending infantry only a few minutes to dig an obstacle that will stop such an attack. Maintaining any sort of speed on a bicycle requires very smooth, firm ground, especially if the rider is carrying any sort of load, which makes the idea problematic for troops wearing armor. 

Y'all are pikers. The handle of the sword is a power source. The core of the blade contains antimatter in a containment field. The antimatter is fed to the edge of the blade by use of mumble-mumble nanotechnological faster-mumble magnetic monopoles hand-waving superconductor more-mumbling sapphire/fullerene construction. The result is that the edge of the blade emits a narrow band of antimatter at low density, with the flow rate tailored locally to the proximity and velocity of approaching matter. The result is a powerful local energy release which vaporizes the target in a line which coincides with the edge of the sword, allowing it to cut through any material with ease. By the time the sword is in a position to make contact with the target, a channel the width of the sword has been cut into the target. Eye protection is recommended. 

Your planet is very strange. Assuming that your tidal range is not locally produced, like the Bay of Fundy, there is really only one possible source of the tides, which is a moon which is both large and close. Let's assume that the planet resembles the earth in size, and the moon is like ours in size. With no local tide amplification mechanisms, the tide is caused by the tidal bulge. The height of the bulge is proportional to the inverse of the cube of the distance separating the two bodies. The earth's tidal bulge is about 1 meter, so a 200 meter bulge requires an orbital distance R $$R = \frac{1}{200}^{\frac{1}{3}} = \frac{1}{5.8} = \frac{385,000}{5.8} = 66,000 \text{ km} $$ In other words, the moon would have to be about 1/6 the distance it is now. This has the unfortunate effect of requiring that the moon orbit much faster, and from Kepler's 3rd Law $$T = \frac{1}{5.8}^{\frac{2}{3}} = 0.3 $$ In other words, the month will be about 10 days long. Furthermore, the planet will be rather more geologically active than earth, since the tidal squeezing of the crust will tend to heat it. However, all of this has happened on earth long ago, and this is where the problem starts. The energy losses will fairly quickly slow down the moon and cause it to recede, so the fact that the moon is still close means that the planet is very young. So how did all those marine species evolve? Actually, you've planted the answer in your description of the oceanic life as being (at least in part) edible. This clearly suggests that the planet was seeded with earth marine life, with all the entertaining results which that implies. 

Oh, no you don't. First you say "amount given is proportional (in some way)", but don't give the Naughtiness Conversion Coefficient. Then you ask for what is essentially a numeric answer, despite the fact that you have also not specified house size or insulation values. Your question is extremely naughty in itself. 

Given two polar masses totaling 35% of the planet's surface, it is useful to compute just how big those masses are. The formula for calculating area using a conical angle is $$\omega = 2 \pi (1 - \cos{\theta})$$ where $\omega$ is in steradians and $\theta$ is the included half-angle of the cone. Since the area of a hemisphere is $2\pi$, $\omega = 2.2$, and $$\theta = 50$$ So the land masses will start at approximately 40 degrees of latitude. This is very bad, since the Horse Latitudes $URL$ extend from about 30 to 38 degrees of latitude, with little precipitation. This will only allow the area between 38 and 40 degrees to provide moisture for the subpolar air flow which would provide moisture to the land mass. That's not much of a source, since it's only a band about 200 miles wide or less. And it gets worse. The ring of mountains caused by your specified tectonics will act to produce a rain shadow to the north of the ring (in the northern hemisphere). If the mountains form a complete ring on one continent, the result will be a continental desert north (or south) of the mountains. If there are breaks in the mountain rings, moisture will push toward the poles in those areas. As a result, you can expect some precipitation along the coastal shores, with temperate rain forests along the equatorial side of the mountain rings. North or south of the mountains will be extreme deserts. The cold of the ice caps will serve to sequester moisture in the ice, making the northern (above 60 degrees of latitude) desert very dry. Gaps in the mountains will allow the development of temperate grasslands and forests in the areas immediately poleward of such gaps. With the existence of a 5500 mile wide ocean running completely around the planet, the pattern of trade winds (and the Intertropical Convergence Zone) there should not be much communication between the two continents, so there should be very little common in the flora and fauna of the two areas. For comparison, the existence of the Central American Seaway, with a gap on the order of 1000 km, effectively separated North and South America, allowing quite disparate populations to evolve. All of this changed about 12 million years ago with the rise of the Isthmus of Panama, and produced the Great American Interchange $URL$ The effects of an even larger oceanic gap should be even more extreme in preventing communication. As a matter of fact, unless you can provide for a land bridge between the two back in the equivalent of the Cretaceous or later, there would be no obvious reason for both continents to evolve compatible angiosperms, so the two ecosystems might be wildly different. You might well get away with asserting mammal dominance on one continent, while dinosaurs roam on the other. 

In a word, symbolism. It's not as if combat knives are generally useful as weapons. In conventional war, if you're close enough that you have to use a knife rather than shooting the enemy, you know that things have gone irredemably tits up. Of course, soldiers do worry about this sort of situation, and there is something atavistically comforting about having a heavy piece of cold steel for just that sort of situation. With that said, your unit is airborne scouts. I'd suggest that (to use a US analogy) they symbolically trace their origins to an earlier unit such as Rogers' Rangers, who actually did use hatchets or tomahawks in battle, although this was the days of muzzle-loading muskets and a secondary weapon was a really good idea. See here for a discussion of the unit orders which specifically mention that every man should have both a hatchet and a gun. The units have adopted the hand axe as both a symbol of their roots and as a useful tool. Along the same lines, I refer you to "Mouthful of Rocks" by Jennings, who served several years in the French Foreigh Legion. He states that about the only non-issued equipment a legionnaire carried were his sunglasses and his combat knife - and the only thing a combat knife was used for was opening ration cans. A small minority of troops in Vietnam carried personally-owned tomahawks, and as far as I know got about the same amount of use out of them. With the adoption of the hand axe as a trademark unit weapon, some bright lad would undoubtedly come up with a reasonable fighting technique for using them. Certainly such a weapon would be more damaging than a knife, and probably useful in a full-out aggressive attack, where the backswing takes place out of range of the knife. There would be all sorts of disadvantages to missing the first strike, of course, but every style has its pros and cons, and military groups in particular tend to focus on the pros associated with their equipment and tactics. Plus, of course, they look bad-ass. And that can count for a lot among late-adolescent males. 

Having specified that the 2nd portal is selected for maximum distance from the ocean(s), this puts the location near the southern edge of the Sahara, probably somewhere in western Niger or eastern Chad. The first thing to realize is that the flow rate out of the portal will be enormous. Pressure differential across the portal surface will be on the order of 1000 atmospheres. Even if the portal appears at ground level, the surface sand will be explosively scoured away right down to bedrock. I can't find a number for the sand depth in that area, but the average depth of the Sahara is asserted to be 150 to 200 feet. Let's go with 100 feet, or 30 meters. Then the total exit area will be 10 km x pi x 30 m, or about 1 million square meters. Modelling this as a circular orifice with a diameter of about 1000 meters, a simplistic calculation of flow rate runs something like 5 x 10^11 m^3 per hour. For comparison, Lake Erie has a total volume of about 4.8 x 10^11 m^3. So that will be whole lot of water. In the short run a large lake will form, but I doubt it will last. Without knowing the subsurface topology, one can only assume that there exists the channel of a buried south-flowing river. The accumulation of water, when it finds such an outlet to the Atlantic, is likely to produce extremely rapid excavation along any such channel. The result will be a relatively narrow, very fast and deep river flowing through a terrain something like the Channeled Scablands of Washington state. The river will presumably run southward to the Atlantic. Note that formation of the Channeled Scablands required the draining of a glacial lake with a volume of about 2000 km^3 and this is about 4 hours accumulation from the portal. Assuming that such a drain limits the area of the headwater lake, climatic effects will be fairly small. The total area of water available for evaporation will be fairly small. Furthermore, since the water is exiting at a temperature near zero Centigrade, evaporation will be further inhibited. 

There is nothing the authorities can do. There is no law which permits punishment for a crime which has not occurred. Even though the returnees have memories of the commission of a crime, such a crime has not yet occurred. And yes, the tenses get bent out of shape. The language has no experience with time travel, so it doesn't do well in this case. B is demonstrably alive, so no murder has occurred. There is no law which protects the memories of a time traveler, so the destruction of such memories is not protected. And in fact, since (it seems likely) the returnees have free will, there is no guarantee that many of their memories are valid. Oh sure, they can predict the weather for the next year with perfect accuracy (probably), but since they can act on their memories their behavior will almost certainly differ from what they remember. Certainly, B's friends and relatives will act to make sure that A does not have a chance to "repeat" his actions. In classic SF terms, the personality transfers create an alternate timeline, one in which everyone has gained a year's worth of partly accurate memories. In this timeline, no crime of any sort has occurred, and none can be prosecuted. The law does not punish bad thoughts or intentions. The only exception I can think of is if A has begun negotiations with a hit man, in which case a conspiracy has been formed. This could be extremely difficult to prove, but a visit by the police to the hit man would stop that particular conspiracy in its tracks. A would then have to make new plans, taking into account the fact that his intentions are known for certain. This will complicate his task enormously, but he may consider it a challenge. 

Conceivably it is already happening. How would we know? Much the same idea (without the secret organization part) can be found in Theadora Goss's "Beautiful Boys" $URL$ She suggests that there exists a group/subspecies/species of beings/humans who seem/are hunky, footloose young men. They arrive in town, work for a while, get a girlfriend, then leave when she's pregnant. Their children turn out good-looking and footloose, too. 

Let's start with the number of planets. As you've been told, 4 orbits is almost certainly too many - their interactions will almost certainly cause instability. In the worst case you get collisions, of course, but that is wildly unlikely. Much more likely is the ejection of one or more planet from the Goldilocks zone for at least part of its year. However, as the Navy Seals like to say, "If you ain't cheating you ain't trying." So how about finessing the problem. There is no rule saying that the planets have to be singletons. So make the planets dual systems, like the earth-moon but with equal sizes. You could have one pair close in, and one pair farther out. I wouldn't even try justifying the creation of two such pairs in a single system, but there's nothing I can think of that prohibits it. Assuming formation by collision (as is the current thinking about the Earth/Moon system) you could invoke an asymmetric distribution of volatiles as the impactor strips away the crust from the other, and the resulting water-rich debris settling preferentially on one of the two resulting objects. This will give you a wet/dry warm pair and a wet/dry cold pair. Please keep in mind that cold/dry is going to have a lot of trouble supporting life. You are focusing on CO2 as a dominant greenhouse gas. In the case of the Earth, it's not. It's water that does the job. CO2 is much more persistent than water vapor, but there's a whole lot more water vapor in the atmosphere. Likewise, hot/wet runs the risk of runaway greenhouse as the increased temperature causes greater evaporation, leading to a closed loop with positive feedback. Depending on vulcanism for long-term CO2 production is not a good idea. On earth, it's a mark of plate tectonics, and this will periodically produce eras of little activity. Furthermore, volcanic emission of CO2 is also accompanied by all sorts of nasties like sulfur dioxide and ash, which will make the surface not real hospitable to life. An alternative to plate tectonics is tidal friction, such as occurs on the Jovian moon Io. However, this again is not a good idea in the long run, as in the long run the two planets will become tidally locked and the volcanic activity cease. Methane is a bad choice as a greenhouse gas. The problem is not that it doesn't work. It does. It's a good deal better at trapping heat than CO2. The problem is that it doesn't persist in the atmosphere in the presence of a biosphere. It oxidizes in very short order, decades or less compared to centuries for CO2. Worse, its effectiveness invites wild swings in concentration and resulting temperature. See the potential problems of oceanic clathrates. You can specify whatever surface gravity you like. For a given density the surface gravity is proportional to the radius of the planet, but running in the range of 0.5 to 1.5 gs only produces planetary masses with a mass range of 27 to 1, which are probably not a real problem. Certainly the result would be nothing comparable to Jupiter and Saturn, and the solar system seems pretty stable with them in the house.