I currently have a 12-30t rear cassette which needs replacing. While I'm at it, I really want to switch to an 11 tooth to get the extra 9% in top speed. But the problem is, even the most expensive (e.g. Ultegra) component that will work with my bike only goes up to 11-28, and if I stick to Tiagra I'm stuck with 11-25. For long steep hills on an off day, it's really nice to have the 30 tooth. So my second thought was, the bottom 2 or 3 cogs usually aren't fixed to the cassette, they are individual cogs that can come off. So maybe I could get a 12-30 replacement, and then a single 11t cog to replace the 12t or maybe I could even drop the 13t so the stepping goes 11-12-14. This would be ideal as I use the 12t and 14t heavily but I virtually never use the 13t. Would this work? From what I can see, I would also need an 11t lock ring. I'm having a difficult time finding both a lock ring and an 11t cog which claims to be compatible. For instance, I found one cog which claimed to only work various cassettes which were already 11-xx and which were 2-3 grades above my Tiagra components. Update: I found this PDF file on the Tiagra CS-4600 which suggests I need part Y1YF01000 ("Lock Ring for 11T Top Gear"), and Y1Z81100N ("Sprocket Wheel 11T (Built in spacer type)"). But I can't find anywhere (for instance Amazon or Google Shopping) to buy these part numbers or the corresponding parts. 

I recently had an inner tube on my mountain bike changed, but it was my wife that actually took the bike in to the shop for service. When it came back I noticed the stem has a blue cap rather than the typical black cap. I have seen slime inner tubes that have a green cap, so it got me to wondering if there was something different about the tire. Although I hadn't asked for slime and she didn't remember anything being said about it, it's possible they could have just thrown it in as a freebie. (This sort of thing has happened before where they quote one price over the phone and then the actual price winds up being less than what they quoted.) I have also noticed that at one point the tire went flat uncharacteristically fast (within a couple days of non-use compared to normal losses of a maximum of 1/3 pressure over a week), but after I pumped it back up it seemed to hold its pressure fairly well over a longer time period, which suggests to me that either there was a tiny leak which somehow sealed itself when the tube was re-pressurized, or slime was involved. Aside from actually taking off the tire and taking out the tube and shaking it, how can I tell if a given tire has slime in it? 

I tend to spin rather slow when I am riding. 50rpm is a comfortable rate for me to spin for as long as I want to ride. 90rpm seems to be the rate at which I expend maximum power... I can't spin this longer than about 2 1/2 minutes on a -2% (downhill) grade, but going uphill I can sprint at least 15 seconds on a +12% grade starting at 90rpm (corresponding to close to 30mph), before I start to slow down appreciably, and correspondingly I have found that I perform much better on hills due to the lower cadences required. Now my concern is higher cadences are generally recommended (I especially see this when people are asking about higher gear ratios to go faster), and I have been told that 50rpm is way too low for a cruising cadence. But if I do something like interval training to increase my cadence I am concerned that this will affect my climbing strength. Is this something I should worry about, or is there a specific approach that can result in me being able to tolerate higher cadences, without losing power at the low end? 

Depending on where you live, wind can be highly unpredictable and fickle. I use Google weather (google for "wind speed" and then click on "wind"; n.b. this apparently won't work in some mobile browsers) to get a rough idea of what the winds are going to be like for the day. However, I have found that even this can be horribly inaccurate if you ride any place hilly. In my experience the wind direction can shift 90 degrees between valleys and the ridges, and can even turn 180 degrees along the course of the ride, meaning I start with a nice tail wind, and then half way through the ride I run into a head wind. Since you are commuting, I wouldn't count on a head wind in one direction to imply a tail wind in the other. This will depend a lot on where you are, but in my experience it is often not true. When I ride I tend to look for flags along the way to determine the direction and rough speed of the wind. This allows me to gauge roughly what the wind is like, and if you want to you can make a note of these along the way and write them down in a log when you get a chance. The downside I have found with this is that often I will start depending on a flag in a particular place and then suddenly it will get taken down. An anemometer mounted on the bike has been mentioned, but one issue with this is that it doesn't consider your riding profile. If you are riding in an aero position and then switch to standing to climb a hill, even with the same wind speed and direction you will encounter different wind forces. I don't think subtracting off your speed would be a big deal, but you would need some kind of sensor to try to determine where you were sitting, standing, hunched over, etc. and this could be tricky and error prone or at the least tedious. Since you are using Strava, one thing you can do to try to factor out the wind in determining your fitness and performance level is to take advantage of Strava segments. Break your ride down into smaller pieces, using your knowledge of having ridden the route before to decide what the optimal segments are. This may already be done for you in places. If you are concerned about having lots of segments you can make them private so it only compares your performance to yourself. Then, the idea is to concentrate your efforts on the segment(s) that have the most favorable wind for the day. You won't be able to compare your entire route every day, but depending on conditions you might not want to push yourself hard every single day anyway. 

Remove the wheel from the bike, check for obvious damage to the tire Remove the tube from the tire You can use tire levers to remove the tire from the rim. Be sure not to add additional punctures to the tube by pinching it with the levers. Note the orientation of the tube within the tire so you can trace down the puncture point. Find the puncture on the tube May help to put some air in it and use your cheek/eye to feel for leaks. Once you've located the puncture, find the point in the tire where the puncture occurred and make sure there is nothing stuck in the tire (like a shard of glass) which will re-puncture the tube. Assuming it is a puncture and that the tire isn't actually torn/worn through, you can proceed to patch the tube. If the tire is too damaged the tube will just pop again, so there isn't much point. Apply the patch Typically this involves gently sanding/roughing up the surface of the tube, applying adhesive compound, letting it dry for 5-10 minutes, and then applying the patch. Most patches I've seen have a brown side, and a black/brown side. The black/brown side stays upwards, the fully brown side is applied against the tube. Wait another 5 to 10 minutes for the patch to bond to the compound. Install tube in tire Inflate the tube slightly to make sure it holds air. Insert it into the tire, then mount the tire on the rim, one wire bead at a time. The first bead should go on easily, the second may require tire levers or strong thumbs. Be very careful not to puncture the tube if using levers. I find it helps to completely deflate the tube to get the last bit of the wire over the rim. There are some good tutorials on getting the last bit of the wire onto the rim, which can be tricky to do without damaging the tube. Inflate tube, checking again for damage/bulges/splits as you approach full pressure Ride away 

I was under the impression that reducing the weight of your wheels is important. However, I'm noticing that many of the extremely high-end aerodynamic rims are actually heavier than cheaper rims by the same manufacturer. For example: 

All the usual stuff applies, lights, bags, clothes, trailers, special saddles, etc. I personally would love to receive some huge panniers. The problem with your question is there are no recumbent-specific accessories, only recumbent-specific versions of common bike accessories. The single exception might be a flag for added visibility, but I doubt it would make a good Christmas present. 

Every taillight I've owned has mounted to the seat post, but when I load my rear rack the seatpost light is no longer visible. Instead, I'd like to mount a light to the rear of my rack, which has a single centered screw hole for mounting a light. What kinds of lights can I mount with this kind of setup? Are there lights specifically designed to be mounted on the back of a rack with a single screw? The best picture I can find is below: 

I notice a lot of cyclists with massive sculpted calf muscles, especially the kind that clearly ride as a life-style without worrying about minimizing body weight. I've switched cities, and gone from a 7km round-trip commute to 25km round trip. I've been cycling hard as a hobby and often clocked 200km or more per week. After 6 months, I find that it's my quads that are getting larger, and my quads that are sore and tired after long rides, while my calf muscles feel hardly involved. Does this suggest something wrong with my technique and/or posture? Should I be working to involve my calf muscles more? Possibly relevant: I cycle with a pretty aggressive bent-over posture, on a touring bike with drop bars. I use clipless shoes and have been working on applying more power in the upwards-stroke. I ride with my seat relatively high, but comfortable and I'm certain I'm not over-extending my legs. 

I recently picked up a Vaude Egger and have been extremely happy with it. It mounts securely, detaches easily, has a dedicated laptop slot and enough room left over for a change of clothes, extra shoes and various odds and ends. The result is a little heavy, especially when you add in my ridiculous Fahgettaboudit ulock, but for somebody who was carrying the same load in a backpack it's night and day. 

I broke the master link in my chain a while ago and my LSB told me it was because I wasn't cleaning/lubricating my chain often enough. The chain had experienced more wear than it should have as a result. I asked about replacing the chain and was told that you typically don't want to replace individual parts of the drive-train, that mixing and matching new chain and old chain-rings is a bad idea. Is there any truth to this? Why would a new chain on an old (we're talking less than 4 months) be a bad thing? 

Possibly you were thinking of Ciasta aero seatposts which has a similar logo? Something like this perhaps... 

This is an extremely bad idea, and it may or may not be illegal where you live. It's pretty common for the law to require you to be able to lock up both wheels on flat dry pavement. Regardless, both brakes are important, and you shouldn't remove one for something a silly as weight reduction. The contact patch on your tires is small enough already without throwing away half your stopping power. Your rear brake will slow you without impacting your steering, while your front break is responsible for ~60% of your stopping power. However, braking with your front brake while turning sharply will usually result in loss of traction of your front wheel, causing the bike to slide out from under you, so it's crucial that you keep your rear brake. If you're still dead set on this course, remove the rear brake, it's the less effective of the two. Some day when you're cornering and a car pulls out in front of you, and your options are to brake and slide out or hit the car, you'll regret not having both brakes.