To check the enlightenment with pali Tripitaka Chabbi­so­dha­na­sutta MN 112. Majjhima Nikāya 47 The Inquirer. 

While we playing games we are prisoners of that and limited opportunity to escape from it. Life has same bondage. The unwholesome or wholesome is depends not on the activity itself, but which type of habit it generate. 

Q3). Who is Abidhamma Expert? A3). First we have to clarify whit is Abidhamma? The core of Buddhism is four Noble Truth. To Understand it we need some path. it consists samatha and Vipassana. In samatha concentrate on (mental) object as Kama, Roopa and Aroopa. for Nibbana the object is "Niroda".(Chetho Vimuktha). In Vipassana (As in Sathipattana Sutta) start from Body then Feelings then Thoughts finally mental Objects. For Niroda "The Object" must be "Sunnya"(No-Self).(Pangna Vimuktha). How the Self creates and How it Not creates (Niroda) is explains using patithchasamuthpada. There are 12 Links in this Model. How these 12 links are Inter Depend (AnnaManna Prathya) is ex-planes using 24 "Prathyas"(course and effects) in -"PattanaPakarana" the 7th book of Abidamma. This is in Theravada view point. In Mahayana view point (Hua yen) it explane as "Indras'Net". 

Load Buddha (Maha Bodhisattva) practice 7 years, but failed. He realised that is not the path for purification. So he give up arnapana practice (pranayama meditation). Then he change his practice to Anapanasathi practice, describe as Ariyapariyesana suttha, sathipattana suttha and other suttas in Tripitaka. 

Neutral feeling can be course in two ways. for normally it course to ignorance (creates Ego). for Buddhas(pure minds) it is not course to ignorance . For eg. Normal person feels Neutral feeling as i feel.(something). but for Buddhas its only feeling. 

The most important or the final concept in Buddhism is realizing "Four Noble Truths". All the other concepts are within it. and should not separately consider. According to the first sermon "Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta", the base point of understanding is realizing "Anichcha". 

parallel universes. The multiverse (or meta-universe) is the hypothetical set of infinite or finite possible universes (including the Universe we consistently experience) that together comprise everything that exists: the entirety of space, time, matter, and energy as well as the physical laws and constants that describe them. The various universes within the multiverse are also called "parallel universes" or "alternate universes". The structure of the multiverse, the nature of each universe within it and the relationships among the various constituent universes, depend on the specific multiverse hypothesis considered. Multiple universes have been hypothesized in cosmology, physics, astronomy, religion, philosophy, transpersonal psychology, and fiction, particularly in science fiction and fantasy. In these contexts, parallel universes are also called "alternate universes", "quantum universes", "interpenetrating dimensions", "parallel dimensions", "parallel worlds", "alternate realities", "alternate timelines", and "dimensional planes", among other names. 

So what is "get attached to inner and external things [as realities]..." Inner things - person, I, Myself, Me, Body etc. External things - others, they, He/s ,It etc. 

Here is the Middle path leads to Escape. The Seventh Principle: The Absolute in its absoluteness – Paramartha 

It is considers that "sunaparantha" is somewere in midlle east. following quats from pali thipitaka, Saṃyutta Nikāya 35 -Connected Discourses on the Six Sense Bases - 88. Puṇṇa 

Reject = release responsibility to him 'This venerable one is the doer of his actions, heir to his actions, born of his actions, related by his actions, and has his actions as his arbitrator. Whatever action he does, for good or for evil, to that will he fall heir. So the other party not effects, That is the highest penalty for Buddhist monk. (The highest penalty, Ānanda, after my passing away, is to be handed out to the monk Channa.” “But what is the highest penalty, reverend Sir?” “The monk Channa, Ānanda, may say whatever he wishes but he is not to be spoken to or advised or instructed by the monks.” - Mahāparinibbānasutta) 

3). Those who escape from the cave.(Buddhists who liberated from the samsara) Nirvana - Beyond the world - who can see through the reality. 

According the sutta before starting ānāpānassati(mindfulness of breathing) meditation, one should develop other 9 perceptions. For ex. nirodhasaññā (the perception of cessation) 

These content should be relevant to Monks, those separate from lay life, and devote to meditate in the jangles. As shown in sutta ('when hatred arises in a monk') These antidotes should be used within the meditations. 

Scientist in modern day believes "Energy and particles". (weakons = the weak nuclear force, gluon= the strong nuclear force, photon = the electromagnetic force, graviton = the force of gravity.) In early days they believes "4 Maha Buta"- Pure elements (are abstractions) and "The Rupa Kalapa" is the smallest reality consists "Suddashtaka"(Pure Octed) as attributes. According to Abhidhamma 

The article shown by @llya Grushevskiy is discuss very interesting logic. Some extracts from it gives bellow. 

The teaching of Dependent Origination is part of what is known as the Middle Teaching (majjhena-dhammadesana). It is taught as an impersonal, natural truth, a description of the nature of things as they are, avoiding the extreme theories or biased views that human beings are want to fall into as a result of their distorted perceptions of the world and their attachments and desires within it. The cycle of Dependent Origination which describes the problem of human suffering comes in two limbs: the first limb, called the samudayavara (origination mode), is a description of the arising of suffering, corresponding with the second Noble Truth, the cause of suffering; the second limb, called the nirodhavara (cessation mode), is a description of the cessation of suffering, corresponding with the third Noble Truth. $URL$ 

Bhikkhus, do not fear to do good. Pleasantness is a synonym for good. Bhikkhus, I know of enjoying the results of pleasing and agreeable good, done long ago... 

Peace can be lost due to inner or outer reasons. so, keep mindful on inner or outer obstacles. when we feel inner weakness like anger, greed, hate etc. we lost our peace. We think these are due to outer reasons, but they are due to our (inner )weakness. 

So these are the 'perceptions' that to focus on between two breaths. (But practically to 'vipassana samapaththi' those perceptions already gains. so let quit the breath. Do not try to control, let it gone. If the vipassana perceptions are not developed enough strength, one can fell to sleep. Better to have find a experience teacher.) The detail stages in developing as follows 

According above statement you may have bypass the preliminary steps. That is the reason for asking "What to label"? By practicing technique like walking meditation from beginners steps.(I think you know how to walk) you may understand what to label. 

Suffering (attachment) <= attraction <= (desire + other reasons + conscious). Naturally, We feel many forms of attractions, We feel many forms of repulsions, Suffering <= (attraction / repulsion) <= attachment <= (desire + other reasons + conscious). This is a Natural process. This is a cyclic process.(desire to attachment). 

Depend on the method of breath there are various practitioners. for ex. 'Pranayama' in hindu style for health, Buddhist use 'Samatha' is for calm and 'Vipassana' for insight. In 'Samatha' there are five(or 4) stages of ruupa jhaana and four of aruupa jhaana. For 'Vipassana' the stages are shown in Aṅguttara Nikāya - The Book of the Tens - 60 Girimānanda 

Thank you for sharing the resource. The complete guide of meditation is given in "Mahāsatipaṭṭhāna Sutta" DN 22 (D ii 290) in pali thipitaka . In this sutta the whole meditation topics are group in four main categories. I. Kāyānupassanā - Observation of Kāya II. Vedanānupassanā - Observation of Vedanā III. Cittānupassanā - Observation of Citta IV. Dhammānupassanā - Observation of Dhammas. The "Kāyānupassanā " section has 6 sub sections. A. Ānāpāna Pabba - Section on ānāpāna B. Iriyāpatha Pabba - Section on postures C. Sampajāna Pabba - Section on sampajañña D. Paṭikūlamanasikāra Pabba - Section on repulsiveness E. Dhātumanasikāra Pabba - Section on the Elements F. Navasivathika Pabba - Section on the nine charnel grounds The 32 part body meditation is relate to section D.E.& F.- To get a idea some extracts are shown bellow. but it is recommend to read from beginning. ... Furthermore, bhikkhus, a bhikkhu considers this very body, from the soles of the feet up and from the hair on the head down, which is delimited by its skin and full of various kinds of impurities: "In this kāya, there are the hairs of the head, hairs of the body, nails, teeth, skin, flesh, tendons, bones, bone marrow, kidneys, heart, liver, pleura, spleen, lungs, intestines, mesentery, stomach with its contents, feces, bile, phlegm, pus, blood, sweat, fat, tears, grease, saliva, nasal mucus, synovial fluid and urine." ...Just as if, bhikkhus, there was a bag having two openings and filled with various kinds of grain,..... Furthermore, bhikkhus, a bhikkhu reflects on this very kāya, however it is placed, however it is disposed: "In this kāya, there is the earth element, the water element, the fire element and the air element." ... Furthermore, bhikkhus, a bhikkhu, just as if he was seeing a dead body, cast away in a charnel ground, one day dead, or two days dead or three days dead, swollen, bluish and festering, he considers this very kāya: "This kāya also is of such a nature, it is going to become like this, and is not free from such a condition ... 

From Dīgha Nikāya 16 - Mahāparinibbānasutta The Discourse about the Great Emancipation The Gracious One said this, and after saying this, the Fortunate One, the Teacher, said something more: 

Anyway what is the reason for continuity of this phenomena? Citta (mind) is not one of the khandhas,( aggregates), therefore what you know as 'mind' is not perception, thought and consciousness. It is like an evolving soul.(Like Team).- mad buddhist …..the brain is the mind. I was so perturbed…- Sam Reeve ….this consciousness of mine is supported by it(?) and bound up with it. .. The It is the “Root”. In The Root of All Things 

If we want to avoid suffering, we should behave against the natural process. This will seems unbelievable. Without other reasons, conscious only, not get desired. The trick is not removing desire or attachment, but the other reasons. There are two processes. 1). reducing the governing force of the cycle. 2). removing the other reason (Catalysts). These two process mutually helpful to each other. So the "attachment to be consciously avoided" is first process. It reduces the forward cycle. But to completely stop, need completely remove the 'catalyst'(Avijja - Delusion). In Sallekha Sutta: The Discourse on Effacement Load Buddha shows how to remove this. 

By questioning can get rough idea of the solution. By practicing the correct path will lead to cessation of creation(patichchsamuthpada). 

When hindrances are there, right mindfulness is absent. And when right mindfulness is, hindrances are not there. 

Develop good will for that individual. Develop compassion for that individual. Develop equanimity toward that individual. Pay him no mind & pay him no attention. Direct one's thoughts to the fact of his being the product of his actions. 

There are those that are born natural Mediums. Their ability to detect outside the normal human frequency, like many animals, is heightened. Their E.S.P., or extra sensory perception, extends beyond the normal physical senses. They simply are able to tune into a frequency band greater than most. Some can see ghosts; some can only hear them, while other Mediums are shown visions and guidance in their mind's eye, or "third eye" from the beyond. These are the John Edwards of the world, or the crime solving specialists..... 

There are six elements. 4 physicals(relate to Mass), space(relate to Dark matter) and consciousness(relate to time). 

quote from Dhammasangani preface PTS translation. Another thing to consider. "What we see is, what we want". So first decide what to see? Good or Bad. View is like a "colored glass". To see the Buddhism as it is, we have to remove "color glass". 

The 9 'successive extinctions'( as it is said in A. IX, 31) : In the step 7 it says "..., the perception ... consciousness is extinguished". 

physical reality clearly exists, as does mental reality; they also clearly interact with each other in a manner that is fairly easily definable. The problem comes when you try to know more beyond these simple facts, i.e. how and why they exist and interact the way they do. - yuttadhammo Here that phenomena is describe as awareness. One answer is that reality is neither primarily physical nor mind, but awareness. Looking at Physics, we see the two-slit experiment, which seems to indicate that objects such as photons are "aware" of their environment and "make choices". So, the simplest answer is to remove the quotes. Every thing, down to the lowest level of being, has awareness, and makes choices. Done. - no comprende In here that phenomena is considered as aggregates The relationship between body and mind is well described by the Buddha in form of e.g. the 5 aggregates i.e., materiality, feeling, perception, mental formations, consciousness and Dependent Origination.- Lanka Sometimes we need to engage with team. (means with players). So we have paradox. Say winning a goal by a player is a wining of the team. Likewise Citta -, .. related to heart. ..Manas - ..help ..eye to see .. make vinnana, This is brain..Vinnana -, 'knowing' - John Fonseka Mental States start to arise in the new existence immediately after conception ( Like TEAM). At that time, there is no brain (and no heart)( No PLAYERS In THE Team) to support these Mental States. This is why the Abhidhamma does not specify any specific organ as the base for the mind but rather uses the description, “that rūpa upon which the mind depends”- RobM 

It has happens in 7th and 8th steps as "investigating" and "Determining". Shown as Madhupiṇḍika Sutta (MN 18), "Dependent on eye & forms, eye-consciousness arises. (Step 5). The meeting of the three is contact.("Passa"). With contact as a requisite condition, there is feeling.(Step 6 "Vedana"). What one feels, one perceives (labels in the mind)(Step 7 "Sanna"). What one perceives, one thinks about. What one thinks about, one objectifies.(Step 8 "Chethana"). Based on what a person objectifies, the perceptions & categories of objectification assail him/her with regard to past, present, & future forms cognizable via the eye."(Step 9-15 "Manasikara"). The place we can break this process at step 7. We can change "the Sanna" by learning or understanding. permannet to Unpermanent Etc..by worldly concepts from Transcendental.