AS Jscott says you can configure it and i will operate perfectly without System Center Configuration Manager but you will lose the reports and alerts components. 

IIS of Windows Vista and Windows 7 dont have SMTP server available. So following the document you used you should write another SMTP as a Windows Server 2008 R2, not the localhost. SMTP server it's not available. You can instead use another SMTP for your tests like this. Check this blog post of a Microsoft MVP of IIS. 

Is there any recommened array for placing the disks of a virtual infraestrcture. As example, I heard that for the OS disk is recommened a mirror array. For placing virtual hard dkis which is recommended? 

I am not sure if I should post this one here or in StackOverflow. I want a BAT that opens a RDP connection file and then, when the connection is closed, logoff the machine. 

I had reset the winsock and the ipv4 and ipv6 stack and still doesnt work. I don't have any firewall but the Windows one. It was working. It had Forefront TMG, i though it was the culprit so i totally uninstalled it. ¿Wha do you think? 

That you aproved an update does not mean it will be automatically available for the clients PCs. It will need to be downloaded first. So maybe this is your problem. You approve the update and you want to have it and your clients instantally and it does not work this way. You need to wait to the update is completed downloaded in your WSUS server. 

I have connected to nic adapters a standard vSwitch, and have enable 'Route based on an IP hash' on the vSwitch. For the physical switch we are using a cisco switch and have enabled LACP with nic teaming on two ports. Now when we connect, the host stops responding. To bring it back I need to change the port on the physical switch. What could we be doing wrong. 

We need to load IBM server x3650 with Windows server 2000, this is required to support a legacy software. How do we do this, Please advise. 

We have installed Vmware ESXi v6 u3 on a DL380 G9. We did the raid in the Intelligent provisioning during system startup, after which we did the Install. But all the volumes created are showing up as . Is there any reason for this. 

I have run the Powershell_ISE as administrator and also set Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned. The results I'm getting on Windows 10: 

I'm just new to the Vcenter 6.5 webclient. I can't seem to find some options which the VMWARE documentation refers to. E.g. I can't see the 'Access', 'Firewall', 'Networking' for the Vcenter under System Configuration -> Nodes -> Manage. Under Manage it just shows me Settings and Certificate Authority and under settings there is only an option to leave or join Active Directory. Am I missing anything or do I need to activate something. 

If you cannot do it using System Center Configuration Manager you have to edit the Windows Image, the file, of that sequence task. You can add the File using the command avaibale in the free download Microsoft AIK. The procedure to add the language pack with is here, in this Microsoft Technet article: Add and Remove Language Packs Offline 

Yes you can. You can join the reference machine to the domain, and assing the accounts of your service. After you join your machine again when the image is applied everything should works because the SID of the service account is exactly the same. 

This is a issue with your Windows Credential Manager. Moste likely because your credential manager have wrong entry with and old password or if it was selected to be disable. Write Credential Manager at the start menu and open it. Check if it is allowing save password and if it is delete all the entries saved and try again. If it's not allowing to save password it's possible that it is setting from a domain groupo policy and your network admin should check it. Regards. 

This is because the script is running with the SQL Agent service and this service is running with a Local Account. You should change the account of the service whih goint to run the script, using , to one from your domain with privileges on the other servers. 

I am working with Rackspace (but this applies to any good host provider) to configure a Red Hat Linux web and database server. Both machines are dedicated to us and managed by Rackspace. Rackspace asked if we wanted Sophos antivirus on our machines for a small monthly fee. Would you install and pay for antivirus on a web and database server? Why would I want antivirus on these machines? What are the pros/cons? 

We are a bootstrapped web start up. We have a LAMP web application that we expect relatively low to mid traffic because users need an account to log in. Our current approach is to colocate two servers, a web and mysql database server. We are planning to use Ubuntu Server 9.04. We have shopped around for dedicated servers but the price range from $900 to $1500 per month, therefore we are exploring the colocation approach. We are considering purchasing two Mac Minis (2.0GHz Intel Core 2 Duo 2 Gb RAM) because we are familiar with the machines are the prices are relatively inexpensive. What are the pros and cons of using these 'non-server' grade machines? We would install Ubuntu Sever and attach firewire external hard drives. Any advice on how to set up 'good-and-economic' web/database servers is welcomed. 

We have our own domain. Our email is hosted by Google Apps. We switched web servers and name servers to a new provider. In the switch, I forgot to move the MX record. When people tried to send emails to our domain, there was no bounce back. We fixed the MX record and now receive email. Is there anyway to retrieve the emails that were sent in the month when there was no MX record? I doubt it because there was no MX record on our name server. Where would the emails have gone since they did not bounce back? 

Try to have them all. Remeber to rename them exactly on all your nodes. Remeber that is not supported by Microsoft to have Teaming at NICs in Hyper-V Clusters, that could genereate failures. There is more information at Microsoft KB 968703. Read this article about network best practice for knowinf what protocols you should enable in whic NIC and about the metric. It's highy recommended to change the metric in each interface. 

Yes. This is true. Ports are to bind and the apps with the network. You cannot have more than 65553 application connected by TCP and 65535 connect by UDP on the same host. Operating Systems tipically dinamycally managed the ports an assign one for each app that connects to the network. If you have two applications listeing on the same port when a network package arrives the computer couldn't know to what app is going to deliver the data. As example if you have Messenger and Skype on the same binded to the same port your messenger message will appear in skype and vice versa :) 

Yes. You are looking for the IANA IPv4 Address Space Registry. The IPv4 Address that are on the Internet are the ones who start of with one of the numbers what are Allocated in that table. 

Rules in the Windows Firewall can be bundle together and activated or deactivated as a group. With command you can add rules to the Firewall. Use the switch for manage the AdvFirewall groups. Use something like this: