Looking at the Shimano site is kind of confusing. There are 2 alfine models listed. SG-S700-S SG-S501-S The first has an axle length of 187mm, and an over locknut distance of 135mm The second has an axle length of 135mm and an over locknut distance of 187mm I think they might have swapped the measurements. There are 2 Nexus 8 speed hubs that I found. SG-8C31 SG-8R36 They both show measurements of 132mm axle length, and 184mm over locknut distance. This is a difference of 3 mm in both axle length and over locknut distance. I don't have enough knowledge to say whether or not that is close enough to be compatible. Perhaps with this information somebody else who is more experienced in this could speak to whether or not they are compatible. 

Looks like the TRP Parabox Hydraulic Disc Brake is what you're referring to. Basically it allows you to use your existing mechanical brake levers to control the hydraulic pistons. So you can use your old brifters, and still have hydraulic braking. Here's a review that explains how they work, as well as provide and idea of the performance characteristics. 

Here's a link to some information about the bike. According to that page, that model hasn't been made since 1999 and had an original sticker price of $799. So it's at least 16 years old. Depending on what condition it's in and if any parts have been replaced or upgraded, I'd try to get the seller to bring the price down a little. That being said, it actually looks to be a pretty good bike and will be fine for 25 mile, or longer rides, as long as it fits you well. 

Whichever type you will ride the most. If you like to go off road, get a mountain bike. If you plan to stay on the roads, then a road bike or hybrid will work well. Make sure the bike fits you well and is comfortable. Make sure it is a good quality bike that won't break after 1000 km. A bike that's sitting in your garage because you don't like it or because it was cheap and didn't last will not help you lose weight. Any type of biking combined with a proper diet will help you lose weight, provided you put in the miles. 

I think that something like the Surly Cross-Check would suit your needs. They also have a few other models that you might want to consider. Although most others don't have horizontal dropouts. You could always get a chain tensioner if you wanted to use and IGH with a bike with vertical dropouts. 

Check out the videos on the Kurt Kinetic Rock and Roll you can definitely stand and tilt the bike side to side. Whether it would handle Andre Greipel in a full out sprint I couldn't say. It's probably one of the better options to look into. 

I think it's important to mention that pedals aren't simply "road" or "mountain" pedals, but that there are pedals designed for many different purposes. Most people will classify "road race" pedals such as Look Keo, Shimano SPD-SL, and Speedplay as "road pedals" and most other pedals including Shimano SPD and CrankBrothers will fall into the "mountain pedals". Road race pedals in my opinion are pretty much what they sound like. They are built for road racing and very little else. They are difficult to walk in, and many people have difficulty clipping into them. This isn't a problem if you are road racing because most likely you will be clipping in and then won't be clipping out until hours later. The shoes designed to work with them are usually very stiff soled and are designed only to be used for pedaling. Mountain pedals on the other hand have a huge variety of pedal styles and shoes available. Some pedals have almost no platform at all are little more than an axle with a clip attached to grip the cleat. Others have quite big platforms and can be used with regular shoes as well as cycling shoes. There are also pedals with a platform on one side and a clip on the other. Despite the fact that many people use "mountain" to describe these pedals, many people use them on the road, and many of the designs are much better suited to the average road cyclist than a road race pedal would be. Shoes comes in all forms as well from very flexible shoes or sandals that you could walk in all day to stiffer racing shoes that, while still walkable, definitely wouldn't be good for extended walking. Shimano also makes pedals called "Click'r" which are specifically aimed at more casual and recreation cyclists. The are designed to be very easy to clip in and out of, while still providing many of the benefits of using a clipless pedal system. 

Searching on Google, I found plenty white LED lights such as this one. The problem might be that color is not a good criteria for selecting bike lights. The most important factors being reliability, light output, and battery life. You should first choose a light that meets those criteria before worrying about color. Most of the high end stuff I see is either black or silver. Perhaps silver could be a good compromise. As far as seat posts go. Just go a Google Image Search for white seat post and you'll find many different models from high quality manufacturers. For brake levers, are you asking about drop bar levers or interrupter levers? You can get replacement brake hoods in white, but I don't think I've seen any drop bar or interrupter levers that are white. Here again, you may want to use silver as a compromise. The other option being get unpainted aluminium and paint it yourself. I'm not sure how good of a result this would get. 

If you look at it from a cost perpective, even buying good tires can and often will cost less in the long run. Spending $100 on tires means you don't spend so much on other ways of preventing flats. You don't have to spend $15-$20 on Tuffy tape. You don't have to spend $10 on a new set of tubes a couple times a year, or spend a bunch of your time fixing punctures. 

You should replace them with the exact same size that are already in there. If you don't know what size, take it to the local bike shop and they should be able to tell you the size you need and order them for you. It's likely they are sealed cartridge bearings in which case you can't replace individual ball bearings, and you have to buy new cartridges. Although I wonder why one would have to replace them after only 2 years of use. Unless you've ridden the bike a lot more than the average person would ride it, they should last much more than 2 years, especially if they are sealed cartridge bearings. 

If they don't sell/manufacturer them anymore, then your best bet might be the used market, such as Ebay. This article has some interesting information. It seems like it's possible to mix 6770 and 6870 parts if you haven't updated your firmware. Otherwise it says something about using 6870 derailleurs with 6770 levers. Which I think means you could upgrade your entire drivetrain to 11 speed, without changing the levers, which would make the upgrade a bit cheaper. You could probably keep your crankset the same as well, as I'm pretty sure that it would be compatible. I don't have Di2 and I'm just going by what I've been able to find on the internet. Do some more research. There's probably a good solution that doesn't require upgrading the entire groupset. I read a few other other articles while searching around, and it seems like Shimano did a pretty big disservice by dropping the 6770 product line.