Sadly, there are of course many causes of misogyny and the disenfranchisement and control of women besides notions of purity (if causation even runs that way at all); and there are causes for pollution taboos besides the symbolic/metonymic implication of remote or closely related fears and desires. Corpses, for instance, don't just transgress a metaphysical boundary between life and death, but also stink—because we've evolved to recognise their smell as disgusting, because they're infectious. So while there certainly is a relationship between pollution taboos and patriarchy, it's very messy and contingent, as you seem to have suspected. It seems reasonable to guess that the relationship between pollution taboos and patriarchy will be stronger and more straightforward the more you narrow the scope of the taboos under consideration to those which address margins associated with women but not men in society, such as menstruation taboos. Finally, the contingency of taboos on the unique set of dangers perceived by a culture might go some way towards explaining, to speak to one of your examples, why even in ancient Greece, across which a roughly consistent pantheon was worshipped, Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights than their counterparts in democratic Athens—despite the Spartans' famous superstitiousness/religious probity. 

I have looked at the descriptions of many of the battles, especially the 100 Years' War, and most of them were preceded by negotiations, leading us to believe that it may have been customary and was at the very least common. 

Yes, the Titles of Nobility Amendment was prompted by the marriage of Jérôme-Napoléon Bonaparte, brother of Napolean Bonaparte, and Elizabeth Patterson Bonaparte who together had a child named Jérôme Napoléon Bonaparte. She hoped to bring this boy up within the French aristocracy. However, it is debated whether congress proposed the amendment to restrict the child's citizenship or Elizabeth's. While the marriage was annulled in 1805, 5 years before the amendment's proposal. These are the two theories because she was stylized as Duchess of Baltimore in discussions about the amendment and at least one representative is thought to have related this to whether members of the French nobility would hold American citizenship. 

By 1918, both sides were developing strategies and tactics which had failed so far to, but held the promise of, breaking the stalemate (co-ordinated tank and infantry attacks, stormtrooper units). The Spring Offensive was Germany's last chance to put these in effect with anything close to the logistical support and number of crack troops they required—in the event, it wasn't enough—and its failure meant that the best Germany had to look forward to was defeat by attrition accelerated by the arrival of the US. Furthermore, the Treaty wasn't signed until June 28, 1919, about seven and a half months after the ceasefire. During this time the Allies maintained their blockade of Germany, many starved (a source in that article suggests 100,000 civilians, though the Allies made attempts to allow food into Germany), others succumbed to the global influenza pandemic (which, all told, killed more people than the war killed combatants), and the country descended into paramilitary street fighting and revolution. So Germany never was in a particularly good bargaining position (all they could offer was to abbreviate everyone's suffering), and was by 1919 utterly at the Allies' mercy. I don't know enough to form an opinion on this, but here is Sally Marks on the historiography of the aftermath of WWI: (superscripts omitted) 

In the 2010 United States midterm elections, the Democrats lost a net of 680 seats, which were gained by the Republicans. This manifested itself in 21 chambers which the Democrats lost control of and 19 which the Republicans gained control of. Have there been any previous instances where such a large shift in state-level legislative power took place? As there used to be fewer states, this may manifest itself in smaller numbers, but equal or larger proportions. 

For jewlery, adult male citizens were only meant to wear a ring for the stamping of official documents, but many citizens ignored this social custom and instead wore the both this ring and other pieces of jewelry. Boys who were citizens often wore a smaller version of this in addition to their bulla. Roman women would often where a peplos which would be two pieces of cloth sewn together that when buttoned at the shoulders would form a sleeveless dress. A more common item of clothing was the chiton which was a sleeved tunic, which hung down to the ground and at sleeves which could be buttoned off at various points along the torso. The pins and buttons described above were generally fibulae, which were simple and very similar to our modern safety pins. However, pins also came in very decorated varieties. Women also commonly wore rings and bracelets, in addition to necklaces which often were made with gold and inset pearls or other gems. Armbands were also popular. Sources: 

The anthropologist Mary Douglas's Purity and Danger (1966) is a foundational text on pollution and taboos which won't lay your question to rest—and neither will this answer—but does present a model of pollution taboos consistent with the hypothesis that cultures with strongly held beliefs regarding purity are likely to find more reason to police the bodies and behaviour of women. At the risk of oversimplifying and leaning too much on this one aging but still-seminal book: Before germ theory defined 'dirt' as that which is infectious, dirt was "matter out of place."1 

I have recently been reading about a variety of body modifications ranging from a simple tattoo or ear ring. This led me to wondering about the history of body modification. I tried to ask this as a broad question, but it was too broad, so this led me to wondering when the first body modification involving electronics took place. When did the first electronic body modification take place? What was it? 

Why is it that the Titles of Nobility Amendment was proposed in congress? Were there instances of Americans accepting foreign noble titles? 

Marks, Sally. "Mistakes and Myths: The Allies, Germany, and the Versailles Treaty, 1918–1921." The Journal of Modern History 85, no. 3 (September 2013): 632-659. 

I think you're asking two questions: why were such harsh conditions imposed, and why did Germany accept. As for why they were imposed: "Some also argue that the treaty was meant to permanently render Germany useless as a military might […]" — Perhaps not totally, but I think this is the answer. It's what the French wanted, and their security concerns won out over Wilson's ideals in the negotiations. The Maginot Line stands testament to France's fear of another German invasion, and I don't think revenge—or the political necessity of satisfying a public thirst for revenge—can be discounted either. As for why Germany accepted, this diary entry by Albrecht von Thaer on October 1, 1918 recounts Ludendorff's own assessment of Germany's position at the time. 

I know that even to this day disabled individuals are often discriminated against and are treated unfairly. At what point in time, were disabilities first understood at a broad societal level? What cultural changes facilitated this? 

We think that both men and women wore a loincloth called a subligaculum or subligar. These were sometimes worn by men during manual labor and by upper-class men during exercise. Women often wore a leather or cloth band to support the breasts called a strophium or mamillare. For footwear as you mentioned, sandals were worn and for the most part the only distinction in status was in color, in which upper-class men often wore red sandals to denote their status as a patrician. The tunic was the primary upper-body garment for men of all classes. Like sandals, class distinctions were noted with various colors and thicknesses of said colors. The toga was a special upper-body clothing for Roman citizens, which like the Tunic and the sandals had many varieties that distinguished by both class and age. To quote from the VRoma Project, this list of differnent togae: 

So the physical realities of menstruation, childbirth, and breastfeeding render women's bodies more marginal (lined with margins) than men's, and thus more likely to be sites of boundary trangression. (Recall too that until very recently and still outside the rich world, high rates of infant mortality mean that childbirth is much chancier to begin with, inviting the investment of ritual significance.) By Doulgas's account, it is the perception of danger which generates taboos which (symbolically) address that danger; and critically to your question, the fears exercised are contingent on the circumstances of the culture in question: