Does anyone have experience with a polydac jumprope? They seem to range from 1 inch to 2 inches and from 2lbs to 7lbs? I'm use to using a standard and speed jump rope, but these look like an interesting add to my routine (nothing like adding something new!). I'm assuming the timing/speed work of a traditional jump rope is gone, but the cardio part would increase...? Thoughts? experiences? Any potential injury to the shoulders? 

There's no right answer for you, but many ideas on this subject. I've heard that you can work out once a week and see results to 7 days a week. Your current goals of strength and increased size leans more towards a 3-5 day plan (Berin's answer which I agree with) - but keep in mind that your current situation and goals may change and you need to be flexible to change with them. Give yourself/your-body 6-9 weeks to adjust and based on your results adjust (more weight, fewer days, etc - as needed) - each person reacts differently at specific point in times to any work out and need to be open to change..... 

I've recently started to get shoulder pain from pullups. I try to get 50+ pulls ups in once a week, but the last two weeks, after 10 the pain is enough to make me stop. What can I do to alleviate the pain or what is a good short term replacement for pullups while my shoulder recovers. The pain is on the pull and relieved on the descent. 

Cycling about an hour a day burns approx. 300 calories ($URL$ and according to this site you need to have a calorie deficit of 3,500 calories for each pound you want to lose....so, it seems that there is something wrong with either your burn rate OR your diet. I would recommend: 

I fully agree with the approach of sticking with the basic strength building exercises and working out 3-4 times a week. I would highly recommend getting the Starting Strength book by Mark Rippetoe ($URL$ He focuses on strength more than endurance or muscle size. The real answer is, what are you looking to do? what are your goals? If you're looking to get in great/general health, than yes, this is a great approach. If you're looking to loose weight you need to also focus on nutrition. If you have a specific sport/hobby that you perform (swimming, cycling, etc.) you probably want to modify your program with the focus on your specific interest. Write down your goals, stay with an approach (it could take 8-12 weeks to see improvement). Good luck. 

Is there any information on what is considered a healthy (and sustainable) weight and body fat % loss? How many pounds/bf% for each week can I compare my results against so that I know I'm making good progress and that the loss I'm experiencing is sustainable and long term. 

Over the last 2 weeks I went from 215 to 220 and the only significant change was a change in sleep habits, from a solid 8 to about 6 hours. Could sleep have that much of an impact? 

I'm looking to improve my bench press and I'm having trouble about 1/4 way off my chest - can someone describe what muscles are primarily activated during each phase (break the movement down to 1/4's or 1/3's). 

I would say the 'jury is back' on squat depth and the results show the deeper you go the better it is for you, given: 

I agree with the above people in that a gym is not a means to loose weight, it's a place to go fulfill your goals and objectives. It sounds like weight loose is your goal, as stated above this is more about nutrition/diet than about exercise...however the key to obtaining your goal is incentives to keep you motivated....those incentives could include: 

I think a lot depends on what your goals are. You can easily do some interval training or some weight training in those short breaks - if you don't mind sweating or being tired during class. Building muscle could mean: bulking or strength gain......but if you can get a good 20 minutes 3 times a day you could focus on the big three exercises: squats, dead lifts and bench pressing. I would recommend: setting your goals (including nutrition), building up slowly to ensure your body is ready and trying various combinations to see how you progress. 

Okay - now I'm ready. You work out 3 times a week, your current focus is mostly on your upper body (by looking at your routine) and looking at the exercises/sets/reps, it looks like you workout about 30-40 minutes....one of the issues you're facing is that you 'lack strength' to lift more weight and your goal is to build mass. Let's get to the basics: 

I've been 'stuck' at 240 lbs in my bench press. My biggest issue seems to be in the lift off from the chest. From what I've been reading, this could be due to the lack of speed/initial explosive power. What exercises would you recommend to improve this part of the lift. 

There are three basic strength building exercises: squats, deadlifts and bench pressing. Direct to your question: do they help the lungs and should they be done everyday? Any exercise helps lung capacity, it's a common fact that only 31% of Americans get proper exercise, which is considered 2 to 3 hours a week... So, everyday? with heavy weights? No, you need to set goals and based on those goals develop a workout program that you will follow for a long time (with on-going planned stages of change). Lifting HEAVY everyday a specific body part will lead to injury and boredom and result in leaving you worse off than not doing it. My recommendation: set your goals (based on what you want and including nutrition), develop a plan (get help if you need developing a good plan) and just do it. 

Here's a link that describes the differences: $URL$ Basically standard bars are typically shorter (but you can get a 7' one) and can hold less overall weight prior to bending. I've lifted 400lbs standard, but have a slightly bent bar because of it and like lifts. Unless you're going heavy standard is a good beginner/intermediate set to have. 

I would recommend wearing spandex top/bottom combo (that blends in with the gi) to keep warm, I remember reading somewhere that spandex also helps keeping blood flowing through compression. Ideally you are training as you are competing - so, your training (as you near the competition) simulates the fighting/competition environment in regards to floor (hard/rubber), temp and even wait times. This way you are conditioning yourself mentally and physically to the same conditions you are competing under. Don't over stretch prior to your match/time, just move around and stay relaxed. 

Any proper weight training program will help 'toning up' and weight loss. For a better run time a lot is dependent on the type of run (long/short distance) and what is holding you back from improving through running itself. To be a better runner, you have to run - you might consider doing sprints (Tabata protocol or any that fit your needs) for endurance or plyometric training for improved explosive power. A good overall weight program will help build strength and endurance throughout your body potentially reducing lack of endurance or power by building up supporting muscle groups.