Large Jumps? A person of normal bodily strength on mars should be able to jump a lot higher than on earth, lift heavier things, leap further. If you design the base without stairs or use some other design that forces them to do these things regularly then your people could maintain normal fitness by leaping around and hanging to the ceiling. Alternatively you can make a parabolic floor and rotate it so that real and centrifugal gravity combine. 

An infinite amount of power sustained for a non zero amount of time is an infinite amount of energy, which would collapse into a black hole of infinite mass. This would cause space-time to collapse in on itself. Lets assume that you have a finitely powerful weapon. To protect yourself either: 1) use more shielding 2) turn the power down to a manageable level 3) be a long long way away (missile) 

What do you mean by earthlike? Obviously no other planet is going to be atom for atom identical( except in an infinite universe), but many rocky planets exist. There are many different features of earth, like mass, composition, spin rate, orbit, atmospheric composition and pressure, star type, moon size and distance, water level, asteroid bombardment frequency, volcanic activity, ect. With all these parameters, it would be unlikely for them all to be similar. They all effect life somewhat. However life could thrive despite a lot of variation in some. There is also the possibility of advanced tech being used. Steer asteroids away from a planet that would get bombarded, make a giant sunshade,... These things aren't that hard if you can get Lots of resources and equipment into space. 

Specifics: the magical ability is genetic, very rare (about one in ten thousand people will be born with it), and no mage can be too strong (no destroying mountains, drying lakes etc.). Also, the nature of magical spells is fundamentally different from any technology or natural phenomena (i.e. laser beams or lightning), even if the effects can be similar. In other words, think Harry Potter kind of magic (not literally, but close enough). But there is a third group of people, who have a genetic ability to resist any magical effect (be it physical or mental). Their numbers are approximately the same as for people with magic. In other aspects, they are normal, with no special abilities. Let's call the groups mundanes, mages and insulars (the third group). Some of the effects: 

In the end, I would like some help in fleshing out both options 1) and 2), possible ways to desribe them, and related problems and maybe some references to similar ideas? There's a similar question here Would a 4-dimensional being be able to see inside other people? and one of the answers describes something similar to what I want $URL$ but all of it is not science based. 

2) On the other hand a complete analogue the vision I want would be a usual 3D being seeing in 2D space: 

Someone by now will want to point out that nuclear reactions create far more energy per weight. The radium dial on some clocks is just bright enough to see in the dark. If you want glowing dots on the cave floor to navigate, fine. If you want to clearly see by your glow stones, or even grow plants by them then you have a lethal radiation dose around. Your not going to get this without nuclear refinement facilities either. In short the answer is dependent on location, what is supplied and tech level, none of which is clear. continued later ... 

NO The Alien race starts out as a planetary civilization, with tech similar to ours, they expand and develop better tech all round, build space elevators, orbital habitats, mine asteroids. With a population in the trillions, and vast swaths of space solar panels to produce antimatter, the aliens launch their first interstellar probe, its a small flyby mission. Populations expand further, tech booms, artificial intelligences controlling robots produce almost everything, nanotech lets most things be created atom by atom. Probes reveal intelligence on earth. To get any humans, the aliens would need to build a spaceship capable of supporting humans for many years, and making a return journey at relativistic speeds. They would have to work out what humans eat and breathe, enough biology and medicine to keep the humans alive over the many year journey, decode human language,build a huge spaceship, stop the earth being fried from the exhaust, (actual problem) and stop the human from going mad with boredom, killing themselves or damaging something important. And in just 60 years from the start of the project they have a human, after a huge civilization wide effort. Now you have to train the human to do the vitally important task while not giving them the tools to rebel or damage anything important, given that they have no understanding of your tech or culture and probably wish you dead. Even if you managed to abduct much of humanity, what use would they be? Your toddlers have a far better understanding of your world and culture, they need to be kept in a different atmosphere than you, and your advanced robots do all the work anyway. The aliens outnumber humans nearly 1,000,000 to 1 at this point so humans aren't abundant enough to be cheap labor. 

For this question I'm assuming a utterly infeasible technological breakthrough suddenly makes wormholes technology possible. However there is a major catch, the 2D "windows" as they're called don't allow through matter or gravitational pull. The "windows" can be opened for about a half a million USD. Once opened these portals stay open indefinitely unless closed. Opening a portal requires a large amount of energy, and the use of expensive and bulky machines on one end of the wormhole, with only a small machine and energy on par with a car battery required on the other end. The portals are flat windows that look like portals, however were you to walk up to one you would pass through it unaffected. The portals size can be as small as a millimeter or as large as 2,600 meters, any larger would require using multiple portal machines and linking them together. A portal can have any shape with the smallest definition being a millimeter, however portals are totally flat. Each side of the flat portal corresponds to a side of the other end of the portal. Each of the two connected portals must be the exact same shape and size. Portals will continue moving as the machine that created them was, at the moment it created the portal, other than controlling its initial motion you can't move portals except as detailed below. This means if the machine was orbiting the earth the portal will continue this motion, even though it isn't itself a object and has no mass. Portals also continue accelerating or decelerating as the machine was when it created it, however while portals can continue accelerating indefinitely they will slow acceleration such that they approach, but never reach the speed of light. A portal on earth will not slowly drift, since slight changes in planetary motion such as the lengthening of days is effectively counted as deceleration thus the portal undergoes the same slowing, this only holds true for motions that continue at the same rate of acceleration/deceleration as when the portal was created. The end of the portal which requires the expensive machinery to create can be kept linked to the machines so that it moves with them, however this means you can't use those machines to make further portals. Weapon note: To prevent the scenario of potential apocalyptic destruction, due to someone launching a portal through the sun. I have decided that a wormhole will collapse if more than about the equivalent of a kiloton of TNT worth of energy tries to pass through it in a second, though most energy that can pass through it in a second is equivalent to a ton of tnt. Since the portal only allows through at most a ton of tnt, any additional energy is reflected back when it hits the portal. This is still a lot of energy so it still has a lot of weapon potential. Keep in mind, as far as I know all energy would be in the form of photons. TLDR: It's a portal that only lets light through.Well actually other details of it are more complicated, so read the whole question before answering. What uses would be implemented for such a technology assuming it essentially appeared in our world overnight? The most obvious thing I can think of using it for is as a source of near infinite energy, you could get one end of the portal in an orbit much closer to the sun and use the energy to boil massive amounts of water (also may be useful for desalinization). Using it to allow faster than light communication is an obvious application as well (though given our current technology that's not super useful). 

Using the Gauss formulation of the law of gravitation. The integral of the inward force over a surface is equal to the mass within it. If you have a simply connected spacetime you can expand your volume untill it fills all of space ( even with a non simple spacetime you can fill all of space except a few surfaces and assuming continuous gravitation, no singularities) Then the surface integral becomes 0. The universe must contain the same amount of positive and negative mass. If we consider a wraparound square universe containing only a small mass then the gravitational pulls in each direction are infinite, but these cancel to yield a finite gravitational pull. However if the mass is non spherical and rotating, tidal forces fall off inverse cube, mass in a shell increases with the square of distance.Consider two shells of identical thickness but radius differing by a factor of 10. While the mass 10x further gives only 1/1000th of the force per mass, there is 100X more mass and so 1/10 the force. The total force from all the shells is some constant*(1/1+1/2+1/3+1/4...1/n) which diverges to infinity. These arguments prohibit any wraparound or infinite isotropic universe with locally normal gravity from having existed an infinite time with no damping effects on the propagation of gravity. 

Wipe out the microbes Another way of considering the situation is that if you have a spaceship large enough to move hundreds of humans and going at say 0.01c then the energy released by the retro rockets slowing down is easily enough to cook the surface, killing off any life in the process. (If aimed at the planet) Even without this there are other ways to wipe out unfriendly microbes. Places in the universe where you can survive without a spacesuit (or at least breathing equipment) will be few and far between. 

Question: In a modern setting with total population about the same size and the same level of technology/medicine, how would the three groups coexist realistically? We assume that around Middle Ages everyone knew about magic, or at least suspected. 

Humans, animals and various devices only have 2D vision: that is, we see a 2D projection of light reflected from various 3D objects in the direction of our eyes (and processed by our brains). I would like to describe a 3D vision, but without being fancy 5+ dimensional beings. Questions are both: how can it be realized and how would it feel to have such a vision? I want to keep all the limitations of our usual vision: finite resolution (amount of pixels), finite field of vision (area and distance), finite time resolution, finite spectrum and spectral resolution, etc. Of course I don't want to keep is to rely on electromagnetic spectrum alone. Better have a combination of scanning instruments, including various elementary particles. 1) One way is to have a million nanorobots (or organic analogue) with sensors floating in space and communicating with each other / some external processing device. If they are tiny enough they can even 'see' inside living tissue or some porous materials. The processing needed to 'comprehend' such image in real time is enormous though. And also, it will not be a higher-dimensional analogue to our vision, because we won't be able to 'turn our head' and see another 3D projection of a 4D object, we'd be more like a right hand circle in this 2D space: 

Now like good munchkins i'm sure you're all thinking of ways this can be exploited, however this system can't generate much in the way of new information. For instance if you try to get it to produce "a really good movie" or a video of a new mathematical proof it doesn't work unless you know the information already or you go through the details. Generally the AI can't create information that your own mind couldn't create in say a dream, the major difference is that the ai creates information so good it is totally indistinguishable from an actual video. 

As mentioned in your question, quantum entanglement can't actually be used to send non-random information, as a result the only way to send things or information FTL is by using a warp drive (which still relies on theoretical negative energy that may not even exist). The warp drive is what you need to get FTL travel, but it is also the only way to do FTL communication, if you had another way you could probably use it for travel as well. It seems the only way to do communications FTL is going to be communication drones, but the drones would probably send their information in radio waves once they dropped out of FTL near their target. Intercepting communications or stopping them would be tricky, at FTL speeds intercepting anything would be nearly impossible, but once they have dropped out of FTL messages would probably be sent with radio waves, which would entail using the same methods we use today. In addition we know that the basic idea behind a warp drive doesn't break any laws like many other proposed FTL. We already know that space itself isn't limited to the speed of light, only matter and energy is. Galaxies sufficiently far away will never have their light reach us due to the expansion of space due to dark energy, to us they are effectively using a warp drive go FTL. Warp drives are dependent on whether we can harness negative energy, but we already suspect that the fabric of space has negative energy as dark energy, but that would probably be impossible to harness since it's evenly distributed. 

As a way to travel fast, my Earth-like planet is going to have a special train, circling it (the axis of the 'tracks' is aligned with the planet's axis of rotation). The thing about this train - it never stops and it doesn't end - there is no first or last car, they are all joined in a circle. Moreover, it's actually several trains, going parallel to each other. The first one travels at the speed of 5 km/h, such that any healthy person can get on it. Then the second train travels at 10 km/h, and they are close enough so it's no trouble to step from one to another. The next travels at 15 km/h, the next at 20 km/h, etc. I think about 200 trains should be enough to provide the means of fast travel around the planet. Of course, there is the matter of travelling to and from the tracks. As for the 'other side of tracks, we just need a second set of slower and slower trains. The problems with this concept: 

(!) Important! The only thing I'm handwaiving is the tracks construction. Let's say we somehow managed to do it, despite the mountains, bodies of water, etc. Maybe under the surface, but I won't elaborate further. 

In this image purple lines is what the blue ball sees: projection of a 2D space at different moments in time. Since I don't want extra dimensional beings, let's say we are all 4D (including time) and go from there. Now it's much more complicated to realise, since 'turning our head' we'd be able to see a projection of 3D space existing at several moments of time simultaneously in the past and in the future. I can't even begin to imagine how it would feel and how it could be processed. 

Well as a given people will still have cryptography. To avoid punishment messages will be hidden using code words and the like, within larger messages that would appear to be about something else. Even if law enforcement had strong suspicion that a message contained a secret message, proving it would be difficult, and maintaining plausible deniability would be easy. Cryptography would have to be done such that it isn't definitely apparent as cryptography. This still isn't that significant, unless the legal system suddenly lowers the standards for a shadow of a doubt quite a lot, proving something is coded when it is intended to not appear to be would be nigh impossible. Cryptography would be pretty similar it would just be slightly inconvenienced. EDIT: What I mentioned is technically stenography not cryptography, anyway stenography will become widespread partially replacing cryptography. 

While something like a warp drive is a staple of ftl technology in sci-fi, I wonder how this sort of spatial warping would operate on a smaller scale on earth. The idea has occurred to me to have a character with gravity and antigravity powers try to warp distance. This distance warping wouldn't extend more than half a meter from the character's body at most, and at minimum would only be skin-tight. This special warping would bear some resemblance to a alcubierre warp drive, though based on answers I am now informed a natario drive is more plausible. This power can't used to reach anything approaching relativistic speeds, however I wonder how this would work as a form of superspeed. Another detail that needs to be covered is how it works when the character interacts with objects: What happens when the character tries to move a stationary or slow moving object? What about trying to move bullets and other objects that are fast in relation to the hero's actual speed, and are slow compared to the movement of them and other stuff in their warp bubble. (The hero is also a vampire which grants the required secondary powers) How exactly would something like a warp bubble work in a atmosphere at non-relativistic speeds? Could it avoid the collateral damage normal super-speed entails? How would this spatial warping affect the atmosphere that occupies the warped space? What would this power do when the character interacted with objects not in the field: both slow moving objects and stuff like bullets. What would such a power look and sound like, both to the user and bystanders (I'm assuming the hero has super fast perception and some degree of super senses to cope, and can already run ~400 mph without warping space, or otherwise using gravity control). Ultimately I'm really hoping this power will allow things like this scene (except with superspeed that isn't wildly inconsistent) Bonus Question: What other clever uses would you use a gravity control power for, other than the standard and obvious uses. Assume you have all the other powers mentioned as well: Super senses, super toughness/strength and a baseline speed around 400 mph, In addition assume an ability to increase perception speed to a nigh unlimited amounts. Super-reflexes also protect you by immediately ramping up perception speed in response to danger sensed by super senses, effectively one's subconscious is always perceiving things in slow-motion watching for danger.