Expanding on (4) pelvis position (@gaurwraith) This passage from "Bike Fit" by Phil Burt (lead physiotherapist for British Cycling and a consultant physio for Team Sky) describes pelvis position. 

Discussions of parenting is always dangerous, but what is the hurry? Children don't understand work motifs (i.e., do A, so you can accomplish B) and seem to learn best in play motifs (or that is at least what my partner keeps hammering into my thick scull). I am in the opposite position, I wish my 3-year-old would rider her strider bike more as we used to blaze trails together, but she is obsessed with pedals now and being like daddy, so we awkwardly ride along on flat paths. I do it because she loves it. I think as the comments suggest (including your own), keeping things fun should be the objective rather than any explicit goal. He finds the trail-a-bike concept interesting, then maybe give it a go, if not then I would suggest letting it go. I have never seen a 20 year old on a strider yet! Eventually, he will outgrow it and need to transition to a pedal bike if he wants to keep riding. 

My objective is simple enough... I want people to be safe when out riding. Too often on my way to work I often see cyclists in the dark and rain without lights. When I see them I try and offer them an extra light I keep handy, just in case. The problem is I have only been successful two times over the course of a full year. Most of the time, male or female, young or old, I am told that they either have one some where or they forgot their batteries or some other crazy excuse. I have even offered free batteries to no avail. One time it took me running into the same fellow three times on a dark forest track before he would accept an old set of trail lights I had kicking about. (And of course the next day my newer replacement lights died - talk about Murphy's Law!) The only other time, I felt like the person was begrudgingly allowing me to mount a light on their bike (they were riding in the dark down a busy rural road with no street lights). In theory this should be a simple exercise, but I am failing miserably. I know my approach is important so I focus on being friendly and non-judgemental (no one likes being called out). I don't tell them what they should or should not be doing, I only talk about how the conditions make it hard to see and that I have some lights they can have. Question What is going on here? Am I missing some sort of psychological/human nature angle? Should I be taking a completely different approach? Note: I am unclear if the bicycles stack is the most appropriate stack for the question, but figured I would give it a go here first. 

Potential Unpredictability New riders can behave unpredictable especially in a pace line. In the same way, groups can behave differently than you might expect even if you are an experienced road rider. Jumping into a group without knowing what they are doing can lead to unanticipated behaviours which may or may not result in a crash. From the groups perspective, they don't know if you are a stable rider or if you will try to ride too close and clip a tire. They don't know if you will block one of them when they try to rotate their positions. You are a complete unknown who has just shown up. Most people are suspicious of unknown factors. Likely they have also spent a lot of time training. Maybe they are racers. Maybe they are getting ready for a charity ride. It doesn't really matter. The last thing they want is to get taken out by someone looking for a quick draft or thrill. Anecdotal Experience - Collision I was starting to get ready for for cyclo-cross a few years back in August and part of my route was on the road with a transition to some local trails. On the transition from road to dirt I usually hopped off the road to the shoulder, scrubbed about 10 km/hr in order to make a sharp turn on to the trails. On the road I was in my drops plugging away on an interval when unbeknownst to me someone on a road bike had snuck up behind and was drafting me (my road section began at the bottom of a hill so I suspect this played a big role with suddenly picking up a rider). I was pushing hard on the flat so I suspect he was drafting tightly. When I sat up, to get ready to transition onto the shoulder, he collided into by back wheel. I hadn't hit the brakes yet, but he must have been drafting me tight enough that simply letting off the throttle was enough to cause a collision. Luckily we were both ok. I was livid that he was drafting me without notice and bent my wheel. He was livid that I didn't continue my pull to where he figured I should finish (at the very end of the road). This belies the danger of an uninvited riders. NO COMMUNICATION had occurred between either of us as a result there was an unanticipated maneuver which lead to an accident. NO COMMUNICATION while riding in close proximity is dangerous. Insurance For a number of years I was on the board of directors and/or running a large cycling club in western Canada. Insurance, believe it or not, is an important consideration for a club. We can't hold training rides or other official club events without it. One of the Caveats is that everyone on the ride must be properly insured. For a new rider this can mean signing a one-time insurance form. For other riders it can mean belonging to either our club or another club and being a member of the local cycling licensing organization. If an incident happens and someone is injured (I have attended many ambulance visits over the years from group ride mishaps) and it is caused by a rider that showed up uninvited this could void the insurance coverage. We would have to prove that you were not invited, and that we didn't mess up our insurance forms with respect to your unofficial attendance. If people are recovering from injuries the last thing we all want is to deal with lawyers and a court-of-law. We are not deliberately unfriendly All the above reasons may seem very unfriendly, this is not the intended effect, it is just the consequence of the world we live in. If you are interested in attending a club ride, contact one of your local clubs (a quick internet search away). You will likely find that: 

The squeak can often resolve on its own as the brake pad wears more thereby increasing the distance between the pad and the rotor. You can try to get the same result by adjusting the brake caliper, either by backing off the pad with the pad adjuster or potential he re-centering the caliper so that there is more space. I will typically inspect the bike in the stand and see which side of the caliper and rotor will hit and make adjustments accordingly. If the rotor is significantly out of true it can be realigned there's a special tool for that but you can also use a large Crescent wrench. This can take some practice because it is easy to make the problem worse than rather than better. 

I would suggest temperature change may be affecting the cable housing dimensions, which in turn affects the cable tension and therefore the dérailleur settings. I have been noticing this happening to myself this fall, especially switching to a bike with full length housing and 10 speeds on the rear dérailleur. With the large daily temperature changes in fall I find myself adjusting the rear dérailleur tension by a quarter to half-a-turn in either direction depending on how the temperature has changed. (Luckily the bike has inline adjusters near the bar, which makes this a trivial exercise). Metal will expand or contract with temperature, and therefore the dimensions of the cable housing (which has metal strands) and the cable itself can change slightly with temperature changes. For what its worth I never noticed this issue on older bikes with 9 speeds or lower (with or without full length housing). I have however started noticing this issue with full length housing and higher speed drive train (i.e., 10, and 11 speed). Solution/Hypothesis Test: If you are handy at adjusting derailleurs, then you can test this hypothesis and potential fix the problem at the same time. The next time the shifting problem emerges try adjusting the derailleur. 

It really depends how fast the vehicle accelerates. It needs to accelerate slow enough so that you can keep pace and remain in the draft. At the time I had no trouble hitting 50 kph on my own for short periods so I had the acceleration needed to keep pace until the draft really started to kick in. At higher speeds it is amazing how much the draft really sucks you along, you really don't need to generate crazy power, just have enough leg speed so that you can keep pace in your largest gear. At 80+ kph you need at minimum 53-11 gearing. Even then I could barely stay on top of the gear, I had to spin incredibly fast. I had a bike computer at the time, but I never checked the cadence, just my speed which was 80-85 kph. At that time (late 1990's) you didn't have many data loggers, which record every moment in detail for posterity like we do today, so I can't offer any more detail than this. 

First off, when riding over rough terrain you should be hovering above your saddle, not sitting on the saddle. This holds whether riding a hard tail (no rear suspension) or riding a full suspension bike. If you are sitting you have less ability to move your weight around, and therefore less control of the bike. When sitting it is easy for a large bump to throw you off balance making you crash or swerve into a crash. When the trail is really steep and rough not only you should be off the saddle, but you should also be putting your weight behind the saddle. Example below pictured below. These riders are on downhill/freeride bikes (tons of suspension travel, 6-8 inches) and they are not sitting on the saddle. 

3-speed drive trains should naturally have a straight chain line and lots of room for the chain, which is typically wider. So I doubt that the chain is too wide. I suspect the LBS did not correctly insert the chain pin, when reassembling. If this was the case the pin could be protrude on one side and potentially catch on various drivetrain components. Continually catching will stress the chain. If the protrusion is significant enough to catch, on the opposite side of the protrusion the pin may not be sufficiently inserted into the outer link plate. Eventually the catching could cause the partially inserted pin to pop out of place, breaking the chain, leaving you stranded. Check where the chain broke to see if the pin at the break point is reasonably flush to the outer link plate or protruding by a large amount on the side where the pin is still in place. Speculation Warning This is of course rampant speculation, as I have no pictures to go off of, but is the only logical mechanism that comes to mind. (And it is something I have actually done and can verify can happen!) 

The prevalent thought among many members of the Cycling Illuminati (trademark) is that the high vehicle speeds will drive rain into your bearings on a bike if it is mounted to the roof rack. Seems kinda plausible, but here is a GCN video about how hard it is to actually drive water past seals and into bearings with a pressure washer: 

Is your position sustainable? (i.e. comfortable over long periods of time) Can you use all your controls effectively? (i.e., shifters and brakes) 

If you inflated the tire and the tire itself is indented at times, it is likely that you did not seat the tire correctly. This means the tire bead is not sitting correctly in the rim. The rim should have hooks to catch the tire bead. The tube should expand to many times its original size and will fill the volume made available to it. As such, a tire that is not seated properly will present a different radius to fill making it look like the tire is indented. Try deflating the tire so that is has a very low pressure then squeeze and pull on the tire to try and get it to seat properly. Re-inflate, then check. Also sometimes a high pressure can make the tire seat correctly. Finally, if your rim tape has slipped it can interfere with the tire seating correctly. Check to make sure the tape is in the proper location. 

The Importance of Execution The tactics and strategy outlined above will rely heavily on execution, which can be difficult for beginners. Many new riders will only partially commit to a tactic, holding back for fear that it might not work out. The "secret" is that once you decide on a tactic you really have to commit everything to it (i.e., willingness lose and look like a fool). Otherwise it is only a half strength attack which is easier for the other rider to survive. The more experienced rider will be practiced in the determination needed to knuckle down and survive an attack (even though they may be less fit overall). This mental strength and experience can make them a formidable opponent if you do not fully commit to a strategy or tactic. It can take time and practice for beginners to develop the "killer" instinct needed for success, so don't get discouraged if a chosen strategy doesn't work first time out. Sometimes you just have to keep throwing mud at the wall to get some to stick.