At my local army shop they sell neoprene gloves with detachable finger ends for the index and middle finger ends. Something like the picture below, but without the thumb, and the ends are not cut out but foldable. I have ones without this feature. They are not too warm (good maybe down to -5C), but are very comfortable - I cant type and call on the phone with them on. 

Here is a list of the messages that I anticipate to be often useful in hiking, climbing emergencies: Reverse SOS 

Yesterday I was shopping for breathable waterproof boots* and this is what the salesperson explained to me. The shoe material does NOT matter. The damp air from the foot goes through the membrane (Gore-Tex) to an intermediate "pocket" between the membrane and the outside shell of the shoe. Once the shoe is removed, the dampness begins flowing back through the membrane and into the air, thus drying the shoe. Is this correct? Do shoes not breathe through the outer layer at all? * - I call 'boots' any shoes, that are high enough to support the ankle, but mainly leather ones 

I have a pair of GriSport boots. They are natural leather, with SimpaTex membrane. I use them for biking, weekend hikes and general wear in the winter in the city: salt and car oils everywhere. They are beginning to smell a little. Also, I reckon, the membrane is full of dirt and rubble and does not breathe as well. How can I wash them (at home) so that they are as close to new as possible? 

I have had similar problems. Avoid "drinking houses". That is, shelters in the woods, that are accessible by cars, and where locals go in order to get drunk. Other than that, carry a weapon when in the woods - a knife or a small axe. In the wild, you are on your own and laws are far away. 

A folding knife is always a great idea. I carry mine everywhere - city and backpacking. It gets used at least once a day - open a beer, cut a string of rope, cut up food, remove a thorn, open up a stubborn snack. No need thinking if it is with me or not. Because the knife is important to me, I choose my cloths with it in mind. Cotton pants, with deep pockets and sturdy construction. They sell for $1 at a second-hand shop. My point is, think of a way to carry it on your person, not the backpack. You will find a million uses. 

On both of my backpacks (40L and 100L) the construction is as in the picture. The shoulder straps are connected to the backpack body at some point on the back of the backpack. Separately, there are adjustment straps, that connect some upper part of the shoulder straps to the top of the backpack (those are different from the shoulder strap length adjustment at the bottom of the shoudler straps). Essentially, if the adjustment straps are fully loose, the shoulder straps are attached to point A, and if they are fully contracted, the shoulder straps are attached to point B. What is the purpose of this? How do I adjust them correctly? 

This not only introduces huge time-outs for re-clothing, but can also be hazardous to health in colder climates. However, this is only a secondary benefit and is in no way as significant as Weda's argument. Keeping consistent, slow (i.e. not exhausting) pace is the way to hike far and swiftly, for many days. Interestingly, the same discussion applies to cyclists. Pedalling hard in a difficult gear is a performance-killer. It took me 10 years to learn that :D 

How should I set up a two-layer dome tent for 2/4 people in deep snow (waist height)? Do I need some additional equipment (snow shovel)? Insulation under the floor (further than the sleeping pads)? Research: Anchor the tent in the snow, using plastic bags 

All have strengths and weaknesses. If one interests you more than the others, you can post a question about it. Cookware I find too heavy to carry on my back; someone more experienced could cover that. 

On the topic of popping blisters. There are the two contradicting opinions out there, of course. My understanding is as follows. Do not pop a blister if you can avoid it. If walking significant distance is needed, pop it with a clean needle, squeeze out the liquid, and put an antibiotical bandage over it. The gains are twofold: 

I know that a recurve bow should have its string removed when not shooting, so that it does not stretch and the limbs do not experience plastic deformation. On the other hand, the procedure to unstring, string and tune a compound bow looks too involving to be performed on daily bases How often should a compound bow be unstrung?. 

E3 is a 7000 km hike through Europe. What resources would every member of a small group of average adults need in order to realistically have chance of completing it: 

As others have pointed out, moisture and friction are the causes for blisters. I should note once again that the topic is controversial. In a recent discussion a doctor disagreed that blisters should ever be popped, while a long-distance runner did the above procedure to be able to walk home without too much pain. Note: I have found that wearing footcloth is a definite solution. It has the advantages of 

Most people can't work with Morse code, and even a printed sheet of the code would be impractical without previous training. My question is is there a similar system of signals? Something like a circle with the flashlight, pointing something with the beam or a cross with the flashlight. 

I think that a fair way to split the weight between group members is ... everyone to carry their own. Including food, clothes, bedroll, part of the tent. This prevents the inexperienced and unfit new hikers form bringing a ton of cosmetics, drinks, clothes. 

I don't think is the correct approach to climbing trees. See, from mechanics, the tree branch is a cantilever beam. So comparing branches could be done if stepping only at the base of it, only with one foot. 

I have noticed that preparing a backpack for a 1-2-10 day trip can take up to 3 hours. I would like to cut this time way down. Concerning this, I have had several ideas: 

Another motivation for this question is that if a good enough answer is recovered, I would be able to ditch the bulky sleeping mat when mountain biking. In a spring, summer or autumn temperate forest, using a knife, rope, sheet of plastic and the surrounding natural materials, how can one quickly construct a replacement sleeping mat? 

Polishing a blade means sanding it with very fine compound (more than 2000 factor). Specialized pastes exist just for that. For example: 

For a 3-day hikes, firstly you need a medium-sized backpack. Somewhere between 40 and 60L. Next, you need comfortable hiking shoes, gaiters and a raincoat. Also sunglasses and a nice summer hat. For winter hiking it's much more. To be safe, you need proper winter shoes, and ice axe, crampons, snowshoes. For camping, the options are 

I have a two-layer dome tent, cheap and not particularly designed for winter. Do I need to ever worry that during a heavy snow downfall during the night that tent might be covered up with snow and I will suffocate? To narrow that down, I worry that the tent walls will be covered, while the surrounding snow level remains below the ceiling level (of course if 2 meters of snow fall during the night, it will be covered, no question here).