Abstain from telling it till asked for.If you are asked to fill a form and it asks you to mention any medical condition then you fill it, as not mentioning it there will mean withholding information. Do not mention it proactively on your resume or during interactions. Answered based upon the assumption that the condition does not render you unproductive for prolonged period frequently. 

I believe that it will have a negative impact on your career. There might not be some apparent effect when you are a developer but if you reach a certain position your past can be used to malign the repo of your organization as sales and marketing of IT sector is same as any other sector and stepping on the image of some one is one way to get ahead. I have come across incident where marketing people have said to client things about other organization on unofficial channels to get projects e.g "they have a in experienced team their project manager was once junior to our tech lead " etc.. 

I usually resolve this for the candidate by saying "tell me about your self ,more on the technical side". What i expect him is to provide me with information which might be of interest to me. Name qualification experience and projects. According to me good approach is to start with your name, qualifications, experience and gradually move towards the information which will help the interviewer in evaluating you.Guide him towards the projects which you are most comfortable explaining. Tell me about your self is the opportunity which should be used to take control of the flow of interview. Note : I take care of the technical part only. 

I know some organizations use employees as consumable resource . What you will do to a car which you do not own?....profit is the driving motive and every project is on fire...but you cannot run a vehicle on NOS always. Assumption 1:- The work is on project basis. on the onset of project be clear about un achievable deadlines. Assumption 2- Its a repetitive task with day to day quantitative work. Tell them about the output which you can deliver and take a polite but firm stand on unreasonable workload. Its usually not practical to fight against the culture of a organization..its better to change. 

(Assuming he puts effort at least in terms of hours) I have been involved in training and this type of behavior some times originates from other reasons as well.When a intern feels that asking frequent questions is good for his "visibility" he will ask them. You have to guide his progress from time to time using different practice at each phase. Like first you encouraged him to ask questions now its time you say to him "you are slow in problem solving or you cant solve things on your own". You can always tell him to go and google,He might not think higly of you but he will learn to catch his own fish. 

When there are few contributing members as the organization is small things can be made to work based upon mutual understanding and consent.But as the number grows these things become a bottle neck. 

The projects you make are the only ones which count in an interview, well you made them as an employee or as an enthusiast are two different things and they need to be handled differently. Yes if your project has potential it will count. Handling Personal Project With personal projects you have to really own what ever you do and choose, You cannot just say it was client requirement or my Tech lead asked me to follow this approach. You have to be prepared to justify technically any third party library you have used or design pattern you have used. If you want to start on a project and intend to show it on resume make sure it is best of your effort and "your effort" part is more important. 

Many handle this situation by a paid prototyping/requirement gathering phase. How you sell this phase to client depends on marketing skills. Paid requirement gathering creates a balance by shifting the burden partially to client thus ensuring promptness and effort towards attainment of goal. Depending upon the client and size of account you can decide weather you want to do requirement gathering in pre-sales of free or not. 

When you deal with a person who is representing his organization you are not actually interacting with the person alone,you are actually interacting with "Position + person" combination. When you choose to interact with them out side your operation its interaction with the person. But in reality neither the person nor the position is zero at any given point of time their weightage vary.In operation you interact more with position and out side you interact more with person. The outside interaction will definitely increase your responsibility towards each other as you create a collective personality.A man is partially judged by connections he has professionally. It will go positive for both of you as it does create a sense of "Known" element even if you are just a thumb image on the social network. Go ahead connecting wont do any harm. 

Bad process can bring bad name to organization and make it unpopular amongst employees because after a point you will also want more experienced not so bachelor people to work for you who will be reluctant because of the odd hour culture which would have creep-ed in your organization gradually. By fixed hours you need not to be rigid you can have a range of in time like 8 am to 10 am similarly for out time. and fixed rules ,which are easy on employees,For once in a while exceptions. This will ensure that every one comes on time and those who have some urgencies are not harmed Edit I have been privy to medium scale organization who went for ISO or CMM like certification but had faced lots of resistance becoz of adhoc culture.Not only there were delays in their endeavor but also expenses as the concerned experts where hired on salary (big salary) basis. 

I have a situation at hand. I have a option to get a higher Designation (Senior Software Engineer) but the remuneration being provided is less then whats average in the market for a SSE. My question is if i take the designation at low salary will it effect my future growth as i will be low paid SSE. 

First A cube gives you more personal space and gradually you develop your private zones based upon your surroundings for example people used to working in crowded places have smaller personal zone and farmers have a very large personal zone to the extent that they prefer distant "hii" from "handshaking" ref:- Allen Peas body language. So you will face some issues be ready for it every thing will not be same or comfortable.So lets discuss them. 1.Personal space:- If the space between work station is pretty good and people can just see each other then it will be little easy.Other wise things like your co worker wearing wrong perfume or not wearing a perfume at all might bother you. At your end you can try to keep you smell signature low (food and chemicals i take hygiene for granted). Keep your sound signature low (it grinds my gears when people mobile vibrates on common desk sending little quake) summary be as much invisible as you can comfortably. 2.Scopophobia:- don't mind its my personal one.. i cant code if some one is casually watching my monitor.But over time i have learned to deal with it using proper font and monitor choice.People do tend to look at your screen when you are entering your password/appkeys yes they do. Don't do this to others. 3.Random personal Activities :- these can range from normal to annoying. a once in a while stretch goes unnoticed so does a occasional yawn but many things like eating a nonveg burger besides your vegetarian co worker can really be bothersome. Little consideration will go long way. Summary its not that bad and you will do great since you are a performer i guess you will be engrossed in your work most of the times. Be considerate to others and follow the golden rule "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you" and at times don't give a damn 

NOTE :- I love Stackoverflow so i might be biased He is an uninformed manager. Does he saw you typing? does he think SO is waste?. A simple test could be to block SO in office for a week and see the Input vs output effect.Startups usually give poor training and leave new developers to drift.They even give newbies big projects beyond their capacities. Small companies pick project based upon technologies they do not know. Stackoverflow is the Savior a grand platform to be associated with. Identify the real problem Does he has problem with SO or you? Is he jealous of your reputation? I am not that convinced that SO is real problem becoz no one works 8 hours on clock every day you take breaks (indian context frequent smoke/cofee/chat breaks). If you Do SO at that time its should be ok. Solutions You can stop using your system for SO and use your smart phone. And at times you have to stand against being micro managed. talk to him in terms of deliveries and dead line,how you achieve them is your problem. Be polite and tell him SO is not a illegal site and its not blocked by our internet usage policy (i hope your management is more then you TL) it is not effecting your output. IF you are not comfortable training people tell him you cannot train others you can just guide them.strong text 

You cannot ensure. Since you mentioned that your seniors have college time contact with the vendors then naturally vendor will also feel safe/comfortable communication with your seniors then with you.Reasons 1.They have a personal touch in relation so vendors will place more trust on them.2.They are your seniors so they are in a capacity to roll out more concessions and perks then you do. Suggestion you can bring it up some time during chat and request your seniors to keep you in loop. These vendors must not be the only account which your company has or which you handle.Every vendor wont be your bosses college time buddy.Let it go and concentrate on new ones/others. You can raise the quality of service you provide to this vendor so that you become a better option to them. 

Nice observation on your part i have observed that its a practice of people suffering from lower self esteem. A persons current position cannot be a indicator of his future growth always.When a subordinate or junior appears to be more promising then the seniors and given the same time span, shows the ability to reach a higher position, Then the same ability is taken as a subconscious threat by not so competent seniors who are at a higher position more by virtue of time . This might invoke such reaction. But any organization which has a bigger picture in mind will never encourage it . 

Short Answer:Yes you can. Real Question: when you should? Suggestion: If you think you are worthy of recommendation letter then there must have been times when client/employer would have praised you verbally or on chat. You can grab that opportunity to ask for one. If you some how missed that moment then you should only request for the letter when the relation ship is at a high. 

Lets start with a straight question Do you wish to grow? if yes then put process in place.Fix the work hours.or else it will spoil your organization's work culture. At present it doesn't look very scalable. 

Healthy competition is the magic word you are looking for. I present you a case study. A startup had problem with people switching over to git from SVN.And the general issue of people not being motivated about new developments and the inertia towards existing tech..you know the usual human stuff. Their approach towards it was ingenious ...They introduced a concept of intra organization presentations every 3 months or so and they make (initially) participation of 2 members from each technical branch compulsory.And every body had to attend presentation of their choice at least 3.so their were several presentation going on in parallel and in different time slots every one was required to attend at least three of his choice. At first people participated because they had too.They gave presentation on topics and people attended because they had too.But when pictures of people who gave presentation came up as posters in office cafeteria and review and feedbacks came ups they became heroes. so next time they had more voluntary participation and real effort went into making presentations.Gradually what started as a experiment became a rich source of knowledge sharing. It increased co operation in organization and improved culture as for example if some one had trouble using git will instinctively talk to person who gave presentation on git. This approach is one which can be used to initiate or get the learning rock rolling within the organization. Basically you need "right carrot and right stick"