over a long enough time span, it only takes one woman and a dewar of gametes to populate a planet. if robots can really do everything, some crazy rich person (e.g. elon musk) will personally found the martian human population. with proper planning, that pioneer could ensure the entire population will be too poor to ever leave the planet. 

from a purely taxonomical perspective, all the human-shaped creatures are probably either great apes, simians, primates, or marsupials. so sapient simians would work well. or you could use the term men to mean both humans and other primate-shaped people. of course, then you have gender ambiguity issues. 

it is tough to say without more details, but the stone would probably weaken the armor very slightly unless it was unrealistically large and pure. some things to consider: 

side note regarding decimal time: on the whole, humans are unlikely to eliminate timezones until we switch to a decimal timekeeping system. both "french republican calendar" and its modern revival "internet beats" use timezone-free decimal clocks whose date flip happens in sync with traditional france time (gmt+1:00). unfortunately, decimal time seems unlikely to gain broader usage until we have a non-trivial polar or non-earth population. even then, there are likely to be several decades during which both systems are used (e.g. today we use 12hr and 24hr clocks). also, emerging technologies make the transition easier every year. e.g. soon you will be able to ask siri "when would be a good time to call my uncle in japan?", and she will consider average local business hours as well as when your uncle specifically tends to have online activity. meanwhile, if you would like to start using a decimal clock, there are several mobile apps for it. unfortunately, most of those clocks will shift around as you move between timezones. oddly enough, the only decimal clock app i have found that allows you to lock the timezone is the startrek clock app, since one version of "stardate" was essentially the french revolutionary system. 

historically, new landmasses were initially populated with penal colonies. perhaps the government or religion in your world has decided that another religion, tradition or hobby is wrong, and exiled all practitioners to mars. alternatively, the practitioners may have exiled themselves to avoid persecution. nothing says "leave me alone" quite like 50 million kilometers of cold dark emptiness. 

booking airfare scheduling distant meetings (either via telecommunications or travel) setting clocks (since daylight savings time wouldn't make sense and clocks could come pre-set) knowing when emails, text messages and internet messages were sent writing software of almost any kind (software frequently uses timestamps) 

make the humans vegetarian farmers and the beasts nomadic obligate carnivores. this means the humans and beasts would not be competing for any meaningful resources, and therefore have no reason to seek to eradicate each other. sure, occasionally in a lean year a beast would try to eat a human or two and the humans would respond by killing a few beast. but both sides would know better than to start a conflict, since they have little to gain and much to lose. in most years, the beasts and humans coexist peacefully and benefit from mutual trade (e.g. human steal or hides for beast caught fur or postal service). the humans might annoy the beasts by cutting down trees, but the average nomadic beast would probably not realize the long term consequences of that. perhaps some philosopher beasts would argue the humans should be stopped, but with such high short term cost the idea never gets momentum. this makes sense considering a nomadic predator would probably never form any large political organizations. throughout human history, permanent settlement (aka farming) has been a prerequisite for centralized government. 

it might be harder to predict when stores open and close. e.g. at some longitude 7-eleven stores would switch from opening at 7am to 6am. this would probably follow political boundaries like state lines much like timezones, but be determined on a chain-by-chain basis rather than state-by-state basis. of course, now that we have google maps, that would be much less of an issue. also, once you have gotten past your jet-lag, it might be slightly more confusing to make dinner reservations because you might not know off hand when you will be hungry, that is however a very minor pause rather than a big issue. lastly, determining when businesses would be open (and people are awake) in distant places would be different. instead of checking the timezone offset and assuming 9-5, there would probably be an official state "business hours". this system would in fact be more effective since not all regions use 9-5. e.g. "temperate" latitudes tend to be closer to 8-4 to optimize daylight during commute, while tropical climates tend towards 10-6 to minimize commuting during the afternoon heat. some regions have longer split work-days with long lunch/rest breaks in the middle, while other regions have shorter workdays due to labor laws. 

many low-skilled jobs will never be replaced by a robot. mostly jobs that are valued due to their "human" element. examples of human-required jobs include: 

examples from earth include dogs, which can nearly all interbreed despite radically different shapes sizes and colors (although, this is arguably not "natural" given the human selection pressure). also, snow goose blue and white morphs. you might also consider the radical sexual dimorphism in various species (e.g. birds of paridise). or even radically different stages of some animals (larva, nymph, catarpillar, butterfly) more generally, appearance is a function of genetics and selection pressure. typically, a species seeks uniformity in appearance since visible deformity is correlated with genetic damage and defects. there are however some parts of the genome where diversity is highly valued. there has been some research to suggest that human females are more attracted to males when their immune system genes do not line up. perhaps you could invent a world where some sort of predator or pest would attack animals that look similar. then there would be genetic selection pressure to ensure you children did not look like any other animal of your species. this selection pressure would eventually be reflected in mating preferences and accelerate the diversity. example selection pressures: 

this fear of strangers is ancient and deep-set for good reason. before strong central governments evolved, theft was controlled by a social network that would punish people in the community who stole/vandalized/raped/killed/etc. since this network had little control over people who were about to leave the community, it was assumed that anyone who did leave the community had done something too horrible to accept the consequences. even if the stranger arriving in your community had not yet committed a crime, they were much more likely to leave again. this transience meant you could not punish them if they committed a crime. this lack of control over vagrants made them scary. the upshot of this reasoning has historically (pre-1500's) been rampant strangercide. more recently, it has been a less drastic mistreatment of vagrants by nearly all centralized authorities (just try getting a state id without a permanent address). on a more personal level, it has left most people with the (frequently wrong) impression that strangers are more dangerous than people they know. 

if drones can really do everything that people can, then you are in a post-scarcity world. as such, the only truly expensive things are those things you can't simply print more of. for example: real estate. in this post-scarcity world, the cost of going to mars would be trivial compared to the value of the real estate you could purchase there. perhaps the top 1% richest people of the future, live on estates spanning hundreds of square kilometers. whereas the wannabes (next richest 10%) can only afford that kind of estate for their vacation home on mars. this would be akin to the country manor of a minor renaissance lord. sure, it takes a few days to travel there, but the scenic vista's make it worth the trip. 

artist (actor, author, painter, etc.) child care provider, elder care provider, etc. teacher, tutor, coach, etc. security guard, life guard, etc. bar tender (this job could have been replaced by a machine years ago) masseur, fortune teller, greeter, u-tube star, etc. 

yes, with loyalty and assassination. all he has to do is use his telepath to screen the lords of each target nation for sympathy to his cause. then he sends assassins in to kill anyone unsympathetic to his cause. then he offers to "help" end the assassination epidemic by letting the target nation join his empire. once the lords agree to join the empire, he installs someone excessively loyal as the local king of that nation. lather-rinse-repeat. 

the limit of 9 months is generally due to head-to-pelvis ratio. escaping that trap implies that these children could develop larger heads (and larger brains). the obvious advantages are either increased intelligence or larger overall size. that said, if you have the technology to increase brain size while growing an embryo into a fetus, you probably also have the technology to increase brain size after the fetus starts breathing (thereby becoming an infant). 

a green saphire would be stubstantially stronger and tougher than emerald. when steel hits it's limit, it bends while absorbing energy. when gems hit their limit, they shatter and/or crack, absorbing substantially less energy. the armor would be weekened at the joint between steel and gem because that interface would be rigid like gem, but soft like steel. re-enforcing that joint would add more weight than you save using sapphire for realistically sized gems. in theory a very large sapphire (e.g. covering the entire chest) could be stronger than an equivalent weight of steel plate. similarly, replacing the entire knee plate with a single well shaped sapphire could be better than the comparable weight in steel. obviously green sapphires this size have never been found on earth. however, modern armored car windows are made from synthetic aluminum oxide, which could easily be made into a green sapphire by adding trace elements. sandwiching sapphire (or even emerald) between two steel plates could provide improved resistance to armor-peircing arrows (and lances). this would be similar to the ceramic plates in modern composite armor. again, this would require extremely large thin plates of gem, and most of the plate would be hidden. although, you could probably reveal a small window of gem without greatly reducing the overall odds of protection. obviously an arrow that hit that window of gem would not be stopped as effectively. steel is superior primarily because it is easy to shape, and can take a lot of damage while still providing protection. if you could somehow (magically?) shape the gemstone into a breastplate, and you made it thick enough that standard weapons could not shatter it, then it would be lighter than an equivalent steel plate. i'm not sure if that would be light enough the wearer could still walk. 

if living things can be protected, then that seems like the most logical solution. it seems saffron stigmas are worth thousands of dollars per kilogram (source: wikipedia). if disembodied flower genitals aren't "living" enough for your spells to work, some small flowering plants are worth thousands of dollars. (source). also, if plant's don't qualify as "living beings", it seems a virgin is worth 50 shekels (source: deuteronomy 22:28-29) 

invoke the yagni principle and only invent words as you need them. simply add them to the dictionary as you invent them for your story dialog. you will need to invent both vocabulary (words) and grammar (e.g. sentence structure) in order to create a truly unique language (rather than just an english word codebook). you will probably want to invent roots, conjugations and declensions (e.g. prefixes, vowel-shifts, suffixes) in order to make a realistic and coherent vocabulary. a good introduction to linguistics will give you an idea of what is possible. in addition to the language, you will probably want to think about the writing system. critically, phonetic vs non-phonetic and ligatures. seek the advice of someone who has actually accomplished what you are trying to do. e.g. tolkien wrote a book (a secret vice) about inventing languages. 

birth defects nearly all human societies have a strong taboo against mating with family members. this can be easily explained by the dramatic increase in birth defects in the offspring of close relatives (e.g. siblings, parent/child). this is due to the negative effects of various recessive genes and the fact that the entire human race is extremely inbred (e.g. compared to chimpanzees). obviously, close relatives don't usually hate each other, but that's also explained by our genetic imperative to help our close relatives reproduce. so, the question becomes: what if there was a group of people that my people liked, but almost certainly would cause birth defects if we mated with them. if so, we would evolve lots of aversion mechanisms to ensure that never happened. let's say at some point in the history of this species there was a mutation in a gene for forming skin. anyone with 2 copies of the "normal" version are fine. anyone with 2 copies of the "mutated" version are fine. but if you have 1 copy of each, your skin constantly peals off painfully while excreting a stinky green goo. how the first person with this mutation managed to reproduce at all is a mystery, but i'll assume he was not a nice man. in any case, his descendants eventually formed their own community. once that community became isolated from the "normal" community, they eventually all had 2 copies of the "mutated" gene, so they looked normal as long as they didn't interbreed with the "normal" population. fast-forward a few thousand years and both populations have developed strong social, political and genetic deterrents from interbreeding (e.g. taboos against talking to "others", laws forbidding interaction and hormonal repulsion making "others" stink). no one can remember what happens when they interbreed because it never happens. perhaps in the last few thousand years both societies have developed genes to handle the "mutation" without any ill effects, but the secondary repulsions remain. perhaps even the hormonal repulsion has eroded away, so they smell fine to each other. now, you have two societies that could interbreed (and otherwise interact), but simply choose not to for historical reasons. 

since women are shorter, slower and weaker than men, they would avoid any confrontation on foot. basically, infantry would be a tiny group of unusually large and exceptionally well trained women. since women are less expendable than men, trade-offs between risking lives and risking equipment would tend more towards the safety side of the equation at the expense of much larger equipment budgets. although, this has been happening naturally for decades as we have become wealthier. also, the age limits would be raised (both lower and upper) in order to avoid killing off women before they produce baby taxpayers. 

brainwashing "brave new world" by aldous huxley explores a society controlled by conditioning people to be docile and easy to shepherd. if a government managed to do such a thing, they might breed citizens with an immense fear of nature and an inborn love of their home town. couple that with a few generations of exterminating all the competing cities, and boom: civilization in a bottle. side note: if you really want to parallel the book, you also need to give them a strong desire to travel so you can sell tickets on the monorail loop where they can see the terrifying trees from the safety of their civilized rail car and still be back home in time for the nightly orgy.