If you proceed step by step, passing from '2 power 4' via '2 power 3/4' to '2 power pi' and even to '2 power i' (exponentiation with pure imaginary exponent), you will probably stop at each new kind of abstraction. Each time you will try to ask your power of imagination for plausibility of the operation and the result. E.g., try to visualize 

The same does not hold for -1. Hence 1 is a distinguished element concerning multiplication, but -1 is not. There is no symmetry between 1 and -1 concerning multiplication. From 1 + (-1) = 0 follows be multiplying both sides by (-1) and applying elementary rules: (-1) * 1 + (-1) * (-1) = (-1) * 0 -1 + (-1) * (-1) = 0 (-1) * (-1) = 1, q.e.d. 

These criteria can be used to judge the soundness of a philosophical theory. In addition, the theory should be as simple as possible, e.g. it should satisfy Occam's razor. Nomenclature: The term "empirical truth" could be misleading. Not the truth is empirical; being true or false is a property of statements. Instead, the method to check the statement is empirical. 

In your comment you write "It might be pertinent indeed to know the meaning of meaning." In 1975 Putnam published his essay „The meaning of ‚meaning‘“; see Putnam, Hilary: Mind, Language and Reality, Philosophical Papers Vol. 2, 1975, p.215-271 Putnam deals with a traditional problem from philosophy of language. His aim is to find for the two concepts 

In physics time is measured by clocks. In the more refined version of the Special Theory of Relativity time is one component of the four-dimensional spacetime. One has a certain choice how to decompose spacetime into time and space. Hence the measured time depends on the choosen system of coordinates. There is no global time, each observer measures his own local time. But there are rules how to convert the different results. But as you write, a term like "duration of time" is not employed in physics. It is discussed in the philosophy of physics whether time flows or whether we move through a preexistent 4-dimensional spacetime. See "Chapter 5. The Frozen River. Does Time Flow?" from Greene, Brian: The Fabric of the Cosmos (2004) My question: Who does speak about a duration of time? 

At all locations the term Thing has no particular philosophical meaning. The term is used just in the ordinary sense of thing (with small initial). I consider it a wrong translation to emphasize the term by a capital initial. Note: In German the word "Ding" has always a capital initial because it is a noun. 

Morality = The sum of norms uphold by a person or a group. Moraliy is expressed in a set of values, principles, and rules, which control our actions. In general different kinds of morality coexist in a society. Rationalism = An epistemic position which emphasizes the power of reason to obtain knowledge prior or even independently from experience. Atheism = An ontological position which negates the existence of any god. Physicalism = An ontological position which tries to reduce all entities to physical entities. Physicalism is an example of a monistic position, because it accepts only one kind of entities. 

My short answer is: Classical consequentialism asks for the factual consequences of the action, while your variant asks for the purpose of the actor. Both alternatives are valid positions in ethics. 

My answer to the latter question: There is no epistemic principle which builds a bridge from the possible - but highly improbable - to the impossible. Concerning the first alternative, I assume that the rational person remembers several unlikely cases which eventually got a rational explanation. Possibly he even sets out to investigate the case and to find out the rational explanation. And as long he has not found it, he abstains from any pseudo-explanation of the situation. Aside, what about converting your remarks concerning skepticism into a separate question? 

Because you are aiming at AI, I would like to recommend sources which combine classical epistemology with results from neuroscience. Introduction: 

Kant uses the term "noumenon" in the sense of your first definition "a thing so far as it is not an object of our sensuous intuition." I doubt whether Kant discusses the term in the sense of your second definition. I doubt that Kant speculates about a kind of intution different from our human intuition. The term intution has to be taken in the sense of the "Transcendental Aesthetic". The long passage from the "Critique of Judgement", which Philip quotes, deals with the difference between discursive and intuitive understanding. In my opinion, here Kant's uses the term "intuitive" not in the technical sense of the Transcendental Aesthetic, but in a more common sense. Your death will be a natural event. You cannot recognize your death. But this fact does not relate to any philosophical reasoning. It is due to the tautology that a person is dead at the time of his death. Therefore his mind does not work any longer. 

Actuality and potentiality are one concept of Aristotle's ontology but not the only one. A second concept is the notion of substance (= ousia). The substance is that which does not change during the lifetime of an object. In your example the substance is bronze statue. Besides giving its substance as the first category, the object has a set of further properties, e.g. some of the categories no. 2-10, see Aristotle: The Categories. 1b25-2a4. E.g., the colour determines the category qualification. The value of these further categories may change during the lifetime of the object in question. And this change is captured by the terms potentiality and actuality. But melting the statue and making a plate from the bronze terminates the object bronze statue and creates a new object bronze plate. Aside, I admire your coloured figures :-) 

See no. 1 for an example. Of course the explanations of neuroscience are much more refined than I scetch in my answer. In addition, neurobiological investigations of volition are a field of active resesarch with many open questions. Nevertheless, it is a domain where scientific work can be successfully done. For more information see the textbooks of neurobiology. For the contact with active research see scientific journals like “Nature Neuroscience”, and also $URL$ 

I understand your question as asking whether one can proof the correctness of the logic we use for proving theorems. Already this formulation of the question shows a certain circularity, because each proof uses logical reasoning. Theories of logic like other mathematical theories can be axiomatized. One has a certain freedom to choose the axioms. Accordingly there are several axiomatic systems of logic: 2-valued propositional logic with the tertium non datur as axiom, 3-valued logic, many-valued logic, predicate logic, paraconsistent logic which allows contradictory propositions, fuzzy logic ... . The minimal requirement is that the logical theory is free from internal contradictions. Alike to any other theory one cannot prove that the axioms of a certain logical theory are true. They are supposed as premiss of the whole theory. But one can ask whether a certain logical theory applies successfully in our every-day reasoning or in scientific reasoning. Both the 2-valued propositional logic as well as predicate calculus has shown to be useful and reliable. Another question deals with the rules of reasoning, i.e. with the syllogisms. A typical syllogism is modus ponens: If A => B and A, then B. I have never seen different logical theories employing different syllogisms. But of course, this observation does not prove the correctness of the syllogisms. 

Philosophy of languages discusses the two concepts of extension and intension. Since the 1960ies Putnam published a series of papers on topics like the meaning of meaning. He argues against the view that meaning exists in the brain only: “ ’meanings’ just aint’t in the head!” By the famous thought experiment of water on the twin earth he clarified his point of view, that the meaning of a term has to take into account more than just brain states. In the meantime, neuroscience has established itself as a player in the domain of philosophy of mind. Some researchers with a strong capability in neurobiology and philosophy have presented new models of the mind; e.g. Gerhard Roth: Das Gehirn und seine Wirklichkeit. 1994 (in German). The philosophical approach employs a constructivist epistemology. On the other hand, neuroscience emphasizes that the content of our mental processes solely results by pattern recognition and pattern processing from the net of neural activity in the brain. The brain is deaf and blind. It neither hears nor sees nor smells nor touches etc. It is our cognitive system, which classifies the neural input as visual, auditive, olfactoric or sensual due to the brain areas where the input comes from and due to its time-related pattern. Herefrom the brain constructs a world-model with the relevant features of our environment. This world-model is permanently updated. All our perceptions refer to this model. But the model itself stays transparent. It is invisible to our conscious awareness: We perceive the inner world-model as if we had direct contact to the things from the outside world. My thesis: 

You ask three questions about improving our thinking about the world: 1) When was this view formulated? I cannot name the first author who explicitly formulates this view. But I consider the following cultural achievements important milestones in the improvement of Western thinking about the world: 

History has shown that religion is an obstacle to the rise of science. Many claims from religious Holy Books – Jewish Testament, Gospel, Koran, Vedas - contradict scientific knowledge. Herefrom a problem arises, because claims from religious texts are considered sacrosanct by their believers. The are often defended by immunisation, but they are not corrected or withdrawn. Secondly, many religions build an organization like the Roman Catholic Church which employ their power to suppress the persons and their theses which propagate contradictory scientific insights (Girodano Bruno, Galilei, Darwin, Teilhard de Chardin) The best analysis of the psychological role of religion I know is by Freud, Sigmund: The future of an illusion. 1927. According to Freud, religion is a kind of early phase like childhood in the personal development of a human person. Of course, Freud develops this idea in more details than I can recall in this short answer. I consider religion obsolete in its demand to explain the world. E.g. in comparison to a naturalistic worldview the religious worldview is outdated by science. And science is the cultural means which provides the most reliable and deepest reaching knowledge about the world. As far as religion is practised as a private hobby, which people develop to find strenght, support and consolation, also religion has its place on the market. Like magic and esotericism, but all three are difficult to sepate from each other. Note. I know that the subject will be disputed controversially and I apologize, if anyone feels offended by my answer. 

Cellular automata are examples of the automata you describe. In particular they are deterministic automata. Causa efficiens according to Aristotle is just what we today name causality. 

It is totally unclear which type of event is Big Bang, notably which concept of boundary applies to Big Bang. Big Bang is an extrapolation from present cosmology into the past. But it is a limit point of our current models, not part of them. Also the future of our world is unclear. Of course spacetime expands. According to latest observation the expansion rate is even increasing with time. But whether the expansion goes on forever or spacetime will recontract to a Big Bounce cannot yet be decided. These questions are linked to open questions concerning dark matter and dark energy. A good introduction to cosmology is Greene, Brian: The Fabric of the Cosmos (2004) 

The latter three kinds of interaction have been successfully unified within the standard model by a common type of mathematical formalism (gauge theory). The same formalism could not be extended to include gravity. Therefore we now have a dichotomy between on one hand quantum field theory which unifies the latter three kinds of interaction. And on the other hand the theory of relativity which covers gravity. Both theories follow quite a distinct paradigm. During its early phase our cosmos was a world with extremely high energy enclosed in an extremely small domain of space. There was the very active interaction of particles and radiation in a highly curved spacetime. These phenomena cannot be explained by applying the theory of relativity and quantum field theory in separation. We need a unified theory, a theory of quantum gravity. Such theory does not exist up to now. The two main candidates for a theory of quantum gravity are loop quantum gravity and string theory. 

Roth is a German philosopher and biologist. His book, backed up by neuroscience, develops a constructivist epistemology. 

As far as I know no textbook for philosophy exists alike to textbooks in the different branches of science. Probably the reason is the lack of a baseline of general accepted philosophical results. I would recommend to start not with single philosophical terms but with reading some of the most quoted original sources: 

How do you discriminate between “legitimate" motivations and “mistaken" motivations? In any case, goals – not motivations - are created and stored in the prefrontal cortex. They are accessible to conscious experience. Hence goals, which we consider an indicator of a mental disease, can be traced back to disorders of this part of the brain, either by lesions or by traumatic experiences. 

Both truth and fact are terms which have to be defined. A definition cannot be read off from anything other nor can it be derived by logical conclusion. A definition is like "baptizing somebody to the name of xxx", i.e. it has a high degree of arbitrariness. Having said this a common definition of truth (due to Tarski) reads: "Truth is the property of a proposition. A proposition is true if it claims a fact." Example: The proposition "Today there is rain in Manhattan" is true if and only if it actually rains in Manhattan. More difficult is to give a definition of fact. Possibly: "A fact is a real situation." But what means "real"? Truth refers to propositions, which in general are stated by a person. On the other hand, facts often refer to things independent from a certain person, solely dependent on our environment. 

You cannot do this because such triangle does not exist. Your sentence is contradictory because already the concept of a triangle with hypotenuse of length 4 and the altitude of the hypotenuse of length 3 is a contradictory concept. When forming concepts the first rule is to assure that they are not contradictory. Otherwise the concept is without meaning. 

And to note that the latter does not imply the former. This fact had already been noted by a fellow monk of Anselm named Gaunilo. But distinguishing 

Truth is a property of propositions. In the simple case of propositonal logic this means that any proposition is either true or false. 

You are right: After a series of 10, 20, 40, 80 heads the probability for another head is still 1/2. It is not slightly less or slightly bigger, it is constantly 1/2. Tosses have no memory. To reconcile this result with the naive expectation one should take into account: The probability of a series of length 10 with 10 heads is (1/2) ** 10, which is about 1/1000. i.e. the probability to get such series when always making 10 tosses is 1/1000. And the probability of 80 heads is accordingly (1/2) ** 80, which is about 10 ** (-24), a decimal with the ciffer 1 at position 24 after the decimal point. Hence the contribution of such exceptional series to the limit on all series of equal length is exceptionally small. 

In addition, I would like to recommend a modern dictionary of philosophy, e.g., I am quite happy with The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy. 

The Greek word for virtue is arete. It is already used by Homer and applied to the heroes figthing at Troia but also to women. Socrates in Plato's early dialogues asks experts for a definition of special virtues, e.g., he asked Laches, a general, what courage ist. Plato who was the teacher of Aristotle explicitely named the four virtues Prudence, Justice, Fortitude = Courage, and Temperance as fundamental virtues. But Aristotle was the first who gave a definition of virtue in general. His definition from Nicomachean Ethics (EN II,1f) of virtue as a mean between negative extemes fits to many virtues, but not to all, e.g. not to justice. Indeed, Aristotle himself gave two different defitions for justice, see EN V, 3-5. Later philosophers abanoned the search for a general definition and returned to focus on separate virtues. Christian faith complemented the four cardinal virtues named above by the three maior Christian virtues: Faith, hope and love. Thomas Aquinas made a systematic study of all 7 virtues. Hence many philosophers do not consider virtues according to the general definition of Aristotle. For an introduction to the whole subject see $URL$