First, I would like to present my understanding of some of the terms. Countries are geo-political entities, that were defined by specific individuals. Not everyone gets to define their own country or other countries. Also, the definition of countries change over time. Illegal entry refers to the entry into a country without in a manner contrary to an entry defined by the law of the country. In a representative democracy, the law, also, is usually defined by certain individuals, and not be everyone. Poverty is a lack or deficiency of personal needs. The amount of money, which is used to fulfill these needs in capitalist societies, is often used as an indicator of poverty. "Poor resources" and "poorly managed moderate resources" are contradictory in that the former refers to "poor resources" and the latter "moderate resources". Similarly, "rich resources" and "better managed moderate resources" are contradictory in that the former refers to "rich resources" and the latter "moderate resources". For argument's sake, let us first consider that the countries have "poorly managed moderate resources " and "better managed moderate resources". The management of resources, again, rests not equally on all individuals in a country. It follows, therefore, that not everyone participates in the definition of "countries", "laws", and "management of resources". At the end of the day, if an individual is in so much poverty (has very little money), then the definitions become irrelevant to the individual's happiness and the individual does not conform to them anymore. This could possibly be the background of individuals who enter a country illegally. I have not experienced it firsthand, so my statements are only conjectures. The "members of a population from Country B" (let's call them, Population B), who may conform and live by the definition of "countries", "laws", in general and their country and their laws, in particular, would probably think that it is the illegal entry of the "members of a population from Country A" (let's call them Population A) is not just illegal, but also unjust. Thus, the tricky part is to find a solution that would both address the poverty of Population B as well as the illegality and injustice against Population A. Now, let us analyze the next statement regarding the resources and their management. In a globalized world, resources (materials, finished goods, and knowledge) are exported and imported among different countries. The price is determined by the buying country and the selling country, demand, and supply. Thus, even countries with less resources can be rich, depending on what type of resources they have. Once they have an economic advantage, it is easier to build upon the economic advantage more and more. The exports and imports are controlled by individuals who manage the resources. By exporting resources to other countries, these individuals gain economic benefits. However, it results in more and more poverty of Population B. Thus, we can see that if all populations would like to conform to geo-political boundries identified as the countries, and avoid illegal immigration, then 

The definition of alive is often given as "not dead". Ironically, the definition of dead is often given as "not alive". I got those from a online definition search. Biologist struggle to define those things that are alive. Though most would agree that a squirrel is alive, there is some debate about a virus and a prion really pushes the envelope. The best definition I have found for what is alive is an entity that can acquire "food", metabolize and act. I put food in quotes on food as it may not be what you expect. Plants "eats" sunlight for instance. Given that definition a Human is dead when they can no longer do those things. 

That depends on how one defines "the universe". Assuming you include yourself as part of the Universe and the Universe also include everything that exists, then any free will you have is "completely governed by the universe". 

There is no universal answer to the question "Is it ethically wrong to kill an innocent person (or people) for the purpose of self-preservation?" The answer depends on which ethical framework you are using. As you point out Utilitarianism would ask which provides the greater utility. Whereas a Common Good ethical framework would ask which provides for the greatest common good? I can easily imagine cases where the preferable answer would go either way. 

Any flavor of moral realism would adhere to a p v. ~p model. However, there would generally be in any given moral dilemma a premise that the person is capable of agency. A psychopath is not included in that premise, thereby excluding them as a meaningful rebuttal to any argument. Any moral realist claim bears down on some given moral dilemma posed p v. ~p; consequently responding to the existence of psychopaths is out of scope rather than problematic to moral realism. 

I am looking for a visual organization format that can help group logical conclusions. Basically, If people are given 3 options, and I am looking to interpret their vote, what is a clean manner of cataloging these items? Basically, - Option A can entail the numbers 1,2,3 - Option B can entail the numbers 1 - Options A, B are not mutually exclusive of each other - Option C entails 0 and is mutually exclusive of A, B Is there a graph or table or other organization method to map visually what the options and their combinations could necessarily entail? 

This question is not meant to deal with the religious side of the Teapot (or FSM or the Invisible Pink Unicorn), but rather the inherent epistemological claims and their export to other areas of knowledge. With respect solely to the epistemic; 

Assuming the Judeo-Christian God. 1) The modern Christian belief system asserts a "fallen" existence. Meaning that at one point everything was perfect, but things have become corrupt by the introduction of sin into the world. This is typically referred to as the fall. The high may be a result of this and therefore not part of the perfection that God intended. 2) The "high" itself is not the evil for most peoples perspective, rather the obsession with that high is the problem. This also may be a result of the fall as described above. 3) It is possible, even likely, that a benevolent God created materials which would result in pleasant feelings. Just as sexual intercourse results in pleasant feelings. Presumedly a benevolent God would create the means to have pleasant experiences as part of his creation. 

Epistemology is the area a philosophy that considers how we know what we know. Although, it is true that Empiricism is a tempting theory for understanding truth, it is limited to the objective and measurable. I believe in justice, though I am not familiar with any units of measure that would apply. I believe there is beauty, though I do not believe that it is objective. At some point what you believe is an element of your personal philosophy. You can believe what you want, but if you want others to agree, you need to either stick to the objective, or work on your ability to discuss and persuade. 

Based on your summary, it appears both methods of reading interpret the writings of the Tractatus as senseless (irresolute) or nonsense (resolute). In other words, both readings, if applied to the whole of the text, would classify it as belonging to something beyond the limits of "world, thought and language". It seems safe to assume that Wittgenstein's purpose in writing the Tractatus was not to expound a litany of senseless or nonsensical propositions supported solely on the basis of a private language. Interpretation based on (in)austere readings of sense may be convenient; however, any interpretation should follow intent lest it be some prattling on about how a square peg doesn't fit into a circlular hole. An alternate interpretation (to apply to the possibility of meaning or sensibility of the propositions) is how they are meaningful/less, their correspondence to states of affairs (SOA). In this strictest sense, logic and (particularly) the methods of logic written about in the Tractatus are senseless. This was by virtue of Wittgenstein's differentiation of the operation of the rules of logic and their lack of correspondence with any possible SOA. What remains of the Tractatus after the statements of logic are stripped away? Ignoring the side debate of whether a claim instantiated by nonsense or senseless proposition is thereby corrupted, it is wholly possible to read through the Tractatus as a work of the unsayable. Further, in Letters from Ludwig Wittgenstein it is expressed that he intended the work to be read with an eye to the ethical (think more Vienna Circle, less Analytics). Here is a summation of what this can mean (TLP citations): 

I notice two things that run through your steps. The first it is brought up again and again that the method (tool) used to implement consciousness does not inherently matter, but I believe it does. The book is not conscience because it can take no action (it is inert). The computer may be conscience because it can take action. I believe the ability to take action is at least one requirement for being conscience. The second is that the steps accept input from an external source. Is a remotely controlled robot conscience? Is there a difference between the "lookup table" and a remote pilot to a robot? I doubt people would see a remotely controlled robot as conscience, rather they would look to the controller. The flaws come in part from a poorly defined term "conscience". First, let me offer that I believe you mean consciousness. Consciousness is the state or quality of awareness, or, of being aware of an external object or something within oneself. We sometimes say being self-aware. Implied in the definition is that this awareness is a self-contained action. It does not come by virtue of a look-up table or any external other input. I am not saying that it is not learned, just that if learned, it does not require input to be maintained. Assuming that you accept that definition then step three is not valid because the system is not self-contained. Finally, all of the above steps assume a computational model for consciousness. That is to say that consciousness can be mapped into specific steps and choices based on inputs. You have not demonstrated that this is true. The requirements for the tool to implement consciousness depend on the answer to this question. So steps 1,2,4 and 5 are ambiguous. 

In my undergraduate days, I remember reading someone occupying roughly a mental and historical space as David Hume (originally my thought was between Hume and Kuhn), and have a vaguely recalled passage that I would like to source. Though on first asking this question I thought it may even be Hume or Kuhn, I am fairly convinced after more searching that the topic and metaphor came from the Hume end of the spectrum (if not he himself); 

I wish I knew if he advocated science or something that might flag the general school of thought, but what sticks out is the "hiding in the woods" part (as some kind of metaphor), and that this was perhaps the introductory salvo (probably written within the first few pages of the reading). as it was in something I recall enjoy reading (though I believe the reading itself was in some Modern Philosophy reader). 

Thanks to both answers and the prods and clarifications offered I wwas able to dredge up some resources on where this quote, if the paraphrase above can be called that, came from. It was hiding in plain sight, it was David Hume who said it. A good run down of the work can be found in this breakdown of his work An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding: "we need to root the enemy out of their hiding places" (as the author's summary put it). This helped me to find the actual passage, where the "secret word" as it were, was "retreat" (as opposed to hiding places, and I am unsure where woods came from): 

The Problem of Induction does represent a problem for the philosophy that is often referred to as science. That empirical reasoning is not "proven" may or may not be a problem for you personally. Empiricism has lead to knowledge that is closer to true then what we had before. So empiricism is useful as the computer you are using to view this demonstrates. Is our current understanding of empiricism "true"? Almost certainly not. That is part of the philosophy of the sciences. The assumption that our current understanding is flawed in some way. This encourages people to suggest improvements. As a result our understanding improves over time. So no I do not have an issue with the problem of induction, it only represent another area where our understanding could improve. That science currently has flaws in its understanding of things is a strength, rather than a weakness. 

I will assume the current psychological definition of a self. There are many other definitions, if you meant one of those please let us know. An additional assumption I am considering a healthy individual, so we will not be talking about whether multiple personalities constitute different "self" or not. Further, there is an assumption that the self is a single entity in your question so I will not be talking about conversations between say the ego and the id. Given those constraints, I agree with @Alex there is only one person present. As for the follow on question, why do it then? I expect that we do this because the act of speaking changes how we think about a topic. It requires more precision and effort. Helps us to clarify our thoughts.