An axiomatic explanation of empirical phenomena begs the question. We know that neurons are involved, but as of yet and even with fMRI there is little to distinguish an unconsciously conscious brain from a consciously conscious one. In addition to neurons firings causing mental activity, it can also be said that intentionalistic focus causes neuron firings. 

How did DesCartes conceive of and use the terms "objective" and "subjective"? Is his "cogito ergo sum" a representation of the subject as object? 

Can religion be factually wrong when there are the religious participating in the religion? You seem to be using religion as a term for "faith in deity" or theism. Like the NFL fans on Super Bowl Sunday, I suppose it is a very good question to ask: if there were no service, where would you have all those religious folks go every Sunday? 

You might enjoy David Rynin's 1956 address to the American Philosophical Association, "Vindication of L*G*C*L P*S*T*V*SM": 

This summary of "Descartes's Basic Epistemological Argument" indicates his usage of the terms is different than a contemporary notion of objective as regardless of an observer and subjective as relative to an observer. 

Ever been hunting or fishing? Just remember: if you kill it, you eat it. Ever seen the environmental impacts from overpopulation? Abatement happens. Did you know that lolcats are destroying our planet? Ufortunately lolcat tastes terrible. 

Hegel proffers weltanschauung to be either agreed or disagreed with. Note that while this is distinct from advancing knowledge claims, it is the logical equivalent of poetry and no more philosophy than opinion or sentiment. So, sure - it's possible to clarify. What then does the poet mean when one interpretation is as valid as the other? From "Dialectics for Kids" 

Given your focus for using "grounding" the answer is none of it except for applied mathematics #duh. Otherwise all of math is grounded in physics. Math is only to be observed in language and language is only to be observed among physical, biological species capable of language. There's no reason to be mystified by monads, they are merely monoids in the category of endofunctors. Also, tho we do not have an adequate accounting of how we get from physics to syntax or from syntax to semantics, there is no good reason to accept the proffering of weltanchauungs ("ways of looking at things" such as "if you imagine that genes think, then math is intuitively blahblahblah") in place of reasoned analysis of what is the case regarding physics, language and mathematics.Lastly, the dichotomy of "invented vs discovered" is simply a canard and no more accurate a description of what is the case than any dichotomy (false binary constructs, ways of looking at what is as exclusively either this or that). Note that false dchotomies are useful tools for critical analysis - just as canards are useful tools for hunting ducks, math professors use this canard to encourage thinking amongst their hungry students - but dichotomies are nevertheless illusory. 

Just like Lou Gherig didn't know he had "Lou Gherig's Disease" though, I don't think Galileo ever used "Galileo's Argument" even if he made arguments with a logical fallacy of an appeal to pity. For what it is worth, I always understood the "Galileo Argument" as the Galileo Gambit fallacy such that ideas threatening to establishment powers must be valid and sound by virtue of the threat to power. But hey, I learned something new today, so instead of downvoting for clearly demonstrating a lack of research (one more click dude! ;^) ) I say, good question! If you follow your "Appeal to Pity (the Galileo Argument)" link you will see another reference link which states the following: 

Yes. A conjunction of two propositions is only true when BOTH propositions constituting the conjunction are true. This is the truth table for conjunctions: 

Depends on the theist and their theism. If God existed, would he know everything? Again, depends on the theist and their theism. If God existed, would he - Why do you presume a gender? If God existed - What ever in the world do you mean by "God"? Any answer other than deity is incoherent, imponderable nonsense begs the question and overlooks the obvious: deity does not exist and is only to be found in language. That you may believe in or study unicorns makes neither speculation regarding their attributes or existence any more the case nor any more relevant to philosophy than presuming the number of angels dancing upon the head of a pin and proceeding from there to a conclusion regarding the tempo and meter to which they dance. And this despite how ever many may agree with said presumption or conclusion. 

... and Leibniz (think "monad"). Another example of modern philosophical thinking in regards to the binding problem comes from Tim Bayne and David J. Chalmers, "What is the Unity of Consciousness?" 

Given your example is a disjunction, I am presuming you meant your question about disjunctions. In an inclusive disjunction with only two operands, If only one operand is true, or, both operands are true, then the whole thing is true: 

Yes, it is false to say that a sane person cannot apply rational thought to the motivations of the insane. Unlike intent, tho, motivation is imponderable. Imponderables cannot be rationally assessed - a truth value cannot be rendered. Like the conclusions of psychology (e.g. an application of rational thought to the psychopathological), rational speculations regarding motivation are opinions, not the confirmation of hypotheses. This is not to say that rational thought (e.g. logical reasoning) cannot be applied. Some opinions are of course more informed than others... but there is also a funny line between rational thought and rationalization. Often the mind believes it is thinking when merely passing from one metaphor to the next, eh? It does not follow that a heinous crime is only committed by the insane unless ones presumes only the insane can commit heinous crimes. The conclusion is also false - cause and catalyst can be ascribed whether the ascription is accurate or not. 

Same way you make any distinction: analysis. For example, as I have described them, note that in this case both involve "reverence". Religion, however, merely requires reverence (i.e. a sense of virtue or respect). Philosophy is reverence for something specific: wisdom. 

Put simply, creationism is hermeneutic and not heuristic. Knowledge is not obtained from hermeneutics, only agreement (or disagreement). Without getting into the obvious problems with deity (incoherent, imponderable, unfalsifiable and non-sensical) the simple matter is that paradigm, world-view, "a way of looking at things" and such interpretations do not advance knowledge claims. This is not to disparage literary interpretation, poetry, fiction nor the psychological benefits of religious participation and faith (writ large, not just faith in deity). This is merely to point out the distinction between observing the world (what is, states of affairs, the case, etc.) and making the world fit a way of looking at it. Such is the distinction between what is true and what is "true to ..." (true to you, to me, to us or them.) Note that truth is mundane; it is simply a condition of statements and the truth condition is satisfied when what is said is is, e.g. the statement "Obama is President" is true as I write this but in some three weeks after January 20th, 2017 the statement will no longer correspond with (fit or match) what is (the case, states of affairs, the world) and will simply be false. This will become important in a moment. Back to biology: the thing to be careful with is the difference between "evolution" and biological evolution (per Darwin, Wallace, et. al.). Evolution is a broad concept which is roughly the same as change over time. The distinction of biological evolution is that it offers an alternative logical structure to teleological explanations from the study of life. (Note, not theo- but teleo- logical). For example: Teleological biology: 1) This plant photosynthesizes in order to survive. Evolutionary biology: 1) This plant is photosynthesizing. 2) These plants species which photosynthesize have an increased likelihood of survival. Survival is still a factor, but purpose is not presumed, i.e. the question is not begged (as it is with teleology and some varietals of creationism susceptible to teleological deities creating stuff teleologically). So what objections does philosophy raise when considering creationism? First consider that philosophy is the love of wisdom, i.e. respect for obtaining knowledge and knowledge is simply empirical (observable or hypothesized/deduced from observation) verification of what is (else how do you even know what is?). With respect to deity, philosophy is ignostic. If the deity in question that has "created" the world - everything from quantum decoherence to event horizons of black holes - is synonymous with "everything" then philosophy will just point out the redundancy. If deity is some nebulously intuited idea beyond empirical falsifiability and verification then what can be known or said to be true about it and hence, it is only a matter of interpretation and solicitation to agreement. That statements of creationism often come off as crises of significant assertion is just a fun coincidence. So, if you want to advance or verify knowledge claims which can be rationally assessed a truth value and confirm hypotheses, then creationism simply is not playing in the same ball park as biological evolution. 

By itself, this is not necessarily false. In the military, for example, this is the standard of conduct - a superior's orders are lawful except in extreme cases which the code of conduct addresses. In such cases where this presumption of lawfulness is not the case, you might be thinking of the false equivalence where the law and the a superior's orders are presumed to be the same. Note that this is distinct from the fallacy of equivocation where an argument is made using one sense of an ambiguous term and concluding something using a different sense of the same ambiguous term.