Pushing to the Brain In a Vat case about the external world is at the level of philosophy. Statisticians will try to measure the degree of uncertainty or faith: e.g., goodness of fit, Glymour's bootstrapping. 

There can be no two monads that share exactly the same properties in all possible ways: if they did, they must be actually one monad referred to by two different names. Each monad is self-contained and self-sufficient. Monads do not interact with each other and cannot influence the acts of others. Thus, there is no causal interaction among monads. (To explain the seeming causality of the physical world, Leibniz needs another postulate, called the pre-established harmony). Monad is indivisible and indestructible due to the unity (self-containment) nature. 

Boyd’s argument for scientific realism ended up being indistinguishable from the stance of scientific anti-realism (= empiricism). The above theses are shared by both empiricists and realists, a la Boyd. His target being constructivism, Boyd ends up being an ally of anti-realism. 

To understand the relationship between fallacies and validity, you need to first understand the fact that an argument (a pair set of premises and a conclusion) has form and content. The form is concerned with the logical schema between the conclusion and premises; the content is concerned with the reasonable support (or persuasion) of the conclusion by the premises. The two are generally studied independently: the form, in logic; the content, in rhetoric. A fallacy is a defect in the argument. The defect can happen in form or in content. When the form is defective, the argument is called as committing a formal fallacy. Affirming the Consequent or Denying the Antecedent are examples of the formal fallacy. Committing formal fallacies always produce invalid arguments. When the content is defective, the argument is called as committing an informal fallacy. Committing informal fallacies, however, can be logically valid as in circular reasoning (petitio principii) since the conclusion is already contained in the premises. 

Your point, "Determinism and free will are not discernible from the mortal perspective" is indeed the third antinomy (paradox) of Kant. According to Kant, human capacity for knowledge is innately limited by his 12 categories. The categories function like a fish net. Those that are caught by the net constitute human knowledge, and those that go though the net are something we will never know. Kant calls those uncapturable things transcendental (or Ding an Sich). According to Kant, if we try to gain the knowledge of transcendental things, we will always arrive at a contradiction, thus impossible is the knowledge of the transcendental stuff. Kant proposes that there are four such transcendental objects, the third of which is free will. Our sense of free will could be like a rock thinking that it is flying when I throw it to the air. 

You stipulate that the moral theorist we are looking for may not be contemporary. Virtue ethics theorists generally hold the view that the duty of beneficence exists, but that it is constrained by the duty to near and dear. The duty to carry grocery bags for one's wife is far more stringent than that for neighbor's wife, if both require assistance. Virtue ethics theorists believe that morality is agent-relative since morally right act is not codifiable (the moral compass cannot be reduced to a moral principle that tells us what is a right or wrong act. Aristotle, Thomas Hurka and Samule Scheffler are virtue ethists, but the latter two are eliminated due to being contemporaries. So Aristotle got to be the guy you are looking for. Postscript: Aristotle and generosity In Aristotle, the duty of beneficence turns out to be the virtue of generosity. Generosity is a mean between wastefulness and stinginess. A man equipped with the virtue of generosity will give to the right person, the right amounts and at the right times. To obtain the virtue, he needs to be able to judge that his beneficent act will not sacrifice his own wellbeing, and will make a difference in the wellbing of the recipient. So a generous man will not give his lunch money to a drug addict. Aristotle maintains that private property is a necessary condition for generosity. Intuitively, if one owns nothing, one cannot give any. Since an ideal society is a society of virtuous people, and since generosity is an important virtue the exercise of which is preconditioned by a system of private ownership, Aristotle concludes that communism (of Plato) is a bad society as it eliminates people's ability to act generously. 

The natural law view is severely attacked by legal positivists. Jeremy Bentham, a proponent of legal positivism, asserted that the idea of natural rights are nonsense upon stilts. To legal positivists, laws are what they are: the outcomes of custom, tradition, circumstance, and precedence, backed by the territorial monopoly power of the govt. They have authority regardless of their moral content. To them, natural law theory has the order wrong in the chicken and egg case. It is the gov (society, nation) that created rights. While not a legal positivist, Socrates for one understood the authority of law as he stated "Bad laws are laws," and drank a shot of hemlock. The distinction between negative rights and positive rights can never be clear. Some argue that all rights are positive rights. Surely, I cannot walk freely or speak freely without the safety and security backed by the police. Mill's harm principle also is a matter of great contention among legal scholars since what counts as 'harm' is not clear. 

I would say a conspiracy theory results from a mix of two families of fallacies: one family relating to irrelevance (in particular, Ignoratio Elenchi or Red Herring) and the other family relating to illicit presumptions (in particular, begging the question or suppressed evidence). Ignoratio Elenchi (= ignorance of a refutational argument) happens when an arguer misses the point of the premises and draws an irrelevant conclusion. Laws and public policies produce unforeseen (harmful) side effects as well as intended (good) goals. A conspiracy theorist mistakes the side effect as the goal and draws a conclusion that was not the intention of the law. This is why the interpretations of historical events by the theorist tend to contradict the prevailing understanding of history. If the conspiracy theorist uses distractive material (e.g., the governing body was composed of slave owners) as evidence for the conclusion, so as for his audience to lose track of the topic and to get astrayed, he employs the Red Herring fallacy. Often a conspiracy theorist cannot help seeing the world in the way he sees it. Thus, the theory is immune from falsification. If conspiracy is his world view, then any evidence is already colored by his conspiracy presupposition and his conclusion of conspiracy is already embedded in the premise. Thus, the theory commits the fallacy of begging the question. If the conspiracy theorist purposefully do not disclose some pieces of evidence that outweigh (or contradict) his own evidence for conspiracy, then he is committing the fallacy of suppressed evidence. 

Karl Jung is not a big deal guy in philosophy. His theory surrounding archetypes and collective unconscious might have influenced theories in literature, For instance, the theory provided the theoretical foundation for Joseph Campbell's The Hero with a Thousand Faces, which became a bible for George Lucas and Wachowskis Brothers. So we can thank Jung for the births of Luke Skywalker and Neo. But when a philosopher looks at his theory, it is clear that Jung's theory is a copy of Plato's theory of Forms (archetypes) and the world of Forms (collective unconscious). I am always eager to hear Objections! 

To your first question, "Is it true that all matter (including all of the atoms / strings you and I are made of), will always exist, that the smallest particles that comprise us and everything around us will always exist in one way or another?," I will say, "Yes, it is factually true." The universe, by definition, is the largest container of matter. Science tells us that we are made of stardust. To your second question, "If so, then aren't we all basically immortal?," I will say, "Yes, if you mean by immortality the differing configuration of matter." Why are your questions philosophically relevant? The reason is that your way of reasoning is the source for the idea called eternal recurrence. While the idea has been organic in the Eastern world view (e.g., Buddhism with the reincarnation and retribution (Karma) theories of the universe and human existence), it also gained some popularity in the 19th century in Europe. Heinrich Heine, from whom Nietzsche is believed to have borrowed the idea of eternal recurrence, explains the idea like this: 

The conclusion of an argument that commits formal and/or informal fallacies can be still true. Example: Denying the Antecedent (formal fallacy) If I am God, I can eliminate all sufferings. I am not God. Therefore I cannot eliminate all sufferings. (True concision) 

Since you are not sure why the answers are as such, let's first make sure you understand the definitions of the important terms. The definitions of the following ideas are standardized in any course on scientific reasoning or critical thinking: 

Difference Principle, a la Rawls, states that the difference in wealth among people is morally permissible (or recommended??) insofar as the inequality maximally benefits the least advantaged class. If Mr Gates makes billions of dollars and uses that money to assist the poor in the society, his wealth is morally justified. Under this principle, there is no moral wrong when Mr.Gates eat Korean BBQ and the poor eat tofu. 

A corporation is not a person; it is an artificial entity. Only a person can have a moral duty. If there is a duty to CSR, the duty must lie in the executive of the corporation, the one with the real power. Executives are mere agents of the owners of the corporation,i.e., the stockholders. Being agents, executives have the moral duty to their principals, the stockholders. The executive’s duty to stockholders is the maximization of profits. An executive acting upon her perceived CSR must be acting against the interest of the stockholders. That is, her duty to CSR is inconsistent with her duty to the principal. Her duty to her principal clearly exists. Thus, her duty to CSR cannot exist. 

The question is good, but the philosophical resource (a moral theory) to address your question is non-existent, especially does not come from the Kantian front. The resource can be found best in sociology, especially through the work of Emil Durkheim, who wowed us with the theory that suicide is not the outcome of personal deviance or idiosyncrasy, but the outcome of the maladies of capitalism. Here I explain first why the area has been neglected in philosophy, and then explain how the sociology of scandal might answer your question. All Because of Rawls Kantian moralists are mainly concerned with how we may treat others as moral equals. To them, breaking a promise is bad because the promise-breaker treats others as being unequal, being inferior to her. (breaking a promise itself is not immoral for an act utilitarian). To explain moral equality, Kantian theorists tend to denude individuals from their pre-exiting biological-cultural-socio-economic clothing. Rawls, the famous Kantian, envisioned the society of moral equals through this abstracted individual. His postulations of the veil of ignorance and the separation of public sphere from private sphere are the points. To him, justice is the virtue of the society, not that of individual. The Rawlsian tradition thus led to the disconnection between institutional structure and the agency of institutional actors. Naturally, philosophers, who teach morality in an academic institution do not necessary hold the view that they themselves should be moral. This can explain the stunning lack of theoretical resources to analyze the cases where some famous philosophy professors are accused of sexual harassment by their students. Scandal Gossip vs scandal A not-uncommon phenomenon in academia is some famous male professors' habitually, sexually harassing female graduate students. The phenomenon can be used as the situation described by the questioner, that is, a situation where one is under the authority of another who violates unwritten rules (so-called social norms). The question is what can be done by the person under the authority? The person can make the situation either as a materiel for gossip or that for scandal. In sociological study, gossip is defined as a story circulated in private sphere about offenses to social norms or transgressions of existing values by someone. A story is a gossip due to the tacit agreement that the story of the offense should stay in the private sphere. When the gossip material breaks out of the surface of private sphere and exists in the public sphere and thus the public comes to be aware of the offenses or transgression, the story becomes scandal. Scandals differ from gossip in that scandals have publicity. Suicide What is the function of the scandal? According to Emil Durkheim, scandal, like suicide, has its role in the society. Suicide, to Durkheim, unveils the deeper reality of capitalism. At the superficial layer, the capitalistic society, as it is contrasted with the feudal system, is painted with exuberant and unbound optimism and opportunity of success for those willing to work hard. But the capitalist mode of production (an ever increasing detailed division of labor and machination) leads to loneliness, apathy and insecurity. Existential angst is equated with a sign of personal failure in capitalism. The other side of the unbound optimism of capitalism then is the frustration and unrealistic expectations from oneself and from life, when the only equalizer in life for all is death. Suicide in the capitalistic society, according to Durkheim, exposes this harsh reality that lies under the optimism veneer of capitalism. What lies under Scandal also exposes the deeper reality. What does the sexual misconduct by academics reveal? The appearance of academia is that professors are moral exemplars, and graduate students are mature and smart people. They are equal in the ivory tower under the common goal of pursuing knowledge. What lies under, however, is the power structure that resembles the feudal system. Tenured professors are masters, and graduate students are serfs. The masters, especially famous professors, wield great power over graduate students (and untenured professors). Their present and future livelihood depends on the will of these masters. Sex scandals in academia reveal this structure of dominance and submission in academia. The dominant class benefits from the systematic abuse and exploitation toward the subordinate class. The subordinate classes are held down and their pursuits of a good life are denied. The practice is implicitly justified through the pre-existing social order in academia. This is why individuals of higher social order, who view themselves as ethical, would collectively exhibit a stunning moral failure: some by directly violating social norms, and others by overlooking the violation of their peers. A test of transgressed value Scandals do not just expose what lies under. They also become the litmus test for the transgressed values. The public might find the transgression unforgivable and thus reaffirm the the transgressed value, which can lead to structural changes through the creation of new legal provisions. It is also possible, however, that the public is unmoved by the scandal. In this case,the offended value can fade into obsolescence and replaced by a new value. Reference: "The Scandal as Test: Elements of Pragmatic Sociology" by Damien de Blic 

The affinity argument of Socrates is to support the immortality thesis of the soul. The argument is achieved by an analogical reasoning. The world of the Form and the soul share similar characteristics. The world of the Form is divine, intelligible, non-composite, unchanging and immortal. The soul is also divine, intelligible, non-composite and unchanging. Thus, the soul must be also immortal. To evaluate the argument, you need to examine whether the analogical reasoning holds. If you can show that the analogy fails, then you show the unsoundness of the argument. There are at least three ways to attack the argument. (Some ideas borrowed from $URL$ 

Big question, opinion-piece answer: The view that our knowledge has become more accurate (meaning, the human understanding of the world has been approaching to truth or reality) is wishful thinking of enlightenment, culminating with Popper's verisimilitude. The present, post-enlightenment view of knowledge is dominated by Duhem-Quine holism. Observations, facts, knowledge are all theory-laden. Our perception of the world changes when theories (paradigms) change. Presently popular social constructionists, for example, tell us that our cherished belief in race and gender are all wrong: race and gender are not real. Aristotle believed in natural slaves, which we think is ridiculous. It could be that people in the era of Star Trek regard 20th century belief in race and gender ridiculous. Quine, later Wittgenstein, Kuhn are some pioneers of this new holistic thinking. But to me, Godel is the guy who slayed the enlightenment dragon. The mantra of the enlightenment thinking is that all true statements can (must) be proven (justified) to be true. Hilbert's program represents the mantra. Frege, Russell, whitehead all worked under the enlightenment mantra. Godel however proved that the mantra itself is false: a formal system bigger than the system of the first-order logic must always contain a true statement that cannot be proved within the system. Knowledge is commonly defined as true justified belief. Extrapolating Godel's result, one could say that some of our true beliefs can never be justified. Ergo impossible is accurate knowledge.