What places on Pluto and Charon are facing each other? Are Pluto and Charon perfectly tidally locked, or is there a slow rotation over time? And how long after formation should they have become tidally locked? Before or after the late heavy bombardment? EDIT to add the image series of Pluto below, found at University Today 

The barycenter of the Solar System is the effect which should be considered physically. Although dominated by Jupiter other planets have substantial effect too, moving the Sun, with 99+% of all mass in the Solar System, around by entire Solar radii (700,000 km). Illustrated here The diagram below I happened to stumble upon here. It shows the distance of the barycenter of the Solar System from the center of the Sun over time, with years on the circle. For some reason it spans from year 1773 to 1851. The peaks in the clover curve are regularly separated by about a sunspot cycle, or rather a bit longer. I suppose that the pattern of 2 big and 1 small sequential bulbs there reflects that Jupiter's and Saturn's orbital periods are about 3:1. As StephenG says, that is just a numerological hint or coincidence, not an explanation. Another example is that the rotational period of the Sun is roughly similar to the orbital period of the Moon around Earth, with a similar error, but no one imagines any connection there. It is however known that hot Jupiters, giant planets near stars, cause large starspots which rotate along with the planet's orbit. And the relatively tiny moons of Jupiter cause visible spots in the planetary aurora. Actually, the Sun causes an auroral "Jupiter spot"! So there are physics around which under certain conditions create sunspot-like effects. 

And how true is this story which I read or heard somewhere? That when New Horizons was being built and launched, no one really believed that Pluto could have a magnetic field. But since then planetary science has advanced and it is now plausible that it might have a magnetic field, because of tidal forces between Pluto and Charon which might make both objects somewhat fluid and possibly generating magnetic fields. 

Day, as in dawn to dusk, for a moon would be its orbital period. For most large moons in the Solar system, their orbital periods are a few days to a week or so. Not extremely different from our Earth day rhythm, but likely a few times longer. 

Yet another indication that Earth and Mars formed in the inner Solar System is that they have the same deuterium to hydrogen ratios. Primordial water trapped in 4.55 billion years old (0.017 bn years after Earth formation) lava from the deep mantle has been compared with Martian meteorites. The ratio should increase further out in the Solar System. 10 minutes radio interview News article 

It has been suggested by some futuristic or sci fi leaning thinkers, that Ceres' surface might be mined for water to support human exploration and settlement of space. But NASA's Dawn mission and other observations show that it is very dark and seems to consist of "hydrated minerals" in an environment warm enough to make water ice sublimate. Does this mean that mining water on Ceres is really hard? Requiring deep drilling or excavating through thick hard surface layers before useful water ice is encountered. Could a lander on Ceres just heat up the surface and collect water sublimating from it? 

Given the studies of the Sun and similar stars and the most impressive understanding of its physics, is there any kind of probability distribution for its dangerous behavior? There are also some historic data about events in 1859 and 775. What is the estimated probability of solar activity destroying our electric grid within this century? 

Could a spectrometer on a probe or space telescope identify minerals, not only elements and molecules, from the spectral lines? Is there any technology for identifying minerals remotely? 

I saw this presentation of the National Academy of Science 2015 where Dr. Robin Canup explains, illustrated by simulations, that many large moons formed sequentially around giant planets. But their growing mass thru accretion caused perturbations in the gaseous planetary disk ("type I interaction") that drew them inwards to collide with the planet within a million years. The total mass of all the satellites to the planet's mass remains fairly constant given (partly) the density of the Solar Nebula. The larger moons crash into the planet while new moons are growing larger. The process stops when the Solar Nebula has been exhausted. So I suppose speculatively that different exoplanetary systems might have different moon size ceilings. Impact formation size of Earth's Moon, in the middle of the Jovian moons, is a coincidence according to this model. 

There's a limit to how well sunlight can be focused by a parabolic reflector or a lens because the Sun is not a point source. I wonder if the sunlight could be engineered to work as if it was (much more similar to) a point source. If almost all of the Solar disc was covered by a coronograph, the light which gets through a small hole would be (almost) a point source. Is that correct? If then an array of such covered reflectors or lenses concentrated their light to one and the same point, would a better focus be achieved than without covers? 

The Sun would drown in the endless gravity well of the black hole, if they collide head on. The black hole would radiate nothing, unless from a disc surrounding it if more matter happens to fall into it. Sun grazing comets would make it flash a bit now and then. The sunlight would be gone, trapped beyond the horizon of spacetime. The planets would freeze air to ice as they continue in their orbits, disturbed and quite a bit faster since the new Sun+BH center is much more massive, without any sunlight hitting them. But perfect constant night sky conditions for amateur astronomers btw :-) 

I think that the problem is that the question is too poorly defined to have an answer like "1 we are alone, or 42 they are here and there". Two numbers cannot be true at the same time, and any single scenario suggested thus far seems pretty unreasonable, so it is frustrating. But if we cannot define a phenomena, how could we count or estimate its number of occurrences? The problems with a question of the kind: "How many living intelligent space traveling civilizations exist in the Milky Way?" are: 

Without knowledge of this particular image, I'm pretty sure it is because of the use of a Coronagraph. One of a set of different methods to block or divert or phase shift or in some other way get rid of unwanted light reflected from Pluto and Charon which would blind the light detector from the much weaker light reflected by its tiny moons. This link about the coronagraph on Hubble is way beyond me, but maybe it is helpful to someone: 

SETI collects alot of data from space, mostly radio. I wonder if this data has any astrophysics value other than SETI? 

Are there many single transits in the Kepler data, which might be exoplanets with a longer orbital period than the time they have been observed for transits? Can any conclusions be drawn about how common they are? Is there reason to believe that the outer solar system is a common configuration? I suppose that slow moving planets are hard to detect also with doppler measurements. Will the upcoming telescopes aimed at nearby stars be able to find 10+ AU orbital radius planets? 

Images from the Hubble Space Telescope have widely different angles of view. Is this only the result of composing multiple images, or can the telescope itself change its "zooming" optically, mechanically? How does the ability to change the angle of view differ between the major scientific telescopes of today and the near future, space and ground based? And what about cameras on interplanetary probes? Can for example New Horizons optically change its zooming as it passes Pluto? 

Copernicus put the Sun in the center of the Solar system. This turns the Moon's orbit into an epicycle around Earth orbit. And the Jovian moons (later discovered) have orbits which are epicycles around Jupiter. Since Copernicus created a physical epicycle in the Moon, it maybe wasn't so strange to think about "epicycles of epicycles" as he did to improve the model's fit to calendar data. Actually, Ptolemy and Brahe did not put Earth in the center of their Solar system models. They used a fixed point in empty space near the Earth which they called "mean Earth". And Copernicus used a corresponding "mean Sun". And as a matter of fact, planets do turn around a barycenter which is not in the center of the Sun, but nearby. Do epicycles and "mean Earth/Sun" actually have physical correspondents in the orbits of moons and the barycenter respectively? That'd be a bit funny since they are purely geometric constructions with the purpose to make data fit better, created even without a thought about gravity or anything physical at all. 

The axial tilts of asteroids seem to vary randomly (let me know if this premise is wrong), while the planets have a strong tendency to rotate in the same way. If planets were formed by colliding asteroids, shouldn't the sum of random tilts result in random planetary rotation? Of course other factors are important, like angle and velocity of impacts, YORP-effect, centrifugal breakup and whatnot, but how could that taken together have any systematic effect on rotation? Ceres does behave with 4° tilt, but the other of the first discovered asteroids have tilts like 84°, 50°, 42°. Dust particles (and gas molecules if applicable) surely rotate randomly. The Solar nebula had a net spin which gravity and friction has manifested in the orbits of the planets. But shouldn't the netting of rotation be individual for each planet, with uncorrelated tilts, as orbital orientation is for each star? 

Neutron stars and black holes are hard to detect when they are solitary, and there seems to be big uncertainties about how common they are. White dwarfs are much easier to detect and the nearest one is Sirius B only 2.6 parsec from here. Should we expect to have exotic company even closer by? How likely is it that we have a yet undetected compact star remnant nearby, as in as close as our nearest active star? What are the odds of spotting one of them nearby? How could a yet undetected one be discovered? Could one of the upcoming sky surveying telescopes catch it or would one have to rely on a rare microlensing event? How would it then be observed? Would such an exotic object, say, just one parsec away, give important insights in physics given its relativistic effects and strange composition? 

The accelerating expansion of space means that the space between us and far away galaxies expands faster than light can travel through space. There is a horizon of possible observation beyond which galaxies disappear from us. At what rate do galaxies, or some other measurement of mass/energy, disappear beyond that horizon at present rate? Will future telescopes actually see galaxies red shift themselves into oblivion? I imagine there being issues about the definitions of "when" and "where" in this context. Answers should try to address how they deal with that. Since the radius of the observable universe expands at the speed of light, my intuition tells me that there should've been a point in time when the expansion of space balanced the arrival of light of more distant parts of space. if so, when did that happen? 

Venus surface isn't older than about 300 million years. The only explanation I've come across is that some kind of global volcanism resurfaced the planet. But couldn't it have been an impact event? A huge comet hitting it by chance, maybe making Venus tip over and stop spinning too. Or could Venus have had a moon like Phobos which spiraled inwards, disintegrated and rained down during a few million years? Phobos will do so in only 50 million years, maybe it is a common feature for terrestrial planets to form with such moons that hit them billions of years later. Maybe Earth is an exception because of the large Moon and how it formed. Would an impact event leave visible traces like impact basins, or could the entire surface melt and reform as it is today, as I suppose Earth did when the Moon formed? Could Venus have been a very different planet up until 0.3 billion years ago? How could one find out, what kind of investigation would be needed? Pluto's mass is about 1/50th of Mars (and Theia), so I suppose that it would be enough for a Pluto sized comet to have had about 7 times the impact speed compared to the pre-Earth/Theia collision. Comets could have up to 70+35 km/s speed relative to Venus. Someone maybe can make a rough estimate of what's needed to resurface Venus and how likely such an impact event would be? And could reformation and redifferentiation after an impact have eliminated a previous magnetic field? The diversity of the planets and moons, I suggest, depend more on their vast history of random events, than on where and how they once formed. I suspect that planetary scientists generally want to discount a unique planet reforming event only 0.3 billion years ago, just to make their job a bit easier ;-) 

I understand a neutron star to be the densest stuff that can exist without becoming a black hole, the densest thing which directly gives off radiation we can detect. At the event horizon of a black hole, time stands still, in our frame of reference. Does there exist neutron stars which are very close to getting an event horizon? Does this "neutron star horizon" cause time dilation, a zone from within of which movement is very slow in our frame of reference? Could it for example be that the first light from a neutron star itself reaches us billions of years after the light of the supernova of the "classical" star which created the neutron star and its event-horizon like relativistic effects? 

There's no lack of photons, how well could a telescope resolve Sun spots and other surface features of the Sun? How would a high resolution Solar (space) telescope differ from for example Hubble which avoids the Sun by a 50° angle or so? 

The orbit of a planet does not in any way depend in its moons, mass or own gravity. The orbit is the same for a grain of dust as for a giant planet. It only depends on the mass on the Sun and the distance to the Sun. The eccentricity of the orbit is then given by the initial angular momentum of the orbiting object. This might explain it a bit better. This was a really BIG breakthrough in physics, actually the foundation of physics, about 400 years ago. Big because it is irrefutable although it is counter-intuitive. It is really difficult to believe unless one tries to accept the actual observations and logic. 

Dwarf stars have terrestrial sized planets orbiting in habitable zones very close to them. These exoplanets are often said to be tidally locked to their star, like the Moon is to Earth, and that they thus have one hot hemisphere and one cold. But in the Solar system there's only one tidally locked planet, and that is Mercury which is asynchronously locked in a 2:3 relation. It does rotate relative to the sun anyway. And only one known planet which practically doesn't rotate at all, Venus. But Venus has a super-rotating atmosphere that distributes heat from insolation all around anyway. Are there reasons to believe that asynchronous tidal locking and super-rotating atmospheres are less common for planets with a dwarf stars than in a planetary systems with a Solar like star? 

Advanced LIGO seems to operate only intermittently. Is there a schedule for at what times it will be able to register new gravity waves? Even if no formal schedule is available, what main factors determine the scheduling? I suppose VIRGO in Italy, to get started in 2016, will operate mostly simultaneously with aLIGO. Or would its design require another type of schedule? 

Since entropy is increasing with time, is there a measure for how much the entropy in the universe has increased over time and can the entropy be used to measure time since Big Bang (or before present)? Can we for example say that a galaxy at redshift X has half the entropy of what we have here and now? Also, did the universe have zero entropy at Big Bang?