You need to add this to your resume because it is the only position you have had. I would add it even it wasn't the only position that you had. You have a hole in your resume. You may feel that just skipping it makes sense, but then you are presenting yourself as somebody who hasn't worked before. If you do get as far as an interview they will ask you about any positions you may have had, even if you didn't get paid. Now you will have to tell them that I was employed by X for 5 months but decided to try and hide it. You might use better words but that is what they will hear. You should always expect that they will ask why you left a position. And it is good to have a well crafted truthful response. But purposefully avoiding mentioning a position just throws suspicion on the accuracy of your resume. Question #2 is related to your local laws, local custom, and your contract. 

The issue would depend on the size of the investment, the nature of the investment, and your role in your employers organization. Regarding the size of the investment. If your investment is so large that they would have to list you on their government require documents, that would be a problem for your current employer. The nature of the investment is also important. I own shares of mutual funds. These funds invest in dozens or hundreds of companies. Therefore some of my money is invested in competitors. I am sure my employer is OK with this because the fund is available through the 401K. The third part to be considered is your role in your current company. Are you in a position to base purchasing decisions on the potential to help your outside investments. This wouldn't just apply to competitors, it would also apply to other conflicts of interest. If they asked you to provide a list of companies you have significant investments in to identify potential sources of conflict you should comply, otherwise you may risk your position if they later discover it. In my experience if they have an issue they will usually also have suggested ways to mitigate it. 

Unless your contract specifies a settlement if the first company doesn't employ you, then it would be smart to keep looking. In the United States depending on the outcome of sequestration, and the fiscal cliff, some jobs might not be safe when June rolls around. That doesn't mean that you should accept another job, but you don't want to close any doors that are still open until your start date forces you to close them. If something looks interesting apply for it, but don't push them to make a hiring decision. If you have already applied for a job, then don't turn down the interview. You shouldn't be applying to find a better offer, because as you said they have already spent some money on you. They also may have told some candidates that they were not selected for the position. What you do want to avoid is getting the word a week before your start date that the position is not available, without any other potential positions in development. In that case you would be starting over. In some professions they expect to fill a lot of their starting level positions in the June time frame, in other professions they are not linked to a time of the year. If they don't keep their promise to you, you are unlikely to ever want to work for them in the future. If you are blatant about your job search, you do risk them discovering it. Don't apply for a job with the same company, but do keep the resume active on the resume sites. If you do accept the position with another company, do expect that they will not be willing to consider you for other positions in the near future. 

Many jobs postings I have worked with mention the need to have a college degree. Sometimes they want a specific degree, or use the phrase technical degree, or just a degree level (Bachelor, Masters...) The more flexible the requirements are the more your BA in Humanities will be considered. I would never suggest not including a college degree. It does show you have a college education. But if they want a specific degree and are making that a strict requirement, then it is not likely that your application will result in an interview. So include it in the CV/Resume and put the degree information onto the application. Having a degree in something is better then giving the impression that you don't have a degree. 

You might add a few details or be prepared to discuss them. Did you get an award for this? You could use some of the text from the writeup/justification paperwork. It is hard to say that you were responsible for additional sales, because that was also a result of other changes to the product, or a price change, or additional advertising. Of course it could be argued that these other changes increased the sales into areas that wouldn't be as likely to trigger a refund request. 

Many companies are moving to a split system. Some fixed holidays and some floating holidays. It keeps the big holidays, and gives the employee options on the smaller holidays. These floating holidays can be used any day, like a day of vacation, but they expire at the end of the year. Regardless of if they allow floating holidays, most are somewhat flexible for some of the other holidays. Most years we could work on Columbus and Veterans day, in return for taking the day before and the day after Thanksgiving. 

If I saw it as a red flag that a potential employer didn't give a coding test, then I would never have a job. I have never been given a coding test. I know some companies do give tests, and I know that some positions always seem to give tests. But I have not been applying for those jobs. Over the years the priority of the coding tasks within the job duties have varied from low to high but they are always more worried about the other aspects of being a good worker. A coding test only tests for one small aspect of development. The conditions they put on the test determine what aspect they are emphasizing in the test, but that doesn't do a good job of estimating the other situations. For example: making somebody code on a whiteboard, doesn't tell you how good they are at solving hard problems. The lack of technical questions is more worrisome, but it does depend on what the definition of technical is and what your job duties will be. It could be that your technical knowledge (PHD) is much greater than the position requires. 

Congratulations you have now designed a good way to post your vital info on a website. You still need resume format that: 

The problem is that it can be tough to tell the difference between the last two categories. In the worst of these schools many students drop out before graduating. If they try to transfer the credits aren't accepted by other schools. The students have trouble repaying their student loans. Corporations have been burned by worthless or even fake degrees. Some organizations will not allow current employees to take employer paid for classes at the for-profit schools. If the company limits the schools current employees can attend, they are likely to look unfavorably on these same schools when hiring new employees. 

Everything you put on the resume and investigation forms should be verifiable. If they need more contact information they will ask for it before trying to do the investigation. If they find info that doesn't seem to match, they will ask for clarification. Generally they will give you the opportunity to explain after the investigation, some times they make a mistake in the investigation, or they need help interpreting the info they find. Example: they contacted the wrong company. I worked for a small company with a similar name, but they called the larger more well known company. Of course they never heard of me. This was easy to fix. Example: Confusing financial info. A mortgage on an investment property was sold twice before they realized it was an investment property. So the two transactions were reversed, one of which was messed up because my check was already in the mail. The credit report was very confusing, it looked like I had several mortgages I never mentioned. It was easy to explain. If you embellished your working relationship they could be concerned about what else you embellished. If you accepted payments without paying taxes on the income that could concern some employers. Bottom line, over explain on the initial forms. 

Asking may not help you. Nobody may know. If the company is in a bad situation things may be starting to spin out of control. As they lay people off. they can lose other business, which requires more layoffs. Cash outlays due to the layoffs, may impact their line of credit, which could cause a cash flow problem and more layoffs. Local management, and even the board of directors may not have a good idea if this is the last of the layoffs. If you are uncertain start the process of finding a new job or a second job. Dust off the resume/CV, start working your networks. While asking too many questions may indicate that you are a potential painless cut next time, they also have to realize that once there is blood in the water everybody starts looking. The next losses may actually be the quitting of good but nervous employees. I have been there. 

Because they cite your performance on the projects, they have stated a cause to fire you. You can try and fight it but they could argue that if you were not performing at the level they expected they were overpaying you. They have incentive to avoid having to pay severance. They also will pay higher unemployment premiums if you are let go due to a layoff or RIF. How successful they are will depend on the state and how much documentation they have. 

Those who refuse to return the space they are using for the day back to a neutral clean environment are likely doing so as a way to make the free seating arrangement painful. If all the work environments were equal in resources, space, and comfort; and the work required in the morning and the evening to convert those spaces to your use was trivial; then depending on the number of people vs work space involved, free seating might make sense. If there are 8 work spaces but 15 employees but many are at customer sites or on travel or working from home, then free seating is a way to better use the resources. The behavior of those who continue to leave papers, stains and brochures at the end of each day may be a way of marking their territory. Or it a way resisting the lack of assigned seats. They may be leaving a level of clutter and filth that they can tolerate in the hopes that you won't take their seat. They may even settle for the situation where you spend time cleaning their spot from yesterday, while they take your clean spot. The next phase of their plan is for somebody who likes a clean work space to complain to management and to try and put a cleaning policy in place.... 

That is where you went wrong. Not reporting your actual hours is unethical. Even a salaried employee needs to report accurately what they worked. Depending on where you work hourly people may need to be paid overtime if they work more than 8 in a day, or more than 40 in a week. Being there more than 40 per week but not reporting it accurately; doesn't let management know that the workload is not matching the labor. If in the past you had established that you can flex your time so you could work and report numbers other than 8 per day, a long a you get to 40 for the week; you would not be in this situation. In some places where you have to be at your station for customer service, flexing isn't allowed. In other situations anything of 40 results in overtime so flexing is not allowed by the employer. You may have painted your self into a corner. You were only there for 4 hours on Friday, meaning that in a week you worked more than 40 you will only get paid for 36. Starting next week you need to establish what the rules are going forward. You also need to determine if any flexing of hours is possible for the handful of weeks where flexing would be beneficial. A conversation a few week in advance may have avoided this exact situation.