Now. As a tester I know that fixing bugs can take some time and sometimes much more than just several working days (especially if it is generally minor issue like validation affecting just one user). But, previous conversation made me feel like that issue should be fixed soon and I will be able to continue the hiring process. While nothing is critical on my side about if I will be hired or not, it makes me now bit nervous in how should I proceed next. On one hand I do not want to look desperate in needing new job by pushing the headhunter about how to proceed next. On another hand I would like to know if a job posting several levels better (and thus several levels more demanding) is something I could fit for or not. During describing this issue, I offered the headhunter that I could create new Skype account to meet the form validations. But obviously, I would like to keep this option as very last one. How should I proceed next? 

TL;DR: I am stuck in hiring process because of wrong validation of one of the automatic steps of hiring process for new tester. As already experienced tester I know that fixing bugs costs time. But recent communication with headhunter let me in belief that such issue should be fast fix. How much should I push the issue to know if its fixed? 

4. Watch body language: Most people tell you using body language that they "had it enough". Watch for crossed legs, crossed arms, overall look of being annoyed and voice change. If your friend becomes angry, stop immediately. My personal trick? 5. Drink water during giving feedback: If you feel your friend had it enough, drink from a glass. Slowly. It will: 

I see it all the time, and I work in IT. Hundreds of millions of dollars are lost on project after project to convert things to some new system, some new architecture, for no other reason than that it's there. 

Even the people you're meeting with are not an indication. I've had first interviews with the CEO of medium sized companies, simply because he wants a personal impression of every candidate and not bother the actual domain experts with having to interview people he's not going to let them hire anyway. Ditto with phone interviews. If you're invited over after one of those, you're no closer to a job than you would have been had that phone interview not taken place (or at least not a lot closer). Usually those merely are intended to clear up some points people are confused about, such as specific details about skills they want you to have that are hinted at but not specified deeply on your resume or cover letter. 

Your notice period doesn't start until you give notice, unless both parties (you and the company) agree to a shorter period. So no, you can't consider your notice period started until you have given notice according to the requirements set forth in your contract. 

Admit that you're stumped, ask others to take a look as well (and do so early), and provide what documentation and research you've already done to those people so they don't have to do it all over again. That's your responsibility as a team member. 

Make you shut up immediately Create room for your friend to either speak or let you know they had it enough. And, most commonly. Create ... tension inside you about an hour in where you will either need another drink or need ... a break. (Which both allows you leave safely the topic being discussed) 

Tell something good about a part which needs to improve Tell what needs to improve in that part Tell something nice (something else than in step 1) about the part which needs to improve 

Again, assume misunderstanding, assume best intentions and act as willing to change, willing to take over, willing to step up (proactive, active, happy to do more work) 

2. Select main areas which need to be improved and stick to them No one wants to hear that their CV has 302 issues. Select two most important and stick to them 3. Use "sandwich" approach: 

I got recently contacted by a headhunter about new job. While I am totally happy at my current position, the job offer was so interesting, that I decided to apply for the job and see how do I stack up. However, the new company hiring process is 100% online and one of the steps requires to fill in my personal data, namely Skype account for later interview (should I pass tests which are automatic) As a tester by profession, I discovered bug on the page: My skype account is connected through my Microsoft account and therefore my Skype ID is my e-mail adress. However, the web form for inserting skype account has a validation which refuses sign to be entered into the field intended for skype. So, I told as a form of joke, that I definitly fulfill requirements for a good tester, because I am finding bugs even before being hired. I got back answer that I should describe this to the support of that website. I did describe the issue and got back answer, that this id going to be escalated to the DEV team of the site and I will be contacted back. Next working day I have been contacted by headhunter about what is the resolution, where I basically copypasted answer from the support. The day after, I got again contacted by this headhunter, asking me about if I got any resolution of this issue. (No). So I got asked to let the headhunter know if I receive any answer from the support until end of the day (Did not get any solution and told headhunter so). The last e-mail from headhunter literally reads: 

Why should it be a demotion? It's a valued field in the industry. The only people who tend to look down on testers are programmers, just as testers look down on programmers (both considering the other the core of all their problems)... If you're getting paid less as a junior test engineer than you were as a senior C++ programmer that's because you're going from a senior level job to a junior level job, not because you're going from programming to testing. Java experience could come in handy when working with Java based test tools, especially if you're expected to write unit tests for Java applications (though I'd expect that to be mostly done by the programmers, having a tester who can assist in it is very handy). 

In my experience wearing "less formal" clothes or footwear is rarely an issue, especially in positions without physical customer contact and certainly if there's a good reason for it (and having a foot or ankle so swollen that you simply don't fit in your regular shoes would certainly count as a good reason). 

Get used to not having the time you had in the past to take vacations when and of whatever duration you like. That's life as an employee (and as a business owners it's worse, while in theory you can take whatever time off you want in reality you can take hardly any at all). So rather than than try to get a month off when you've only worked there a quarter, AND don't have anywhere near the hours saved up, AND no doubt haven't yet read the employee rulebook (many companies have limits to the length of vacations), adjust your plans. Either make it a short trip over Christmas, or see if you can invite your parents over to the US (they'll have to fend for themselves while you're at at work, but you'll have the evenings and weekends together still).