You're only going to experience roughly a 10%, (maybe 20% max) loss of battery life. Unless you're planning on frequent century or all-day rides, the difference is relatively negligible. The average use case, a commute to and from work, or the average 4 hour group ride, won't see any difference because the battery life will go from about 8 hours on a full charge to 7 hours. If you do plan to take it on century rides or night rides, you might want to upgrade to a medium tier unit, 510/520/etc, as the medium sized units have nearly twice the battery life. Using the GPS+GLONASS mode doesn't have a significant effect on battery life at all in this case because we're looking at about 16 hours of battery life in GPS-only mode vs 15 hours of battery life with GLONASS. Unless you're living on the edge (no pun intended), the GLONASS mode isn't going to make it or break it. 

Did this sound start when you took the biek to the LBS? What else did the LBS touch? See if you can take the chain guard off temporarily to see if the sound goes away. Your description also sounds a lot like a BB that the shop overtightened or under tightened. If you have a torque wrench you could investigate this yourself, otherwise I would take it back to the mechanic that installed that BB and ask for a double check. 

My mountain bike has a BB30 bottom bracket that was clicking under power. The bike is only a month old, so I figured, break in period, and I took the crank off and greased everything up with teflon grease. I coated everything I could get my hands on in the grease, and re-tightened the crank to the specified torque ( 430 inch pounds ). Much to my frustration, the clicking is back when under power, after riding a mile or two. What is my next plan of attack? Updates: I tested a different pair of pedals to rule out the pedal bearings ( no, I didn't swap left for right ). I tried tightening the chainring bolts several days ago, no changes there. The crankset is some sort of SRAM Truative triple. Unlike the cranksets I've owned in the past, there's a ring on the non-drive side with an arrow on it, I'm wondering if it's a suspect at this point. 

Something to keep in mind, it's not unusual for a SRAM chain to not play well with a Shimano cassette. A lot of times you'll get lucky and the two will work well together, I used to run SRAM chains with my Shimano cassettes all the time without much trouble. But there are just some combinations that just cause problems, even intermittently from run to run. Or, you said you gave it a lube bath, I wonder if you managed to displace the grease inside of the derailleur. When my rear derailleur just won't cooperate, I use my two favorite articles to troubleshoot and properly lubricate and adjust it. Study these thoroughly and meticulously and you'll likely happen upon your solution: $URL$ $URL$ 

Kind of what Daniel said, brakes are easy. Sit down and think about it for a minute, all you have to do is switch the cables. Run the front cable to the left and run the rear cable to the right. If you want to switch the shifters you will probably run into some trouble. You won't be able to just switch the cables, you would have to get shifters that work on the opposite side. I would just forego that goal if I were you. 

Citizen isn't exactly on the forefront of technology, they don't even list an email address on their web site. The specs aren't online anywhere. You're just going to have to call them (800) 682-9579 and have them tell you. 

If you're looking to expand into some workout/exercise riding, you don't necessarily need to go as high as 30 or 28. When I run a 50/34 crankset with just a 12-23 cassette, I find that I can still make it up just about any hill, and you probably already put in more miles than I do on your touring bike. So I think you'll find great success with a 12-25. 

I've ridden many different tires on my cyclocross bike, and I've found that a 32 mm is the comfortable on the road. The most fun I've had though is on 40mm Clements, especially if there's any off road involved, if you can fit them on your cross bike. $URL$ 

Aero frames are generally slightly heavier than the standard frame you'd compare it to, though the difference might not even be enough for the average person to notice. Someone who regularly competes in time trials might want the increased speed on relatively flat ground, competitors will certainly notice the difference. If you're not competing in time trials or triathlons and you don't have an extra couple thousand dollars burning a hole in your pocket, you would probably choose the standard, more compatible, traditional, and lighter frame that is going to perform perfectly well on your average terrain. If you frequently ride on hilly terrain, the added cost and weight of the aero frame isn't likely to be worth the trade off. 

The only way to build endurance is to spend time building endurance. The only way to get into biking shape is to spend time on your bike. Sprinting for 20 minutes will build strength, but very little endurance. You're not going to find any shortcuts here. Put away the canoe, put down the weights, stay off of the elliptical and spend more time on your bike. 

The map-capable Garmin cycling units come with a solid basemap with the ability to add additional maps, and the Touring unit has a micro SD slot to make this even easier. Granted the maps that come with are good for a point of reference, I wouldn't recommend Garmin's maps for any substantial route finding. If you're trying to find a safe bicycle route around town, use google maps. If you're heading off road or out into the woods, make sure you print out the maps you're using so that you're not stranded when batteries die. 

$URL$ Use the moisture radar, it's your best tool to see when the rain is coming and when it's going with great detail. If you take the time to familiarize yourself with it you'll start to get a feel for how different types of rain look on the radar and where it's going to hit. 

This isn't necessarily unusual for fresh disc pads. Give it a solid 20 miles. Then if you still have problems coming to a stop, take it to the shop and have them look at it. Even still, it's not necessarily something wrong with their work. It might be, if they were clumsy and didn't align things properly or left oil on the pads. But a little noise isn't enough to convict them. 

I think it will help the most to simply having a better understanding of wind chill. A wind chill of 1 is a wind chill of 1, regardless of the air temperature you start with ( Granted, to make matters more complex, there's not really a standard for calculating wind chill ). The wind chill you experience personally while on your bicycle depends entirely on your speed / the wind speed, and your direction vs wind direction, and those variables are typically changing constantly and often on a bicycle. If you are traveling at the same speed and direction as the wind, then you won't experience a wind chill. If you go for a ride on a particularly windy day, the best thing you can do is bring the appropriate extra clothes you'll need to make yourself warmer or colder. 

Hydraulic brakes develop air in the lines as they're used ( heat / chemistry are to blame ). The only way to remove that air from the system is to properly bleed the brakes. Trying to find a shortcut around this important procedure probably won't help you any, and worse case scenario you could kill yourself or someone else when your brakes fail. With this in mind, you should probably pay a professional to bleed them properly if you don't know what you're doing. Also, the Avids that use DOT fluid have a habit of degraded performance over time, regardless of there being air in the fluid. If yours feel soft even after a professional bleed, I would recommend upgrading to a higher quality hydraulic brake ( one that uses mineral oil ).