In my experience, changing departments is nothing unethical and happens all the time, so unless the departments are very competitive by virtue of company structure, I wouldn't worry about that too much. I've actually seen two ways to go about this: 

(I've done this before myself) You just have a conversation with the other department lead and then talk to your own and get everyone to agree to move you over. This may involve creating a new contract, or if still somewhat in scope with your current one, maybe no paperwork at all. I've mostly seen this happen in smaller companies/start-ups. (My mother did this several times at her company) In bigger/more bureaucratized companies companies the process might be that the other department head has to formally request help, or you specifically, and then your department lead must agree to a sort-of lending of personnel. You'd get to work on new topics in the other department but would still technically be listed within the old one. It requires more paperwork, usually and you must be aware that politics might be involved there, but if the other department lead really wants you to join, they will know how to make this happen. 

This depends on what they give you a reference for. If you list somebody to be a tech lead or infrastructure architect that you worked with (if this is your profession) and I give them a call to check your reference, I do expect them to also mention your technical skills and it would feel very strange to me if they didn't seem to know what they're talking about. On the other hand, if you list a former CEO, I don't immediately expect any deep knowledge of them. But I also wouldn't call them to hear something about your specific skill set 

Examples: Work on your own projects I've worked in an environment where we tested this idea and it worked quite well for a while. We dedicated every friday to this and interesting projects came out of it ranging from little libraries to full-blown test frameworks. In some way or another all of those projects even helped the company we worked for at the time, even though there was no mandate that it had to be for the company. Select projects from a list provided by the company In another team, this was fun too. We were able to influence the list some and had a good time working on the projects alone as well as in teams. Work on whatever piece of existing software you think needs work This is what the company of a friend of mine do. They have 'hackathon days' where team members get to work on their product, improving whatever they want. It only has to be finished by the end of the hackathon - for the presentation. 

It is okay to ask this question. That doesn't mean it won't get you branded. Some people are jerks and view feminism as the root of all evil and brand you just for that. Others have (legitimately) had bad experiences with women actually causing trouble that also were vocal about, say, male to female ratio in teams. It's hard to say what will get you branded in the heads of people but that doesn't mean you should anticipate or work around it. Be open about your needs and worries. If you get branded or treated negatively for it, that employer or team is not the right one for you. 

If you want to learn more on building rapport, there are courses and sources out there, that are far more detailed than a post here could hope to be, but this is, from my experience with the topic, what people just struggling to connect can do. 

I got my manager on my side, explaining the situation; got support from my team that for when I'm down they would cover anything that comes up as best they can and what they can't cover, they try to keep calm; and I have some bits and pieces of info on people getting sick and how that affects a company, that show that my situation is no worse than that of others, just in case anybody tried to kick me out (which hasn't happened yet, because the support I get is just awesome). 

This obviously depends on the project and the company doing it - everybody has a different notion of 'free of constraints'. Typical characteristics can be: 

NB: You can't always immediately start suggesting solutions. In that case stop. Shut up. Let the issue echo in your manager's head. They will act on their own. Adapt the language you use to the level of emergency. Don't say things like "The company's reputation is at stake" when it's just the outage of one instance in a redundant setup. 

Apparently it's a thing to do, when your probation period is over, so would one go about that? A big dinner? Sweets? Drinks? And also imporant: Who's to be invited for that? The whole company? Your direct colleagues? Your hiring manager and above? 

Don't be concerned about them being older than you. First of, you're all grown-ups so even larger differences in age don't necessarily mean knowing better anymore. They are in the team, because they are doing their work and they probably are very good at it. Their work, though, is not leading, but doing (creating, manufacturing, selling, ...). Leading requires different skills, a different focus. It's not managing yet, but it's also not just doing anymore. That's why age is inconsequential when really leading a team. 

First you have work experience in field A You collect theoretical experience in field B You look for a job that values both your experience in field A and your passion for field B Get some practical experience in field B through this job Move on to a new job with full focus on field B (or find out you like the combination of both fields better, who knows) 

Psychology tells us that people tend to fill holes in stories and draw connections in their mind (papers use this principle - proximity - a lot). Putting statements in proximity to one another without making a clear connection, promts people to find those connections on their own. Knowing this you can take it to your advantage while avoiding actually lying. 

I'm not aware of a law about it, but your campaign office should be able to cover the legal aspects. Because you work in civil services (as per your profile) and your work may become the focus of interest (as per your details provided in the question) however, you should tell your employer, just so they can be aware of any fall-out this may bring. I'm not into politics but I don't feel like anybody but hardliners here would hold it against you if you made your party affiliation public and ran for office. If it's for one if the big ones I think it wouldn't be a big deal anyway, and you said it's none of the outliers, but even for, say, the pirates, I can't imagine there being any repercussions. But again: I'm nowhere near the business that is politics. And - this is no legal advice, I'm no lawyer - as far as I know they legally can't take justified action because of it. 

I want to share some experiences I made and collected from others about self-directed or "20% time". TL;DR: There are different ways of doing this and reading about experiences, it can sound like it promotes everything from cleaner tables to eternal youth, but try it. Don't hike up your expectations but let it work itself out and see what you can reap from it. It's different for every team but I have yet to see a company that really tried to embrace it take a loss in the process, when examined objectively. 

I suggest you ask somebody that you trust that has been an employee there for a longer time, how to go about this kind of switch. They can probably tell you in confidence, if you're still worried. 

This may come a bit too late for your situation, but when I was a similar situation before (twice already, actually) I mentioned it when signing the contract. I told HR, or the manager, whoever handed me the contract, that I had planned vacation, which was scheduled, paid for, and my partner had also scheduled days off for it. I offered to shift the starting date to after the vacation was over, take unpaid leave or take it out of my regular vacation days (even though it might not have been company policy to allow vacation days during probation period). Neither company held it aganist me, but allowed me to start right away and chose one of the other two options, which was fine. Since you already started your job, the situation is not exactly the same, but I would still try it. Walk up to your boss, ask them for a one-on-one and tell them you neglected to mention this before but would like to discuss it now, to avoid any problems with it. Tell them what I mentioned above. Obviously you can't offer them to move the starting date since you started already, so I think, you have to at least mention the offer of cancelling the trip. But also do make it clear that there are other people involved that are counting on this planned trip happening (like my partner in the above example). You have to be prepared to cancel the trip to not lose the job, but I don't think it's going to happen. 

I'm currently in a turned around version of your situation. I have to go get treatments regularly where I'm completely out of order and they're planned in advance. But I get deadlines that are random, urgent and on very short notice. And the ones setting the deadlines don't care about my schedule at all. 

Since appraisals and raises are done individually and you're basically the new guy in the company, do you have any evidence beyond "others got more than I did", that support your assumption, your raise was reduced by what you got after 6 months? If you do, bring it up in a matter-of-fact way, perferably in a one-on-one setting with your manager/boss. Tell them how you see it, and why you think you deserve a bigger raise than you got. And leave out the fact that you know what others got, because that might get you or them in trouble. However, keep in mind, that these raises are supposed to reflect every individuals performance as well. Maybe others got bigger raises because they're perceived as having improved their performance more than you, or maybe even by the same amount as you did, which forced your manager to increase their raises to stay fair in relation to the two raises that you got. If there's any doubt at all, that you might have been treated unfairly; if you're not 100% sure, don't raise the issue. Be happy with the raise you've received and see how this turns out in your next appraisal. If the pattern continues, you can still bring it up then. 

The best approach I know of, so far, is to offer them something. Ideas probably are the best thing you can bring to their table. 

Instead of trying to get your manager away from their focus for short-term wins, use that focus. Explain how, right now, timeliness might be important to the higer-ups but it's short sighted to only focus on looking good in a schedule. It will cost them more quick wins, than they collect. The project management triangle is a trilemma, i.e. "Schedule, quality, cost, choose two". Right now, your manager is completely focussed on looking good in the schedule department, but ignoring quality (and probably only paying minimum attention to cost). Management's focus may rapidly change though, placing emphasis on something completely different: A deal might have fallen short, triggering cost anxiety; bad press may call for a quality offensive. Recovering from that change of company focus will cost that manager a lot of wins they could have earned if they planned a tiny bit ahead. By following a balanced strategy that only ever so slightly may lean towards one of the three corners, will your manager ensure a consistent, sustainable positive appearance, because it anticipates and prepares for any changes that might otherwise leave them severely exposed. Why will that work? With these arguments you can turn your managers focus on quick wins to your advantage, making them your champion. Finding common ground between their priorities and your goals is the magical key and the common ground here is securing more wins for the future. 

Adapt. As technology changes, the skills of people using it need to change. Sure, technology makes jobs obsolete, but it also creates new jobs and it's unlikely that any time soon a computer can fully replace a human where brain, empathy and intuition are required. I think to some extend that's the case with customer relationship management. Some parts of it can be done in an automated way (collecting feedback, maybe, or surveys), but other parts require real human interaction (like first level support, up-selling, etc.). Bottom line: Find the parts of your current job that require brain, empathy and/or intuition and emphasize those in your job, specialization and career moves. 

Urgency and calmness don't have to be at odds. Astronauts stay calm, but don't go about it, saying "Well, what have we here? Now look at that, oxygen is dropping. Who wouldda thought?" It's more along the lines of "Sir, we have a code red emergency, oxygen is dropping." Obviously making this up, but the point is: 

Benefits: To the team Teams tend to work together better and be more resilient to unexpected sick days or similar loss of resources. Team members usually feel happier, more fulfilled by their work and better in general. Even what could be called rivalries or outright wars within teams sometimes can be reduced or turned around by this. To the company Management can plan better, because bottlenecks (at least skill- or knowlege-wise) reduce. Quality of work delivered often improves, from continuous peer-review by teaming up and from thinking outside the box which leads to new and unexpected connections and (warning: buzz-word) synergies. Not to mention the benefits from improved culture and greater perceived happiness with the job, which also carries over into other teams and completely unrelated departments. 

I think there are a lot of false assumptions in your question. Rapport has nothing to do with frequency of communication, but with content and quality, which in turn has nothing to do with whether it's face-to-face or via mail/chat/carrier pidgeon. I have a couple of good friends who I've rarely ever met in person and sometimes we don't even chat for weeks on end. What it takes, specifically, to build rapport with somebody is very individual to that person and your interaction with them. With some you might 'just click', with others it might never become that close - which is not a bad thing at all, mind you. Not everyone will like you, you're not the jerk whisperer. Now there are high-level steps you can take to build up rapport. 

Actually this is exactly what it should be. Your internship activities. Not necessarily C'n'P; the experience section can have the details and the education section can have mentions. For a recent graduate a higher level of detail in the education section is imporant too. This part will later be shortened for brevity reasons and because as work experience builds up, it will become less and less important, comparatively. Then the internships will also reduce to side notes in the education section. For just after having graduated, put in what you can, in both sections (as long as you don't turn it into a novel. 

As long as you list references properly and don't mis-label anybody - say calling the editor of a blog you set up CTO, because their role is the closest to that of a CTO - you should be fine. In general, references are supposed to attest to your work and your person from their point of view. If they aren't technical, that's fine, nobody expects them to pass technical judgement. Should your lack of technical references actually be something that bothers your potential employer, there's always probation periods or - if there's no other option - internships, that can help them gauge your skills. TL;DR Don't worry if the references you list aren't technical, but don't make them out to be something they're not.