mundane, worldly or moral teachings (lokiya dhamma) supramundane, transcendent or noble teachings connected to emptiness (lokuttara dhamma) 

Beginners to the noble path start with the Dhammacakkappavattana. In contrast, sequences that monks often teach to the common person are generally for beginners to morality, following the common formula of 'sila-samadhi-panna', such as found in detail in the Maha-mangala Sutta or in the following from MN 56, which begin with basic morality & end with the Four Noble Truths: 

Often the hatred of others has nothing to do with you therefore it is not related to anything you "deserve". 

While the Gospels mostly teach about 'Eternal Life', which is alien to Buddhism, at times Christianity teaches about the 'Deathless', which is the same as Buddhism, such as in the Gospel of Thomas verse 1 and John 21:23. 

Therefore, Buddhists that tell other people that sexual promiscuity is "OK" are teaching the path (magga) leading to animal birth (tiracchā­na­-yoni-­gamanīyā), as follows: 

The Buddha cherished & valued all life, including animals. In Buddhism, it is a sin to kill living beings, including animals (unless absolutely necessary). To not sacrifice one's life for another means to not harm oneself when helping others. The Buddha said: 

The mind (automatically) purifies itself of the one-pointedness of concentration & becomes open, bright & perfectly non-attached. 

If you are not practising to end suffering, I'd suggest to quit Buddhism. Its like you hear about a fantastic doctor who is a miracle worker & you are so inspired by the doctor that you decided to visit the doctor, even though you are not even sick. The doctor asks you: "What is your problem?" and you answer: "I don't have any problems but I heard you are a miracle worker". Mass-market Buddhism is the similar. It advertises meditation & enlightenment, similar to advertising I-Phones, even though you might have no self-perceived need for an I-Phone. The Buddhist teachings are for the prevention & eradication of suffering. If there is no self-perceived suffering in your life, there is no point in practising Buddhism & meditation. 

Vipassana is the automatic seeing of ultimate truth that occurs when the mind is clear & concentrated, as described in AN 11.2. 

The doctrine of kamma-vipaka is for puthujjana (ordinary people). Refer to MN 117. Enlightened mind knows honest mistake is caused by ignorance rather than by a 'self' (SN 12.17). What to do to rest possible most at ease and secure is trust in anatta (not-self) & SN 12.17. Buddhism is a path of liberation & love (AN 3.99) rather than a method of bondage & guilt. 

'Vibhava' is a form of 'becoming' or 'self-view', namely, the idea "I do not exist" or "I do not want to exist" or "I will cease to exist". Since the idea of 'I' ('atta') or "a being/person" ('satta') still remains, 'vibhava' is a type of becoming (bhava). This is described in the following suttas: 

Where as consciousness is just awareness or objectivity. Consciousness does not produce suffering where as an ignorant 'nama' produces & is afflicted by suffering; which also afflicts the physical body. ~~~ 'Nama-rupa' is also a pre-Buddhist-Brahmanistic term that the Buddha adopted, redefined & thus debunked. Brahmanism was concerned with 'creationism', of how the mind names forms. In Brahmanism, nama-rupa is 'name-form'. Where as the Buddha said 'nama-rupa' is 'mind-body' (mentality-materiality), which should be observed in meditation so to understand how suffering afflicts the mind-body & also can cease in the mind-body. 

The term 'shamatha' means 'tranquility' or 'calm abiding' rather 'concentration' ('collectedness'; non-distraction). 'Shamatha' is a fruit of concentration rather than concentration itself. It does not matter if you are also capable of simply paying attention to the object while thoughts emerge & can redirect attention to the object when thoughts have done so. The very fact that thoughts are emerging is a loss of concentration, however momentary. Generally, the kinds of thoughts that help meditation are wise thoughts used to counter unwise thoughts and the very subtle thought (intention) of giving up (letting go) or non-attachment. Some subtle thoughts can serve as objects of insight (vipassana) into impermanence but there is generally no need to deliberately cultivate such thoughts. 

According to the Pali suttas, the Buddha seemed to praise honoring him & his virtues, i.e., for the right purpose (such as did not occur in the case of Vakkali, who was rebuked). If a Buddha pagoda helps you practise better, be more mindful, virtuous & wise, it is generally held to be praiseworthy. 

Buddhist lay people are not expected to have sex before marriage. The Pali scriptures (DN 31) say parents are to arrange the marriage of their children. Therefore, the modern teenage angst is not really related to the Buddhist outlook but generally only to teenagers who think being a Buddhist is trendy & socially cool; like being Richard Gere, Courtney Love or Angelina Jolie. 

Sati is never without wisdom. Sati always has sampajanna. Sati is only remembering or calling something to mind. Mindfulness must remember to apply wisdom. Therefore, mindfulness & wisdom always operate together. There cannot be mindfulness without wisdom. This is why the term 'sati-sampajanna' is often used, as a compound. Why would we walk or do chores without wisdom? If we do not have any wisdom about the purpose of walking meditation or doing chores & how to do it, why would we do it? For what purpose? With what method? For what benefit? This video might help: Buddhist Meditation Sati Sampajanna This book might help: Part II. The Use of Dhamma 

The bulk of the Pali suttas do not include recollection of 'past lives'. Here, the Pali words are 'pubbe nivasa', which mean recollection of 'past abodes', 'past dwellings' or 'past adherences'. In short, it means recollecting in the past when the mind ignorantly clung to one or more of the five aggregates as 'self'. This is explained in SN 22.79. As stated in SN 22.79, since such recollection can include only one aggregate, it seems obvious it does not refer to past lives because a life cannot comprise of only one aggregate, unless it is claimed having a past life of a tree or plant. More crucially, SN 22.79 states to cling to past recollection as "I" or "mine" is wrong view. However, probably at a later time, a mere handful of questionable & contradictory suttas were created, such as AN 3.15, AN 9.20, MN 50, MN 81, MN 123 & MN 143. As stated in the question, that these (later) suttas do not account for technological developments (such as the three-age system) supports the view these literal reincarnation suttas are dodgy. These later suttas have the same style as the Apadānas, Buddhāpadāna & Jataka Tales, which were composed hundreds of years after the passing away of the Buddha. 

The moral teachings bring moral (non-harming) benefits but do not remove attachment. These teaching exist because the majority of people are unable to remove attachment. Therefore, your line of thought is certainly flawed because how can it be expected of most people to give up attachment towards sexuality, reproductive drives, partners, children & family? If you expect all people to give up attachment & realise not-self, when they are actually incapable of doing so, it is you rather than the Buddha that is deceiving people. Please refer to MN 117 (linked). 

Also, a Muslim should not marry a Buddhist who is skeptical about 'God'. Wikipedia states Muslim women are forbidden from marrying non-Muslim men according to Islamic law. 

This question is unrelated to Buddhist philosophy. The suitability of the Lotus Posture depends of the physiology of the individual. If a person can sit in lotus but does not have a natural erect & supple spine, sitting in lotus is both pointness & will probably cause physical damage. 

The words 'atthattāti' & 'natthattāti' also appear in the Kaccaayanagotto Sutta, again, poorly translated, as follows: 

However, apart from this, I do not recall reading anything in the Pali suttas that mention any causes or reasons for why a woman is physically born as a woman. Everything I recall reading in the Pali scriptures treats men & women equally in respect to both the results of kamma/actions (refer to the Mātugāma Saṃyutta) and the potential for enlightenment (refer to the Therigatha). In the Pali suttas, the different results of different kammas lead to the humane (compassionate), animal (immoral), ghost (addictive), heaven (blissful) & hell (suffering) states of mind rather than lead to birth as a man or woman. As mentioned, accounts of women attaining freedom from suffering can be read in the Therigatha. 

Meditation can result in samatha (tranquility & joy) and vipassana (insight). On a very basic or crude level, meditation can provide an intimate insight into how addictions & habits disturb, trouble & enslave the mind, which can help the mind develop a distaste or dispassion towards these more coarse/gross addictions & habits. As for samatha, if well developed, it provides an alternate, more healthy & free source of pleasure. All minds require 'pleasure' however some sources of pleasure are more healthy than others. 

The reason why cessation also is required at the beginning of the noble path is because if a person cannot abandon the basic forms of craving, they will struggle to progress very far. At the point of final cessation, dependent origination actually ceases (rather than is understood). Understanding dependent origination is required to achieve cessation rather than is the result of cessation. To quote how dependent origination ends when the mind is established in cessation: 

You have a family to take care of & livelihood is a factor of the Buddhist 8 fold path. You must earn a living. If you have an intellectual talent for philosophy & have spent time & money in nearing completion of major studies, I would suggest you consider forcing yourself to complete your studies because your qualification can be used for livelihood. For example, once you complete your PHD, you can do some studies in Buddhism &/or psychology and thus branch out into that more practical & benevolent field (rather than work in pure Western philosophy). Formal qualifications can be very useful things. For example, when I was young (23 years old) & first discovered meditation, I practised for a whole year, full time, and felt very free. I did not understand Buddhism well & left the meditation monastery to study psychology at university so I could learn to help people. I found the studies not practical at all; so I completed the 1st year of study, left university & returned to the meditation monastery. Some years later, after I discovered certain Buddhist teachings which are for helping ordinary people & returned to Western society, I regretted not completing the psychology degree. What you can do with a qualification is often more relevant than what you must study to obtain the qualification. I don't wish to burst your 'enlightenment bubble' but it appears you are 'attached' to this 'enlightenment'. While I am being humorous here, often ideals must be abandoned or modified for more practical considerations. I would suggest for you to consider (weigh up) how you could use the PHD in a more practical way. While you are correct in stating Buddha-Dhamma should be given freely, I personally do not believe it is a crime to earn a living from Dhamma. Many universities have Buddhist studies; the lecturers/professors must have proper secular qualifications (rather than just be monks); therefore individuals, such as yourself, must fulfill these roles. There are ex-Theravada monks who are now paid university professors, who still are part of the Theravada Buddhist community; including liaising with monks. They are never criticized.