Put yourself in the the interviewer's shoes. You are interviewing for a Business Intelligence analyst and are down to the final three candidates who are roughly equal in qualifications and skills. Candidate 1 speaks passionately on surfing. Candidate two speaks passionately about Web Design (which is technical but not what this position does) and candidate three speaks passionately and knowledgeably about Informatica (which is a tool your company uses). Which one do you hire? Research the company, find something they need or use in the position you are applying for, and speak both passionately and knowledgeably on it. Remember in prepping for an interview, you always want to present how well do would be able to perform the actual job they have open. You are always in competition with others, so be the person who shows the most business value to the interviewer. If the job is one where you will be giving frequent presentations, then concentrate on doing one of that type. For a sales job, do a presentation on a product (don't use a competitor's product for your example), For a design job do a presentation on a design that you are pitching, for a training job, do a training session. 

I would most likely not take this as discrimination as they had to chose someone if there weren't enough cubes to go around. What I would take it as is a signal that I need to do a better job of learning how to influence decisions so that I get what I want. Did you ask for a cube? Did you express any interest one way or the other about work space? The squeaky wheel gets the grease. When they came up one cube short, they probably picked out the person they thought least likely to complain. I would observe how your co-worker who got the cube handles his interactions and expresses his needs and desires and see if you are being less assertive than you should be to get what you want. Sure a cube seems relatively unimportant, but these types of things are what you can practice assertiveness on so that you are skilled when it comes times for the really big things. And a cube may be a bigger deal than you think. Seating is a highly political thing and it indicates who has influence and who does not. Not so big a deal at the lowest levels, a problem for anyone above a trainee to be viewed as not having influence. This really can affect how others see you and how well they listen to your input. Women have trouble being heard anyway (I'd be rich if I had a dollar for every time my words were ignored in a meeting and then accepted when a man said the same thing minutes later. They don't do that any more though because I have learned to play politics.), you don't need to add looking like the least important person to that. 

My view on this is that unless you expect the lowered productivity from the breakup to last longer than the issue with your father (which would include some time after his death as well), I would not bring it up. They know your father is dying, they will attribute any productivity loss to that. While I realize that breaking up with a girlfriend is a negative event and it is painful, it should not be affecting productivity as much as you describe and likely is because it is the last straw after a series of personal shocks. But most managers are not going to be terribly sympathetic to it. In terms of seriousness of the personal issue to management, it comes well below: being diagnosed with a serious illness, death of a child. death of a spouse, death of another family member, serious illness of a family member, and to a lesser extent, divorce. If you were not under the stress of the family illness, few employers would expect a break up to affect productivity for longer than 1-2 days, at most a week. In all my years in the workforce, I have never seen anyone who took longer than a couple of days to get to the point where it was not affecting their work after a breakup. And probably more than 90% of the people I have worked with who went through break ups and divorces never had a noticeable impact on work productivity at all. If you are taking longer than that you need to get some help to learn how to compartmentalize. However, if the added stress means that you are more negatively impacted in terms of productivity, you might want to consider telling your boss that the stress is starting to affect you enough that you need a few days off. Taking a few days off may be all you need to regain your center and be able to work effectively. You might also consider if you need to have some sort of counseling, these are all difficult things to go through, you need some tools to help you get through them without a productivity loss. 

If you want to help the person then help them outside the context of the interview. Do not mention the interview or any reasons why he or she might not have been chosen. This person works for your company. Scrape up an aquaintance and then offer to mentor him and, if he agrees, then start giving advice about things you think he needs to improve to get ahead, but never do it in terms of how he failed an interview. Not unless he specifically asks you about how he can improve his interviewing skills and specically tells you about this particular one. I am going to point out that at this point in time, you have no business knowing what happened in the interview as you were not an interviewer. Your colleagues should have considered that confidential information and at any place I every worked, for them to blab about it would be a firing offense and rightly so. It is very possible to get the company in legal trouble discussing why someone specific was not hired. This is why virtually no company will provide interview feedback to failed candidates. This is why teh people who did the interview and told you about it are 100% in the wrong. This is also why if you talk to the guy and he gets upset at what you say (and we can't predict his reaction), you could get fired or reprimanded and so could the people who did the interview who never should have blabbed about it. You aren't just risking yourself here. 

Typically there are four career development paths. First you want to become a more senior person within your own current specialty or a related specialty. So a junior dev might want to learn how to be senior dev or perhaps transition from being a C# developer to a data analyst or systems architect. Next you might want to move into the management track. So you might currently be an accounting clerk but you really want to end up as the CFO (Chief Financial Officer) of a company. Third you might want to change career tracks in your current industry or company. This would be something like a Meeting Planner wanting to change over to being a Human Resources specialist. Fourth you might want to do something entirely different in a different industry such as training to be Nurse when you are currently an administrative assistant for a plumbing company. Of course your boss is not likely to anything to help you in the last case. When you want to change both technical skill and industries, then you are simply announcing you are short-term and you will not get whatever help is available to others as it is a waste of company money and time. Now the strategies for getting your boss to help you in the first three cases are: First make sure your boss perceives you as doing your job well. If he thinks you have problems doing your current job, he is not going to help you get a better one. So don't talk to him first about your career aspirations but your current performance. Then fix anything he asks you to fix (whether you agree with it or not) before discussing future options. Now you are ready to start preparing to discuss options. Before you do so, you need to develop a plan. You need to know the eventual goal and the intermediate positions you might need to get on the way there. The road from Junior dev to senior dev is fairly easy to figure out, but the road from accounting clerk to CFO is going to take multiple intermediate positions and probably some additional formal education. Your immediate goal is to get an idea of the steps involved (the internet is a wonderful thing, use it to research the requirements at various levels including searching for the job you want on job sites to see what the qualifications are). Now focus on the next step you need to take. If possible, talk to people in that position and find out what qualifications they have and what their daily tasks are. Choose people who won't feel threatened by your questions. From your research, develop a list of things you need to get to be qualified for the next level and a plan for how you would like to get them. Don't ignore soft skills. These are often the difference between one level and the other. The steps may now vary depending on whether you are following case 1 2 or 3. For cases 1 and 2 the initial steps are similar, you won't get to the management track until you reach the senior positions generally. So we start by discussing those first. Now that you have a plan, you are ready to discuss steps with your current boss. If your boss is supportive of career development, you may be able to go to him and directly ask to be given the types of tasks you need to get to the next level. If he is not supportive of career development, simply volunteer for the tasks you would like to do to get qualified for the next level without discussing it as a career development move. Pay attention to upcoming projects and try to get assigned to the ones that further your plan. Remember that a lot of the difference in the levels has to do with being able to work with less supervision, so concentrate on that as well. One of the best ways to get the experience to move into management once you are a senior professional is to volunteer to start attending meetings for some of the projects you are working on instead of the manager to save him time. You can also ask for some of his responsibilities if he is going to be out of the office on vacation or long term leave of any kind in order to help out. Instead of telling him what you need him to do, save him time by creating the draft emails or giving him the information he needs to send something up the line rather than just saying you need him to do something. Now I will give you hint, it often easier to get what are really management tasks assigned to you when you have a poor manager. They don't want to do anything that takes extra effort, so you can often make them happy by doing things way beyond your level for them. Now for case three, your immediate boss is not going to be much help even if he wants to be because he can't just assign you tasks outside his personal area of responsibility. What he can do is introduce you to the managers who do have those tasks, possibly get you assigned to some company-wide initiatives that are cross functional, or (and only if he is super supportive) lend you to the other department to do some tasks. Some jobs lend themselves to this better than others. A lot of people like accounting clerks have gotten into programming jobs by doing special projects for their department that the programmers didn't have time to do. A developer who wants to be a business analysts can ask to help with the requirements for the next large project. A developer who want to get into Hr may ask to be assigned to the next project for the HR department both to start getting a functional understanding of what the department does and to make connections within the department.. These the types of things you can volunteer for and your boss can help you get assigned to. Be aware that volunteering for tasks only works if you can keep up with the current workload in your actual job (which is possible if you are volunteering for tasks that will make something take less time in the long run like writing a system to automate an annoying manual process) or if it is possible for the boss to temporarily reassign you to that function. If he is going to have to give up someone to that project anyway (like a cross-functional project or a programming project for the department you would like to work in), your chances are better at getting assigned than if it is something totally unrelated to the workload. If there is formal training you need, then research the possibilities and present a request for something specific. Your chances are better of getting it approved if it also meets the boss's needs. If there is an upcoming project that uses a new technology that you need to learn to get to where you want to be, then go to him with a training suggestion and volunteer for the project. Look at your HR handbook to find out if there are things the company will reimburse you for such as getting a master's degree in your field or a related field. If this would further your own goals, find out how to apply and submit your application to your boss or whoever has to approve it rather than expecting someone to do it for you. Remember that sometimes these programs require a commitment to stay with the company so be aware of that before you take advantage of them. But by all means look at what the office will pay for and take advantage. Another way to approach your boss to get help in personal development is to make a suggestion that might help everyone such as buying a technical library, getting an MSDN subscription or having series of lunch and learns or attending a training class and then coming back and presenting what you learned to the others. Part of the plan to get to where you to where you want to go is to find the opportunities first and then ask your boss if you can get assigned to them rather than expecting him to come up with the plan or letting you know about the possibilities. Even good bosses will prefer this approach and bad bosses will almost certainly respond better to this approach. So if you want to get those opportunities, you need to talk to people and pay attention to what is coming up and think about whether it will further your own plan to get assigned to it. Make sure you look at what the boss will get from your suggestions and pitch them to him based on his needs to get the work done not on your desire to get promoted. These sales skills are ones you will need at anything past the most junior level anyway in most professions. You will also want to discuss development during your performance appraisal and come prepared with suggestions for what you would like to get to move to the next level. Your boss will often have to put together a development plan for you and having you do the legwork and having concrete suggestions will make it easier for him and bosses like people who make things easier for them. Bosses tend to give more help to people who have made an effort to help themselves than people who sit there passively waiting for the boss to come up with a plan for how to get them promoted.