I don't think there's any one universal norm here. It will vary depending on the country, by industry and by company. I've worked in places where many languages were spoken and in other places where people were given the stink-eye for speaking non-dominant languages. In my current job, I'm working with a very diverse set of people - the largest non-Swedish groups are Spanish and Arabic, and the people speaking those languages will sometimes use them when talking with others who also speak them. This is not discouraged. The downside to using a non-dominant language for work matters is that it limits the people who might have useful input to those who understand the language. But if there is no management directive on this, you should assume that the management does not see this as a problem large enough to warrant interference. 

Competitions usually means that someone wins, and someone else loses. If you are seeing this as a competition, that means you have to learn to accept the possibility that you will not always be the winner. You need to be able to deal gracefully with that. Not all competitions are short races. Some are marathons. The person who is consistently ahead of you early in the race may not be there at the end. And some competitions consists of several smaller races - even if someone wins the first five, they may lose the all-over competition to someone who was behind in the first races but pulled ahead in the later ones. Not all competitions are individual ones. Some are for teams to work together against other teams. 

As Philipp said, escalating to your superior risks getting your supervisor to regard both of you more negatively. So that's not an optimal choice. And removing the garbage runs the risk of your coworker learning that dumping crap on you is a viable way of getting rid of it without trouble for himself, so that's also not an optimal choice. Instead, I'd go for a cooperative solution that still doesn't mean you get used as a garbage man: When your coworker and you are both in the office, say "How about we get this stuff out of here. I'll grab that thing and you take the other." Make sure he does grab the other thing, then go with him to throw them away. You'll have shown him that you don't accept working in a dump; you'll have done so without being either confrontational or passive-agressive about it, and if anyone notices, they'll see that you're being helpful but not being used as a janitor. Plus you'll have a clean office. 

You did it, but you don't remember, because it was an honest mistake and you didn't notice it at the time. This does happen. You didn't do it, and somebody else did it using your computer and/or username. You didn't do it, and the logs showing that you did are mistaken. Even sysadmins do make mistakes when searching through logs. 

Only in the last case are you completely in the clear - and this is the one that you are pretty much unable to prove, since you don't have access to the logs yourself. So you need to focus on damage mitigation based on the first two cases. Here's my suggestion: First, stop trying to convince your boss that you didn't do it. To him, that sounds as if you're trying to weasel out of taking responsibility. Instead, tell your boss that you have no recollection of doing the $THING. You don't think it's the kind of $THING you would do, and you both know that you've never done it before, but it's at least possible that you made a mistake without noticing. If so, he can rest assured that you will never do this again, because you feel very bad about the resulting problems and you never want to see this happen again. You love your work and want to do a good job at it, and you will be sure to double-check everything and be extra meticulous. Essentially, you can use this to show that you are a person who will shape up and take responsibility for your work after a mistake, even if you don't even recall making that mistake. Second, talk to your boss and/or the IT department about workstation and username/password security. Suggest that even if in this case the fault really was yours, everyone wants the logs and tracking systems to have the right information. Do people ever borrow one another's accounts? Do you ever leave your screen unlocked and logged in when you go on a break? If so, then both those practices should be discontinued now. As long as those things happen, there is no way of being sure that the logs are correct. Tell them that you want to use this incident as an opportunity to improve both your own work and the operations procedures at the company. Again, this is about taking responsibility, even for things that aren't your fault. Third, accept that this may or may not affect your next evaluation. But if your boss is unable to in the long term see past one mistake in an otherwise clean record, look for another job. 

I think most managers, and possibly most people working in IT, would not say that "networking" is in the same neigbourhood of study as "programming". When you say "networking", I'm thinking of network management - subnetting, routing, firewalls, etc. This has very little to do with programming as such - especially if the development position is for e.g. web applications or other front-end thingies. However, if the development position you're applying for is one where you work with network issues - e.g. developing firewall software, or otherwise needing to actually understand the network as opposed to just knowing how to bind to a socket, then having your major in networking and minor in programming could be very useful indeed. So, in short - it depends on what development job you're looking for and how you present your degree. You need to emphasize those skills that will be useful for that particular position. 

All these things are reasons that people can't really disagree with, at least not without being jerks about it. Secondly, you need to enforce the rule. When people come to you and ask for something, there are some ways that you can handle it: 

As long as it's a small amount and not a regular issue, I don't think any company will reasonably object. Still, I'd recommend that you check with your boss. If they think it's OK for you to use your rewards card, you're in the clear. If not, not. 

If you want to be the person that your coworkers turn to with questions, you should know that it's not only the knowledge in your head that matters. It's also the way that you behave towards them. If I have a coworker who's very much into competition, who gets unhappy if they aren't considered as number one, I personally will be less likely to turn to that person for help. It makes me feel as if they're not interested in working together with me, that they are seeing me as a prop for their own internal ranking system rather than as a coworker that they should cooperate with in order to get the job done as efficiently as possible. So, to be the go-to person, the one considered both knowledgeable and approachable, you need to not only know a lot, you need to also be helpful and kind in sharing your skills and knowledge. You need to help others, and be completely OK with the thought that this means some of them may surpass you later. In other words, don't let your competitiveness stand in the way of winning.