If moons about our gas giants are an indication, the moons would likely be tide locked. This makes for some interesting differences in cartography. On earth's globe there's two non-arbitrary points: The north and south pole. And there's a non arbitrary great circle: the equator. But for a tide-locked world, there are 4 non-arbitary great circles and 8 non-arbitrary points: Non-arbitary points: Near point Far point Leading point Trailing point North pole South pole Great Circles: Equator Circle containing near point, far point, south pole and north pole Circle containing leading point, trailing point, north pole and south pole 

Sounds like you're thinking of an apohele or a near apohele with it's aphelion just over 1 A.U. I'm anxious about these guys because they're hard to see. They spend most of their time in the day sky. If they appear at night, they're close to the horizon where light pollution and atmospheric distortion hide them. When they're closest to earth, they are presenting us their night side which also makes them difficult to detect. There are a multitude of possible apohele impact scenarios. I'll pick one out of a hat. Say asteroid's perihelion is .3 A.U. and aphelion is 1 A.U. When this asteroid comes into earth's sphere of influence, it's path is better modeled as a hyperbola with a Vinf of 9.55 km/s. Set perigee of this hyperbola at 2578 km from earth's center (in other words, 3800 km below earth's surface). This rock would strike the earth at a speed of about 14.7 km/s and flight path angle at time of impact would be close to 45º If you set up this rock's orbit so aphelion coincides with an ascending or descending node, you could pick the earth latitude of impact by adjusting inclination of the orbit. Don't have time at the moment to show the math. Some terms to Google are Vis Viva Equation and Flight Path Angle. 

Everyone else has disappeared, but presumably many of them have left their cars behind. So go out and collect all the car batteries you can find, and then connect them to blinking Christmas lights. String the lights around the top of the tallest building in your area (like in "28 Days Later"). If you use efficient LED lights, they should last for about a day on a fresh battery while you explore the rest of the city. (Feel free to use your library to set up a more elaborate circuit, with more batteries, for multi-day trips.) Unlike a flag, they require semi-frequent maintenance, so you won't keep attracting people to your area if you die. You can either keep stealing car batteries, or hoard gas and recharge them in their cars. (This is how they keep the radio on in Alas, Babylon. If you don't have a car of your own, the library will tell you how to hotwire one.) 

Make the planet tide locked with its star. There are numerous examples of moons tide locked with their planets. The gas giants in our solar system have many such moons. I suspect a planet tide locked to a star is a common occurence, especially if the planet is close to the star. If the star is one of the very long lived red dwarfs, the goldilocks habitable zone would be near the dwarf star. The globe for a tidelocked body has 8 non arbitrary points and 3 non arbitrary great circles: 

A few years ago I would have said stable lunar satellites weren't possible. High orbits near the Hill Sphere boundary get destabilized by the earth's influence. Low orbits are destabilized by lunar mass concentrations (mascons for short.) Then I read the Keck proposal for parking an asteroid in lunar orbit. I was surprised when they mentioned the possibility of parking the rock in a stable lunar orbit that would need no station keeping. Then I learned Distant Retrograde Orbits (DROs) are stable even when approaching the boundaries of the Hill Sphere. One example of a body in a DRO is Jupiter's Moon S/2003 J2. This moon's semi-major axis is nearly 30 million kilometers. Jupiter's Hill Sphere has a radius of of 52 million kilometers. The S/2003 J2 Wikipedia article says 

No, I'm not telling you to plagiarize Alien (1979). But there are qualities you can duplicate: Much like the alien in the Alien, your alien will have to use stealth, speed, agility, and intelligence for its benefit. Tanks lack the stealth and the agility, compared to such a creature. You can add some drama with human overconfidence: soldiers operating the tanks underestimate the alien, probably taking it for a mere animal based on it's looks. BTW this is exactly what happens most of the time in Alien series: hunters becoming the hunted. Tanks will not be able to target a creature that rapidly zig-zags, even in a flat desert terrain. A swarm of tanks would have to take friendly fire if aliens are hastily jumping from one tank to another. Armor piercing biological weapons can be useful, such as the acidic blood from the alien. Alien will be able to pierce armor if it can rapidly accelerate small solid objects. Check how Mantis Shrimp attacks. If the alien can throw metal objects of considerable size fast enough, that's practically a bullet, and they may be able to pierce armor. If alien has a tail, they can use it as a whip to do considerable damage. The ends of a whip can travel at supersonic speeds. It may not be hard to achieve hypersonic speeds if the tail is long and the creatures are very strong. If the and of the tail is made of a really hard substance and very sharp, it might cut metal. Another form of biological weapon to use is poisonous gases. Make your alien produce something like Sarin gas. This can be effective even if the crew wears masks, because Sarin works even in very small concentrations. A leak in a mask, or an overconfident crew member not wearing a mask would be enough to generate a panic situation and make a sitting duck out of a tank. Combining a way to slightly pierce armor and then inject poisonous gas could be effective. Most of the time, the latches on top of tanks are thinner than the armour around the body, and intelligent aliens will quickly realize this. 

But it's also important to the country that llama-tending not just be the work of a minority, lest they become a permanent underclass and lest the non-llama-tending people forget the importance of the SLR. So every citizen has to spend a year taking care of a llama as a form of national civilian service. It happens in middle age because youngsters are just not that good at taking care of llamas, but they also want to wait for people to get sufficiently established in their careers that a year-long absence won't mess them up too much. Many people do in fact skate by with just a day of llama-tending, but many people take their duty seriously and find it to be a life-changing experience. 

Someone mentioned communist brain drain, but let's look at something more specific: the brain drain the Soviets created by purging the engineers. Solzhenitsyn goes into a lot of detail in Volume 1 of The Gulag Archipelago, but the basic idea is this: Accuse your country's engineers of "wrecking," or intentional sabotage of critical infrastructure and industry. Put the leaders on trial publicly, detailing their treason and malevolence. (Minor figures like good foremen can be dealt with in smaller and less well-broadcast trials.) Then exile, imprison, or execute them all. Now everyone who knows how to run a power station efficiently, repair a drill press, or build a road is in [Siberia|Gitmo|the grave]. Things start to break down, and there's a massive recession. 

Invisibles can always tell when another Invisible is in the vicinity. Or, Invisibles can see other Invisibles as mists/point-light-sources/ghostly figures. Or, upon becoming invisible, their vision alters to infrared and microwave bands, making them able to see the body heat of Invisibles. This will make it disadvantageous for someone to become invisible, because the world would have lot less color and resolution in those high-wavelength bands. 

I'm going to more or less disagree with everyone here. I don't think the option of protoplanetary disk would work. If it's proto-planetary, planets are not yet formed or still in the stage of big ugly magma balls, incapable of hosting any life. When a planet gradually cools down and terraforms itself to be capable of hosting life, several billion years would have passed and the debris would have been cleared by the planets. You could have another planet in the system to have collided with a rogue planet recently (i.e. few million years in the past). That will give you a nice debris field. But it would mean that planet would be frequently and heavily bombarded with asteroids. It would not be suitable for life. If somehow you were able to have a debris field and have a thin debris free strip for the planet, the debris would not affect spacecrafts. Because they need not to fly in the planetary plane, they can fly out of it and get out of the system. 

It's important to the country to have a lot of llamas, like some kind of Strategic Llama Reserve. Possible reasons for this: 

For the purposes of this answer, I'm assuming that "a clone of yourself of the opposite sex" just means a clone who shares your genetic material, except that one of your sex chromosomes is swapped for a "synthetic" one. In this scenario, people don't "date themselves." Identical twins have identical DNA1, but they're different people with different personalities. Your opposite-sex clone has an entire chromosome that you don't have, and doesn't have one that you have. Realistically (ha), my man-clone is not going to be that similar to me. At best/worst, people are marrying people with similar personalities--which is already something that happens all the time. Marriage and family law Option 1 Leave the law pretty much as it is. In most countries, people can contract legal marriages without passing any kind of fertility test, let alone a "will your fiancé(e) save you from clinical depression?" test. Why should clones be any different? Option 2 The government decides people should only be allowed to marry people they can have children with. Fine, so pass that law/issue that royal decree/certify that bureaucratic regulation. Then you need some kind of system that allows people to find the people they're allowed to marry. This could be based on a government clone-registry, if such a thing exists. You could even turn it into a dating app! In our dating apps, you can set it to only display men or only display women. Building an app that only shows you people you're genetically compatible with won't be hard. If each person only has one clone, then you're looking at a society of mass arranged marriage. This is not without precedent, and generally means a society that doesn't strongly associate marriage with shmoopy-doopy romantic feelings. You get married because that's your role--to run a household and raise a family together, not because you're in wuv fowevuh. Just like we don't expect to be BFFs with everyone at work, but still decide to get along and do our jobs, these people and their clones will get along and do their jobs of raising families. This can be facilitated by clearly delineated gender roles. For example, if it's understood that women are in charge of childrearing, then it's not an issue if your arranged husband has a different philosophy of sleep-training than you, because it's not his domain. 1 Well, almost--they have slight genetic differences due to random in-utero mutations, but it's likely that clones would experience the same mutations. Even if not, the genetic differences between twins are less than an entire chromosome. Insofar as personality is determined by genetics, the chromosome swap outweighs the non-mutation. 

At 1.5 A.U. is a super earth with a Mars like moon. Also at 1.5 A.U. are two Mars sized Trojans. At 1 A.U. is a single Mars sized body. I want to keep this guy small so he doesn't destabilize the super earth trojans. At .7 A.U. is a double planetoid, each Mars sized. This might be far enough from the 1.5 A.U. orbit that a more massive double planetoid won't destabilize the trojans. Speaking of Mars sized moons, that raises the possibility of one of my favorite settings: A Gas Giant In Earth Like Orbit (GIELO) and an Earth Like Moon (ELM). I talk about GIELO and ELM on my ZRVTO post. 

So long as we're not bumping into a logistic growth ceiling, I don't see a strong incentive to leave our solar system Along with generation ships comes the assumption of a non solar power source and the technology to engineer closed ecosystems-- the Main Asteroid Belt would be open to real estate development. I see several logistic growth ceilings here. I suspect it'd take centuries or millennia to fill the Main Belt. From there the Hildas are natural cyclers between the Main Belt and Sun-Jupiter Trojans. (See this vid where first half shows Hildas, 2nd half Trojans). When the Main Belt and Trojans are filled up, there's the Centaurs as well as moons of gas giants. After those are filled comes the Kuiper Belt. And then the Oort Cloud. By the time we fill the Oort, our civilization will probably have many millennia of experience building biomes from ice balls as well as using fusion power. Given a civilization with this infra structure and capabilities, I'd construct the generation ship in the Oort. On the boundaries of the the sun's gravity well, it only takes a small burn to drop the ship to a perihelion deep in the sun's gravity well. It'd take a few centuries for the ship to fall from the Oort to the inner solar system. But given city states throughout the Oort, spending centuries dwelling in artificial biomes is already the norm. When 1 A.U. from the sun, the ship would be traveling about 42 km/s. If perihelion is within .1 A.U. from the sun, perihelion speed is about 133 km/s. Doing the burn near the perihelion can give a substantial Oberth benefit. If the ship does a 55 km/s burn near perihelion, it'd pick up 133 km/s Vinf. Of course 133 km/s is only .0004 C (speed of light). It would take around ten millennia to reach Alpha Centauri and longer for other neighboring stars. If the ship had a drive capable of reaching .1 C, solar Oberth benefit would be of little consequence. In this case I might depart directly from from an Oort object a light year or two out -- as close as possible to the destination star. 

If you are prepared to be less strict, there is a configuration that can mask two co-planar satellites from each other: 

Look at this breathtaking animation of Jupiter herding the asteroids: $URL$ I got an idea from this. Have a star larger/hotter than Sun, where your habitable planet is around 5-8 AU from the star. Have a gas giant closer to the star. And then have an inner planet collide with a rogue planet few 100,000 years ago. The gas giant will herd the debris so your planet will not be affected much. And oh, the rogue planet was crossing the planetary plane, so the debris is not a disk, but a big mass ball of dust, sand, and rocks around the star. 

So the alternative for you is to have your planet in a debris free zone, but give some incentives for the spacecrafts to go into a dangerous zone full of debris in another part of the system. 

In this case the hottest region would be the near point and the coldest would be the far point. The North and South Poles as well as the right and left ear would all like on the planet's terminator. (Most call the left and right ears the leading and trailing points) The terminator would be the most temperate region. I haven't modeled this but I suspect the weather structure would be a torus with air rising from the surface of the Near Point and sinking towards the Near Point. Convection would mitigate temperature extremes at near and far points. 

(In this image I called the leading and trailing points the Left Ear and Right Ear.) I would expect the tide locking to have a huge impact on evolution of the inhabitant's religion and culture. For example I would expect the near point to become sort of a Mecca. They might build a temple on the the near point. Viewed from this temple, the gas giant would hover motionless at the zenith. Or the moon has some obliquity, the gas giant might trace an analemma with the analemma's center at zenith. If this gas giant is like the giants in our solar system, it will likely have a whole family of moons, many of them near planetary size. It would be like a mini solar system. But travel between moons of a gas giant could take place at a much faster pace than travel between planets. Launch windows between destinations would occur on the order of weeks apart vs years apart (for example earth to Mars launch windows occur each 2.14 years). Trip times between moons would be on the order of weeks (Hohmann trip time between earth and Mars is about 8.5 months). An elevator could be built from the moon's far point through the gas giant/moon L2 point and another elevator built from the moon's near point through the gas giant/moon L1 point. If such elevators were built on each moon, the civilization could travel between moons using virtually no reaction mass. 

The main reason they wouldn't view humanity as a monolithic whole is that we aren't a monolithic whole, and we live very spread out over the planet. So wherever they first land, they'll meet whichever humans live there, and those humans will be only too happy to tell them how awful the other humans are. The aliens will side with these humans if they can offer something the aliens want. The answer that first comes to my mind is that the humans offer to give the aliens the other humans' land, natural resources, or people (as slaves). It's in the aliens' best interest to take this deal because then they can get the land/resources/slaves with less effort and expense than if they had to take them on their own, and they don't have to worry about all of humanity banding together to fight them off.