Debtors' prison is a prison for people who are unable to pay debt. As recently as the mid 19th century, it was a common way to deal with unpaid debt in Western Europe. Debtors' prison started to disappear since the start of the 20th century. Today, none of the major economies practise it anymore. What were the factors that caused debtors' prison to disappear in most parts of the world in the 20th century? 

In 1949, Britain devalued the pound sterling by 30%. This was a major world economic event given that the pound was and still is one of the major currencies in the world. In fact, 9 other countries followed suit then. They were Australia, India, South Africa, New Zealand, Eire, Denmark, Norway, Egypt, and Israel. Interestingly, several among those who devalued were former British colonies. Given that savings are destroyed in a currency devaluation, it should be interpreted as a disaster and outrage. Yet, this move was praised as a constructive step ($URL$ What factors led to the devaluation of pound sterling in 1949 by 30%? 

Background: I've been doing some digging on nineteenth century trade, and so far have found this list of Britain's major imports to be an extremely helpful big picture guide. Sadly, I've yet to google up anything both as straightforward and comprehensive on France and Germany in the same century, which are my other two areas of interest. Question: Could somebody please give me a run-down of the major French and (post-unification) German imports and exports for the latter half of the 19th century? Relating that list to their colonies and biggest trading partners would also be much appreciated, but isn't necessary for an answer. 

It has often been said that world trade and investment between nations makes war between nations an irrational act. If your trading partner is hurt, it hurts your own wallet as well because you lose the profit from trade. I have been reminded several times that world trade will prevent world war. Today, the world is enjoying globalisation and prosperity from global trade. The globalisation before World War I look similar to today's situation. $URL$ 

In 1796, Napoleon invaded Italy and defeated the papal army. The French troops took Pope VI prisoner and he died in captivity seven months later. The risks to a politician in antagonizing such a powerful entity as the Vatican are enormous while the tangible benefits are little. Unlike other colonized countries, the Vatican does not have much natural resources or workers to exploit. However, being a major religion in Europe, the support it holds in the European population is mighty. Even today when the political power of Christian leaders has waned compared to hundreds of years ago, very few(or zero) Western leaders dare to offend the Church. It does not look like a smart move by Napoleon to antagonize the all-powerful Catholic Church unless there are huge advantages to be gained. What advantages did Napoleon gain by attacking and antagonizing the Catholic Church? This question assumes that Napoleon was a shrewd politician who made calculated moves and not a hot-tempered person who makes decisions on his whims (I don't like you, so I attack). 

Bonus Question: I'm guessing the answer to this question begins with China being reopened in the 70s, but was there ever any significant toy trade prior to the revolution of 1949? Bonus Bonus Question: Based on comments made below, if anyone wants to expand their answer to also include more general information on the history of toy imports from east to west, that would also be great, and possibly worth a bounty. But as per site rules the original question stands as is. 

BACKGROUND In 1187 Saladin embarked on a campaign to retake Palestine from the Crusader Kingdoms. Thomas Asbridge describes his army as including "12,000 professional cavalrymen ... 30,000 volunteers" from "Egypt, Syria, the Jazira and Diyar Bakr". Ethnically, the army was composed first of Turks, and then Kurds, with the largest contingent being Turcomen nomadic tribes. But it also included remnants of the old Fatimid army, such as Arabs (Egyptian, Syrian, Bedouin), Nubians or sudani, and Berbers from the Western Sahara. It seems like these ethnic identities played a key role in determining one's role and status within the army. Turks were prized as cavalry, including mamluks and Turcomen horse-archers, who were said to be impatient and war-like. Kurds fought "as distinct units" and their cavalry rode "shaven horses", favoring swords over lances. Nubians were "famous infantry archers" who used large powerful bows instead of composites, and no shields of any kind. Arabs were "proud of their reputation as hard-riding light cavalry", and said to be excellent lancers and raiders. Bedouin Arabs often fought as longbow infantry archers alongside horsemen. 

$URL$ This is most puzzling. What were the conditions and events then that led to the anomaly? Another interesting development was that one of the greatest bear bond market followed after the end of World War II. The bear market ended with 15% yield, killed by Paul Volcker in the early 1980s. 

President Andrew Jackson totally eliminated U.S national debt in 1835. Did the U.S economy boom in the aftermath of debt elimination as a result of not being shackled by debt? Was it good economic policy for a country to have zero debt based on U.S historical experience? 

The Rothschild family was possibly the richest banking family in human history. Given the power of compounding over time and the large principal sum that they start with, they should easily be the world's richest family today. Besides, bankers should be pretty good money managers themselves and they should be quite competent in managing their own money. Yet today, nobody on Forbes' list of 500 richest persons in the world bears the surname Rothschild. What happened to the wealth of the Rothschild banking family over the years? 

A emphasis on the dangers of religious pollution is a recognizable part of many ancient and medieval cultures, but it would appear some much more than others. The first three societies that come to my own mind are ancient Greece, classical and medieval Japan, and the medieval Islamic world. All of these cultures, deservedly or not, also have a strong reputation for controlling the movement, social interactions, and sexuality of at least upper class women. Religious and sexual purity are not the same thing, but the two are often closely linked in our own time. It seems fairly intuitive to me that societies which put greater emphasis on avoiding spiritual pollution might also be more likely to exercise tight control over women. (But I am of course not implying the former is required for the latter.) I was wondering if speaking in terms of social history or anthropology, there's anything meaningful to be said about a relationship between these two values? Alternatively, feel free to offer counterexamples or evidence that I'm seeing something that's not really there. 

The lowest AAA corporate bond yield in U.S history happened in 1946 based on the quandl chart above. Amazingly, it was even lower than today's yield given the world of negative yield in government bonds that we are facing today. What were the historical economic and financial conditions during that time that led to the very low interest rate for AAA corporate bonds? 

Germany lost in World War II. Being the loser, its economy started at a disadvantage compared to her World War II victors in the aftermath of WW2. However, Germany managed to recover more successfully than her World War II victors to become the dominant European economic power by the late 20th century. What did Germany do to become more prosperous than its victors after World War II? Can the troubled European nations of today draw lessons from Germany's history of rebuilding so successfully despite being a loser in both World Wars?