I think the place is Washawng in northern Burma/Myanmar, it's near Ledo Road. The date could be 3rd May maybe 1944, but I cannot find the exact NCAC unit stationed there. 

Vienna was besieged in 1683. In the Treaty of Bakhchisarai, Russia agreed not to fight Ottoman Empire for the time between 1681 and 1701, and actually kept the promise... until 1686 that is. Then it joined the European coalition and started Russo-Turkish War (1686–1700), which it won, gaining Azov and Taganrog. Both were lost soon in 1711, Azov re-taken by Turks and Taganrog self-demolished. 

This exact phrasing is asserted as being the original one by French Wikipedia article. A less-trusted, secondary source mentions another secondary source that reportedly attributes a similar phrase to some unspecified 1831 work by Enfantin, see Crisis and the Apocalypse of Man footnote 8 on page 315. But I would expect it to be as far as "from each according to his abilities, to each according to his work", which is quite a different idea. Enfantin was one of saint-simonians, which might explain why someone would attribute the quote (correctly or incorrectly) to Saint-Simon. 

Perhaps we need more hard information in order to give correct support to a serious explanation of the facts. In the present state of our knowledge, I am afraid we simply cannot give a definite answer to the question. [2] Compare with the 1783/84 Laki event, that affected mostly the British Isles and parts of the North of France - but not Southern Europe or the Balkans. This is typical of wind patterns over the North Atlantic. 

Basically, what can be seen here is that the 1054 Crab Nebula supernova is at about 20 degrees removed from the sun during daylight hours, when at maximum emission. It must have been difficult to see in this conjunction, as are the planets Mercury and Venus when very close to the Sun. Difficult - but not impossible. Moreover, this difficulty would have been precisely the same, seen either from North-Western Europe or from East Asia. At earlier or later dates, the Sun would have been further apart from the supernova thus lessening glare, but the supernova's own emission levels were much lower. Now, consider where the supernova has been documented from: very clearly in China and Japan, with perhaps one observation from the Middle East. Does this mean it was not observed in Europe? One must think not, even though local conditions could have interfered: increased cloud cover or volcanic emissions. These could have had an influence in some parts of Europe, but not on a sufficient scale to affect the complete continent[2]. Thus, we are confronted by a natural phenomenon that, from a physical standpoint, could very well have been observed from Europe as from Asia, but that has been clearly documented only in the East. To my mind, this is already a significant development, leading us to a series of questions: 

Don't think so. At all times, Nazi party seen Jews as a problem to be solved; they've seen them as people that shouldn't be in Greater Germany. In 1941, they didn't know what to do with Jewish citizens they already had; this was the time of ghettos and concentration camps, but Germans didn't yet consider extermination camps (like Chełmno, Bełżec, ...), nobody envisaged the Holocaust. I guess last thing they wanted is to capture even more Jewish people in 1941. In fact I would investigate the opposite cause-effect relation: maybe capturing large numbers of Jews in the East later indirectly provided argument for the complete extermination, as opposed for example to alternative variants of internment/enslavement/expulsion? UPDATE: By the way it came to my mind to check the numbers. True Wehrmacht could expect some 150.000 Jewish civilians there, but would they worry about them? I think they were much more worried about some 500.000 Soviet troops, armed and dangerous, which they have just being encircling when closing two pincers in Minsk. 

No, this interpretation is misleading. Let's say that you analyze the ancient level of inheritance where you had one hundred grand-grand-parents. Using mitochondrial DNA you can only research only one of these 100 grand-grand-parents, the single grand-grand-mother that is in the most maternal position in the tree. In other words only mother-of-mother-of-mother(-of). This is because mitochondrial DNA is only inherited from a mother (Wikipedia). If mother has only sons, they do recombine her DNA further, except mitochondrial DNA. This mother has her line of mitochondrial DNA lost forever. So even if a scientist determined that only seven distinct most-maternal-grandmothers exist it still says nothing about the giant number of the rest of grandmothers and nothing at all about grandfathers. PS. It is impossible to determine if these seven women lived in the same generation (quite unlikely!). PPS. And seven women aren't a "founding population" because they are not even a "population" per standard definition. 

Using workers' income figures in specific sectors may be difficult, since some sectors relied a lot on slaves (e.g. mining), and others may have used different sources of manpower in different geographic regions (e.g. agriculture: free workers in Italy, slaves in Sicily). So the income aproach may be difficult. Likewise, the expenditure approach may be complex, unless we have access to data on the consumption of goods (through the amount of taxation levied upon goods, perhaps?) This would leave us with the production approach, i.e. determine the amount of goods produced in each geographical region, find market prices for these goods, multiply getting the production value per sector and per region. Just an impression I have: maybe the Roman Empire is actually a good place to try this out, since a relatively small types of goods seem to have occupied a disproportionately large proportion of trade. Transport of olive oil, wine, wheat, metals (and slaves?) would cover a large part of what has been found in shipwrecks. Of course, this should not let us forget smaller production of goods not offered up for trade. Brassica in Campania would have mostly been consumed locally. But it may give a rough idea of the relative importance of productive sectors. What I am wondering about is how to estimate the importance of the terciary sector. May not be easy when doctors, scribes, et al. will often have been slaves bought for the task. HTH 

I guess the first one could be the Pullman's promotional train of 1870. It started from Boston on May 23rd, 1870, went to San Francisco and then back to Boston, completing the round-trip on July 1, 1870. It was not a regular line. Specifically built for the trip, it took 130 passengers, mostly wealthy members of the Boston Board of Trade with families. $URL$ - the newspaper published aboard this train Edit: Obviously, it had stops on the way! Edit2: I understand the question is about the single train, and not concerned if the train continuously went all the way on the tracks (without a ferry). 

I wonder what are the historical circumstances that led to lack of speed limit on German federal Autobahn network. There is an advisory 130 km/h limit, but it is not mandatory one nor obeyed practically. (As a side note, Wikipedia says, there used to be a mandatory 100 km/h limit in former GDR and it was not retained after re-unification.) Please provide the reasons (plus sources) that would differentiate Germany from other "comparable" countries (for example, France) that did introduce the limit on some historical occasion. 

There are several points to be considered in this question. Let us start by seeing some hard facts. As quoted by Wikipedia article SN1054: "Crab Nebula probably appeared in April or early May, rising to its maximum brightness of between apparent magnitude −7 and −4.5 (brighter than everything in the night sky except the Moon) by July. The supernova was visible to the naked eye for about two years after its first observation. Thanks to the recorded observations of Far Eastern and Middle Eastern astronomers of 1054, Crab Nebula became the first astronomical object recognized as being connected to a supernova explosion." Mayall, Nicholas Ulrich (1939). "The Crab Nebula, a Probable Supernova". Astronomical Society of the Pacific Leaflets 3 (119): 145. The important facts are the months in which each phase of the supernova took place. Supernovas have a characteristic curve (actually, two or more types of curves) which describes how light emission takes place. From a low initial value (April/May in the case of SN 1054), emission increases rapidly to a maximum within about 20-40 days (July 10th), then decreases more slowly over a period of 40-60 days. Now, the position of the supernova in the sky is also relevant. In this case right ascension is 5h34m, declination is 22 degrees. However, in early July (such as now), the sun is very close to this position, at least during daylight hours as seen from Northern Europe. Please consider the following screenshot from the Stellarium software, calculated for Paris on July 13, 2015.