As far as I'm aware, in Australia, currently only countries which are predominantly made up of people not of European descent, such as China, are seen as a "threat" to Australia's manufacturing. Have majority European descent countries ever viewed other majority European descent countries as a threat to their manufacturing? I'm interested in both examples where the other country is seen as "inferior" (whether racially, religiously, or culturally), and where the other country is not seen as "inferior". 

Not all Japanese-Americans were interned - Japanese-Americans in Hawaii weren't interned. However, for areas where the US were systematically interning all Japanese-Americans, how effective were the US at identifying and detaining them? I know that some tried to avoid it, such as Fred Korematsu, but don't know any statistics. 

Park Chung-hee was a military dictator of South Korea in the 60s and 70s. He was assassinated. His daughter Park Geun-hye, who at one point was acting First Lady of South Korea, was democratically elected president in February 2013. 

Some nationalities (for example New Zealand and Wales) are the butt of jokes about bestiality, especially with sheep. What lead to this? 

However, when this was happening, large-scale, systematic killing on racial or religious lines also was happening. I'm not sure if this answers the question, because I assume the question asker is mainly interested in attempts at eliminating a race without large-scale killing being done. 

In this picture, someone has put up a sign saying "JAPS KEEP MOVING - THIS IS A WHITE MAN'S NEIGHBORHOOD". In case this was not enough, the window has a sign saying "JAPS KEEP OUT" and some other illegible sign. The photo is from around 1920, though lots of people assume it's from World War 2. What's the context of this sign? What did white Americans have against Japanese people around that time? 

Today, I heard about seven deaths attributed to an explosion of a bomb from World War 2: Seven dead as war bomb explodes in Bangkok scrap yard Hopefully, the last death or deaths that can be reasonably regarded as caused by World War 1 has already happened. What was it, and when did it happen? 

After Iturbide became President of an independent Mexico, the Canónigo Don Agustín Fernández de San Vicente was sent to Alta California to support the transition from Spanish rule and to relieve the last Spanish governor, Pablo Vicente de Solá. He met with officials throughout the state, including those at Fort Ross. At the end of 1822, Canónigo Fernández and ex-governor Solá traveled to Mexico City via San Diego, Tepic, and Guadalajara. Several others from California seem to have accompanied them; who were these other members of the party? 

In 1795, Alaskan colonial supremo A.A. Baranov sent a letter to his bosses in Irkutsk. The text in Tikhmenev's History, Volume II, Documents, says: 

Perhaps not: this article by Alison Gopnik in The Atlantic suggests that Buddhism was barely known in Western Europe until the 1700s. 

You are describing something similar to the mitrailleuse gun, which had several manually-loaded barrels. It may not have been used by infantry, but seems to meet your other criteria. 

Even the involuntary response to cover your face if something is flying at you is predicated on a cause and effect, i.e., two events taking place in sequence. By this definition it seems to me that time was "found out about" before humans were even involved. 

Many Iberian colonists in the viceroyalties of New Spain (Mexico) and La Plata (Argentina) practiced cattle ranching. Both sides practiced branding and rode horses to control their herds. Many of the colonists, and their breeding stock, were Andalucian in origin. During the colonial period, how did these two cattle cultures diverge? (One factor of which I am already aware is that La Plata cowboys adopted Incan-style bolas.) 

There were no businesses in the Spanish presidio at Monterey. Trade goods from the missions and passing ships came through, but there wasn't much to buy. Outside the fort, what was the first fixed-location retail business to start up in Monterey? 

In 1806 two Russian naval vessels burned several settlements and kidnapped several citizens in far northern Japan ("Russians in Alaska" by Lydia Black). Did Japan take any military action in response to these raids? 

When seeing some documentary about the history of medical science in the middle ages, I got the impression that many doctors were happy to merely study the works of Galen, rather than do their own research, and that that was detrimental in the long run to medical science. Was this the case? Were there any other cases where books from classical times were detrimental to either the knowledge held in the middle ages, or to the rate of acquiring new knowledge? For the purposes of this question, don't regard religious texts (for example, the Bible) as delaying scientific progress. 

The cartoon, recently publicised by this tweet, has seven children dancing around a US flag. The child in the yellow shirt is intended to represent an African-American child. What races are represented by the six other children, especially the three children with black hair clockwise of the African-American child? Also, what races within the USA were the US government trying to prevent racism against during WWII? 

In December 1967, then-serving prime minister of Australia, Harold Holt, disappeared while swimming at Cheviot Beach, Victoria. His body was never found, though an inquest held much later stated that the cause of death was drowning. Has such an occurrence happened in recent history, defined by being recent enough to have rapid communication such as the telegram and widespread recognition of what the individual looked like such as photography, to either a serving head of government, or a serving head of state, for any other country? I had a quick skim over List of people who disappeared mysteriously and "Real Life" in Never Found the Body in TV Tropes (warning: not productivity safe) and didn't find any other examples. 

Acts which nowadays are called cultural appropriation have been going on for a long time in the US, at least since the 19th century. But when did certain behaviours start getting labelled in the US as cultural appropriation and as a bad thing to do? 

In this anti-Asian 1907 NZ cartoon, is the person being entangled by the octopus in this cartoon meant to be Maori? The clothing and long hair suggest it's not a white New Zealander (pakeha), but I assume that more likely than not, people with an anti-Asian prejudice from that time would regard Maoris as inferior to whites. Should I interpret the figure as a metaphorical representation of NZ, one that'd be used even by people who'd be prejudiced against Maoris? 

From the 1500s into the 1800s New Spain operated the "Manila Galleon" trade route across the Pacific. Something over four hundred huge, wealthy ships sailed, and of course they did not all arrive. Extrapolating from Isorena's numbers in "Maritime Disasters in Spanish Philippines", between a quarter and a fifth wrecked, mostly in exiting the Philippine archipelago. The second risk to the galleons was raiders, especially, according to Dillon's "The Last Plan to Seize the Manila Galleon", a series of English privateers. Anecdotal references to these seizures abound, but overall, how many ships were captured, and were any of the attackers not English? 

The Sumerian Kesh temple hymn identifies and describes a temple, possibly that of the town of Kish. As long as there are older undeciphered writing systems this answer is necessarily incomplete. 

Chess and its predecessors are board-based battle games in which players assume the role of various military figures (the specific roles involved depend on which set of pieces are in use). Today's game was standardized in Europe towards the end of the medieval period. It does not require nor prohibit "acting" and "theatrics". 

The cowhide calf sheathes are well attested for soldiers, perhaps less so for priests. Zavalishin may have exaggerated, but was it in fact common for the Spanish population of California to carry a dagger on the leg? 

During the colonial era, Christian missionaries on remote frontiers around the world chose new Christian names for the natives they baptized. Apparently the monks who missionized Kamchatka also assigned surnames. A librarian told me that S. I. Vahrin's Secrets of the Kamchatka Names says many Volkovs still lived in areas where Filip Volkov had baptized in the mid-1700s. Volkov is a very common Russian surname, but the librarian made the association with the monk unambiguous. Filip, unable to pass on his name through church-sanctioned parenthood, was able to name thousands of people after himself nonetheless. In Russia or elsewhere, was it normal to get a surname at baptism? Did any rules guide selection of the surnames? What sorts of surnames were used other than the officiator's own? 

News that Saudi Arabia will allow women to drive has been in the news recently. It's been described as the only country that currently forbids women from driving, which makes me wonder about whether other countries recently forbade women from driving. I thought I once heard that during the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq, Kuwaiti women took advantage of the regime change by going driving, which the Kuwaiti government forbade. However, I couldn't find any evidence of this online, including looking at Women in Kuwait or Women's suffrage in Kuwait, though mentions of women driving is mentioned here ("can women drive in Kuwait") and here ("Kuwaiti men should know that human rights goes far beyond 'being allowed to drive', 'dressing as they like' and being 'allowed to acquire education'.") Was this the case? Were women banned from driving in Kuwait prior to its invasion in 1990? 

Did French ever have any special status in Austria or the Austrian empire, akin to it being the language of royalty in England (and possibly Russia, I'm not sure) (as opposed to it being just another foreign language)? 

I used to think older Japanese people wouldn't have studied English at school, and recently came across someone who thought likewise (link available on request). A middle-aged Japanese person told me that English became a compulsory subject by 1920, but I can't find any information online confirming that. (One site says that English isn't technically a compulsory subject nowadays, merely the teaching of a foreign language, which in most cases happens to be English - though perhaps English wasn't the dominant language in the late 19th century) When did English become a major subject at Japanese schools? If a definition is needed, then it being studied by a majority of students who completed high school, either of the entire nation, or of a particular prefecture. Also, did negative relations with some western powers before and during World War 2 lead to the reduction of English being taught, above and beyond the disruption to education caused by war in general? Yoshi Mori joked about English being an enemy's language for part of the time he was at school. The Wikipedia article English-language education in Japan mainly focuses on the private sector, plus modern-day education in schools.