Another example in another language (English): English "go" and "wend" share the same past, although Dictionary.com & Amer. Heritage say the past of "wend" is now "wended", and "went" is archaic: I went; (thou wentest); he/she/it went; we went; you went; they went 

Perhaps that's evidence that "used to" is actually a finite verb? I believe I may have read somewhere that "used to" evolved from "was/were used to" (meaning 'was/were accustomed to'); however, if this be the case, then I would expect a gerund instead of a base infinitive, as: 

You asked for its origin: It means 'born' in French, and it's feminine by virtue of the added "-e". "Née" is used in English when stating a married woman's maiden-name. "Né" would be masculine, but it isn't traditional for a man to change his last name upon marriage, so that explains its absence. (Compare the woman's name "Renée", which means 'born again' in the Christian sense, and the man's name "René". I have always seen it (in the USA), in both contemporary and historical (especially genealogical) sources, and hadn't perceived an increase in its frequency. I propose it could be simply that Wikipedia has exploded with biographical details over recent years. 

It is not XOR as brought out above but logical inclusive OR as I suggest below. Unless A -B. Not (A) implies B. Not(Not(A)) Or B. A Or B ie hydration Or Death. Both can not be false ... It cant be that I don't hydrate and I don't die. Ill love to see an example where Unless is strengthened to have an exclusive interpretation. As per Oxford online; the word itself means except if. 

The tetralemma system of logic ( $URL$ evaluates each proposition into four possible values which are true ,false ,neither true or false and both true and false. Are there languages which explicitly have words specific to the above? (I mean words specific to the evaluation of propositions and particularly the last two values -- since true and false must already be there) 

This has more to do with particular communities and less with languages as such. In certain socio-economic strata within certain communities a 'child' may use a word for a blood relative for an otherwise unrelated elder; but not for someone outside the class( conditioning, loss of innocence?) eg The child may not call a household help uncle but may adress a shopkeeper this way. There may be different relations used for different people eg the taxi driver may be called brother in some communities. The language used may vary eg uncle relationship may be expressed as 'uncle' in English. But brother in native dialect. To answer then yes it is not only uncle ( which could be expressed in multiple indian languages ) but specifically 'Uncle' (english) which is used within a specific class ( I can vouch for the so called middle income group) in Pakistan and Sri Lanka and India. subject to above constraints. 

Is "used to" an adverb-phrase meaning something like 'for a long time in the past'? Or is it a finite verb? If it's an adverb-phrase, it's worth noting that we don't have a past-tense main verb, as: 

Does anybody know a cover-term for "declarative", "negative", and "emphatic"? One of my ESL-students asked me, and I cannot remember a term for this (tho' I've been teaching ESL for over 20 years). We were dealing with aux. "do" in English, and practicing declarative, negative, emphatic, y/n-questions, topicalized syntax (eg, "Seldom do I go"), and the use of "do" as a pro-verb as in "Mary doesn't smoke, but John does." Thanks. 

My assumption has been that this [di] for "-day" was a part of general reduction of non-first elements in compounds the likes of [vUł] for "-ville" and [mIn] for "-man" that occurred over the centuries. That could explain why "freeway" doesn't do it: it's too new. Notice that English spelling generally has retained the original forms ("-day", "-ville", "-man") even when they were reduced at least by some in pronunciation. I have observed children sounding out words like "Fri+day", "milk+man", "fore+head", and I therefore suspect that the conservative, etymological spellings of these variably reducible forms in English combined with the mass literacy of the last couple of centuries could be exerting a push in favor of the full, rather than reduced, forms. 

There seems to be little doubt that the origin is a Slavic nickname. This is because in ancient times it was very common among Slavs to give nicknames in addition to the official name received at baptism. In case of the Cossacks, this had security reasons in order to hide their origin from oppressing forces. The result was a huge number of nicknames, which subsequently became the basis for surnames. (2) Most sources seem to agree that the most likely origin for the name is the Slavic word "baba", which can mean old women, grandmother, witch, and midwife. This latter can indicate that the word was used as a metonymy referring to an occupation or job. The -iak part at the end is a diminutive or augmentative. (4) I. Ukrainian link Surnames like "Баб'як" (Bab'jak) and "Бабяк" (ba'bjak) are common in Ukraine. (1,4) I.1. The surname Babiak may have its origin in the old common nickname "baba", a married woman of the lower classes. (2) I.2. Other possibility is the word "бабак", which refers to the bobak marmot aka steppe marmot. This nickname could have been given to sedentary, thick, or lonely people living an unsociable, introverted lifestyle. (2) I.3. Other origin may be the word "бабка", which means dragonfly. (1) II. Polish link Babiak exists in Polish. (3) II.1. The root can be the word "baba", meaning woman, old woman, or hag. "Babiak" may have originated as a variant of "babiarz" (womaniser, skirt-chaser). Alternatively, it may have been a matronymic tag for the bastard son of an unwedded lass. (3) II.2. The surname may have been formed from the male baptismal name "Baba", which was very common in Poland in the XIV century. Many variants derived from this origin, and are often found in documents: Novgorod peasant Iwashko Babin, 1495; Moscow homeowner Gregory Babin, 1504 (2) III. Slovak link "Babiak" and "Babiák" can be found in the Slovak language. (4) III.1. "baba" means old woman; can be used as derogatory term for gutless men. (5) III.2. Other sources suggest the origin word to be "bob" (beans) or "bobo" (bogeyman). (5) The Hungarian environment may have caused the "o" to transform into "a", however this is unlikely as "Bobiak" cannot be found in contemporary Slovak. (4) Sources: (1) the reply here by user "Yellow Sky" (2) www.analizfamilii.ru/Babyak/proishozhdenie.html (3) forum reply by user "Polonius3" found at link www.polishforums.com/genealogy-6/meaning-last-name-surname-23560/78/ (4) forum.index.hu/Search/showArticleResult?topic_id=9056730&aq_ext=1&aq_text=babjak (5) edit.elte.hu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/10831/8853/ne35_13ml.pdf?sequence=1 As a side note, the word "baba" means baby in Hungarian. However, it used to be employed as a term of affection as well between lovers and newly weds - much like in English. Many Hungarian folk songs contain the term "babám" (my baby) often referring to young women. However, contemporary Hungarian shuns this expression as it is considered archaic. On the other hand, "bába" means midwife, a term still used occasionally. Some traditional Hungarian folk fairy tales refer to the recurring character of the witch as "vasorrú bába" (iron nosed old women). 

Does anybody know anything about the distribution of the modal "ought" without "to" (in other words, "ought" taking the base infinitive). Eg: They ought to go home. vs. They ought go home. Is "ought" without "to" an occasional variant? Is it archaic? Is it regional? The reason I want to know is b/c I teach ESL, and would like to tell my students accurate information. Thank you. 

What about dialectal remerging? In Dialect A, [Uu] remains [Uu]; in Dialect B, [Uu] goes to [U]. Perhaps the change in Dialect B might be 100% (ie, "regular"). But later (perhaps generations later), for non-linguistic reasons (economics, social unrest, etc.), massive migration between Dialect A and Dialect B occurs. This results in a hybrid A/B dialect. In this hybrid A/B dialect, we wind up with some [Uu]s and some [U]s. Now, there is no regularity; some of the original [Uu]s are still [Uu]; some of the original [Uu]s are now [U], and there's no phonological reason for it; rather, sociolinguist forces have chosen here [Uu]; here [U]. (I am using [U] for a high back, lax, unrounded vowel; and [u] for a high back, tense, rounded vowel; I am glossing the vowel in "food" as [Uu], and the vowel in "foot" as [U]. With this gloss, I imply that "foot" has undergone a loss of the off-glide [u].) 

"Freudian slip" e.g Jimmy Kimmels 'clip slip' Or one which can be reproduced here 'For seven and a half years I've worked alongside President Reagan. We've had triumphs. Made some mistakes. We've had some sex... uh... setbacks." -A Freudian slip by President George H.W. Bush Also called parapraxis and includes both slip of tongue and of the pen. The latter being termed lapsus calami. The source may be psychological but is not limited to it...in your example naturally you feel that sheilds will be useless and it is the bearers who will bear the brunt. 

Studies suggest that 70-90% of worlds population is right handed... Assuming that this percentage would have been more or less same when the writing systems were evolving... The letters immmidiately nleft to the right hand are visible as they are being written.... this keeps giving a visual feedback to the writer... Who in most cases will be right handed.... Writing right ti left keeps the letter formation on the left of the hand ( right hand ) giving the above advantage. For vertical writing hence the direction is from top to bottom...note a left handed person has the same advantage here. The other advantage which accrues in similar context is that the writing does not get rubbed off as stated by @yellowsky