In the context of sound-symbolism and indeed the semiotic theories that are discussed in the article, a sign (linguistic or otherwise) is said to be motivated or iconic if its signifier has something in common with what the sign references. For example, a picture of a yellow circle with lines around it is typically used to depict the sun. Because it has some visual properties in common with the sun, we can say it is motivated or iconic, whereas the word sun itself has nothing in common with the sun and is therefore said to be unmotivated or arbitrary. Saussure argued in his seminal Cours de Linguistique Générale that linguistic signs were (mostly) arbitrary, with any apparent motivation the result of coincidences and irrelevant to linguistic theory. Since then, there has been much debate around this issue, with so called ideophones and phonaesthemes cited as counter-examples to Saussure's views, as well as the discovery of the Bouba Kiki effect. 

What the hearer perceives must clearly be called a phoneme. The produced phone will either be interpreted as the phoneme that the speaker intended, or it will be interpreted mistakenly to be another phoneme. Typically, such mistakes may occur when a non-native hearer, or a hearer of a different dialect, interprets the phone as a phoneme of his first language and doesn't take into account a feature that the speaker takes into account. For example, there's no /a/ phoneme in Finnish, it's either /æ/ or /ɑ/, but a French native speaker hearing Finnish words will interpret both [æ] and [ɑ] as his native phoneme /a/, and hear no difference unless he consciously pays attention to it. This idea that the language influences what we hear has been called the "phonological sieve" or "phonological filter" (I don't know if there's a standard english translation) and has first been put forward by Trubetzkoy and what fdb talks about in his answer is the same phenomenon. Our brains get used to treating some phonemic features as relevant and ignoring others as irrelevant, depending on our first language. Obviously there are limits to this. If the phone heard is phonetically too far removed from the prototypical sound of any phoneme of the hearer's language, it'll be interpreted as gibberish, or even as noise. That's how a European will hear a click. 

Does there exist a scale by which languages might be rated for their ability to let the user easily or concisely express concepts? I am not a professional linguist, but I do find that some languages, such a Hebrew, make it more difficult to express certain subjects than do other languages. Other languages, such as Russian, make it easy to unambiguously express or confer complex ideas, even concisely. I've heard that Swahili is an inherently simple language in which one cannot express many complex (not necessarily modern) concepts, such an example would rate low on this scale. 

That is, Sunday is literally "First day" and all the days follow from there. Saturday is "Day of rest". 

Yes, it is possible to infer the full conjugation and pronunciation from the root of each verb for each binyan. There are exceptions to the rules, but even the exceptions have rules! The Binyanim are named after the form of the third person male past tense form, using the root פ-ע-ל. So the root ח-ש-ב in the binyan פָעָל would have the male past tense form חָשָב and in the binyan פִיעֵל would have the male past tense form חִישֵב. The most basic binyan is called פָעָל and it is the first taught to new Hebrew speakers as it is very simply and widely used. You can find the binyan explained here: $URL$ Once you understand that, you can move on to other binyanim, they are all here: $URL$ Note that second link uses כתב חסר when writing with vowel points, so in some places there will not be a yod where you might expect one. Just look at the tables, don't try to make sense of what is noted beyond that for the time being. 

As we all know, most languages of the world are spoken orally. And there is a number of signed languages, mostly used by Deaf people. But are there any languages which use both modality at once ? Are there any languages that require both gesture and sounds ? 

The organisation of the consonant and vowel tables of the IPA is an approximation of the place and type of the phonemes' articulation. Hence the columns are arranged in order from left to right according to place of articulation in the mouth from the lips to the back of the throat, and the rows are sorted according to their manner of articulation by increasing aperture, from the most closed articulation to the most open, which is why it starts with stops then nasals, then fricatives, then the others which necessitate to open the mouth more and let the air flow more freely. Indeed, if you read Saussure's Cours de Linguistique Général, you'll see that to him, vowels are merely further than consonants on the same aperture continuum. This understanding is now probably a bit dated, but it's not completely wrong either. 

Here are the names for the eight cardinal directions in Estonian (top) and Finnish (bottom). Lule Saami also seems to have eight noncompound names. However it does not appear to be true of all Saami language. 

A commenter to your post suggested that you not use transcriptions, and I would like to expand upon that. As Hebrew words are very dependant upon the root (שורש) of the word, you will need to know the root of a word to know its meaning. Also, new words are easy to understand if you are familiar with the root. Hebrew words fall into a finite number of buildings (בניינים) that let you pick out the roots very easily. You will loose that advantage if you transcribe. Also you might loose the difference between differing letters with similar sound, such as וו and ב, for instance the words שבה and שווה would be pronounced the same but have different meanings. For what reason do you want to use transcriptions? I may be able to help devise a plan based on your goal. 

Coincidence. There is some connection between road-building and conquering. Perhaps one builds a road in all places conquered? One language adopted words of a similar root for arbitrary reasons. Then the second language, having one of the words but lacking the other, looked to the first language for how to build the new word off the former. 

I have noticed that the Latin means both and . Interestingly, in Hebrew the root is used for both (road) and for (to conquer). I see a few different reasons why this could be. Might anyone clarify? 

As pointed out in the etymology you give, "figurine" is ultimately a borrowing from Italian, through French. Therefore, it is in Italian that you'll find the diminutive suffix -in- meaning "little", as shown in the following derivations : gatto - gattino (male cat - kitten) viola - violino (viola - violin) concerto - concertino I highly doubt that this suffix is productive in English, but as you can see in the second and third examples, there are other examples of this suffix in borrowings from Italian. 

There have been efforts to formalize pragmatic knowledge for quite some time now. The main formalisms I know of that attempt to go beyond the sentence-level are things like RST (rhetorical structure theory) and its successors/competitors, like SDRT (Segmented Discourse Representation Theory) (cf Asher & Lascarides, 2007) or D-STAG (Discourse-Synchronous TAG, an attempt to integrate discourse analysis into the TAG syntactic formalism, cf Danlos 2008). These formalisms are geared toward text coherence, discourse relations and inferred relations within discourse, and as such, they seem to fit especially the third problematic you give as an example. These formalisms are all about how propositions within a text are connected together to form a consistent whole. As for your other two examples, knowing that "A above B" implies "B under A" seems to me to be more of a formal semantics question : are those two propositions strictly equivalent ? They seem to be, and as such they should be represented by the same logic formula. I think it's a very straightforward case, much less tricky than say, temporal relations, which require some kind of event based semantics. In this case, any kind of formal syntactico-semantic framework might be used (e.g HPSG). And regarding "popular metaphors", I think it's pretty likely that if they are popular they are lexicalized to an extent and thus can be integrated seamlessly in syntactic paradigms as fixed expressions . I think the bigger challenge is the case of metaphors which are not popular, which are incidental, and there are active efforts on metaphor detection, and efforts to bridge it with formal discourse analysis (for example this paper ) 

Are there any resources which, given a Latin or Greek word, reference modern English words derived from the word? I find it much easier to remember a root when I know a word derived from it. For a specific example, I would like to remember that "Casus belli" means "a case of war". The root is easy to remember, but how shall I remember the meaning of "belli"? Are there any modern English words derived from "belli"? Though I specifically ask about English, resources to other languages would be welcome in the lack of an English resource. 

Note that this phenomenon is not limited to just Latin and Hebrew . I can post other examples, across other languages, if needed. 

In the Wikipedia page History of the English language it is mentioned that English is a "borrowing language", with the implication that there are many loan words in English. What other languages may be considered Borrowing Languages? Additionally, what are languages called that resist loanwords? For instance, I am aware that the French resist polluting their tongue with loanwords and coin French words for concepts that originate in non-French areas. Is there a term for this type of language as well? Finally, is it correct to term the language "Borrowing Language" when the feature is not a feature of the language itself but rather a feature of the culture of the speakers who define the direction that the language evolves? 

There doesn't seem to be an accepted name for this type of bilingual punning. "Bilingual sentence" might seem appropriate, but it would ambiguously describe both the phenomenon of sentences that have the same meaning in two languages, and the phenomenon of two sequences of sound (or graphemes) coincidentally being two unrelated valid sentences in different languages, which is the one you're interested in. A favorite example is the following : I VITELLI DEI ROMANI SONO BELLI. This is said to ambiguously be either a Latin sentence meaning "Go, Vitellus, to the martial sound of the Roman's god", or an Italian sentence meaning "The roman's calves are beautiful". Another Italian/Latin example is : CANE NERO MAGNA BELLA PERSICA! "Sing, o Nero, the great Persian wars!", in Latin "The black dog eats a nice peach", in dialectical Italian. (Translation taken from this page) Wikipedia has a bunch of exemples here. And in here are two poems in Italian/Hebrew As you can see, these examples can be somewhat contrived, as should be expected in wordplay, and they are easier to make up if the languages are closely related. 

It is the case in some Uralic languages. Fennic languages such as Finnish and Estonian have names for all eight cardinal directions.