There are two ways in which earthquakes could affect the Antarctic ice sheet, either by occurring on the Antarctic continent or by occurring elsewhere and sending tsunami-type waves towards the ice sheet/continent. Seismic activity occurs all the time on Antarctica. Particularly the West-Antarctic Ice Sheet (WAIS) is located over seismically active zones although such occur under the East Antarctic Ice Sheet (EAIS) as well. In the case of WAIS, subglacial volcanoes have been inferred from geophysical measurements. It is possible that such activity but also elevated geothermal heat fluxes, typical of seismically active areas, contribute to making the subglacial thermal regime temperate (at the melting temperature). This means the ice flow can, at least partially decouple from the bed and slide causing larger ice fluxes. Such behaviour is known from WAIS but is observed to be a part of the dynamic setup of the ice sheet and does not seem to change fluxes on time frames that we can observe directly or through investigations of indirect evidence of past flow variations. In short, there is no clear evidence that seismic activity in Antarctica directly causes major changes in ice loss. Tsunamis reaching Antarctica could conceivably cause break off of larger ice bergs or larger numbers of ice bergs at the fringes of the ice sheet. Ice berg calving in Antarctica is largely through ice shelves, which are floating parts of the ice sheet. These ice shelves are part of the natural way in which the ice sheet looses mass so a momentary acceleration due to tsunami-type waves is conceivable. But, the main question will be of this momentary acceleration of calving simply causes ice that would calve anyway within some period is shed more quickly resulting in a period of quiescence as the shelf recuperates and resumes normal "operations*. This is unclear because we are dealing with processes that have to be seen over long time spans. The loss of an immense ice berg, such as occasionally reported in media, may not have that much significance in the long-term. There are studies indicating larger ice fluxes out from specific outlets in Antarctica. How these may be influenced by direct or indirect seismic activity has not been investigated. Ice in glaciers and ice sheets behaves plasticly, which means it can accommodate external forcing to some extent by plastic deformation, and also elastically. As an example, lake ice may bend when waves propagate in the underlying water but can also cause breakage under certain circumstances (wave amplitude and frequency). It is hence conceivable that increased breakage can occur if circumstances are just right but it is not at all clear that such activity would cause anything but momentary acceleration of processes that would be shadowed by the longer term trends caused by climatic forcing. 

Bubble in an ancient lava flow What you're seeing is a vug in a vesicular basalt. A vug is simply a term for a mineral-lined cavity. In this case, the host rock is a basalt. You're seeing an ancient lava flow that trapped a bubble of gases escaping from the magma as it cooled. Over time, groundwater infiltrated the bubble. As the basalt was buried, changes in the pressure, temperature, and ion concentrations in the water caused different minerals to precipitate and even change into other minerals. Zeolites in Northwest Iceland Given the location (northwest iceland), the minerals are probably zeolites of various sorts. Anywhere else, you'd most likely be looking at quartz, clays, calcite, or amorphous silica filling the cavity. Northwest Iceland is known for zeolite mineralization within vugs in vesicular basalts. There are several world-class localities for zeolite minerals in the area. Northwest Iceland has some of the oldest basalts in Iceland (they're still very young geologically, however). They've been buried and then the material above them has been eroded away, bringing them to the surface. As we'll see shortly, that's a key piece of the picture. How did the Zeolites form? Initially a bubble of gases escaping from a lava was trapped as the lava cooled, forming a vesicular basalt. Next, groundwater seeped into the vesicle ("frozen" bubble). Then, the basalt flow was slowly buried by many other basalt flows. Chemical reactions occured as he temperature, pressure, and water chemistry changed due to burial. Initially, glass and olivine in the basalt near the vesicle would have broken down into smectite clays. Olivine crystalizes at high temperatures as the magma is cooling, and therefore, it's relatively unstable at low-temperature conditions. Glasses form after the lava has erupted and is cooling too rapidly for minerals to form (a glass doesn't have a crystal structure). They're often unstable because there's no regular atomic arrangement. Given time and right conditions, volcanic glasses will turn into minerals (in this specific case, mostly clays). As the clay-lined vug (a vesicule becomes a vug once minerals begin to fill it) was buried further, the clay minerals began to become unstable due to the changing conditions. When this happens, they transform into other minerals. This is called metamorphism. Zeolite metamorphism is one of the lowest grade (lowest temperature and pressure) types, so the temperatures and pressures involved didn't affect the minerals in the basalt, only the clay minerals in the vug. Depending on the types of clays and the pressure, temperature and water chemistry conditions, different zeolite minerals formed from the clay minerals that became unstable. In fact, you can actually constrain how deeply buried that particular piece of rock was from the minerals within the vug. Finally, the rock above was eroded away, and this particular section was brought back to the surface, where you found it. 

This is needle ice which forms when moist soil freezes, for example during a cold night. Freezing starts at the ground surface and as ice is formed moisture gradients develop which draws water to the freezing front and growth continues. Ideal conditions may be a sub-freezing night after a rainy day or a sub-freezing night after a day of snow melt. According to the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) site needle ice be up to 40 cm in length. Since the favourable conditions are not unique to soils, although most often encountered in soils, needle ice can develop from freezing of, for example, vegetation 

The principle does not apply to all materials on earth as observed by us but is primarily concerned with sediments and rocks that form from sediments. Since sedimentation is a process driven by gravity grains settle one on top of others and there is no possibility to change that without adding additional processes. So from this perspective the principle is 100% in situations where it is applicable. It is of course not uncommon to find situations where older material overlays younger. In such cases there has been additional forces (natural mind you) in action. It is for example possible for intrusions (magma) to be injected in older solid rocks thus completely changing the age sequence. It is also possible for crustal movement (tectonics) to fold the bedrock and thrust parts of the bedrock to overlay other parts hence creating situations where younger rocks seem to undelie older. It is also possible for sediments to slide or move downslope so that a reverse or at least disturbed age sequence is established. I could continue ad infinitum. So many possibilities exist to obtain such cases but always with a logical explanation involving post-sedimentary processes. To correctly interprete observations, one has to have gained full understanding of the geological setting and history as well as physical processes. It is not generally wise to look at an outcrop or cut and create a larger scale interpretation without such background knowledge. 

However, for making detailed hydrological models, geophysical methods (particularly ground penetrating radar (GPR)) get used quite a bit. In fact, there's a whole field called "hydrogeophysics" that deals with imaging in near-subsurface environments. These methods don't get applied for locating a single well. They get applied to build detailed 3D models to constrain things like contaminant transport. If you need to know how groundwater is flowing in 3D, then you need a more detailed image of the subsurface than you do to locate a single water well. GPR is the most commonly used method, but I've seen almost every sort of geophysical data used in some cases (basically where it's already been collected and is freely available). Basically, the bigger the budget, the more fancy tools can get thrown at the problem. :) 

The first study arrives at a calving loss of 1321 ± 144 Gt/yr year and a total basal mass balance of −1454 ± 174 Gt/yr (− = loss). The mass balance is the net of mass added by freeze on and mass lost by melting so the number does not reflect melting alone. The pure loss by melt is hence larger but from a balance perspective the net is what counts. The second study indicates a calving flux of 1089 ± 139 Gt/yr and a basal melt of 1325 ± 235 Gt/yr. Although they report "melting" it is likely that they mean net balance as in the other study. The two studies have used slightly different approaches to arrive at their results, both indirect, but over all the numbers indicate that basal losses are larger than calving and that the order of magnitude is the same. In more detail, the studies show that calving losses are dominant from the larger ice shelves, the Ross and Filchner-Ronne. Melting dominate regions along the western Antarctic Peninsula and down along the coast of the Bellingshausen and Amundsen seas. For most of the East and West Indian Ocean coastlines losses are relatively small and equal between the two processes. The bottom line is that these studies have changed the perspective from ice loss being predominantly through calving to now slightly dominated by basal melting. 

Basically, we know they were likely pelagic creatures because we find their fossils at essentially all water depths. If they were benthic creatures, we'd expect their fossils to be limited to a set range of paleo water depths. It's unlikely that a single benthic (i.e. living on the seabed) marine organism could live in both shallow water and ultra-deep water. However, for pelagic (i.e. floating or free-swimming) creatures, we'd expect to find their fossils at a huge range of paleo water depths because they live in the water column and don't care where the bottom is. 

Good question! I'll lay out the prevalent idea, originally (I think) put forward by Sykes, 1978 and supported by a large body of subsequent work by many authors. There are other models, however. In the most general sense: Intra-plate faulting is due to old, pre-existing weaknesses that are reactivated due to the plate interiors being very close to critically stressed. In other words, they're weak points in the interior of the plate. However, we don't fully understand why some old fault zones get reactivated while others in the same orientation don't. (It probably has a lot to do with pore pressure and fluid movement at depth.) There's a lot we don't completely understand about intra-plate earthquakes. Also, please don't use the term "fault line". It offends my geologic sensibilities! :) (Faults are 2D surfaces, not lines, thus the nitpicky objection.) Most of the crust is close to being critically stressed (breaking) There's a lot of evidence that the continental crust everywhere is close to being critically stressed -- in other words, failing in an earthquake. (e.g. see the various Townend and Zoback papers.) The crust isn't just critically stressed near the plate boundaries, but also away from them. This may also be true for oceanic crust, but we don't have as much data there. Another way of saying this is that the plates are being pushed along as hard as they can without crumpling. Basically, this is why things like building a dam or deep fluid injection trigger small earthquakes. The crust is already close to failure, so adding load or increasing pore pressure often triggers small fractures. (However, these sort of things can't trigger a major earthquake unless they're on an already active fault. You need continuous slip along a very large surface for a large earthquake.) The plates being critically stressed is actually is what we'd expect. We see deformation at plate boundaries whenever they collide. Therefore, we know that the stresses driving the plates are greater than the "breaking" strength of the crust. Because stresses from a collision at the boundary will be transmitted to the interior, it intuitively makes sense that the interiors should be close to, but just below (otherwise they'd be deforming), the failure threshold. (For the complete argument, see Zoback and Townend, 2001) Continental crust is full of old zones of weakness The continents are very old. Much older than the oceanic crust. The continents are like rafts that keep bumping into each other. Therefore, they have lots of "scars" (i.e. old fault zones). There's a saying in structural geology: "once a weakness, always a weakness". Fault zones are typically much weaker than the crust around them. Once a fault breaks through, it tends to be a permanent weakness that will be reactivated even if it's not in a perfectly favorable orientation. Critically stressed crust + weak zones --> intra-plate earthquakes. But why don't we see activity on all old fault zones? Short answer, we don't really know. It probably has a lot to do with pore pressure and fluid movement. Some old fault zones have intra-plate earthquakes, while others don't, even if they're in the same orientation. Pore pressure plays a huge role in faulting (it make rocks much easier to break). There's a lot of speculation that active intra-plate fault zones may have more fluids at depth, though explaining why is difficult. 

There is no direct way to determine past ice thickness. The only solid information that exists are past areal extent. But, even this information is not necessarily clear since later advances may have overridden the past terminal positions and dating may not be exact. A main issue is the synchronicity of all such positions. With a past extent it is possible to calibrate numerical ice sheet models, based on our understanding of ice physics and dynamics and generate likely ice sheet configurations. Such models generate a three-dimensional ice sheet which includes ice thickness. In essence this is the best possible scenario for estimating such past ice thicknesses. Advanced models also include some form of isostacy depending on the overlying ice load. For the last Glacial Maximum, the rebound values are also used to constrain the ice sheet geometry. The problem is, however, that the response of the Earth's crust to loading depends on the loading history and it would be possible to accomplish similar results with different scenarios since the depression of the crust is in part the loading but also the time scale of the loading. For a long time we though the latest glaciation was one long period of glaciation but we now know that, at least the Fennoscandian ice sheet, experienced two major advances, the mid-Weichselian and the Last Glacial maximum and both were relatively short in duration. This allows us to modify the loading history of the latest glacation. With the earlier glaciations, we do not yet have such detailed loading histories and are thus not able to make detailed models of ice thickness. It should be added the the understanding of the variations of the last ice sheet come from a series of indirect sources such as sea-level changes, paleo-climate records e.g., (ice cores) and interstadial paleoclimate reconstructions. This means that as our understanding of these indirect records are improved, we can also improve our ice sheet forcing. Add to that uncertainties about basal conditions beneath past ice sheets that affect their dynamics and it is easy to see that past ice thickness values are uncertain. We can, however, obtain reasonable estimates from the models which could be accurate to within, perhaps 500 m (my guestimate). 

I'm not an ideal person to answer this, but that's never stopped me before, so here goes! :) I've helped several hydrologists with the geophysical side of things at various points, but I'm not in any form or fashion a hydrologist myself. My father did the government permitting for residential water wells and septic systems where I grew up, though, so I've seen a bit of things from both the academic side and the practical side. For locating the average residential water supply well, gephysical methods are basically never used. They're just too expensive compared to drilling the well. 

I'm not familiar with land-based methods, but for global measurements, one method is to use satellite altimetry (I'm more familiar with the geodesy side, but many of the same satellites are used). I think many of the current methods interpolate global or regional currents from a sparse network of buoys. As more radar satellites are launched, however, satellite measurements of sea surface currents will become more common. Global-scale satellite-based radar altimetry measures the average elevation of the ocean's surface over a few kilometers (the exact amount depends on the wavelength of the radar band being used). Over this distance, waves cancel out, so the measurement is accurate to within a few centimeters. (This is aided by using the motion of the satellite to enhance the image, referred to as Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR).) Surface currents in the ocean are directly related to the slope of the ocean's surface. (Again, at the scales we're working with, wind-formed waves cancel out.) Once you have an accurate snapshot of the elevation of the ocean, you can calculate the direction and magnitude of the surface currents. (Note that this is only the surface currents! Deep ocean currents are different matter altogether.) This is also how we coarsely map the ocean floor from space. (For example, Sandwell & Smith's extensive work: $URL$ The average elevation of the ocean's surface with respect to center of the Earth follows the geoid (by definition). Seamounts on the ocean floor cause a preturbation in the geoid above them. Water effectively "bunches up" around seamounts (or rather, the surface of gravitational equipotential "bunches up" above the seamount). By repeatedly measuring the oceans surface (over several years) we can remove the effect of surface currents and get an accurate picture of what the geoid looks like over the ocean. You can then use this to predict water depths over the oceans on a spatial scale of ~1 kilometer. In fact, to calculate surface currents, you need this information to begin with. The surface currents are calculated as deviations from this measurement of the geoid. 

The question is requesting an answer that has no practical application. So rather than improving on some hypothetical calculation, I will describe the problem and hopefully make the difficulty providing a real answer to a time frame clear. First: "polar ice" Antarctica is located in a polar position and consists of a multi-km thick ice sheet. The Arctic is covered by sea ice except for smaller glaciers and Greenland, which is not located in a polar position equal to Antarctica. One has to remember that Antarctica is circulation-wise isolated from the rest of the planet by circumpolar circulation, both in th esea and atmosphere, a situation not met in the Arctic. Hence the term polar ice is very fuzzy and should be avoided. It is better to speak about the objects directly. Second: an ice sheet such as Greenland and Antarctica is not a stagnant sheet of ice, it has its own dynamics and which can change over time depending on forcing and change in forcing.. Greenland is largely land based but with outlet glaciers that terminate in the sea. Although mass loss through these have seen an increase in loss, much of the Greenland mass gain and loss is through surface mass balance (snow accumulation minus ablation, melt). Antarctica is a different beast since East Antarctica is largely land based while West Antarctica is to a large extent sitting on ground below (in places several km) below sea level. Te latter situation is more unstable since the ice could disintegrate by calving (loss through ice berg formation), a process which is potentially much quicker than surface melt (of which there is currently very little in Antarctica). So one part of Antarctica is much more unstable than the other. Now, several other processes are at play. Ocean currents are sen to produce massive amounts of submarine melt on both Greenland outlet glaciers as well as on the sea-terminating edges of Antarctica. In places, circulation models estimate up to equal loses by calving an submarine melt. This occurs at the same time as there is hardly any surface melt to speak of. So calculating mass loss by surface melt is clearly a lost cause when calving and submarine melt dominate. Finally, in this still simplified picture, the dynamic response of the ice sheets to changes in forcing is not well understood. This means we do not know how unstable East Antarctica really is. That Antarctica will totally disappear seems very unlikely any time soon and time frames of 10^3-10^4 years is a minimum. Greenland, not being a polar ice sheet is more sensitive in that as it loses mass it is also on average lower in altitude, experiencing more melt. There appears to be a point of no return for Greenland, under which elevation the ice sheet would not be able to recuperate unless the climate cooled significantly. Again the time to melt off the ice is long. despite the seemingly slow increase in sea level, much infra structure in the coastal environments is threatened by only dm to m changes in ea level so the 66.1 m quoted from IPCC is not something that will happen in a life time but that does not mean the rates are not already problematic. As a PS, I will add some relevant references once I am back home in case someone misses them at the moment.