1. Although the Hungarian prelates and lords unanimously proclaimed Béla king, Lucas, Archbishop of Esztergom opposed his coronation. 2. Curta 2006, pp. 334–335. 3. Life of John of Rila from the Stishen (Sofia) Prologue, p. 266. 

Almost every1 power station that produces electricity uses steam to power its turbines. Only the heat source (of energy): burning fossil fuels like coal, oil, natural gas or using nuclear fission, is different. That is why all power stations are located near a water source, so that they can have unlimited supply of water to heat. There are some steam engines remaining operational in locomotives and boats around the world either for tourist attraction or for the lack of reach of new technology. 

1. Dependent on their size (Hull speed) and the winds. . 2. About the same time Ben Franklin measured the (6 degrees) warmer temperature of Gulf Stream and created a map which would turn out to be very useful to sailors ("riding it the trip would shorten with a week"). [1] Mittelberger, Gottleb, Gottleb Mittelberger's Journey to Pennsylvania in the Year 1750 and Return to Germany in the year 1754 (published by the German Society of Pennsylvania 1898) Update: As mentioned in the comment section there are alternative routes, in fact 18th Century British shipping routes visualised using modern mapping technologies look like: which includes the one proposed above, however, if the general idea is understood the above calculation could be applied to any of the shown routes. Dutch shiping routes 1750-1800 visualised using modern mapping technologies are closer to the proposed in the comment: 

To be honest, I don't know the chances, but here are the following facts, hopefully they give good picture on topic: The continent was spotted by various people before James Cook - collected evidences are from the related wikipedia page's sources: K.G. McIntyre (1977) The Secret Discovery of Australia; Portuguese discoveries 200 years before Captain Cook. Souvenir Press, Medindie, South Australia The discovery is claimed by Portugal long before Portugal. An another claimant is a less known French sailor Binot Paulmier de Gonneville who stated that from the Cape of Good Hope (South-Africa) he sailed 6 weeks to east and hit a new coast, but the commonly accepted that he didn't reach Australia but nowadays Brazilia. Later Dutch sailors reached Australia, but the first one who took Australia seriously was Captain Cook, so they claimed the whole territory of Australia. Of course there were competitors. 

So the entire non-aryan policy can be summarized by following statement: those non-aryans who are harmless, can be integrated to future Germany if they don't take too much space from future German Reich. The thinking behind is, Hitler certainly didn't want slavic majority in the 1000 years Reich. To answer straightly your question: Bulgaria (as Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia, Finland) wasn't in the way of plan of greater Germany. The first world war's role of Hitler's allies weren't important. Just think about it: Italy, Romania, Bulgaria: they were all on the Antant side. Hitler had different idea than licking wounds, he sincerely believed he can make an agreement with UK for a long time, but it didn't happen. Hitler did politics to his own favour, he showed enough flexibility when it was neccessary to reach his goals. He even created alliance with soviets to divide Poland, gave back territories to Hungary, created puppet states where it was neccessary. 

P.S. There is an interesing documentary by Stephen Fry which investigates homophobia and its origins throughout the World. One of its conculsions is the importance of laws and their latency, "inertia", long term effects and consequences on society. 

To convert all in same units: d = 4010 mi = 6453 km and u = 5 knots = 10 km/h, to get the time we use the following equation of motion: t = d / u = 6453 / 10 = 645 hours => 27 days in the ideal situation. However, in reality weather conditions like storms, ocean currents2 etc, would prolong the journey up to 6 - 8 weeks. 

In ancient Greece homosexuality was, if not a norm, at least not a subject of disgust. The same could be claimed for the ancient Roman Empire. It should be noted that, in both examples the classification of sexuality was performed based on different criteria, namely, in terms of sexul activeness and passiveness, or in other words, of dominance and submissiveness. 

we note the label Bulgari on the same Balkan area: Now, the existence of Old Great Bulgaria dates back to (at least) 632 AD (if we don't consider the Nominalia of the Bulgarian khans)and its location is on the Western Pontic–Caspian steppe which is far away from the Balkan Peninsula. Having in mind the above: Question Could it be claimed that there were Bulgarians in the Balkans long before the "...Bulgar tribes under the leadership of Asparukh moved south across the Danube in 681 AD..."? 

Nowadays perseption of homosexual relations is rooted mostly in the moral and ethical code presented in the Bible (and later in Qur'an), gradually translated in laws in the Judiciary Systems and later spread throughout the World via the colonization process of the last 5 - 6 centuries. 

Second picture is a Viking shield replica. There you can see an applied strap for carrying/apply on the arm, but the handle here has enough space to put a rope or strap in it, so even without the applied strap, it would be easily attachable to anywhere. 

There was a period in Cuba "the sugar revolution" as it is called in Franklin W. Knight's review. Sugar industry includes large set of products, and between 1750-1850 there was a big explosion of demand for sugar. In the beginning of that period aristocracy used up most of the sugar, later in mid 19th century and especially somewhat later even the common people had enough purcashing power to buy some sugar related product. In this period Cuba also lost strict Spanish rule on export-import, and got independent from Spain, introduced and later abolished slavery, by these factors their economy could accelerate. By 1880's Cuba's sugar production almost entirely ended up in US (according to Wiki, however it is not cited). And we all know US was a serious emerging power in the region by that time. 

I wanted to comment, but an actual google search gave some sort of answer for me, maybe there will be better answers than mine, I see the practical side of the fastening problem. The handles are typically sort of "D" shaped where the straight side is the shield or some straps with two fixed points on the shield body having enough space between them for an arm or hand. The shape is ideal to apply independently from the shield any regular rope, leather strap to fasten it to your armour, or clothes and make it easily accessible. Let's see some examples: First picture is Arc d' Orange shield with handle. A strap would perfectly fit in, and could be used for fastening it to armour. 

The relics were returned back after three years. Why would the relics of a local saint be of any use to Béla III, could they be used as a form of legitimation of his title, having in mind that the Bulgarian and Hungarian dynasty blood lines at that time were connected? Could Saint Ivan of Rila be heir of emperor Boris I? 

The strong social movements of the late 50's and 60's shed light on the subject of homosexuality and violence, and since then it has become an important social problem, seeking solution from the widespread public in the US, and later in the areas of influence of the Western World. 

In 680 Bulgar tribes under the leadership of Asparukh moved south across the Danube and settled in the area between the lower Danube and the Balkan, establishing their capital at Pliska. A peace treaty with Byzantium in 681 AD marked the beginning of the First Bulgarian Empire. The Bulgars gradually mixed up with the local population, adopting a common language on the basis of the local Slavic dialect. Thus, the earliest and official date of Bulgarians on the Balkan Peninsula is at the end of the seventh century, however, according to The Ravenna Cosmography compiled by an anonymous cleric in Ravenna around the sixth century: 

The first part of your question is based on a false premise (or presumption), which is that "...the trend to violence towards homosexuals has ended...". There are no indications that the mentality and the way of thinking, regarding homosexuals, in some social groups has changed. 

The currency you posted is from an occupied territory, see the related wikipedia link. If you read carefully, it says: Reichskreditkassen on the bottom, Nazi Germany issued these notes in occupied territories which weren't considered to the Reich's territory. Note that these notes had completely different rules than real Reichsmarks, for example they were legal tender only in occupied territories, and couldn't be subject of a negotiation inside the Reich. Also the fact that it was independent from Reichsmarks, it added a layer of protection of real Reichsmarks. For example it could have been inflated separately from real Reichmarks. Take a note: 5 Reichmarks in German territories were minted on silver coins (I have one), not notes, an important difference! Read more interesting facts of your banknote here. I have only a subjective opinion on why didn't they have Swastika, since the webpages only give clues, not definite answers: The occupied territories had their own currency in this form, maybe this was easier to accept as legal tender than Reichsmarks. It was printed very differently to make it easier to separate from real Reichsmarks. Real Reichsmarks were printed approximately 3:4 ratio while occupation Marks were printed on the whole surface. But if you check out other - in-Reich - notes, for some strange reason swastika doesn't seem to be overly used on banknotes unlike on coins. 

Less known fact is that Hitler considered slavic people as simply non-aryans, non-aryan category didn't automatically mean that the race should be exterminated, just take a note, they set up alliance with Japan too, and Hitler gave many Japanese citizens the "honorary aryan" status. The fact they aren't aryans was used to justify invasion of the territory of Poland, Russia and the area between them. Many TV shows and movies interpreting this as hatred against slavs but in reality he wanted to expand Germany to east and take their land. Read the following wikipedia link on relation how they treated people who fit in category as "non-aryans". This fits to hungarians, slovaks and croatians too, not sure about romanians.