For a Resume, the important thing is who you actually performed work for, as you'll be talking about your job duties and skills performed on the job. The supervisor should be the person who you report to and reviews your work, as they are the best capable to speak on behalf of those skills. You do not want to misrepresent yourself as a member of the company though. If you have only a single contract with the contracting agency, you can put the company you worked for, and then put the reference as contractor: Position at XYZ (contracting through ABC) 10/2016 - 12/2017 While if you have multiple projects through a contractor, you could also put the contracting company first, then list the contracts underneath that. 

Lying on a background check is probably not a good idea At best, it's unethical. At worst - depending on your local laws - it may even be illegal. Somewhere in between, such a lie could cost you the position you're aspiring to. It's highly likely to be discovered, and almost certainly guaranteed to harm your eligibility. As it will likely be reported as a discrepancy on whatever report the background firm generates, it may even draw more attention to the secondary contract. Any discrepancies between your self report and the Background Check could compromise the success of the background check, and will be brought up to the requesting entity in the report. The background check company will be reviewing you employment history closely. To think that they wouldn't discover your employment history would be quite amazing. If they do discover your employment and that it doesn't match your own reported history, it will be brought up as a discrepancy on their final report, and affect the score of how trustworthy you are as an individual. 

Recruiters are a dime a dozen. Even within recruitment firms. Just hitup LinkedIn and connect with recruiters in your discipline. Recruiters have no business knowing what you do outside of interviews they get for you. You're nothing more than a product they're trying to sell to a company. Don't forget that. They ask these questions because they want to both see what companies may be interested in hiring a recruiter to fill some posts as they have a demonstrated rejection which means they've already wasted time interviewing people and they also want to know why people are rejected for specific jobs so they can better qualify their leads for not only a future contract with them but hiring managers in general. Some things become a trend and a recruiter is usually the first to notice it. They will ignore you if they don't have anything you're a good fit for. Just like any other salesman. They give attention to the most likely client to land them a big check, and work their way down. If they don't have anything for you or there are higher commission jobs they'll just keep you on the backburner. Edit: For this reason you need to keep the same type of attitude you would have about a salesperson or business. If they're hassling you pressuring you coercing things from you you want to sever that relationship and not shop from there. Make them work for you to earn their paycheck. Don't fall into the product mentality. Edit2: You also don't want to work with someone that tells you confidentiality expires. Their ethics are obviously pretty warped. 

A smart employer will see (if you write it for them) a chance to take advantage of an opportunity to get someone who's not normally available for this kind of thing. For example, if you worked in a garden centre or at a farm supply store, that would not be as strenuous, but you'd bring a ton of experience to the picture. Try to find employers to whom both your previous background and the fact that farming's not an option right now are advantages, and make sure you tell them about that. If someone asks such a personal question as "how did you hurt your knee?" you can just decline to answer. It just isn't relevant to a job interview. 

That's one-on-one with the shaver and doesn't contain any of your opinions about what beards mean. It's not at all the same as extended riffing in the presence of, or with and engaging, other people, on the meaning and consequences of someone's appearance change, especially a gender-associated appearance change. As an adult in a workplace, you should be able to see the difference. 

You taking time off is an idea that your boss thinks is great in theory, but in practice she is never going to suggest you take a particular day or week off. You will need to suggest it. I don't recommend demanding as a first strategy. Look back over the last year. Is there a pattern of lulls? For example, after a major project is pushed out? After a year end, quarter end, or other predictable date? If there is, you can suggest you take a specific week off based on your observations. If there isn't, then just arbitrarily pick a week. It should probably be at least a month from now unless it's "next week" and you have reason to believe that can work. Next, make a plan for how the company can keep running while you're away. This might mean that some people contact the boss instead of you. It might mean they get told to wait (my firm is so small now that we just say "sorry, unless it's worth calling someone who literally is up to their waist in warm water, it will have to wait." And in 2015 the love of my life did solve a huge sysadmin problem by remoting back from a tropical pool.) Decide how to communicate the plan to others. Finally, and this is important, take the time off. You don't have to book a trip - sleeping in, tidying your home, catching up on shopping etc are all good uses for your first time off in a long time. But don't check your email or take a quick look at the server to make sure everything's stable. You need to prove that you can have time off. If someone contacts you in a panic, it's ok to solve their problems - knowing they can reach you is part of proving you can have time off. But you need to get work out of your head for a while so you can rest. Now, to back up a few steps, what if your boss said no, that week will not work because [whatever.] You do not say "ok, thanks, talk to you later." You say "what week should we choose instead?" And the two of you work out a week that will work. If need be, you remind the boss how important it is for you to get some time away. If you are getting clear signals that the conversation has to end now, even though no week has been chosen, say something like "we have to come back to this in the next few days because I need to book some tickets." Then in a day or so, bring it up again. If you have tried several times to work out a week that would be great and no week would be great, you can try the Bill Mason strategy of simply announcing when you are leaving and for how long. You tell the boss that it is up to them whether you are quitting or on vacation, and that you are ok with finding out which it was when you try to return. If you are amazingly great, and you really need the time off, you will find that you don't much care which it is; if you're not working there when you come back, you can work somewhere else. (Be nice: don't say "next week" if you pull this stunt, say "6 weeks from now", and don't take 4 months off with this technique.) Where things get really awful is when the boss always has reasons why a particular week won't work, and you are no longer confident (partly because of burnout) that you could land another job if you just took time off. In that case probably your only hope is landing the other job first, establishing that people in that company take vacations regularly, and then giving your notice at the first place and telling them it was because they wouldn't let you take vacation. Let's hope it doesn't come to that. 

Context is everything For a Background Verification, the important thing is who signs your paycheck and legally employed you, and who can verify this information. For the Employer, in this frame of reference, is ABC. The contact information should be the official contact information of the company. Their website is a fine place to get this from. Make sure to give the number to the front desk, rather than your supervisor's direct number, even if you have it. The front desk would be able to route your call to the appropriate HR rep or your supervisor per their policies, or should your supervisor be out. Supervisor is a bit trickier to figure out what the context is. However, for a background verification, you typically want the person who can verify your employment at the contracting agency, and speak as a representative of that company. For example: I have been on a contract in the past where I was hired by Contracting company A, working for company B, on a contract shared with company C. I had a 'manager' at company A, a separate executive managing the contract, a manager at company B who owned the contract, and a direct supervisor/floor manager who oversaw my day to day tasking (who was an employee of company C). In such a situation, depending on the context of what this background was trying to accomplish, the correct answers could be my direct manager (in context of my employment with company A), the contract manager (in context of the contract itself), or the direct supervisor (in context of my job duties and skillset). If I had to outline this position on a background verification, I would put either my direct manager, or the contract manager, as both are representatives of the company that hired me, and both could speak to my position on the contract and at the company. 

What have you said to the person that actually oversees the team/you? What have you said to your companies human resources? As an Intern your entire job is to learn and get coffee and do menial tasks that help you learn that more experienced people don't want to do. If anything is getting in the way of your education, including your teammates, you need to speak up to someone. If that doesn't work you need to go to your academic adviser at your school and discuss this with them (or whoever your internship is managed by at the school). "They don't care" really isn't an excuse not to do anything. It's your education, and only you are responsible for it. That includes making sure you are in a positive environment to learn. Your school should at the very least consider not sending new interns to this company as well if they're not willing to handle the problem. If the Front End Dev is supposed to teach you, that's what he's supposed to do. And you should also be willing to stand up for yourself (a little don't go overboard). Tell the team members how you feel tell them to stop treating you badly and remind them you're there to learn from them. I know a lot of people are anti-confrontation but bullies need to be met head on. You may be able to cut everything out without having to go to your boss. I'd speak up, give them an opportunity to change, then go to your manager personally. 

Months later, when they want you to fly somewhere, that's when you can start with "I would prefer airline X" or "I never change planes in Chicago" or "of course I need to go business class." At that time they are making a concrete decision for a concrete cost and benefit. While they are still a potential client, your "business class only" policy has unlimited upwards cost for unknown benefit. Once the project is underway, your "direct flight on airline X in business" request will cost $1000 and it's what is needed to have their valued consultant in the room. It's far more likely to be acceptable to them. If it's not acceptable to them, you will know how important it is to you, and can make your own business decision accordingly. 

Notice that many of the items are exactly the same. For women, they often are not. You have to decide about pants vs a dress, people care about the colours (a man can wear the same black suit to all suit occasions, a woman wearing a black dress to a wedding will be judged by some people to be wearing the wrong thing, ditto wearing a red dress to a funeral.) In addition, women's "date" clothing is often sexier and more "look at me!" than men's, making it inappropriate for use as business casual. But on top of all that, there's another item on the list for women that I call "dressing like a secretary." Probably you don't have secretaries in your office these days, but the slot still exists: a young single woman who dresses very differently from those who do the billable work (be they lawyers, programmers, accountants, engineers or whatever.) Rightly or wrongly they are often perceived to be looking for a life partner and/or to be "set dressing" to look good for visitors, like having luxurious furniture. There is no male equivalent of this that I can see. It's really important to consider the possibility, when being told to dress "professionally", that you're being told not to look like office decoration. This just isn't an issue for men. Personally, I don't care for fashion at all and wear clothes entirely for functional reasons. I have a large collection of black "dress pants" and single-colour blouses, and I pair them up for everything except the first two bullets above. I have an enormous quantity of free Tshirts from conferences, SE sites etc and I wear those with lightweight and light coloured pants in those first two cases. But if you love clothes and love experimenting with your looks, the place to do it is for your weekends and evenings. At the office, choose things that set the tone you want to set, which should be the same tone the other professionals are setting. 

If there is a widespread fraud (which is exactly what is happening here from how you describe it) then eventually one of your clients will figure it out, and the will subpoena anyone that works on these projects. I would personally seek legal counsel at this point. You sound like you're in a bit of a legal situation that needs the guidance of a professional that you can talk freely to and that can help guide you through this. 

When you run out of items and still have time tell your boss you're gifting him X minutes of his day back. Managers shouldn't be doing 1:1's to fill time they should be doing them to give and receive feedback to/from an employee. You should be using this time as a means to getting a promotion. This is the time you use for your manager to mentor you and help you gain that role you want. If you're a developer, and want to be a developer lead, you should ask your manager for mentorship on leadership topics. I'd also propose a bi-weekly meeting of 1 hour or weekly meeting of 1/2 an hour. This is also a great time to bring up any issues you're having with tasks. If you have a task due in 2 weeks for instance, and you are running into a block of some type this is the time to bring it up with your boss. This is also a good time to go over any HR type stuff with your manager if you have anything. As an employee or manager I've always loved when 1:1's are shorter than their allotted time. I definitely could always use an extra 15 minutes even if it's just to pee. 

One thing to keep in mind is that in the context of the show, the person is not asking their employees personal questions. They are pretending to be a peer (or less than a peer) of the person they are talking to. That is, although we hear the CEO ask the assistant manager a very personal and intrusive question, which would be awkward, the assistant manager hears the new person, typically presented as someone who is "starting over" at some entry-level job while being much older than is typical for such a job, asking questions of their new boss, or of their more senior coworker. There is a good chance that the "new person" revealed some personal details of their own before asking. Consider "I sure hope I work out ok in this job. My kids are teenagers and I really need to be making money so they will be ok. Do you have kids?" The show can edit out this leading question and we just see "do you have kids?" - and then the revealing answer from the assistant manager. And finally, if the "new person" tries to have a personal conversation with someone who doesn't reveal personal details about themselves, that person will not get the "lottery win" at the end of the show where the CEO sets up a college fund for the kids or provides the down payment for a house so the wheelchair-bound mother can live with the manager or whatever. Not everyone the undercover boss interacts with gets that sort of thing. 

Proper leadership requires regular feedback to employees. Whether that's weekly, bi weekly, or monthly. This doesn't include yearly evaluations. During this time managers should be setting SMART goals (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, Timely). When I was a manager this was handled with a notebook containing all my direct reports' biweekly forms we filled out for them, which I then used for their yearly evaluations. It doesn't have to be anything specific. But at the very least managers should be meeting with employees on a monthly basis to go over this type of stuff. The weekly/biweekly/monthly reviews are for short term things. Discuss just the previous x time. The yearly evaluation is more serious, longer, more detailed, and is used for things like promotions and transfers. IMO any company of any size should be doing this, whether you have 5 employees all together or 500,000 A lot of the stuff discussed in these meetings can be also handled in standups and retrospectives but the individual meetings shouldn't be skipped as that's the time managers should be using to mentor their direct reports and helping them achieve both their goals and the company's goals. There's tons of software out there. You could write your own. OR you can use paper. How you do it doesn't matter so much as doing it. Our bi weekly forms had specific KPI's that showed the previous period's numbers, the goal, the current periods numbers, and next periods goal. There was a section for managers to put their feedback down. And for employees to put their response and feedback down as well. As well as a section for the action plan. Our yearly evaluation was 2 parts. A self evaluation. And one done by your manager that included their responses to your self evaluation. You always give the employee an opportunity to say in their own words how they feel they did for the period especially for yearly evaluations. This way they can highlight some things to you and you as a manager don't forget the biggest thing they did that year (the employee will bring it up in their portion). It's always a good idea to include both what was done well and what needs improvement, both in the managers and the employees words. Edit: Larger companies do them more to be able to trim the fat when they need to lower numbers. There's some companies that straight up fire the bottom X percent of the company. I don't really like that second approach as I feel that someone that needs to be fired should be fired long before a yearly review. That's one of the big reasons for regular shorter periods of reviews. Yearly reviews should also generally be reviewed by the managers manager as a sort of checks and balances role.