Am I overdoing this? Yes Is doing pushups just not an effective compound exercise? It's a compound exercise but only in 1 direction. Your plan will lead you to: 

Stretches By completing the exercises above to full range-of-motion. You will end up gaining a good degree of flexability. However, there are a vast playground of stretches you can do. It is a little open ended to say you want to stretch your "back and legs" so I would recommend googling "Stretch for {activity}" i.e. Stretch for touching toes 

Poortmans JR, Dellalieux O Do regular high protein diets have potential health risks on kidney function in athletes . Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. (2000) Beasley JM, et al Higher biomarker-calibrated protein intake is not associated with impaired renal function in postmenopausal women . J Nutr. (2011) Knight EL, et al The impact of protein intake on renal function decline in women with normal renal function or mild renal insufficiency . Ann Intern Med. (2003) Brändle E, Sieberth HG, Hautmann RE Effect of chronic dietary protein intake on the renal function in healthy subjects . Eur J Clin Nutr. (1996) King AJ, Levey AS Dietary protein and renal function . J Am Soc Nephrol. (1993) Dietary protein intake and renal function Wakefield AP, et al A diet with 35% of energy from protein leads to kidney damage in female Sprague-Dawley rats . Br J Nutr. (2011) Aparicio VA, et al Effects of high-whey-protein intake and resistance training on renal, bone and metabolic parameters in rats . Br J Nutr. (2011) Frank H, et al Effect of short-term high-protein compared with normal-protein diets on renal hemodynamics and associated variables in healthy young men . Am J Clin Nutr. (2009) Wiegmann TB, et al Controlled changes in chronic dietary protein intake do not change glomerular filtration rate . Am J Kidney Dis. (1990) Levey AS, et al Effects of dietary protein restriction on the progression of advanced renal disease in the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study . Am J Kidney Dis. (1996) [No authors listed Effects of dietary protein restriction on the progression of moderate renal disease in the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study . J Am Soc Nephrol. (1996) von Herrath D, et al Glomerular filtration rate in response to an acute protein load . Blood Purif. (1988) Bosch JP, et al Renal functional reserve in humans. Effect of protein intake on glomerular filtration rate . Am J Med. (1983) Skelton LA, Boron WF, Zhou Y Acid-base transport by the renal proximal tubule . J Nephrol. (2010) Yaqoob MM Acidosis and progression of chronic kidney disease . Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. (2010) Kraut JA, Madias NE Consequences and therapy of the metabolic acidosis of chronic kidney disease . Pediatr Nephrol. (2011) 

Its a bit fluffy and open to interpretation of the rules of SE so I'll answer but reserve the right to suggest this may be off-topic as its highly personal. We also have very similar numbers but slightly different priority on goals because I only care about strength, perfecting Olympic lifts and conditioning. You have pretty solid powerlifting goals and its clear your lower-half is much stronger than your upper body. Maintaining a slow-bulk should allow you to meet your stretch goals. 5x5 Stronglifts is good for those who don't squat and have tiny legs, I don't recommend it. You have a good base so I'd recommend you either change over to any of the following linear programes: 

To improve your OHP do more volume of OHP. Trust the 5x5 program and add accessories but not to the detriment of your main lifts, dips and chins are fine. For accessory work after 5x5 consider the PHUL program which will prescribe you those exercises. Texas Method or 5/3/1 is usually the go-to for strength, for aesthetics consider Jacked & Tan 2.0 or PHUL/PHAT. 

*percent daily values are based on a 2000 calorie diet (averaged over different types of whole milk) Lots of protein, lots of calories, does the same thing mass gainer does at a fraction of the cost. 

"however I am lifting heavy weight and also doing lots of push ups" Lets have a look at the movements that would help with being able to achieve a pull up: 

If you want to do this route, I strongly suggest that you use a tour operator. They know the area, weather, locals and will make your trip very safe. Based on a popular pilgrimage tour operator the route takes 3 days. $URL$ Some Tibetans will make the whole 32 mile (52 km) circuit in a single long day (like 14 hours), but it is common for visitors to take three days, with this basic itinerary: 

Will I maintain my sets x reps? If you achieve AxB sets x reps on an exercise and keep at the same reps and weight but do it every week you will get good at doing that exercise. It will become easier and your body will adapt. You won't gain any significant muscle but you will most likely maintain your current physique (based on your regime). How can I reduce my training time? Put more compound exercises in and reduce isolation exercises. Madcow 5x5 could work, for example: day 1: 5x5 Squat (heavy) + 5x5 Bench (heavy) + 5x5 Barbell Row (heavy) day 2: 6x5 Squat (light) + 5x5 Military Press (heavy) + 5x5 Deadlift (heavy) day 3: 5x5 Squat (heavy) + 5x5 Bench (heavy) + 5x5 Barbell Row (heavy) What are best strategies to recover to the same ability I had before break after I start exercising again? Deload weight by 60%, a month break is a lot. Use a linear progression program to get back to your original ability. 

Is my metabolism super fast? Actually, it's probably not. Excluding rare and serious metabolic conditions, which should be diagnosed by a doctor, people's metabolisms tend to be within 200-300 calories of each other. A review article of 67 scientific studies found that "when adjusted for differences in fat-free mass, resting energy expenditure values in obese and nonobese individuals tend to be comparable" and that there is "no association of baseline resting energy expenditure with weight change among 775 men during a 10-year period". The review draws the conclusion that "Regarding metabolic factors, available data indicate that although there are variations in resting energy expenditure and in the thermic effect of food, there is little evidence that these variations contribute significantly to the observed trends in weight gain." You aren't eating enough. Eat more. You need to have a frank discussion with your family about nutrition. Tell them you need larger portions of lean meat and veg to help you recover from your exercise (assuming you are exercising because you enjoy it). Intermittent fasting is a diet plan for reducing weight. A cheaper option is whole milk. A gallon of milk a day will definitely lead to weight gain (muscle gain if paired with exercise). Protein Powder may help but they are SUPPLIMENTS, you should know what your macronutrient breakdown is and where your nutritional gaps are before using them. 

I think you may have Thoracic Kyphosis/Forward Head ("Computer Guy" Hunchback): Upper cross syndrome is another posture issue caused by sitting while hunching forward (at a computer, over books, etc). The pectorals and the upper back/next tend to be tight, while the scapular muscles (shoulder blades) and neck flexors tend to be weak. This reddit post has excellent information on why you're doing different exercises, but many of the links have degraded. This pdf demonstrates how to do the specific exercises mentioned (skip to page 4 for the specifics for this section, although all of the stretches are good). For more information, see ExRx on Common Postural Deficiencies Source: reddit.com 

Background/Qualification: I'm 5ft 5in, 25 years old and I have a 3 plate, 3 rep squat maximum (3 reps @ 140kg/315lb) at 75kg bodyweight. My thighs/quads are BIG, if i'm standing straight with my legs together then my quads are wider overall than both my waist and hips. I don't know anyone my age and height with legs comparable to mine (who isn't obese/powerlifter), i'm hovering at around 17-20% bf (estimated). If you want big thighs then you need to eat big and squat big. I can guarantee you aren't eating enough. Provided you are starting lean (<20%bf) and have the ability to eat around 3000 calories a day and workout for a hour and a half 3 times a week then you are all set: To improve your muscle size, you need a equivalent to a barbell program. Grab a piece of scaffold and tie on some water jugs or grab a heavy object and do front squats. The key is that you need something you can add a small amount of weight to every time you work out: 

You are making your biceps bigger through muscle development. The length of your upper-arm is the same, determined by your bone size, genetics. Hanging only will make your arms temporarily longer (by 1 inch at most) due to the joints being streached. Your arms will quickly return to their normal length. 

Muscles contract when they do work. If you contract your bicep you perform a pulling motion, for triceps it is a pushing. For a punch you will be pushing, so triceps. However, chest/pectoral strength plays a important part in the pushing motion of a punch. 

Maintaining Weight Loss: Who is the biggest loser? Introduction There is a lot to consider when examining the impact of changing lifestyle in the short or long term with the goal of losing weight. In my answer I will compare the findings of the longitudinal study of TBL against similar clinical trials that assess the success of long term weight loss and its attbutation to changes in basic metabolic rate (BMR). This question focuses on the use of the TV show “The Biggest Loser” (TBL) which debut in October 2004. In the show, obese, contestants compete to win a significant cash prize by losing the highest percentage of weight relative to their initial weight (Wikipedia, 2016). TBL: Weight loss regimen: Risks and Criticism First, to fully understand what is happening to the bodies and minds of the contestants in TBL prior to finishing the show, I will explore some of the criticisms of TBL over its broadcast history. The show starts with a disclaimer, which states: 

I believe you are looking to break down a 10km run into intervals that are suitable for helping you develop anerobic fitness for competing. Hopefully you understand that to improve at X activity, the common advice is to DO X activity A LOT. However, progression through intervals can be beneficial for a variety of reasons. The Main types I am aware of: Heart Rate: Limited and changed by your heart rate, this can vary enormously and be a little fiddly to execute: 

Are those tips in the picture correct (scientifically ) ? Yes, they still hold true. What about the rest days that plays an important role in building muscles ? Rest days are when your muscle mostly does its growing(/repairing) On the other hand, if this is not the convenient training way, what is the optimal sets-reps programs in order to get muscles mass , and how many times should one practice a week ? Depends on you, your goals and your movements. If you are focusing on building mass then more volume (5-6 days a week) traditionally is popular. For those training strength, 3-4 times a week is popular. Avoid training 7 days a week, you need to rest at least 1 day. 

Note: This explanation does not concern itself with body health, wellbeing, the ability to follow/sustain the diet short/long term, impact to nervous system or the psychological impact of satiety that meat-centric diets can offer. It only concerns itself with the imaginary scenario of two identical subjects following the same total calorie diet but with macro-nutritional differences. 

Finally, relax! Do what you enjoy and don't worry about others. Only measure success against your own achievements. Set some goals and work towards them. 

What happens if I reach a limit? What if I fail to get 5 reps What if I keep failing at the same weight You will probably reach your 5x5 limit on OHP quickly, the program tells you to deload and move to 3x5 after 3-4 sessions of failure. The website has all the information on deloading. Essentially though, yes, you will reach a point of doing the same weight while your other lifts increase. I maxed out my 1x5 deadlift at 135kg and squat at 100kg but my 1x5 OHP had stalled and stopped weeks before. Can I exercise on rest days? Mehdi advices not to exercise on rest days. Once the weights get towards your 1RM you will absolutely need those days to rest. I just graduated off the programme and am very happy with my noob gains and progress on my form. I feel stronger as a result and would recommend it again, that is for sure. 

Those weights put you around 60-70kg for your 1 rep max. Try loading up the lat-pulldown with your bodyweight and try completing the exercise. To complete a pull up you want to work from an "active hang". hang relaxed from the bar and then firm your abs and pull your lats down and back. Try to bend the ends of the bar away from yourself and squeeze your lats to give yourself some movement off the dead-hang position. Relax and repeat for reps. You want to always pull-up from this active hang. Here is a great progression for how to move from leg assisted, jack-knife, cccentric, half and then full pull-ups: $URL$ 

1. Unfamiliar Terrain Navigation To train for navigation a good practice would be to get a crudely drawn map of an areas landmarks (hand drawn/public information map). Buy the ordinance survey of the area and try to navigate off-path around a route of all parts. An event like Ten Tors (but for adults) is ideal for practicing this skill. Hit up your local rambling/hill-walking group or local outdoors shop for some help in finding events to practice at. Fortunately the route is reasonably well travelled and so you should not have a huge amount of difficulty staying on path. 2. Height above sea level The route at the mountain is in the region of 4-5000m above sea level. At this height it is recommended that walkers (anywhere in the world) carry oxygen tanks. In addition to a few days acclimatization as you make your way to the mountain you should definitely try and get some exposure to walking at height. This can be done anywhere there is a mountain or hilly range. You want to aim to get as much time walking at close to 5000m as you can, ideally with a mountain leader for support and advice. Plan a couple 3 day walks at heights 2, 3, 4/5km above sea level on different weekends. Keep the distance short but the exposure high. 

As you rightly asserted, there is a high quantity of saturated fat this is due to the high level of coconut oil, The FDA, WHO, ICoN, DHHS, ADA, AHA, British NHS, and DoC recommend against consuming in significant amounts due to its high levels of saturated fat. However, the effects of coconut oil aren't insignificant. Examine.com highlights that the main reasons that coconut oil is consumed: