There is a strong case to be made that Wittgenstein did not hold any 'anti-essentialism', for in PI he clearly rejects metaphysics (eg see here). In any case, it would be quite wrong to think that games or gameness determines the 'essence' of language. Read on in PI and you will see a game is for Wittgenstein a 'family resemblance' concept. There is no essence of a game, but many overlapping features with no sharp edges (see $URL$ PI 69: 

Christopher Norris, in his book Quantum Theory and the Flight from Realism, draws some parallels between the 'many worlds' QM theory as presented by David Deutsch, and the possible worlds theory of David Lewis: 

Kripke is discussing section 193 of Philosophical Investigations, where Wittgenstein draws a distinction between a machine as an idealized symbol of a rule-following or law-governed mechanism, and a machine as a real object whose behaviours and operations are subject to failure. Wittgenstein here was particularly concerned with trying to shed light on the concept of rule-following, the idea that following a rule means we somehow grasp all the infinite instances of behavior that could be thought to be in accord with the rule. He was saying that the instances are not mysteriously contained 'in' the rule, but rather the idea of a rule is an idealization and to be understood as more like a general ability represented by specific behaviors than an infinite number of possible occurrences. This could apply to functionalism, one of the traditional tenets of which is that dispositions to behavior are encoded in actual brain states. (It is possible that forms of functionalism can be characterized without reference to brain states, but I do not know of anyone who has actually suggested this). That is to suggest there are actual states in the brain which encode or contain 'in' them an infinite number of possible behavioral outputs. This is the same basic error as thinking of rules as mysteriously 'containing' their instances. Naturally, Wittgenstein does not himself mention functionalism, which originated after his death. Hilary Putnam, more influenced by logical positivism than the later Wittgenstein, was its chief advocate, though he himself later abandoned it. Kripke's discussion of Wittgenstein on rule-following is notoriously idiosyncratic, and seems overly concerned with reading into W a 'skeptical' method, a reading which has been very controversial. For an alternative, detailed analysis of W on rule following, Baker and Hacker's Language, Rules and Necessity remains the locus classicus. 

Since you probably do not have a very good working definition of God you are probably going to have to come up with your own tentative idea. Then the question is whether you think there is something tangible that could be anything near your idea. If you think there is anything that could distinguish itself beyond neutral meaninglessness then you should probably incline to pragmatic theism, manifesting as continued search or hope for understanding/inspiration. 

By way of a solution to the undoubted problems of capitalism, an amusing article for the recoding of capitalism has appeared on Wikipedia. Really just along the lines of corporate social responsibility, with full holistic considerations. Wiki - Criticism of Criticisms of Capitalism Note 116 - selected quotes from the PDF 

The idea is summed up nicely in the Lankavatara Sutra. In the following quote, the 'real world' is not discounted; just subjective reality is called illusion, because it is prone to error and manipulation. Nevertheless, how could the 'real world' be known, except to say something has furnished the material (matter and minds) for subjective, illusory perception. 

An observer can see events in their past light cone, and signal to events in their future light cone. Spacetime outside the light cones, termed 'spacelike', is unobservable, yet there still exist the hypersurface of simultaneity, which is the present. 

Summary The defining feature of modern presentism is: (i) the world exists only at the constantly changing present moment (past and future do not exist). The OP concludes: 

I believe the soil in question is translated elsewhere as 'ground', and is described in Heidegger's 1929 treatise "On the Essence of Ground". And no, I don't think he intends any reference to the greek circular notion of time. Attaching a couple of quotes from the beginning and near the end of the above mentioned essay (only 39 pages in its entirety), to give a flavour of the concepts under discussion :- 

A Buddhist Bible, page 49 As for using "intuition to grasp what reality actually is", this is indeed all you have to go on. You can never be sure at which point you may be completely mistaken about something, but you can take a punt. Still it's a shot in the dark and you might be wrong. 

As you already wrote, MR doesn't specifically contest Identity Theory. The two concepts are contrary, however. Type-Identity theory is just another way of saying that there must be, for each and every unique mental state, an equally unique brain state, and vice-versa. Without an exact, physical copy of some brain state, the mental state that obtains will be different. MR claims the opposite, that different mental states can be instantiated by the same brain-state. If one is false, then the other is true. Hence, the argument against type-identity theories supports MR. The original arguments are recorded in the SEP on Multiple Realizability. 

The denial of u1's antecedent, "if you study, you will graduate" is certainly not implied. However, using u2's construction in english often (not always) indicates that the exact same word to be taken in a stronger sense. Rather than "if not", we read this stronger sense as "if and only if not". To illustrate, rewriting both examples to use the more familiar logical indicators results in the following clauses: 

You've an interesting line of thought in that we could have "identity by degree", but it's a little misleading with respect to Parfit. In part III of his book Reasons and Persons he offers a series of thought experiments, mostly aimed at untangling Identity from Survival. He goes so far as to write that in the case of duplication, you survive as two people, but the further question of identity - "which you is you" - is an empty question, and meaningless. I take by your mention of "multiple-identity" you're familiar with all that, but it bears repeating. Part of the problem we have is equating subjectivity with identity, but that's wrong, and disastrously so. One subjective perspective isn't the same from one moment to the next in the same person, leaving us with either 

In the spirit of providing an answer to your question rather than adding to the pile of everyone's favorite philosophically-minded movies, please a take a moment to review The Cognitive Science Movie Index. Although the aim is CogSci and not philosophy specifically, it could be argued that all cinema is anyway always already a reflection of philosophy. Since you mentioned Waking Life specifically, and indicated your interest was directed more at movies with explicit or more immediately relevant themes and concepts, The Index will likely be right up your alley— Waking Life is included in the list as well, and there is a severe amount of overlap between the fields. The site was originally referred to me by Rob Goldstone at a conference on just such a crossover, regarding the concept of cognitive penetration. I'd recommend to anyone interested in this question, adding your own finds to the list and helping it grow. 

I would recommend the James Legge translation which can be found with notes here:- $URL$ and all on one page without notes here:- $URL$ Also on Sacred Books of The East, vol 39 (sbe39) is The Writings of Chuang Tzu, which in many places elucidates the Tâo Te Ching. There are various editions:- 

What do political philosophies aim for? Political philosophy is encompassed by Critical Theory. $URL$ 

The defining feature of special relativity is that the universe is not three-dimensional, so pre-relativistic presentism is incorrect. Simultaneity and the present are not extinguished though. For example, observers (O & O`) moving in different frames can see equidistant events (e.g. A) simultaneously, as illustrated in the diagram below. Their movement is actually irrelevant. 

You state that you doubt so let's begin with "dubito, ergo cogito, ergo sum" -- "I doubt, therefore I think, therefore I exist", by which you can establish that your existence is true. Now you can consider that your perceptions -- forgoing any interpretation by yourself -- are true perceptions (neural stimulii at least). In this way you can build up a contingent reality. It is contingent upon interpretations that you know may be mistaken. Nevertheless you have a kernel of real truth at the centre at least. Further structures of truth/reason in your world depend on how well you trust your reasoning. 

No, the concept of evil does not impinge on atheist philosophy. In a non-religious context evil can be regarded as originating from, for example, psychopathy, sadism, pathological narcissism. Furthermore, where leadership is psychopathic and/or paranoid conformity and authoritarianism can cause evil - or pathological disfunction - to spread into wider society, (since those not conforming to the pathological worldview would be endangered). 

Derrida analysed and developed Freud's theories in The Postcard, specifically in the essay To Speculate--on "Freud", an extended commentary on Beyond the Pleasure Principle. Freud published Beyond the Pleasure Principal in 1920, shortly after World War I. Mankind going to war contradicted his Pleasure Principle, so he proposed the Death Drive. As it were, an opposing drive. In fact, the answer lay deeper and connected with his other observations on the repetition compulsion. As Derrida observes, the root of the repetition compulsion is a deep desire to understand problems. (The relief/pleasure of solving them links to the Nirvana principle.) People are drawn to repeat what they do not understand. It is part of the mechanism that enables a person to master their environment - an essential for survival. Tenacity and problem solving can spill over into OCD because the drive is deep and not primarily conscious. E.g. the unputdownable crossword puzzle. Mastery can make a person able to flourish and build, but then again it can lead to invasion and plunder. Historically, and in uncivilised times, this is survival of the fittest. The primary drive for Mastery aligns with the most basic evolutionary principle. The pleasure principle is not opposed to mastery, however it is subservient to it, in the same way as the pleasure principal is subservient to the Reality Principle. The Reality Principle differs from the drive for mastery in that is it more conscious and deliberative. The death drive is one name for the drive for mastery. Another would be the war drive, or contrastingly, the civilisation-building drive / culture-building drive. It is only because it is more complex than the pleasure principle that is can appear to oppose it, for example when it provokes war, or simply when the unputdownable crossword puzzle drives you to distinctly unpleasureable distraction. 

1.12. "Then, the totality of all facts determines what the case is and also, what isn't the case." 1.13. "The facts in scope of logic are the world." 

Most of us are familiar with the Straw Man fallacy, and its sister the Principle of Charity. There's a rhetorical device which runs the opposite way, though, where (e.g.) Alice may claim that arguments made against her positions by Bob in fact misrepresent her opinions and positions, but Alice offers no additional clarification. I could offer an example, but I think you all know what I'm talking about. What Alice's device (apparently) seeks to do, is something enough like moving the goalposts that it could be confused with that tactic. But her charge of misrepresentation by Bob as a defense is, I think, different in kind. This device can be distinguished by its attempt to complain that the Bob is arguing in bad faith. Which could be construed as a particularly insidious ad hominem against Bob (discrediting the arguer), but is nonetheless harder to parry, in that Bob is obliged to demonstrate that he is not hanging the Straw Man, but instead the Steel Man. What I'd like to know is if this rhetorical device has already been classified. Considering how ubiquitous it is, suggestions for a telling appellation would be useful, if none exist. 

That point of conversion from amoral agent to moral agent is not clearly defined, and may be intrinsically vague. You might start by asking, "does moral agency have clear existential borders, or can it exist as a matter of degree?" It's been pointed out before that we should not seek to do philosophy here on Philosophy.SE, so rather than engage in a conversation on the topic I'll just refer you to the sources on the subject. Jean Piaget is probably the best person to start with on the subject of childhood development and morality. If you can dig up any of his papers, many of them begin with this very topic. For a general review of childhood as a philosophical status, try the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.