I'd skip the Y. pestis route, frankly. Instead, there's a much more interesting possibility: diphtheria. Diphtheria by itself is serious, but not particularly lethal, and it has the dual advantage of being naturally airborne, and producing a certain percentage of asymptomatic carriers. Where the story gets interesting is the result of infection by the Beta phage. This virus inserts a gene into the diphtheria bacillus which causes the bacillus to begin producing an extremely potent toxin, and this is what kills most diphtheria fatalities. So the development process would be two-fold. First, modify diphtheria enough that it no longer is controlled by diphtheria vaccine (call it pseudo-diphtheria), making it possible to spread in the population. If you can also modify it to increase the percentage of asymptomatic carriers, that's a big bonus. The other prong is the modification of the Beta phage to produce (obviously enough from a literary standpoint) the Omega phage. The Omega phage will induce the pseudo-diphtheria to produce a different kind of toxin. This toxin will selectively attack the aggression inhibition neurons in the hypothalamus (see $URL$ Exactly how this will occur is left as an exercise for the writer. Oh, and I'd suggest that you rethink your 2-day incubation time. The longer the incubation, the better the chances of wide dissemination, as it muddies the epidemiological trail. With a short incubation it's easier to trace the spread of the illness, and easier to set up quarantine procedures. There's a tradeoff there - if the incubation time is too long, research on the first wave of maniacs will allow development of a vaccine before the spread becomes overwhelming. But I'd suggest that 2 days is too short. 

Two main results. 1) No magnetic field. Without radioactive decay to keep the interior hot, after a few 10s of millions of years the core of the earth will become "frozen", that is, no longer liquid. With a solid core there will be no currents to flow and produce a magnetic field. This will mean no shielding from solar radiation. Also, no northern (or southern) lights. Say goodbye to the ozone layer, too. 2) No plate tectonics. With the core solid, the mantle will become likewise solid. This means no volcanoes and no mountain-building. Once a mountain gets eroded (which will take a few 10s to 100s of millions of years), no replacement will get pushed up. It is useful to compare the volume of the world's oceans with the volume of the land above sea level. Ocean volume is about 1335 million cubic kilometers. The total land area is about 149 million square kilometers, with an average height of about 840 meters, for a total volume of 125 million cubic kilometers. As result, erosion would ultimately sweep all of the land into the sea. The earth would be a water world, with only coral reefs providing dry land, except for the occasional ring walls thrown up by major asteroid impacts. This reef area might be quite large, since I suspect that, once a landmass was under water the erosion processes carrying silt into the abyssal deeps would be quite slow. Nevertheless, there will be no mountains, and probably no relief greater than 10 meters. 

It's certain physically feasible. The Egyptians had (by trial and error) discovered the angle of repose, and knew enough about the angles to ensure that such a pyramid would not have crumbled. Since there are any number of mountains higher than the proposed 6575 feet, it's clear that the material strength of the rocks used would not be exceeded. There is no obvious reason to think that the construction techniques used for Giza could not be scaled up to a larger pyramid. The size of the stone blocks would not change, and the transport mechanisms would have worked just as well. 6500 feet of elevation is not enough to require oxygen or anything similar for the workers, so that's not a problem. Would an ancient pyramid that size be possible? If by possible you mean would anybody build it? Nope. It's simply too big, so it would take to long to complete. Let's start by assuming it's the Giza pyramid on steroids. 14 times taller, and proportionally wider. The problem is that its volume is $14^3$ or more than 2700 times greater. Giza took somewhere between 10 and 20 years to build, so an estimate of at least 1000 years seems reasonable. However, the Egyptian pyramids were not monuments to some abstract deity, unlike the cathedrals of Europe, which often took a century to build. Instead, each was a monument to an individual god-king, and it was imperative that it be constructed during his lifetime. No god-king would bother starting such a project, since only his successors would eventually be honored when the pyramid was completed. 

I think you've pretty much covered it: 1) it can think - Grass can't think. 2)it colonizes every surface on its home world - Grass only grows in sunny, non-desert, non-polar conditions. 3) it has the option to perform chemosynthesis - Grass can't do that. 4) its parts can transfer information between its members. - Grass can't transfer information. 

And who, pray tell, is running the power plants and shipping the fuel required to run them? Who is maintaining the the water systems? If everyone is operating on a "friends and family first" basis, that's not nearly enough people to provide the service outside the areas they control. So the overall answer to your question 

You have the right idea, but misplaced. All that is required is that the island be the peak of a seamount which rises steeply from the ocean bottom. Tsunamis in open ocean have little amplitude (ships hardly notice them), but extremely long wavelengths. When these approach a shallow, sloping coast the water in the fromt of the wave starts to slow down, and the rear part catches up, the velocity of the wave increases and water starts piling up into a much higher, shorter wave. Coasts with a steep underwater approach simply don't get the "tidal wave" effect. Another way to look at it is that, since a shallow approach produces a short, high, fast wave, the wave has no chance to move laterally around an obstacle, and tries to go over it. A longer, slower wave has the time to be deflected around an obstacle without much amplitude increase. EDIT - In comment, the question was asked, "what do you mean by "the velocity of the wave increases", and a response will be too long for a comment, so I add it here. The short version is that I misspoke - the velocity does not increase. As the wave propagates into shallower water, it loses velocity (proportional to the square root of water depth), and gets higher. As its height increases, though, at some point the wave shape changes from being part of a wave system to that of a solitary wave - basically, once the wave trough touches the sea bed the behavior of the wave changes radically. I misspoke in saying that the wave speeds up. It does not. What I meant was that the higher the wave, the faster it propagates once it becomes a solitary wave. It may help to consider that a wave is in constant collapse, as the weight of the total wave causes the lower sections of the wave to squirt forward. The higher the wave the greater the pressure and the faster the base of the wave moves - and the dynamics of the wave as a whole keep the upper section in place, although the actual water molecules are constantly recycling their positions within the wave. And, of course, at this point the wave will begin dissipating as it travels inland. If you ever watch one of those documentaries about the crazies who surf the Condition Black (40 and 50 foot) waves in Hawaii, you'll notice that all those surfers get carried out on jet skis and start their runs behind the jet skis. That is, they don't get dropped off, stationary, at the base of the wave. There's a good reason for this. If they are stationary in the water, the wave moves so fast they they can't accelerate fast enough to keep up with the surfable portion of the wave face, and will either fall down the vertical portion or get left behind by the wave, depending on the exact shape of the wave. Mostly, they fall down the face and get driven under. 

No one has the faintest idea. It's obviously possible (or we wouldn't be here), but one sample does not give much more information than that, particularly in a possible sample space as large as the universe. And, of course, Fermi's Paradox ("If the development of intelligent life is statistically inevitable, where is everbody?") suggests that the odds may be bad for reasons of which we are unaware. As to the second version of your question, ALL evolutionary changes are accidents (barring the existence of an Intelligent Designer), so it's clear that there is no imperative driving a species towards intelligence. If it's clear that early stages of the pathways which produce intelligence are also strongly advantageous to a species' survival, then there will be strong evolutionary pressure (at a species level) to encourage (preserve) such developments, but there is a catch. If the early stages are strongly positive, later stages of development must also be positive with respect to these early stages, and the early stages might arguably lead to intense specialization in the species' ecological niche, which would tend to inhibit further development. So, for instance, if a species of anteaters becomes a fabulously successful hunter of ants due to its intelligence, as long as this lifestyle is adequate there will be little incentive to preserve developments in intelligence which do not aid in hunting ants. This suggests that "intelligence" as we define it will be most likely to arise in generalists/omnivores rather than specialists. It also suggests that intelligence is more likely to arise in prey species rather than top predators. Once we developed tools and weapons we became apex predators, but before that it seems to have been a different story, 

What you're asking for are meta-principles, or meta-laws, and those are fun. For an imaginary world you can specify whatever you like - as long as you abide by them. If you don't like the results, you can (as one strategy) produce an opposing set of principles, and have the two sets of principles locked in eternal conflict. But here's a possibility: Rupert Sheldrake's "morphic resonance". The existence of forms predisposes other forms to follow in the same pattern. If you posit the equivalence of "morphic noise", then new creatures will be approximately like the parents, but not necessarily exactly. Small differences, such as color, might be common, but the greater the deviation from existing forms the lower the probability of it occurring. Or try this: the language of the crystals limits the results of their creation, as a sort of magical proof of the Shapir-Whorf Hypothesis. And by language I don't mean a spoken (or even conceptualized) language, since the crystals are not sapient. It is common in literature to speak of "the language of rocks" or "the language of trees", so I'm more thinking of the patterns of behavior and underlying forces which cause the crystals to produce new creatures. This is, of course, pretty non-sensical from a materialistic viewpoint, but once you get into the realm of magic all that pettifoggery ceases to matter. 

1) First, they would wet their collective pants. 2) Having recovered from that, they would realize that there is nothing they can do. Among other things, all the larger countries are signatories to the Outer Space Treaty, which among other things prohibits any country from laying claim to the moon or any planet. With no country claiming the planets, no country can complain when the aliens do so. Furthermore, the ability to move the planets so as to combine them establishes that the aliens can squash us like bugs if we annoy them too much. Can you say "Orbital Kinetic Weapon"? Can you say "Dinosaur Killer"? I knew you could. 

An entertaining possibility has nothing to do with nutrition as such. Let's say that a vampire's energy requirements are supplied by all the components of plasma, as well as the structural proteins in red blood cells. Hemoglobin, however, also has euphoric effects as well as nutritional, and makes the vampire feel, well, very good indeed. This hemoglobin-induced psychological effect has evolved because it makes it easier to maintain feeding behavior on the humans which surround him, and which otherwise might engage his sympathies. After all, if vampires are a human subspecies they presumably maintain much of the social nature of the parent stock. In this case, frozen and thawed blood would have a more immediate effect than normal, since the ruptured red cells would not need to be metabolized to release hemoglobin, and the result would be an enhanced, briefer rush. Sort of like the difference between cocaine and crack. 

There's no best way, just as there is no best world and no best story. Generally, people want to build worlds in order to tell a story. What sort of story do you want to tell? I can think of at least three categories of story, which depend on the level of particularity you desire. The most general would be something like, "I want to explore a world which is 90% water, with wind-powered ships sailing between the islands." Right. Now you need to start from the top and work your way down. You really ought to think about weather patterns in the absence of large landmasses (storms with large fetches will likely get ferocious), just how big the islands are going to be (a few large ones or a whole bunch of little ones), and how shallow the oceans are. Umm, and anything else you can think of. From here you can start thinking about ecologies. Move on to creating your society. At the lowest level, "I see a young woman, cast on her own resources by the death of her parents, making her way in the world." This, of course, mandates an entirely new set of priorities. Her society is what counts, and from that you start creating the tech level (low tech levels imply low agricultural efficiency, and most people live on the farm - just an example) to support your society. Of course, even a low tech level can have decent-sized cities (Rome, for instance) and you can take advantage of that. From there you fill in the physical aspects of the world, but these are less critical to your story (most of the time - but watch it). In between, you might start with the society, and use individuals to illustrate it, "I see an egalitarian utopia, current tech levels, under threat by primitive invaders." Here the society (in the sense of the collective function, more than social interaction) takes center stage, and things like planet-building become less important. With that said, it's easy to get things wrong. On the functioning of medieval societies, Poul Anderson's On Thud and Blunder is instructive. There are other articles out there on various aspects of world-building. With that said, paying too much attention up front to the world is not necessarily a great idea. Most stories are about individuals, and to some degree you can always come up with details that support your story. Getting too picky about the setting rather than the characters is not a sign of a good story. Plus, of course, there's the matter of style. If you can get the reader invested in the characters early, and you keep the story interesting, you can get away with a lot. It's called "suspension of disbelief". You have to be careful not to drop some howler into the plot which breaks that disbelief, but that's a matter (as I say) of style. Finally, of course, there's magic. With magic you can do pretty much anything to your world and (again, it's a matter of style) get away with it. If you want to do this, I recommend reading older fantasy for inspiration. The current fashion in magic is peculiarly constrained and mechanistic, and often worries about things like energy flow and sources. Trust me, this is a terribly limited view of how people can conceive of magic. Prior to, let's say, the last 20 to 30 years magic was commonly written about in much more powerful terms.