Historically, text was basically the only practical medium available to record and transmit. But in the real world to today, that's no longer true; audio is becoming increasingly available for this purpose. And there is a culture readily embracing this; I'm honestly mystified by how often it seems that peoples' first choice for delivering a sequence of words is via a video of someone reciting them rather than written text. Audio is also becoming increasingly available as an input medium as well; e.g. verbally asking your google assistant to perform a search, rather than typing things into a text box. So, a possible path towards a loss of the written word is to exaggerate these phenomena: 

Firstly, I don't think your humanoid creatures would have troubles with predatory arthropods larger than 1cm by the fact that they'd be just too small to be viable prey - which cuts down the size of the enemy they'd likely be facing. A five centimetre tarantula, for example, has fangs much too broad to cause any damage to a 0.2mm creature. To the tarantula these may as well be parasites. Assuming they are warm-blooded and potentially mammalian, your creatures could live in a cold climate where arthropods would be slowed by the low temperature. They would likely build into a defensive structure such as a rock wall or earth, much like ants, where they are able to control the access points and the temperature of their dwelling. An alternative option is to become a parasitic host to a large mammal, such as a dog or a cow, where they can live in relative warmth within the fur of the creature and even harvest its blood/flesh for food. By tying the hair into barriers and shaving large clearings of hair around their safe area, they can create barriers to other parasites. Another alternative would be to dig a burrow into a narrow tree where they can set up splinter barriers against things climbing up - or down - the bough of the tree. Keep in mind that the biggest enemy to your creatures is not predators, but the environment. Sudden changes in temperature, flooding (a small population can drown in a single drop of water) or fire would be enough to kill a population that would fill a small country. Finally, addressing the most core of your question - if they have access to spider silk it is most likely that they would set up a series of complicated webs to trap and hinder any arthropods that would trespass on their territory - though setting up such an area would be a massive undertaking for a people so small. 

I have to disagree with the others here, yes it is right that the mass would be cubed while the power would be squared, however, strength isn't usually the reason for the speed limit of animals (humans included), instead it is the inefficiency of our limbs at these speeds. For example if you run 20 km/h your foot is pulled forward 40 km/h slowed down set on the ground while propelled backwards until it is 20 km/h slower than you and 0 km/h to ground, than again accelerated forward to 40 km/h. If you size everything up three times, you would be acceleration a 27 times bigger mass with 9 times the power, BUT you would have to do it only once per 3 times a normal creature has to do, making it actually pretty even. Even better, you have 3 times as much time and space to accelerate your feet. In the end the heart and bones would be a much bigger factor in the top speed than the up sized mass, because the biggest problem for such kind of creatures would be to keep their bones intact and circulations running. (The heart would have a hard time to keep the blood flowing). So if you just say the bones are much more durable than ours, the top speed would come down to their hearts abilities to provide oxygen for the muscles, and you would end up with something like elephants. relative fast (about three times as fast as we) walking speeds but lack of the ability to run. In that scenario every creature would be about three times faster while trotting and walking, but just barely, if even, faster than we are when at max speed. If you also presume the heart can provide the oxygen and the muscles can catch the impact when landing, the limit would be a good amount higher, not three times because wind resistance would become a problem at speeds over 60 km/h but they would be about two times faster. 

Remember, your valley could be wider and narrower in places, riddled with caves and be a tangled, winding shape as is natural for gullys cut by rivers. If this were the case, it could easily fit within the silhouette of the UK. In actuality, this would not be such a stretch of the imagination and could, potentially, exist were Antarctica a little closer to the edge of its tectonic plate. 

There is no chance a reptile will be able to survive the cold of antartica - even in a sheltered valley - without some kind of heat source. Let us assume that the valley is heated by a series of hot springs which come up and form a river which runs end to end. The heat of these hot springs can be above boiling temperature - which would provide a humid environment that can fill the open-topped valley. To prevent contamination from external organisms, the river runs out to sea via a crevasse and is dug deep into the rock with steep, sheer sides. Looking at the dinosaur population from the point of view of a food web, your ecosystem will need some manner of food source to maintain it. It's possible that there is some sort of algae or seaweed that has evolved to live off the steam and low-light conditions of the hot springs - and perhaps some plants that were introduced in the dung of migrating dinosaurs. For large sauropod dinosaurs, I've looked up the home range (where it browses/forages for food) of the giraffe which would have a similar diet and walking speed - and it can reach roughly 160kms (99 miles) or 25600 square km (9801 square miles). With the assumptions: 

The Naughty There are a lot of naughty people out there who think themselves nice — or want others to believe them nice. When they don't receive presents on Christmas, that causes a problem. Those who believe themselves to be nice find it much easier to believe that Santa doesn't exist than to come to terms with the fact they aren't actually nice people. Those who are invested in keeping up the appearance of being nice will insist on making others doubt the existence of Santa. Either way, the spread of disbelief in Santa is an inevitable consequence of how he operates. 

While most plants have 'nervous systems' which trigger in one direction only (Venus fly traps close, sundew plants curl up etc) - it's not impossible to imagine a mechanism where the Bernoulli principle causes a fluctuation of parts, which in turn, through another development of kelp-like gas sacs - allows a mechanical suction and storage of air. 

The shell could also have the same chemical qualities as a mood ring. The creature flushes blood around that section of the shell to change its colour. Finally, given that your creature has a whole day to prepare, it might use versions of camouflage other than colour changing. The assassin beetle, for instance, is covered in small barbs. It kills its prey, then wears the bodies on its shell. 

Because of the Economy of Scale The larger the scale your economy works on, the more effective it becomes. Smaller industries can be optimized to maximum efficiency, and larger industries become cost effective. Miraculous feats like performing stellar engineering or running an unobtanium manufacturing plant may only even be possible on the scale of an entire civilization. The reason to build colonies is logistics — e.g. you would colonize a star system because you're mining it for raw materials and its too expensive to bring the civilization-ship to the star. But if it's not too expensive, then you don't need to bother. 

Entry 22, day 102 "We were travelling the gulf when we came across a rather quaint thing. We could neither decide on plant or creature - but from here on we shall describe it as a plant. Details on this shortly. "As we had encountered it, the plant was floating above the water at a degrading altitude. We caught it before it had become submerged and thoroughly inspected it. "Its stems were knotted and bulky, yet tubular and empty like plumbing pipe, perhaps like a succulent bamboo - which made capturing it with the barge hook from the port side of our boat an easy task. On its apex, a single, withered grapevine split like hollow veins to encapsulate a partially filled ballooning membrane. On the dexter side of these veins, small holes with wrinkled grape-like valves which must have, in a previous evolution, been stomata. "After our analysis and samples were taken, Charles released the plant into the water - at which point this seemingly dead plant sprung back into life. "The roots and stems began to swell (you could see the water being drawn up through the pipe-like stems) and the outsize plant stomata began viciously gulping air by action of their fluctuating turgidity. The weather-balloon at its topmost point began to inflate and it was not long before (now laden with water) the plant began to ascend into the firmament. "It was only later on this trip that we discovered this plant to be a juvenile, as indicated by its nut-hatchings and partially discarded shell. Fully grown plants, in our experience, might reach the size of a small continent - given that it does not drown itself under its own weight first." TL;DR: Strange mechanical action is sometimes stumbled upon in nature - the valves of the heart, the undulations of jellyfish or, even in the plant world, the exploding cucumber or the sensitive plants. 

Airborne HIV won't wipe out humanity. It would definitely reduce earth's population and bring an unimaginable suffering but no wipe out. Here is how it probably would go down: 1.The mutated HIV is starting to infect people. 2.A view days or one or two weeks later, the massive increase in HIV cases, especially the ones where people would claim not to have had sex or any kind of needle injections, would lead to massive investigation by scientists, and global alarm systems would kick in. 3.Within one or two days after science joined our scenario, the news that HIV is now able to infect over normal every day contact, are available over the world. In the same time thanks to the snowball effect everyone that doesn't live isolated is infected. 4.Huge medication programs would start, we can't heal HIV but we can keep infected alive for many many years. In the same time the search for uninfected people would start, so we can isolate them and keep them clean. 5.Within the next decades HIV medication would improve and probably even a way to heal it would be found, if not the worlds population would slowly die away, till only the previously isolated would remain. 6.These survivors would start over and humanity would start to repopulate the world again. Note: Point 5 and 6 could change due some evolution leading to a group of people that would be immune to HIV, even though this is relative unlikely, since HIV is changing much faster than humans could., 

Your valley could be 3 miles wide and 3267 miles long. (3.737 times the length of the United Kingdom) Picture for comparison with Australia in there for good measure: 

"...It was on such a day that we came into contact with the war-like people of Phlogiston. On arriving in our dimension-hopping machine, we stepped out and immediately began taking notes. "The planet seemed to act like an outsized hive - with various specialised members of the race taking part in this or that aspect of society. Accounting, transport and socialites were the first to greet us - shortly followed by those dedicated to cleaning the streets and waste disposal. "It seems they had never seen outsiders before - indeed they seemed started to find that they were not alone in the universe. It was at this point that they bought forth what I can only analogise as their racial equivalent of 'soldier ants'. "These great, hulking creatures had been gym-trained and fed on sport. War had become as a game to them - much like the javelin and boxing is a sport to us, theirs were laser weapons and neck-break. They'd engage in 'friendly' rutting rituals which encouraged the survival of the strongest of the species and the withering decline of their weaker cousins. "A later analysis of their culture showed particular dedication to the heroes of their classical era - their fighters of monsters and slayers of dragons. "This last point - on which we shall end on - was our root cause for concern. A pair of bearded Victorian gentlemen in full dimension hopping gear, such as we were, must've been a frightful sight for such hairless brutes - and they reacted much as one might expect an Argonaut might. "It was a good week before I could calm Charles from his shaking and convince him to return to gather notes." TL;DR: nobody in the army actually kills anyone in basic training to be trained with a gun, and many of our games and sports reflect the survival instincts we as humans were born with. War may even be a hobby interest for your species - and they've just been waiting for the right targets to practice it on.