Source from the water article linked below. Jupiter likely formed outside the frost-line, so it never had a rocky or even a molten magma surface. It formed with much too high a percentage of ices, which, under pressure, became hot gas and perhaps, at one time, a very deep ocean around the whole planet. As Rob Jeffries said, the formation of Jupiter isn't well understood, so there's some uncertainty there, but I don't see how a planet that forms with as much water, CO2, NH3 and other gases as Jupiter did could ever form what we would consider a solid surface. It's large size and heat of formation probably kept it highly gaseous during it's entire formation. Perhaps it was once a water world of sorts, but my guess is it always resembled a gas giant once it was recognizable as a planet. The Earth is about 0.02% water (some websites say 0.05% but whichever percentage, the Earth is still almost entirely Rocky Mantle & Metallic core. I don't think a planet that forms outside the frost line would ever become Earth like or a super-earth. Inside the frost line, A super earth could in time become a gas giant, but outside, I don't think so. That said, Jupiter might well have an earth like ratio of elements at it's core, but I don't believe that means it was ever a super-earth. 

So, while he suggested that stars were like our sun, his size was way off and it's unclear how large he thought the Moon was, or even, if he had a good idea how large the Earth was. Erastosthenes' estimate came later. Aristarchus of Samos came up with a much better, but still quite inaccurate, measure of the Sun and Moon's size and he recognized that the Moon was smaller than the Earth and the Sun much larger. It's unclear what he thought about stars though. And much more recently: 

In addition to the answer above, spiraling storms like hurricanes or the great red spot, are quite orderly and require the right conditions and energy transfer. The great red spot keeps relatively consistent latitude and it's been there for centuries, so it's obviously stable and ordered, though it may be shrinking. The cause of the great red spot isn't known, but efficient heat transfer of Jupiter's vast internal heat, and the principal of hot internal gas rising and cool surface gas falling and Jupiter's very strong Coriolis effect likely helped create and maintain it. For hurricanes on Earth, a few specific things to happen. There needs to be an energy source to sustain them, which is why they only form over warm oceans, mostly during the summer and fall seasons when oceans are warmest. The rapid evaporation of warm ocean water feeds the hurricane and the condensation of that evaporated water vapor in the upper atmosphere, drives the low pressure system. The spiral is the most efficient form of heat transfer and of light air rising/warm air falling. The high speed surface winds increase the evaporation rate over the ocean, so once the spiral forms and stabilizes, it's self sustaining, until it drifts over colder water or land. Hurricanes are orderly with very efficient heat transfer and ordered layers of rising and falling air. Over 90% of tropical depressions don't become hurricanes. Generally speaking, a perpendicular direction between the cool air above and the warm air below is required to get the spiraling wind started. That's partly why the IPCC has previously predicted a possible decrease in hurricane formation, because the formative conditions need to be just right and a more turbulent upper atmosphere might decrease hurricane formation even though the warmer oceans works in the opposite direction. All this was footnoted with some uncertainty and predicting changes in wind direction is tricky, so it shouldn't be held against the IPCC. The point is, Hurricanes need the right balance. They don't form easily, though once formed they tend to stabilize and grow, until they drift off the warm ocean water that feeds them. Air is also quite light, and the heat energy transfer of water's phase change is significant enough to create the 100 plus mph winds in an orderly spiral. On both Jupiter and Earth the right conditions are met for large, high wind speed, spiral storm formation. Like Earth, Jupiter also has clouds and rain, both water and ammonia, which likely assist in it's heat transfer by phase change (though I'm nowhere near smart enough to say how much that contributes regarding Jupiter's red spot, on Earth the phase change of water is essential for hurricane formation. Without abundant warm surface water - no hurricane. The sun, by comparison, is all plasma. There's no phase change that efficiently increases the transition of heat and energy, though there are probably variations in ionization, but I'll get to that later. The Sun's surface is also quite chaotic and it has magnetic storms, making the neat birth of a spiral storm by perpendicular wind gusts one above the other, less likely. Magnetic storms are twisted and I don't want to say that nothing spirals or twists on the surface of the sun, because that's not true. But the magnetic storms on the surface of the sun aren't like the neat and tidy cone shaped spirals of hurricanes. They reach well above the sun's atmosphere, not in the atmosphere, and the shape is different. 

This one is kind of silly, and could have been answered with a 2 second google search, but yes, falling stars aren't really falling stars or even pieces of stars. They're mostly space dust, the majority being (I read once) remains of tails of comets though they can be debris from asteroid collisions or even older space dust that's been around for a long time. Usually tiny grains like sand, sometimes larger, but because they travel so fast they glow white hot and can make the air ahead of them glow white hot and from our perspective they look a lot like stars - tiny white points of light. Needless to say, they're not star like at all from any point of view other than how they appear to our eyes. 

The low points on the chart indicate a cooling push and the higher points a warming. We're not do for a somewhat significant orbital cooling trend for about 60,000 years. 

In addition to the two answers above, I'll add that, first, your estimate of a million times seems wrong. These numbers are rough approximations of a fluid, not fixed volume, and I'd take them with a grain of salt too, but Wikipedia gives the density of the photosphere as about 2×10−4 kg/m^3. That's about 1/6,000 (not a millionth) of Earth's atmospheric density at the surface (1.2 kg/m^3). It's not clear if that density figure is an average for the entire photosphere or closer to the surface where we can measure, but if we measure the entire Earth's atmosphere, the density of our atmosphere drops significantly (how much depends on where you determine the top of the atmosphere is), but that's a problem, there's no absolute boundary, so comparing density is a futile exercise, but the ratio drops to far less than 6,000 to 1, when you take the density of Earth's entire atmosphere. You could also compare the photosphere to Earth's Mesosphere and the photosphere probably becomes more dense, but no matter how you compare, it's always going to be apples to oranges and rather pointless. The photosphere is about 500 km thick. I don't trust the numbers enough to calculate the pressure at the bottom of the photosphere with any accuracy. If you take a 500,000 meter column at the above density, .0002 kg/m^3, that's 100 kg or 220 lbs per column, worked out to square inches (PSI), .14 psi - 1/100th the pressure on the surface of Earth - but these numbers are terrible and prone to high inaccuracy. I just put this out there to show that the pressure and density at the bottom of the photosphere is still low, but not as low as 1 part in 6000 of Earth's surface. The gist of your question is, how can the photosphere be so light and almost vacuum like over 500 km thickness under such high gravity (28 earth gravity), and that's a fair question. The answer, as others have pointed out is due to the high temperature and content that's mostly ionized hydrogen in a plasma state. Plasma is a different state of matter than gas and it tends to be much more spread out. The outward pressure of photons may be a key factor too (I'm not 100% sure on that point). 

The short answer to your question is "decades", only for Mars, and only a two Mars decades (about 4 Earth decades) I don't know if your question was related to climate change, as there were a number of extremely unscientific arguments made that Pluto and Mars are getting warmer, "and there are no SUV's on Mars" . . . so, maybe it's not the CO2 but those claims weren't science. Silly articles and bad arguments aside, global temperature on other planets is a legit scientific question and there were scientific articles that said Pluto is getting warmer (2002, story below) and Mars is getting warmer (2007, also below), so there is some truth to this. I'll give an answer as best I can. Each planet deserves it's own bit of research, so this will be longish. Pluto Here's an article on Pluto, the title is iffy but the article is good. It's from 2002, so it's long before New Horizon's fly-by, it's even before New Horizon was launched, but "pluto is getting warmer" was a real scientific story in 2002, and Mars, in 2007 was real science too, but some of the conclusions drawn, loosely based on those two stories were ridiculously bad. The gist of the article is, we can't see Pluto's atmosphere well, even with Hubble, but they were able to measure some aspects of Pluto's atmosphere by watching what happens when a star passes behind Pluto and that was measured twice, in 1988 and again in 1997. Pluto's Perihelion was in 1989 and most everyone figured that the little ball of ice/dwarf planet would get colder after 1989 when it passed it's closest point to the sun and stated moving further away but the readings said otherwise, and that was one of those really cool "oh, wow, things are more interesting than we thought they were" moments. Pluto's atmosphere had apparently gotten thicker and it was about 2 degrees warmer. Not what anyone expected. The problem is, the sun couldn't make Pluto 2 degrees warmer while it moved further away without making the Earth 20 degrees warmer at the same time, so, clearly, something else was at play and it wasn't the sun warming Pluto. Generally speaking, the warmest periods aren't necessarily precisely timed to closest to the sun, and there's a lag time caused (on Pluto) by sublimation of the frozen gases on it's surface, which thickens the atmosphere adds trace amounts of Methane and can warms the planet past Pluto's perihelion, just as on the Earth, June 21 isn't the warmest day on the Northern Hemisphere, nor December 21st the coldest, and 12:00 noon isn't the hottest time. Could that seasonal "lag time", apply over a number of Earth years on Pluto? It's plausible. But we should remember, that's just two data points, which isn't nearly enough. Or, 3 data points now with New Horizons, but it's still just 3 data points spanning 27 years on a planet where one year is 248 earth-years, so, there's a lot we don't know about seasons on Pluto. New Horizons got better data on Pluto's atmosphere and frozen surface than we've ever had before, and what I remember reading about it, though I'm very far from well read on the subject, is that Pluto has a much more dynamic atmosphere and surface than anyone expected. Gas Giants you asked: