What you are referring to is not really a discrete component that can be swapped out. The fork steerer tube runs through the frame 'headtube' and headset bearings. The stem clamps to the steerer tube. Between the stem and frame are a stack of spacers. 

The only answer to this is to go to the store where you bought the bike and ask. IMHO: seems derailleur hanger failing to protect the chain stay seems like a possible cause for a warranty claim. 

If decide to fit the bigger cassette you will need a new chain as the required chain length will be longer (chains should be replaced when cassettes are changes anyway). You will probably also need to adjust the derailleur b-screw which controls how close the upper jockey wheel rides to the cassette sprockets. 

Efficiency i.e., not wasting energy, is not the same as allowing high power output. I thought recumbents were efficient because of low aero drag compared to a conventional bike. With respect to power output, my guess would be that when riding a conventional bike out of the saddle, the arms pull against the bars as the feet push against the pedals, allowing the musculature of the whole body to contribute to power output. When riding a recumbent only the legs can contribute, hence the higher potential power output of a rider on a conventional bike. 

A better approach to deciding is to figure out what wheel as a whole you could get for your money, by 

The main concern is water, and any other substance that might promote corrosion, such as road salt. Leaving mud or dirt on the frame provides material for water to soak into. Even if you let it dry out it would held water for longer than it would take to evaporate otherwise, and can soak up more water later. You obviously want to get grit and dirt off of your chain and sprockets as it sticks to the lubricant and promotes wear. Bearings do have seals, so if you are careful with degreaser there should not be a problem getting it into bearings and affecting the grease or other lubricant. Update: As brought up in comments there are areas that are more prone to damage through corrosion than others. Fork stanchions in particular. 

Depends on where you are an how well you want it done. Call your local bike repair shops and ask for quotes. They may also be able to refer you to specialized wheel builders. Note that you will likely need new spokes as well as the new hub will require different lengths. Depending on the quality of your wheel you may find it's cheaper and easier to replace the entire thing. Take the condition of the wheel rim into account as well. 

Number of chainrings and chainring bolt center diameter (BCD) which dictates the chainring sizes that can be fitted. Bottom bracket type: cranks are generally advertised as being compatible with a particular type, of which there are many. Crank arm length: measured from center of crank spindle to center of pedal spindle, typically 170, 172.5 or 175mm. Chainline: how far away from the center line of the bike the chainrings are, this needs to be compatible with the width of the rear hub and position of the cassette. Rear cassette speeds: 9, 10 and 11 speed drivetrains use progressively narrower chains which means the chainrings can be closer together. 

There are a few ways: Google the brand and model and guesses at the year, select 'images'. Trawl through the images until you find one that matches your bike. Go the Bicycle Blue Book, look up brand/model, guess year, trawl through images and specs until you find one that matches. That will also get you an idea of what you can sell the bike for. 

After some searching I did not find any SRAM 9-speed compatible bar end shifters, so as you say the easiest path forward is to swap out the derailleur as well. Microshift makes a range of Shimano MTB compatible bar-end shifters in 8, 9, 10 and 11 speeds. If you want to stick with 9 speed you need an Alivio or below (Acera, Altus) derailleur. Alivio is definitely not 'scraping the bottom of the barrel' and is perhaps a step up from SRAM X5. An Alivio 9 speed derailleur will work with your cassette. If you want to upgrade to 10 speed then Deore and SLX derailleurs are options. You will obviously need to get a 10 speed cassette and chain as well. 

One piece cranks are used on inexpensive adult bikes so larger chainrings should be available as replacement parts. The crank-chainring interface is standardized. See Sheldon Brown's page on one piece cranks. Note that the size of the chainring will be limited by the clearance between it and the drive side chainstay. 

One style of flat handlebar is not absolutely better than another. You should test ride some bikes and see what you personally prefer. Bicycle stores offer test rides in the USA, but I realize it might not be the case where you live. 

Rebuild manuals seem available (see link in comments). Figure out what year the fork is and google for the appropriate document. If you can't find it contact RockShox, they should be able to provide you with what you need. Assuming the bike has not been ridden to the point where seals etc need replacing you should be able to just do a oil change. If you have the tools and are confident you can do what the manual describes, go for it. If you mess up you can take it to the LSB. 

I think you mostly answered your own question, i.e. slow down and take more care as conditions dictate. If you are in areas where there are many pedestrians, some form of audible warning is useful. Traditionally this means a bicycle bell. Pedestrians associate the sound of a bell with and approaching bicycle and mostly act appropriately. Your rock music would act as a continuous alert but some people may be confused (or annoyed) by it. If you don't want to have to slow down or walk, bicycle where there are less or no pedestrians. 

If you feel clueless about bike maintenance or troubleshooting, the good news is that there is quite a lot of good content on this subject available, which makes it easy to learn how various bike systems work, how to perform regular maintenance and adjustments and figure out problems. My favorite is Park Tool Company's site and YouTube channel. They have a series of videos that deal with derailleur systems: 

You need a chain that is specifically a single-speed chain, not a multi gear derailleur chain. For an internal gear hub (IGH) bike you probably need a 1⁄8 inch (3.2 mm) single-speed chain. However some single speed or IGH bikes use a narrower 3⁄32 inch (2.4 mm) single-speed chain, which is the same as derailleur chains. To determine what you have currently, measure the distance between the inner plates of your current chain. 

I'll throw another answer it now that you posted pictures which give some more info. Cassette sprockets do not look worn, neither do the chainrings, which probably means the bike has not been ridden very much. Most of the deterioration is due to sitting and slowly rusting. This is actually good news for you as you can refurbish most of the bike, not have to deal with finding replacement parts, and it should work OK (as well as a 1990 inexpensive Raleigh with a 6 speed rear and friction shift is going to work). There are lots of online resources on bike repair and maintenance. My personal favorite is the Park Tool Company YouTube Channel as it covers a wide range of component types including older style. Yes, the bikes in most online content are newer an more expensive but the principles are all the same. Parts that should definitely be replaced are the rubber parts: brake pads, tires, and tubes as they perish with age. Replacing cables and housing is a good idea too. Brake and gear housings are of different construction. Something to possibly look out for is getting cables that are too wide to fit into the frame bosses, shifters etc. I'd replace the chain too as it looks too corroded to salvage. If you are going to do this properly you will need to disassemble, inspect, clean and re-grease all the bearings, and the freewheel as the grease is most likely dried out and gunky. Here's where you will need to put some more money into the project - you will need some specialized tools to get the pedals off, bottom bracket apart, the freewheel off and to take the hubs apart. The shifters look like they can be taken apart, cleaned, greased and reassembled. Same with the brake levers. The derailleurs probably cannot be fully disassembled, but can be cleaned and checked that they swing through their arcs without roughness. The idler wheel cage can be taken apart and the idler wheel bearing cleaned and re-greased. Note the the top and bottom are generally different so do not mix them up. I believe there are some products you can soak metal parts in to remove rust.