That is a weird way to put it, maybe I am just not understanding it correctly. The AoI closely resembles the purely mechanical way in which numbers are constructed in the von Neumann system. It puts forth that there is an infinite set containing all sets which represent individual natural number; it is necessary because no natural number is itself infinitely large. Maybe you are thinking about the Axiom of Induction, which constructively gives you all naturals? 

That is true. Numbers in general are rule based, and well defined. There is very little "philosophical" in the number constuctions of Peano or the ZF/von Neumann variation. 

Different representations of reality are no more or less objective for there are always invariants. In the physical sciences, we see this clearly. For example, in the Special Theory of Relativity, elapsed time and distance are relative to the observer's frame of reference. However, the proper time and proper distance are objective, they are the same for all inertial observers. The fact that the "human perspective" might be a different representation of reality from the representation of some hypothetical other rational being does not make these representations less objective. The goal of philosophy and the philosopher is (should be) to find the invariants of reality. 

... that last argument is again a fallacy. You start out by proposing that everything is caused by god, and therefore everything leads back to god. Logic does not work that way. In the best case (if there is a real god which functions the way you propose), you can just skip everything in your argument, and be done with your first assertion. And if there is not, then you are starting from a false statement, from which you can, by logic, prove anything. Hence, this argument proves nothing. Be sure to understand that I am not telling you that it needs logic for god to exist. But for some people, including scientists and philosophers, you do need logic to convince them of something... hence, to go full circle to your first question: 

If someone acts immorally - assuming some sort of free will - then they are doing so despite it being demonstrably wrong, i.e. it is a mistake as surely as 1+1=3 is a mistake. Doesn't this then give the idea of a 'bad' person a different implication - we wouldn't say the same to someone if they made a mistake in math or in their finances yet people who are simply in moral reasoning get this pejorative label. Does this then imply that as a society in our language that all humans have an innate understanding of morality to be even able to claim that they are bad not simply ignorant. Nevertheless, it seems different to say someone made an irrational decision (by inflicting gratuitous pain) and might be an irrational person than to say they are an evil one. The difficulty I am facing is that to make an immoral decision appears like it must be ignorant and irrational, as one who fully understood right and wrong and the implications would realize they had an imperative to act differently, but this seems wholly different to our conception of evil and whether someone is evil. Edit: I may have been a bit lax with my terms. I was saying that if one acts immorally, then either one is ignorant of morality or one is irrational, i.e. understand moral obligations but nevertheless ignore them. E.g. Selfishness.I think I have an obligation to others' well-being as much as my own, but I often spend on myself money which could be better spent on others 

Quite literally, 0 is defined to be the first natural number. As mentioned elsewhere, there were earlier variants where Peano started with 1, and it did not change much. I guess it was changed to 0 later because of practical reasons, mostly. 

Wikipedia to the rescue: Abstraction Abstraction is not a deep philosophical term, but simply and exactly what the definition of the word says. You go from concrete examples (a bag with 3 eggs, another bag with 5 eggs) and figure out a concept of natural numbers which tell you how you can systematically work with bags of any number of eggs, even 1000000 eggs, which you would never see in the real world. I won't tackle the question whether abstractions are real. ;) Philosophers of all ages (which I am not one of) seem to have fought long and hard about it. Commonality is not the same: that just means that you have a bunch of objects which have some identical features. The moon is yellow, cheese is yellow. Yellow is a commonality between the moon and cheese, but there probably is no rule, concept or theorem linking the two. 

Within Existence where, by Existence, I mean the totality of all that is, was, and will be. ... It is, I'm afraid, easy to ask questions that reveal a misconception of the terms used. One such question is "Where is the Universe?" Why not also ask "When is the Universe?" The point is that notions of "where" and "when" genetically depend on the concept of Universe which refers to all there is. To ask where or when is the Universe is to attempt to relieve those notions of the context on which they crucially depend. But, you can't do that. Those notions don't stand alone without any other context. 

Simple - nobody has found a logical, irrefutable proof that works without the assumption of the existence of god, yet. Hence, some people, who require such, do express a lack of belief. 

To say that would be extremely false. The opposite was true. From the Brief Answers to Cosmic Questions, by Harvard University: 

0 is not more abstract than any other mathematical term. There is nothing special about it - it is as abstract as 1, -1, infinity or whatever else you could think of. That said, in both Peano as well as ZFC constructions, 0 or {} are actually less abstract than any other natural number in the sense that they are the only natural numbers that are defined explicitely as such (without resolving to a successor construction). 

At any moment, you have the freedom, the choice, to think or not. That's your fundamental choice. And, that you have this choice is evident from introspection. While you're reading this, you may choose to think about it or evade the effort, correct? 

Your ethics is an inchoate version of Ayn Rand's normative ethics, virtuous egoism. Essentially, the good is that which promotes one's own flourishing, a concept not very different from eudaimonia. In Rand's ethical theory though, accomplishing the good is through the practice of 7 primary virtues. A great introduction can be found here. A scholarly review is here: 

You assume that morality is a 'natural process' and therefore shouldn't result in a contradiction. Yet I would disagree that morality is the biological process that you are implying. While our bodies may be biological it does not follow that experience is biological, especially if you think a human can't simply be reduced to its biological parts. While the feeling of pleasure may be associated with a certain chemical, that does not mean that pleasure is that chemical, and what would it mean for a chemical to be 'pleasure'? Rather, experience is not a physical object, and even if you are reductionist about humans being solely biological, then somehow an experience is generated which is not physical. From here there is no contradiction: you have your body which has biological impulses for reasons of natural selection etc, but these do not correspond directly to the freak of nature that is non-material consciousness. That your experiences can then be reasoned with to produce something else non-material, morality, is of no bearing on the fact that the body which gave rise to these experiences due to natural selection (a process with no considerations of morality just what can reproduce will continue) has 'immoral' impulses. It may be an accident that natural selection produces both the ability to reason and to perceive emotions resulting in us being able to grasp morality but the way it has come about means the process of bodily impulses and morality are quite separate (unless you think morality is non-existent and is i actual fact solely an evolutionary tool) 

This question appears to be somewhat based on the premise that the source of morality is the whim of the majority. But, it is not the case that the source of morality is the whim of the majority. The source of morality is man's nature as a rational being. Thinking is your means of survival. Use it. 

Principle of Excluded Middle: "A proposition p and its negation ~p cannot be false together." Principle of Non-Contradiction: "A proposition p and its negation ~p cannot be true together. Principle of Bi-Valence: "A proposition is either true or false." PEM and PNC forbid a proposition and its negation having the same truth value. PB forbids a proposition being both true and false or neither true nor false.