Yes, the mini-v brakes pads sat closer to the rim in resting position, and since my rim was a bit out of true, they rubbed a lot. If I set them loose enough not to rub, I didn't have enough braking power. Switching to cantilevers set the pads further away from the rim and had no problem with rubbing on the brake pads. Mini-v brakes also did gather mud around the brake pads a bit more than the cantilevers. 

You've probably permanently deformed the rim by riding it with loose and broken spokes for so long. When you get a wheel, you should check the wheel and make sure the spoke tension is set evenly and the wheel is true. Did you buy the wheels at a bike shop? If so, they should have taken the wheels out of the box (if not custom built) and checked the spoke tension and trued the wheel before they gave it to you. If you got them off the internet, then that's up to you to do. Usually, You can replace a single broken spoke. If you notice the wheel go out of true, break spokes, or has loose spokes, you need to STOP riding on the wheel and have it trued before riding on it again, otherwise it will degrade rapidly. Spokes generally break when the spoke tension is not evenly distributed or by a sharp impact. When one spoke breaks, it affects the tension of the spokes near it and on the opposite side of the wheel as well. If you had addressed the issue when you first noticed the broken spokes, your wheel would have probably been fine and just required some wheel truing. However, not dealing with the issue properly probably killed the rim. I'd probably recommend taking it to a shop and have them assess whether the wheel is worth trying to fix at this point. It may not be able to be trued again, even after replacing the spoke if the rim is warped. 

I'm currently running a 2x10 shimano tiagra 10-speed drivetrain with a 50/34 compact crankset, a 12-30 rear cassette, and a Shimano Tiagra GS-4600 derailleur (that's medium cage aka road long cage) on a light touring / road bike. I tend to ride a lot of hills and want a touch more range for tough climbs. Can I make this work with an 11-32 or 11-34 mountain cassette or do I need to get a long cage derailleur? It looks like I might answer my own questions, becuase the specs say, they say I shouldn't really run more than a 30t max in the rear. However, I'm wondering if anyone else has tried this and had success going past spec with this derailleur or if I should resign myself to spending more cash on a new derailleur. 

What I would do is get a pair of convertible rain pants with zip off leg lowers. They will do a good job of keeping the cold water out. Might lead to a lot of sweat though depending on the temps but can be used for rainy seasons year round. Showers Pass, North Face, and other companies make these styles. I prefer ones that give an above the knee cut rather than below the knee cut for more airflow and less sweating if you ride in warmer temps. I've had good luck personally with my dwr treated Endura Urban short, though they do wet out eventually, but help a bit over traditional shorts. Being from the somewhat rainy U.K., Endura makes waterproof (MT500 Waterproof shorts) and water resistant shorts (Endura Spray Baggy shorts) as well which may fit your needs better. 

What distinguishes the POC Trabec helmet is the MIPS System. There are a few other helmets available on the market with MIPS. The product description for the helmet mentions this: "MIPS system, letting the outer shell and liner move in relation to each other and thereby reducing the rotational forces to the brain" The MIPS page describes it like this: "The brain is surrounded by a low-friction cushion of cerebrospinal fluid. MIPS imitates the brain's way of protecting itself by giving the helmet its own low-friction layer between the outer shell and the liner, to absorb much of the energy created by an oblique blow to the head." This absorbs some additional impact and the floating shell is designed to reduce rotational force on the brain, which in theory is to reduce the forces that cause a concussion. This is something that standard CPSC certified helmets with EPS foam tend to not do well where the impact doesn't deform the foam. Read for more info about MIPS: $URL$ 

I wouldn't go much narrower than 2.4 on the 27.5+ wheelset which is usually 40 to 50mm wide, maybe 2.2 if it's got 35mm wide rims as some setups prefer. Keep in mind that you drop your bottom bracket quite a bit when you size down, so you might get more pedal strikes and different handling by using smaller tires. I wouldn't go smaller than 2.4" tires on a bike designed for 27.5+ tires. However, you could likely use a standard 29x2.2 tire on a 29er wheelset on the same bike which should be about the same diameter as your 27.5+ wheel & tire. It's a bit more expensive to have a separate wheelset, but it can give you the versatility to swap between fat and skinny widths. 

Order a pair of glasses with more coverage from zenni-optical. It's nice not to have to wear a goofy contraption over top of your existing glasses. You can get a pair of prescription goggle type for around 25-30 bucks that will do the job for you. Just try sorting by type, use goggles as the filter. You just need to give them the details of your prescription and they will make them for you and ship them pretty quickly. Until then, you could pick up some cheap hardware store goggles, a pair of ski goggles, or moto-cross goggles and try them on for fit over your glasses. 

I didn't notice a lot of difference in modulation between the mini-v brakes and cantilever brakes. I feel like the mini-v had a bit more power and could lock the rear wheel more easily, but I never felt that I couldn't feather the brakes in a similar fashion to my canti brakes. 

If you're buying a new bike at a bike shop I'd do the following: Ask yourself: Do you know what type of riding you plan on doing? Do you plan to race on this bike and/or commute on this bike? Do you prefer a specialized bike or a versatile bike? Do you have a strong preference to disc vs rim brakes? Do you plan to use this with racks / fenders, does it have mounts for those? What is your budget? How flexible are you on it? Is it enough to get the bike you actually want? Does your budget include accessories like a lock / helmet / bottle cages / fenders / racks? How will you lock your bike? (don't use a cable lock if you're parking your bike in the city) Ask the shop: Does this bike fit me properly? Does this bike match the style of riding I want to do? How do this bike compare to other bikes made for the same purpose that cost more or less than this model? Can I test ride the bike? Do you offer a tune up with purchase? What essentials should I purchase with this bike? How much does it cost to install accessories at time of purchase? What other maintenance should I have done and at what frequency? How much can I expect to spend on this? What is the warranty period for this bike and it's components? Has your shop checked the wheel tension and truing?