I want to extend the number of strokes I can play in my badminton matches. Therefore I want practice a particular badminton stroke, called: 

LAWS OF BADMINTON According to the official LAWS OF BADMINTON (2012), set by the Badminton World Federation, chapter 9 is applicable: SERVICE. In that chapter, no reference can be found of the fact that a specific time interval needs to be taken into account or that the shuttle needs to be fully released. The following is to mention about "taking your time": 

The tape comes with a self adhesive side, allowing you to stick it everywhere. According to the description, 4 inch / 10 cm would yield approximately 1 gram. Usage I chose the following areas to stick the lead tape on: 

On the YONEX ALL ENGLAND BADMINTON CHAMPIONSHIPS 8th of March 2014, against Son Wan Ho in the Semi Final: 

Remember, it's a game you love playing. It's shouldn't be giving you negative energy The more you practice, the better you will be, at whatever you're practicing. The less frustrated you will be. There's only you to blame (not shoes, racket, shuttle or opponent) Try using a personal (funny) word in order to express your frustration, in stead of yelling/cursing. 

Exhaling. Begin exhaling while your face is still in the water and blow out as much air as possible. Your goal is to have your lungs empty so that when your mouth and nose break the surface your body is really wanting to breathe in. Your pace dictates how long your face is out of the water. Your body is rotating on the long axis and your face breaks the surface as a result of that rotation. If you find that period of time is too quick to get in a decent breath, then slow your arms down and exaggerate the rotation. Breathe in as is most natural for you: nose only or nose and mouth. If you want to force using your mouth, there are nose clips available. 

In a nutshell, the trick to longer distance races is to train at those distances. To run a 10 k race, work your way up to 8 or 9 k regularly before your race. The same holds true for longer distance races. To successfully run a half-marathon, train so that your training runs have increased to 15 to 18 k in month or so before the race. When training for marathons, the longest training run is about 40 km. That run takes place four to six weeks before the race. Most training plans take into account the fact that most of us have jobs. Distances are between 5 and 15 k during the week with the long run (working up to 40 k) on the weekend. Speed doesn't play a whole lot into it except in learning how to regulate it. Consistency in pacing is more important. Being outside is great, but unless your race is hilly training on a treadmill is fine especially for the weekday runs. Make use of the incline. I really, really like Hal Higdon. Here's his beginner novice plan for a marathon. You can see how the distances increase. The plans for more advanced runners presume you are already running substantially longer distances. $URL$ And good luck. 

Why does the BWF/IOC chooses an even higher quality shuttlecock, that may only be used during international events like the World Championship and the Olympics? 

According the official LAWS OF BADMINTON, set by the Badminton World Federation, chapter 13 is affected: FAULTS. Here the different situations are outlined when it is considered a 'fault' and in paragraph 13.3.8 the following about that is mentioned: 

Is it allowed to play a racket game, like badminton or squash or tennis or table tennis, both left or right handed at the same time? So, if the ball or shuttle is played towards the backhand side, the player switches from a right hand play to a left hand play. Can you show me a video reference of such taking place in a match? 

Like the reversed slice (cross) dropshot, the intention is to make your opponent think, you're hitting a clear or dropshot. With the reserved backhand slice drop shot, your opponent will think you're trying to hit a clear (as Jonassen thought twice). Key is to put in the same amount of energy (racket motion), as to hitting a clear, but at the end perform a reversed slice. 

Answer: to give the top badminton players of the world the best playing experience there is. This particular shuttlecock is especially prepared for those events only. In this YouTube video, a match between Lee Hyun Il and Marc Zwiebler - Olympics 2008 round 16, a German commentator is making note of the special shuttlecock: 

Of shoes designed for running (as opposed to "athletic shoes" generally), the superior shoe is the one that fits your foot and stride best which of course is completely subjective to you. The first point is fit: narrow versus wide verus wedge shaped. Arch height is in there too: low versus high. The "best" shoe is the one that is designed for what you happen to have. the second point relates to stability. Some people pronate more or less than average. $URL$ Where your heel strikes is a part of your stride that is partially separate from pronation. Other features to evaluate relate to the surface on which you run, your weight, your sex, your weekly mileage, cushioning you might want or need. All of those features interact to affect the shoe weight and construction. For example, a shoe with serious stability to limit over-pronation will be heavier than a shoe with less stability. If you are not willing to wear the heavier shoe, a lighter version with some stability will not last as long because you will be pronating in the shoe somewhat. That does not mean one shoe is "better" than the other. A petite (lighter-weight) runner can use a lighter a shoe in general because the shoe has to hold up less weight even if he or she requires lots of stability. Going back to fit, Saucony shoes have wider toe boxes and narrower heels than Brooks which are more uniform in width. Others are known for being narrow. (I mention Saucony because they fit my female, wedge foot. I do not know how their shoes for males fit.) To answer your question, the best way to choose a good pair of running shoes is to go to a store that specializes in running shoes. The staff there are trained in fitting new runners by evaluating their strides and are familiar with the fit and construction of the different brands. This little doodad $URL$ goes through many of the features that relate to evaluating, but I still would prefer a fit specialist for at least my first pair. If you go through the process, you'll see that one of the options is finding a pair that fit like the ones you have. 

After having seen Brazil win its match against Chile 3-2 on penalties, I was wondering how the overtime is played. Is that sudden death? 

In this video (0'30") on YouTube, an alleged attempt is made to perform a Triple Lindy, but I think it's just a faulty dive. In this interview, the director Alan Metter explains the origin of the Triple Lindy: 

Is it allowed, in badminton (mix) doubles, to use your partner to gain more height in order to perform a jump smash for example? 

If you do the above (with or without holding the shuttle), then you're safe !! PS: I've just tried hitting a shuttle by holding it: that's merely impossible, without smashing your fingers..... 

Lead Tape This is the best solution there is. Having read this racket review from Paul Stewart about making a racket more head-heavy, I immediately ordered some tape: 

Reading your post, made me think of my younger years !! It's very difficult to give a conclusive answer, but here's what I have to say about that: 

This particular stroke is very difficult to perform, let alone to pronounce. Timing is of the essence and technical ability is there to follow. I found a few video's of two of the top players in current badminton. Lee Chong Wei On the 17th of March 2009, Lee Chong Wei and Kenneth Jonassen were playing an exhibition match for the inauguration of a new badminton sports hall in the town of Pécs in Hungary. In the second game Lee Chong Wei (LCW) performs two times the stroke you want to learn: 

The short answer is edges. The blade on an ice skate actually has two edges: one on the inside and one on the outside. Having your weight on one versus the other causes your skate to turn. For example: Line up your feet so the left foot is front of the right. Have the weight of your left leg on the outside edge and the weight of your right leg on the inside edge. Your skates will automatically turn left. That's the basics. When you crossover you add momentum to that dynamic. Here's a picture I found that shows the basic idea. The skates are inlines, but the edges and pushing are labeled. $URL$ If you don't get a feel for your edges you won't be able to advance because all skating is edge work. 

Hitting in roller derby (using the Women's Flat Track Derby Association rule set) sounds similar. You can hit people from above mid-thigh to the tops of the shoulder to their fronts or sides. You can not hit people below mid thigh or their backs (between the bra straps). If you are initiating the contact, you can not make contact with your arms, elbows, hands or from below mid-thigh. The point is to make pushing and tripping illegal. Traditionally hitting was from the sides like a side tackle in football/soccer or a check in hockey. More recently contact is front to front with one skater facing the "wrong" way. Here's a great clip of one girl doing repeated checks. $URL$ 

high racket tension allows for more precise hitting, but requires more experience low racket tension will give you more control. but with less accuracy 

Having seen the schedules for the different groups in the group stage, at the FIFA World Cup 2014, I noticed in Group C an odd starting time. It is match number 6 on the 14th of June 2014, between Ivory Coast and Japan, that starts at 22.00 (UTC-03). Why is that? 

Best is to stick it on the inside of the frame. This will give less problems when the racket needs to be restrung and the forces act upon the tape or pass by it: 

Can somebody tell me how to perform such a stroke and most preferably provide me some footage of such a stroke being performed in a real match situation? 

I've been playing badminton for quite some time now and was wondering if my badminton skills help me in the cricket game? Should I be more fit to be a batsman (hand-eye coordination), defending the wicket, or should I focus on being a bowler (smash, clears). 

Most probably the goose feathers are obtained from the northern part of the Republic of China. The cold conditions have an effect on the density of the feathers, giving extra insulation during cold weather. When these types of feathers are used to prepare shuttlecock from, the shuttlecock will have a more precise and consistent fight behaviour, over the standard available feathers. 

This guy explains the long answer way better than I can say it. Jump to page three for your specific situation. $URL$ The short answer is the pull buoy is holding you up, but really all your questions come into play. You run out of breath without a pull buoy because kicking is hard work. The buoy saves you the energy you've been using to kick. It holds your bottom half up in the water without your input (even though those buoys seem so small). You also are more hydrodynamic with a pull buoy because your legs aren't moving. The buoy helps you keep a straight form. A lot of swimmers don't have that powerful a kick so what you are experiencing is totally normal. 

I understand your conundrum. In a way, being fit and having good cardiovascular capacity makes finding your pace a little harder. 

There have been a lot of incarnations of "roller derby" since it's development in the 1920's. During the 1980's and 1990's there were two attempts to televise skating. These were RollerGames ($URL$ and RollerJam ($URL$ Although both shows had some great skaters and athletes in their line-ups, neither show can be described as televising an actual sporting event whose outcome is unknown and where the plays are unscripted. The Texas Rollergirls ($URL$ organized in 2003 and that event is regarded as the birth of modern roller derby. The biggest difference between the Texas Rollergirls organization and the earlier attempts to promote roller derby relates to the ownership of the organization. The athletes of the Texas Rollergirls very quickly decided that ensuring their new sport remained a sport was to ensure that their league was athlete owned. (Rollergirl: Totally True Tales from the Track covers that learning experience.) Of course, any team sport requires more than one team. Other cities formed leagues. In 2004, the forerunner of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association was organized. ($URL$ It was really a message board/forum. Twenty of the leagues that participated in it formally organized in 2005. WFTDA is 503c non-profit which sets the rules and regulations for play, sanctions games, and basically does all the kinds of things that other minor sport associations do. Around 2010 (I'm not sure of the date) Modern Athletic Derby Endeavor organized. Basically, M.A.D.E. offers a different rule set that tries to maintain the speed that the banked track provided. It's an alternative organization for those leagues who may not fit WFTDA or who want to go in a different direction. The short answer to your questions is that the televised skating athletic events of the 1980's and 90's were very akin to the WWE. They showcased talented athletes, but were partially to fully scripted. Since 2003, flat track roller derby under both the WFTDA rule set and the MADE rule set is a 'real' sport. As a minor sport, inter-league play does struggle to have games with parity. Athletes play where they live. So a team that draws from a small city has a lot less breadth and therefore depth than a team that draws from a major metro area. (Check out flattrackstats.com for some examples of disparity.) Since all players (myself included) pay to play in dues and rink time and equipment there is no impetus not to play to win every single game. It's sort of like comparing the WWE to high school wrestling. 

I've searched the internet and found some really good "How To's". Here's a list of video instructions: 

Hu Yun Lately Hu Yun has gotten my attention with his performance in the below mentioned tournaments. He plays with a white Yonex racket. Does anybody know the type of racket he plays with? References 

Watch the following video's from Mr. Jae Bok Lee about: Poor Badminton Player's Behaviour Part 7, 12 and 13 are particularly of interest. His perception could give you some further leads or inspiration. Note: I'm not affiliated to the creator of the video's 

Searching the internet for a possible answers, made me realize that this question has been asked many times before. The answer to the question is: no. Below some of the things I found along the way. 

In my younger years, when I still played football, I got rid of the dirt underneath my football shoes by smashing them against one of the goal posts. I remember the sound to have a high pitch. What kind of material are the goal posts made of, used at the FIFA World Cup 2014? 

My attempt to use the outside of the frame works, but after a few training sessions, the tape will gradually lose its adhesive power: 

Focus on exhaling. For a set number of laps focus just on breathing. Make it a goal to blow out as much breath as possible. Do not miss a month. Seriously. Practice makes permanent. You have to swim regularly until your muscles remember what to do without your brain. There is no shortcut here. You will get there. It is good to work on all strokes rather than just one, but that does mean that the time devoted to each stroke is less than if you focused on just one. 

I used Triathlete Magazine's Essential Week-by-Week Training Guide: Plans, Scheduling Tips, and Workout Goals for Triathletes of All Levels. The author maintained that developing speed in the swim portion for triathletes comes from improving technique. Most triathletes begin triathlons after becoming competent runners or cyclists first. Very few begin triathlons already being a competent swimmer. He was saying (nicely) newer triathletes could stand to learn how to swim better. Lessons with a coach/swim instructor will improve your technique. Then you can gain muscle memory in a controlled environment, that is, a pool. 

"Easy choice" is a stroke of your choosing at an easy pace. The rhythm of the program is hard/easy/hard/easy but only the first hard is with a specific stroke.