In World War I all nations learned that poison gas basically added nothing to military actions, not even higher casualties once everyone got out their masks and protective gear. Artillery did better at inflicting damage just shooting high explosive shells. In between the wars use of gas was banned, and most nations complied. In World War II, every nation had plenty of stocks of gas to retaliate with and protective gear to issue if the other side started using banned weapons. This would make starting the use of gas a momentary advantage only. Also long range bombers meant that retaliation might strike deep to rear area installations or even homeland cities. So risks were much higher and the possible reward still close to zero. There was an incident at Bari where some US gas stocks were released when a German raider attacked the ship and docks carrying it into Italy, for use if the protocols broke down. 

Often enough, when a nation wants to separate there is enough animus to stop much yearning for the old anthems. In the American Civil War, the South quickly enough adopted songs like "Dixie" and "The Bonnie Blue Flag" as anthems. At the war's end, Lincoln said in public that we could now play Dixie as an anthem too because we had captured it. 

In Kevin Phillips' The Cousin's Wars he puts a slightly different spin on the influence of the Seven Years' War on the Revolution. After some false starts, the British Army and the Colonials achieved a relation of working together to win the war...the Army would ask the colonies for money, or supplies or troops directly to the legislatures and they would figure out the hows and whys and get it done. They assumed this responsible acting on their part would be rewarded by its continuation going forward. Hence when Parliament, who was not involved in any of this, rejected this notion and started cutting out the Colonial Legislatures as middlemen with the finance bills, the powerful Colonials who made up these groups hit the ceiling. As a means of making money, these bills and taxes were trivial - as everyone has noted at the time and since. But they were very effective at signalling that the English legislature was going to deny powerful Colonials any say in how their part of the world would be run, which was very short sighted on their part. The two sides continued to talk past each other for the next few decades until the point of revolution was reached. 

Actually, the problems were worse than just rebuilding the railroads to narrow the gauge. Soviet stations, where trains were refuelled were too far apart for German engines - the larger Soviet engines carried more fuel and water and could go farther. The Germans had to rebuild the railroad to a narrower and also create new stations along the path to support their supply effort. 

At times, all of these people pushed eastwards. It just depended on relative technology and strength of population. Celts: At maximum expansion, about 270 BC, they invaded Poland, the Balkans, and even central Anatolia and the Ukraine. Goths: Before moving west ahead of the Huns, the Germanic Goths moved from Sweden and the Baltic to the steppes around the Black Sea by around 100 AD. Slavs: During the expansion of the Slavs about 600 AD they expanded deep into Russia, eastward. Teutonic Knights: An odd choice in that the group is best known for its Eastward Conquests of the Baltic. 

The only ships the Germans could get to the US coast were U-Boats. These had small guns and no armor. A Coast Guard cutter could tear one to pieces. A 50 caliber machine gun hole could make the U-Boat unable to submerge again. So they stayed just outside the port and sunk ships, until the US started convoying and escorting the merchant ships. The sunk some 300,000 tons of shipping until the US got its act together. 

It's common for nearby groups to have jokes told about them, from gentle ribbing going on to more serious X-ism, where X is race, or national, or whatever. Inside the US, there are jokes about Texans, New Englanders, Vermonters. Ohio has jokes about neighboring Kentucky. I imagine that most nations have the same thing with countries alongside. Since there was a large amount of US immmigration from Germany in the 1800s, followed by a lesser, later influx from Poland, that the US has taken on a bit of the German attitude towards their neighbors to the East. 

So once you know that the atmosphere has finite, and changeable weight at any one point, all the other items become necessary followups. As T himself wrote: Noi viviamo sommersi nel fondo d'un pelago d'aria. (We live submerged at the bottom of an ocean of air.) 

Plutarch, writing about 100 AD, in his "Lives of the Noble Greeks and Romans" has a commentary about the Roman Cato the Elder who recommended working slaves hard and selling them off when they became unable to work. He critiques this as being inhumane and immoral, saying that slaves should be cared for after their life of service. So humanizing slavery isn't an exclusively Christian development. 

There were a few early battles where Frederick left the field before the end of the day but the remaining officers managed to pull off a victory despite that. Some anti-Frederick histories report more of these based of dubious sources. But the drive that led to spectacular battlefield victories and costly defeats, and at times brought Prussia to the edge of ruin and back was all from Frederick the Great. 

The main impediment for a nation like the Persians is the relative lack of a standing army. The Persians were a feudal state. In order to go to war "big time" with the Romans, the King of Kings would have to convince his district "kings" to send contingents to join his own household troops. If the KofK's was a weak one, nobody would show up and the Romans could run rampant, as shown in the several cases of Roman armies sacking the capital, Ctesiphon. These feudal contingents were mostly cavalry, notoriously reluctant to do heavy lifting, and were dispersed themselves between wars. Engineering requires some training and discovery, and much crafting and practice. Without a standing army, this is nearly impossible to keep going. Even Rome, with a much stronger tradition of work, limited their sieges to blockades such as the 10 year siege of Veii, or the case of Nola in the Social War. After the growth of the long term army under Caesar in Gaul, and in the Empire the amount of engineering action grows dramatically. The professional armies of the Empire had the coherency and time to develop these skills, and the work ethic to get the job done in the field. 

No, they did not use peaceful or legal means. Often the secession commissions used did not even fully represent the population of the state seceding. Southerners only started worrying about supposed legality after they lost the war and wanted to look better after the fact. 

At one point, the Romans extended the frontier in central Germania to swallow up a modest bit of land that was rich in silver mines. IIRC this was around the time of the Emperor Domitian. Sources: The primary source was from The Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire by Edward Luttwak. It discusses the annexation and mentions the region as securing some fertile land and supporting a friendly tribe, as well as pressing on the hostile Chatti. It also provided a buffer for Maintz and the flank of the annexation of the Agri Decumantes to the south. However I did find a supporting remark from Tacitus' Annals Book XI, 20, from the time of Claudius: 

There is another fundamental problem in projecting back current sexual classification onto Rome. They didn't think of it as homosexuality versus heterosexuality. Rather, they thought of it as being the penetrator or the submissive partner. For a grown man to be penetrated was the shameful act. To be the dominant one, not so much. And since women were always on the penetratee side, well, that's another reason why they were the inferior sex. This is why the Roman army had ferocious penalties for homosexual acts. Forcing that kind of shame on a Roman soldier was seen as a terrible thing, and was punishable by death. 

Rome did not build defensive barriers on cities or provinces for hundreds of years. They relied on the Legions marching out onto the other sides' turf and breaking up opposition. Cities without the ability to project force thousands of miles always have used walls. Even in a desert, there is rock or clay to build a defensive wall and ditch. Aside from a thin defensive perimeter around the walls, I know of no city that ever relied on the enemy getting deep inside and fighting in the houses. This does too much damage. 

The cash amounts of the taxes were not particularly high, but to the colonist's eyes this was besides the point. The success of the French and Indian war was enabled by a cooperation between the colonial governments and the British military. When a campaign was required, General Redcoat would go to a colonial legislature and say 'we need 500 men and their equipment, and supplies for 3 weeks. Or even "I need 10000 pounds to pay the regulars" Then the legislature would take care of the raising of the troops, supplies and funds. So the government and colonial government were partners in the enterprise of winning the war for the king. Then after the war, the British Laws come in and cut out the colonial governments entirely, without even consulting them. By American colonial thinking, Parliament should have sent a message to the 13 colonies asking them to raise X dollars for this purpose. And after some negotiation, presumably they would do it. Parliament, having had nothing to do with the previous arrangement aside from benefiting from it, saw no need to elevate the status of colonial governments into a kind of partners in the Empire, decided to play hardball. The Colonial governments, not wanting to be demoted to bystanders, fought back with boycotts and later more extreme actions. And when push came to shove, the Colonies won independence. It all might have been avoided with some understanding on both sides of the ocean, but that's the breaks. 

The T-34 tank was far superior to any tank the Germans had on line in 1941. Bigger gun, better armor by far, and so on. The T-26 was inferior, or on a par. But your question asks about units. German armored units were able to often beat equivalently sized Soviet units even in 1945. Therefore the Soviets created more units, moved them to areas where German armor was missing, and pressed on over wide fronts so that local successes by a Panzer division would be compromised by units on the flanks moving on. 

The soldiers and officers of all Confederate Armies were exempted from treason trials by the terms of Lee's surrender to Grant. They were allowed to go home unmolested as long as they ceased to make war on the US. All other CSA forces soon surrendered on the same terms and also were exempt from treason trials. Government officials were not exempt, and could have been tried for treason or other crimes. The official in charge of Andersonville Prison camp was executed for his actions there, as War Crimes. Jefferson Davis was imprisoned for about 2 years, but was let go on bail even before Johnson's pardon. Davis wanted a trial, but the US government decided it wasn't worth the fuss. 

Marcus Aemilius Scaurus, consul, censor, and Princeps Senatus in the late republic took over the management of the grain supply, essentially an Aedile's post. In Colleen McCulloch's semi-fiction books he did this when the man originally having the post was (falsely) accused of corruption, IIRC. The Wiki Quote goes way too far in claiming that this post would routinely go to a consular, or an ex-censor, in my opinion. From Wiki: 

Pompey tried to delay the infantry clash to give time for the cavalry to work. This worked somewhat, but Caesar's tactic took them by surprise. 

I'm sure that in the case of disaster relief, the US offers any aid that they can as a matter of routine. Often this involves military units, since they have the vehicles and training to go into areas where the infrastructure has been destroyed, and they are able to move at a moment's notice to remote parts of the world. 

I hesitate to call fear of death, beatings or imprisonment a moral mechanism. These are what kept Stalin's grip on power. The basic calculus of an omnipresent secret police force watching for transgressions and the fact that anyone you discussed overthrowing Stalin could turn you in meant that possible dissident elements were completely isolated from each other and rendered impotent. This reached the point of Stalin's savage purges of the military in 1938 that were a large part of the reason that Hitler could have any hope that his invasion of Russia might topple the Soviet state. 

The way it actually worked in practice is that when Congress set up territories, it would designate them as Free Soil or Slave Territories. Early in the nation, the area above the Ohio River was so designated as Free, while KY and Tennessee were slave territories. This managed to extend the dividing line of Free/Slave more or less westward and controversy was at a minimum. Slaveholders would move to a slave Territory, non-slaveholders to a free one, and when the state was set up there was little surprise to anyone. The residents would set up the constitution of the new state to perpetuate the existing arrangement. This worked out well enough until two things happened - first the gain of considerable non-slaveholding area from Mexico led to some calls to keep this going (the Wilmot Proviso). The other destabilizing matter was that the land in this new SouthWest was not suited for high manpower farming via slaves anyway. With no room for expansion, the South started to think of itself as 'encircled'. The American universal equation of lack of territorial growth with stagnation hurt as well. 

Unlike other East European states, the Russians did not free Yugoslavia from the Axis, so they never had forces deployed in the country. An attack would be an invasion. Also, Yugoslavia was easy for the West to send support to, from the Adriatic, Greece and Italy. They had their own army, and it was a fairly good one. So you have a good army to fight, bad terrain to fight in, and the fact that you might not win the battle and have to lose face versus the West. And Tito never made his "independent line" into something that would hurt the USSR image, or threaten its hold over the Eastern Bloc. So little to gain by crushing a state that wasn't a real problem - and a good chance of losing, or having the situation spiral out of control. The USSR only bet safe bets. 

There was at least preliminary steps by the Germans to use the Vichy French-controlled Syrian Republic and the French Lebanon as a springboard to occupy Iraq. Vichy France had forces in Syria and from 1 April 1941, after a coup d'état, Iraq was controlled by pro-German rebel forces under Rashid Ali. Vichy France was also increasingly cooperative with Germany. There were indications that actual German forces were beginning to move in. Great Britain, fighting in North Africa, couldn't allow this to stand for a number of reasons - the threat to Egypt and Mideast Oil, to name two. So a scratch force was sent north to Syria : "Operation Exporter", that, after some difficulty managed to capture and occupy the region and end this threat of a land route to the Mideast. 

The issue with any treaty provision is what will you do if the side does violate it. Ideally, you would instantly spring to war. However, will your allies and your own people support this? Hitler was able to spin the 100000 man army and the limits on equipment into a straitjacket that wouldn't even let them defend themselves against their smallest neighbors. The Rhineland occupation was touted as a hostile takeover of a good chunk of their land. Many other countries, and parts of the population of England and France recognized enough validity in this that the leadership felt it wasn't worth going to war over.