Any meditation can do this, since meditation develops non-attachment and concentration on non-self centered objects, and it's attachment and self-centered thoughts that give rise to and perpetuate the sense of self. Therefore what you do depends on your disposition, challenges, pre-existing beliefs, etc... However, if you need some pointers, here are some meditations that may be particularly well suited to this... 

An alternative is to look at the big picture. If you are trying to introduce people to Buddhism, why mention rebirth? The Buddhist path is identical, whether or not one believes in rebirth. Further, many are attracted to Buddhism (or at least it's secularized variant popular in the west) precisely because of its less supernatural nature. Introducing rebirth therefore might cause them to abandon Buddhism. For many, if it's a choice between Buddhism and Science, then Science will win, no contest. 

Can someone please elaborate for me please. I need to understands what the counter-part sign is & how to extend it. Is it a mental image you have? So a kasina ot any other mental image you form? 

I have read once you have reached the bliss stage you should take your focus off the object and on the blissful sensations and hold it. Then in time you will be in Jhana. But i also read in other sources you should just stay with the object and one pointed focus will rise that way. Which is it? This confuse me. I've reached bliss i kept focusing on my earth kasina but before i could fully enter the first jhana i felt my breath fading and it scared me out of my mediation. So i don't know if focusing on my object would have allowed me to reach jhana. 

The question is a bit unclear, so here's an answer to what I think your question is. I believe anyone -- regardless of gender -- can reap the same fruits of the path. It's all about diligence in practice; gender has nothing to do with it. Now I recall some misogynistic passages and early injunctions against nuns, but I ignore all that. I don't think Buddhist scriptures or personalities (including The Buddha) are unerring. I think that despite having some profound things to say, Buddhism still was a product of its time and place and often failed to transcend those prejudices. Fortunately, since Buddhist practice pays off in short order, there's no need for faith, so I don't have to rely on The Buddha being this or that, or claims that a transmission was preserved or any other claim that strains credibility. I simply see what works and use it. With that said, Buddhism has some strong females. The one that comes to mind is Quan Yin (Guanyin), the archetype of compassion. My local Buddhist Temple gave more prominence to her than to the Buddha, even to the point of stressing her ideal (Bodhisattva) as the goal of practice. Furthermore, in all the Buddhist temples I attended, the Quan Yin statues were much more prominent than the Buddha ones; in fact, there's a nearby Buddhist Temple with a 50 foot tall statue that dominates the grounds. Who's on that statue? Quan Yin. 

I'm having trouble understanding what they mean here. What iis life-continuum? It said in brackets consciousness so it's disrupting consciousness of the jhana object? What i guess they mean is once you come out of jhana use applied thought to focus on the things that intruped that jhana then once you have "applied" applied thought move to focus on the objects with sustain thought once you can do this uninterrupted you mastered adverting? 

They say to master jhana you must master five factors. I understand the first four but mastery of reflection is kind of leaving me unsure. I think i get it. Once you come out of the jhana state, you refect on the absorption factors like you do the jhana factors you focus on each until the hindrances is gone. But what are these absotbtion factors. Do i just think about it or stsrt a second meditations on each factor and be aware of them? How do i know what these factors are and distinguish them? They also say there different absorption factor to reflect on. Can you help me understand 

Who we are not. Not to cling to specific conceptions of who we are. Not to cling to any conceptions of who we are. 

Yes. Emptiness characterizes everything, including Nirvana and even emptiness itself. Have you read the Heart Sutra? I highly recommend that for an example of the all-permeating nature of emptiness. 

Does the leader claim to be Enlightened? Does the leader behave immorally? Is the leader's immoral behavior praised as "crazy wisdom"? Are people exploited under the guise of "transcending their egos"? Are there levels of initiation/practice? 

Previous posters have provided some solid recommendations. To them, I'd add the role of philosophy. Our mind wanders to things to which we are attached; concepts, ideas, worries and so on. This means if we work on adopting a philosophy of life designed to reduce these attachments, we should reduce the mind's tendency to wander. You've heard of the saying "All Roads Lead to Rome"? Well, we can paraphrase that to "All Attachments Lead to Self". So work on the Self, and you work on the key player in your attachments. This is where the path comes in. Things like unconditional compassion, right speech and renunciation can help free the mind from the various scenarios that play out. For instance, daydreaming about getting even or telling someone off is often done as a dry run for possible courses of action should those situations arise. Yet if (a priori) I have discounted those possibilities by truly committing to right speech, how likely are they to arise, or to persist should they arise? 

I am reading A Critical Analysis Of The Jhanas In the book we were going over wise considration and how it will help you eliminate the hindrances. But i am having trouble understand what this is referring to. Any help would be appreciated. 

The books and videos all describe it as, Looking at jhana and its factors in retrospective knowledge What does this mean exactly? Is it going over the events that happened during the jhana? there anything specific you suppose to do? 

Now i think what unwise and wise consideration is the things you focus on. Unwise Consideration maybe focusing on your past or your future asking question that have no really meaning pondering them. While wise is focusing on suffering and overcoming it. Is thia correct? 

What is the goal for this mastery exactly? I'm guessing it's to look back at your jhana meditation and see what happen. What went wrong, what are things you can improve, what lead to jhana & lsot the jhana etc. Is this correct? I want to make sure i understand completely. 

"Illusion" and "reality" mean specific things in Buddhism. "Illusion" means attaching to the mental baggage we add to our experience -- the cause of our suffering. "Reality" is our experience devoid of this attachment. If you keep this in mind, you won't go astray. So either you misunderstood your teacher and her message was more subtle, or your teacher has missed the point and you should ignore her. So if you don't eat food, you will starve. The illusion here is when you cling to the mental baggage that accompanies this experience. For instance, with the hunger, you start to think things like the following... 

1-3 are largely a function of how much the object of my desires is out of my hands. Well, isn't the desire to remove desire more in my hands than anything else? If so, then it would seem that it's much less susceptible to 1-3 than other desires. So it seems this is a relatively innocuous desire, and to the extent that it supersedes or replaces other desires, is a good thing to have. A version of this question made up the bulk of Archie Bahm's "Philosophy of the Buddha". He wrote of desiring that which would not be attained, then took the "desiring to stop this desiring more than that stopping will be attained" head-on, deriving (his interpretation of?) The Middle Way as the result of this apparent paradox. Finally, why does this question matter? At worst, it's not a real problem, just a play on words. At best, it's a trivial matter that's not worth worrying about. Yet if it still seems important, then maybe it's a sign of clinging to concepts, of reifying, of taking either/or distinctions too seriously. If so, then that clinging is the real problem, one that will cause pain, so energy is better spent addressing that, rather than worrying about the possible ramifications of a possible minor residual desire. Put another way, the question itself may be a symptom of clinging :) 

I'm having trouble truly understanding nimattas. I use visualization for my jhana mediation. It's what focus my mind best and allowed me to almost enter jhana. But if i do visualize, will the nimatta still appear? How would i recognise it? And once it appear do i move off my object to it? Also i read this passage explaining what a nimtta means in the modern day. I wish to know does this do a great job explaining it. 

I have been meditating for a while now and i found my way to get into jhana, well i haven't enter jhana but it was more me not fully in knowing how but now i think i understand. But one thing i keep getting stuck on is the signs. I haven't to my knowledge experienced a nimita. Maybe cause i use visualization to enter the jhanas From what i gathered first you have initial & sustain thought. Then as time goes on you developed joy. Which brings this pleasant feeling. Then you move your attention from that to the pleasant feeling to enter rapture and the first jhana. So where do any counter or learning sign come in. Is that only for certain meditations