Possibly the assistent referee thought that a player from the green team made the first touch, and saw that green nr 13 was standing closer to the goal than the last defender, and judges that this player was active, despite green nr 17 scoring the goal. As a side note, mistakes by referees and assistent referees happen at all levels of football, and the referees don't have the benefit of replaying a scene multiple times before making a decision. Players, fans and coaches at any level need to be able to live with these decisions, play their best, and enjoy the game anyway. 

Berger got the better start than Schumacher, and led on the track, but not overall, as Schumacher had been faster over the first five laps, hence the "corrected time". 

According to this blogpost, it depends on whether the game is postseason or not. For the postseason, the game would continue for a second period of overtime with Team B in possession, but for the regular season the game would end 23-20 for Team A. Of course a blog isn't always the most reliable source, but we can check this also in the rulebook: checking the link you sent regarding Rule 16, there are different articles for preseason/regular searon and for postseason. 

If this is the case, then he wouldn't have been in the position to manipulate the odds. But he would still have broken the MLB rules. 

which strongly suggests that the goal nets are not part of the field of play. This would appear to be in contradiction with the glossary definition you quoted in the question. I think it is reasonable to assume that the more detailed laws of the game have priority over a glossary, which gives a short and quick definition of various terms as an aid to understanding the laws. 

Note the phrase "if the second team’s initial possession has not ended". This means that in postseason Team B would be given a chance to score too. As to the question of whether this has happened, I am not sure but would guess not. According to the same blog, there has only been one drive over 13 minutes in modern NFL history (13:27 by Tennessee Oilers vs Dallas in 1997). Given the relative rarity of overtime drives, and that the new overtime rules have only been used in the last couple of years, I guess that it hasn't yet occurred. 

Statistically, based on previous matches/tournaments, is there a proven advantage in having the extra preparation time? 

One solution would be to drink 1-2 beers (or whatever you need to get to about 0.02 % BAC), then switch to non-alcoholic drinks, and have another beer or two when you finish playing. If you want to keep drinking, and keep playing darts well after the first couple of beers, you will need to eat something in the bar (crisps are traditional), consume alcohol regularly, and put on some weight. You may notice that drinking regularly and eating crisps are a quick and easy way to put on weight. This may answer the question posed, but also bring health risks, so I personally wouldn't recommend it. 

Make the stronger kids throw with their weaker hand. You could give all the stronger kids a bright armband for their throwing hand (or non-throwing hand?), so it is obvious if anyone is cheating. I've never tried this, but for me the handicap would be very effective. I can still throw with my left arm, but lose a lot of power and a bit of accuracy. 

According to the Chattanooga FC Website, New York Cosmos B did indeed have the better record, and therefore right of refusal for home-field advantage, but they agreed to play the match in Chattanooga. 

Drive down the fairway, accurate but not that far. Still 4 strokes needed, SG = 0 Again on the fairway, but a long approach remains, still 3 strokes needed SG = 0 Great approach, to within 8 feet. Only 1.5 strokes needed SG = 0.5 

In the end Australia won the final in 6 hours and 40 minutes (by my calculation), as they were able to chase down the New Zealand total of 183 with 17 overs to spare. 

The 1994 Imola Grand Prix is remembered mostly for the deaths of two drivers: rookie Roland Ratzenberger during Saturday qualifying, and three-time world champion Ayrton Senna during the race. Senna crashed on the sixth lap, causing the red flag to be shown, so that all drivers returned to the pits. Senna received medical treatment on-site, and was then airlifted to hospital. The race was then restarted from the grid in the order they were at the point the race was stopped, and the times of cars at the end of the fifth lap were also considered: From the wikipedia article: 

In theory, there is no reason why the definition of SGputting cannot be extended to the entire hole. So given the definition on the green that 

There are two incidents that almost fit the case you ask , both involving the same batsman, Geoffrey Boycott, who was a great test mach opener, famed for his defensive qualities, but sometimes unwilling or incapable of stepping up the scoring rate when the situation demanded it. During the 1979 World Cup final, Boycott was dropped by the West Indian captain: 

You can transfer a ticket to a guest, but must go into the stadium together. From the terms and conditions: 

A note on the method: I kept scrolling on the links until I got the impression that there was no way a missing lower score could appear. This was at 200 for tests, at 119 for ODI and at 50 for T20I. For instance in ODIs, 119 has been scored 31 times, and 3 times by Viv Richards alone, so I am pretty confident that all lower values will have been scored, but I didn't do an exhaustive check all the way down to 0. 

It should not have been called offside. The corner kick is swung in and bounces off the defender wearing shirt no 24. Because of this, there can be no question of offside, as the law states that a pass has to be made by a member of his own team: 

Viswanath was a successful batsman in the India side in the 1970s, but only captained two Test matches. His cricinfo profile suggests that this was typical of his manner: 

and again the goal stood, even though the opposition were upset. So in practice it seems likely that the goal will stand, but the referee could possibly decide that the act of heading the ball in from the ground was "unsporting behaviour". This is indeed recommended in this post, which claims to have been "approved by the U.S. Soccer Federation’s National Referee Program". In this case the referee would stop the game, issue a yellow card to the attacker, and restart with an indirect free kick to the defending team. 

Reading between the lines, especially the words "work began" in the first quote, I think that means that the teams negotiated that a share of that gate money (18,227 fans attended, a national record for an amateur match) went also to NY Cosmos B, and this share was more than they would have got by holding the match at home. 

There is a video of the incident, so you can judge for yourself. I would tend to trust Lloyd's words, and you can see that he does have jump and extend to try to make the catch. A separate incident is the other side of the same coin. If the fielding team want to keep you in, then your teammates probably want you out. During a Test match against New Zealand, vice captain Bob Willis gave Ian Botham instructions to run Boycott out in order to increase the scoring rate to set New Zealand a 4th innings total for the final day. 

The players tee up, and note from their magic display that it's a perfect par 5. The player with the black ball plays as follows 

During preseason, the NFL are trialling having extra points snapped from the 15 yard line. During the Giants-Bills preseason opener, all three extra points were successfully kicked. But what would happen if a team tried to go for two points. Can they call a fake, and try to score from 15 yards out? If they reach the endzone, it still worth 2 points? Or can they declare their intentions, and go for the endzone from the 2 yard line? Or if they are desperate (last seconds of match, two points down), would they have to call a regular play from 15 yards out to score?