In my opinion the deadlift is the most difficult to do of the big three lifts, 90% of people dead lifting in the gym use terrible form. To get deadlifts right you really have to keep your back straight and focus on the lift. For the grip problem I would say buy a pair of straps but don't bother using them until the set where you feel your grip slipping. All this being said your deadlift is unrealistically low compared to your bench and squat. Therefore there must be an injury or a serious form problem. If it really was an injury I would think that the squat would aggravate the same spot since they work out many of the same muscles and both put pressure on your lower back. As I said in my comment I'm going to assume that your problem is actually that you are not going deep enough to make the squat or bench difficult. When you do a full ATG squat you definitely feel it in your back after, I can't imagine that this wouldn't aggravate the same back injury as the deadlift. If you don't believe that your bench and squat form are the issue I suggest you see a doctor. Front squats are more helpful in increasing you deadlift because of where the load is balanced you may want to incorporate them into your routine. If they also hurt I would suggest you see a doctor. If they don't it's possible that your weak grip causes you to compromise form. Chalk may also help with your grip. I Also saw you said that the sumo didn't hurt is much, generally sumo dead's are easier on peoples backs but most people lift less with them for the sake of your back it might be a good idea to stick with them. Also since your squats are low bar a squat higher than your deadlift wouldn't be to ridiculous but personally my bench is about 62% of my deadlift and I do not consider myself a good deadlifter 

I prefer using an indoor rowing machine. Rowing machines allow for a complete body workout and are relatively low impact on the knees. You can easily set the machine to provide a low or high impact workout based on your goals. I, personally, have had knee problems in the past and have not found the rower to cause any added stress on the knees. However, before attempting to use a rower, or, any exercise equipment, you should check with your personal physician first to insure you will not exacerbate an existing condition. 

($URL$ When I began weight training traps, others suggested rolling the shoulders. I figured out early on that the cause of some trap strains was related to this extra movement. So, instead of relying solely on shrugs for trap development, I added upright rows, and smith machine shrugs to the front and rear. I find using a smith machine for shrugs forces a perfect vertical plane for the movement thus somewhat ensuring that the traps get the bulk of the work. 

Doing cardio would make your heart rate return to normal faster if that feels like the problem (I have to say if your heart takes 5-7 minutes to return to normal you are very out of shape). If your legs are the problem, I would suggest stretch and be well hydrated and fed (obviously don't eat right before the workout). Sometimes after squat sets I would cramp up a little and need to take pretty long rests between sets, I would say that generally squats will require quite a bit of rest time between sets though more like 3 mins not 7 

Tucking your chin, in my opinion, does not seem to qualify for “ideal shoulder ROM” and should be considered as improper form as it may result in compromising the ROM to counteract the “tuck”. The simple fact you are asking the question indicates to me that you are aware that there's a potential for improper form on the movements you've indicated. Why take a chance at injury? Work with a spotter, trainer, etc. to ensure that your form is correct. 

Weight (resistance) training is considered anaerobic because it is typically performed in short high intensity bouts of exercise. As such, Anaerobic exercise relies on energy sources that are stored in the muscles and, unlike aerobic exercise, is not dependent on oxygen from (breathing) the air. In order for you to improve your jogging ability, you would need to improve your aerobic capacity. In your case, that would mean continuing to jog. I recommend you continue both activities as they will provide commentary benefits. 

Fitness buddy is a nicely put together app with a free and paid version. It has logs and instructions on exercises. Not much else to say I actually did use it for starting strength. 

To me the third one is the most important, people stay with the same weights for months and expect to get stronger and bigger. As a beginner you should be able to increase the weight every week because your progress should be fast. As for your workout, 6 days a week sounds like a lot, if you workout every day and never rest your muscles have no time to heal and won't get bigger and stronger. It's hard to know much more than this without knowing more about your current workout and strength but the good news is that your trainer is a moron if he thinks your hit a plateau in 3 months. 

Let me preface this by saying that what I’m about to share is somewhat opinion based (on experience) and laced with anecdotal evidence. I've watched this post and initially hesitated in jumping in with an answer. I think there may be some general misconceptions running through this thread. I've actually lived the bodybuilding lifestyle as a competitor, and, trainer, so, I’d like to offer my experiences from a different, although, probably more common perspective. I constantly see the terms “bulking” and “cutting” in the context of bodybuilding. As Eric indicated in his answer, those terms should be closely coupled with bodybuilding’s steroid community. Most of us who strength train, however, are not steroid users. And, some of us, have actually been successful at competitive bodybuilding without abusing steroids. For a natural strength training athlete or bodybuilder, bulking and cutting tend to be counterproductive. It’s almost like “yo-yo” dieting. We all agree that ensuring sufficient calories for growth is important. However, unless you’re genetically gifted, adding extra calories by “bulking” tends to make you store more fat unless you increase your activity proportionately. In my opinion, a more sensible approach would be to monitor your caloric intake to ensure you’re eating enough as Dave indicated in his response. A steady flow of nutrients to support your strength training makes more sense to me than the occasional cycle of “bulking”. As for “cutting”, the typical reason for reducing calories tends to be aesthetic in nature. And, the “cutting” phase tends to be a long, gradual, multi-week process with the goal to reveal underlying muscle. For a bodybuilder, the “cutting” phase is typically used right before a competition (10 to 12 weeks). It’s not something that is done on a regular basis because of the stress (physical and mental) resulting from a calorie restricted diet. Again, if you monitor your caloric intake and follow a sensible diet, there’s no need to “cut” for a natural strength training athlete. To sum up, I would follow a modified version of the first approach in your question – Gaining strength while maintaining a sensible weight. That would mean adding or reducing calories based on the current context of your training. But, not to the extent that you are “Bulking” and “Cutting”. 

I don't think she is using bad form, her knees are inline with her feet. Her stance looks a little narrow but that is generally a matter of preference. As for the depth she could go a little deeper, but we don't even know that the squat is over since it's not a video, generally to go deeper it is easier with a wider stance. Other than that her back is straight and she is looking forward which is good. For you personally wideness of stance is something you will have to figure out on your own, likely it has to do with the dimensions of your legs. Now on the other hand that person deadlifting in the backround might be using the worst form I have ever seen 

The short answer to your question is No. Other factors do play a part in how many calories you burn during exercise. Since calculating the exact amount is somewhat difficult, researchers have published tables of energy expenditure for common activities. The energy expenditure is typically expressed in METS for some of the tables. The tables are not an exact measurement of the expenditure for physical activity, but, rather a way to classify physical activity by METS. In the Compendium of physical activities: classification of energy costs of human physical activities (Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Department of Exercise Science, School of Public Health, University of South Carolina), the researchers indicated that the amount of energy expended for weight bearing exercises was… 

In terms of the muscles worked out the bend of the leg in the air should not matter too much, you should try to keep it still though (don't use it for momentum). IMO you should have the leg up on the opposite side of your arm for better balance. The first person has weights in both hands which is better once you start to get to the heavier weights for balance. The last person seems to be doing a beginers version of the exercise because she lacks the balance to lift her leg off the ground. My suggestion would be to follow the form of the first one. If you have trouble doing it the last one should be easiest. For the last part of your question I'm not sure if your reffering to a barbell deadlift or one with a kettlebell. But I can tell you either way your one legged deadlift will be significantly less possibly by over 100 pounds depending how high your deadlift is. 

Your question is basically one that addresses full range of motion (ROM) versus “cheat” movements. Exercising a muscle (any muscle) through its full ROM tends to provide more long term benefits than “cheating” for the simple fact that full ROM tends to correlate with strict form. Full range movements also tend to enforce a longer time under tension. Lastly, those that use “cheat” movements are typically more interested in the “numbers” (sets, reps, etc.) rather than doing the exercise(s) correctly. In my opinion, full ROM movements win out every time. 

Without variation, you'll tend to become “stale” and gains will plateau. That includes any chance at a “squarer chest”. 

I don't know what your body fat percentage is but you need to have around 10% to have visible abs, mine is lower and I still barely see them. One way to make your abs more visible is to do actual weighted ab exercises. Most fit people can do well over 20 situps which is no longer stimulating hypertrophy, if you try situps with some weight you may see better results. I have to go back to my original point which is that body fat is mostly what matters, sometimes people who are not even in good shape have six packs solely because they are skinny, you are clearly doing a good job with your workout (lost 20 pounds) I say keep going as you are but increase the intensity of your workout that is the best way to get results, always keep trying harder. I thought of one thing you can do but note that this is not necessarily healthy. Once you are around the BFP I specified you can start cutting water weight to make your abs show more. I suggest google searching this or ask another question, I'm not a body builder and don't have any reason to cut water weight so I'm not that knowledgable about it.