Above that you can apply any other GPOs you need but ensure you are still putting on all the upper level GPOs to make sure they are in the order you want. 

This will make the computer listen for it's own IP address and allow you to connect to it through HTTP and Computer Name for local websites. 

I found the issue was that .NET Framework 4.6 was installed. After uninstalling it and running the installer again all was installed fine without a problem. Reinstalled .NET 4.6 to run my other software after the installation was complete. There was some information I stumbled upon that .NET 4.6 and up can cause a problem with the installation of this software. Unisntall the .NET 4.6 or up and run the WSUS 3.0 SP2 installer again and then reinstall .NET 4.6. The WSUS installer will use the older .NET 2.0 framework to complete the installation successfully. 

Even when the bindings were set to default I am unable to get to it from $URL$ or $URL$ Default is this. 

GPO A is used to patching our system so the Windows Update service is set to Automatic when it in set to "Link Enabled". GPO B is setting company required security settings so it sets the Windows Update Service to Disabled. PROBLEM - When GPO is enabled and enforced the Windows Update service is set to Disabled. According to RSOP it should be set to Automatic but it is not actually started or automatic, it is disabled. GPO A should be taking precedence and setting it to Automatic. QUESTION - Can 2 GPOs not control 1 service? As I understand GPO is managed by precedence so GPO A should be keeping the service in automatic when the GPOs are processed. Is there a way I can keep these settings the same or does one of the GPOs need to have Windows Update server reconfigured? EDIT 1: If I wrote a startup script which started the service in Powershell the GPO would disable the service once it reapplied every hour anyway. Even with the GPO enforced it still disables the service as well. 

Is there anything I should be able to check to access my IIS main homepage? EDIT 1: Computer has one active network port running IP address. 192.168.6.101 as a static DNS of 192.168.6.101. 

I did a winrm/config restore. On WinRM/config the output was Restore_OUTPUT. On the winrm/plugin it shows the following error . It also states the plugin folder is missing or in an invalid format. Google does not show a lot of information for this error. I am wondering what the WinRM plugin corruption looks like if the server can connect with Server Manager on the other servers. So am wondering if this is an issue that the servers are not connected to the Internet. Does the Server Manager Add/REmove only work while connected to the internet because previous Servers OSs did not. EDIT1: Checked the GPO for "Remote Shell Access" it is set to "Not Configured" so this is not causing the issue. Also this still does not fix the WinRM runspace pool issue. EDIT2: Added information on the PSSession 

I am installing WSUS 3.0 SP2 on a Windows Server 2008 R2 server. It gets through the install portions until it gets to Configuring database. It then gives me a message that says packaged failed to install. It drops the SUSDB files into the data area of the WID directory but when it says that error the rollback of the installation deletes the SUSDB files. The error Log shows this: 

Found the issue. Someone setup a different GPO that was above the one I was working on with the "Enable Windows Remote Shell" set to "Disabled". Set to "Not Configured" in my Patching GPO and can now Add/Remove Features. 

Found the issue to be that it was not listening for it's ipaddress to resolve the computer name or website by the ipaddress. Here is how I fixed it. 

This happens on everyone. I do see from TraceView from the SDK tool kit that all the events show system times and No Format Information found. Is it connected and not getting this data or is it just looking for all these updates? 

This is my first WSUS install so I need a little help. When I run the ClientDiag.exe on the client I get the following. 

Is this possible and if so how can it be done. The server would need be able to access LAN A but not LAN B. Only the VM would access LAN B. 

Is there anything else I can do? WinRM should be working. This is a production server and is configured to run MULTIPLE things. I cannot rebuild it. UPDATE: I found a firewall rule called "HTTP Through TLS/SSL" set to "public" instead of Private/Domain. I changed that. SERVER2 can not WinRM to SERVER1 but using the Server Manager I get this error: 

Looks like the secret key is not the issue. There is something preventing my credentials from passing with the network policy. This is a default policy with the following settings: 

I have 2 domain controllers on a non-Internet connected network running Windows Server 2008 R2. They running RAID 5 on a 8 Hard Drive server. Sometime last week the Boot Sector became corrupt on DC1 and I was unable to recover the server. I am not going to have to rebuild the server. I have been reading about the changes from Server 2003 to Server 2008. DC1 was the main domain controller and now that it won't but it is all falling to DC2. I know that in previous versions of Windows Server you had to make on the primary and one the secondary. Since DC2 does not see DC1 anymore is there anything I need to do to DC2 as it is now the one in control? I am thinking some kind of meta data clean up but I can't find any hard information on what procedure to do. I understand as of Server 2008 domain controllers are on an equal footing and provide replication to each other so they should be the same correct? 

I have a Windows Server 2016 running WSUS (WID Database). The nodes on my system are all Windows 10 Professional. They are configured through group policy to check the Server 2016 for updates. The nodes and server are not behind a proxy in anyway. Based on the WSUS Console it shows all the nodes are checking in when I press "Check for Updates". When you look on the node it throws the following message: 

I have googled this error and I have found little information or none at all for this error. I have tried all of the suggestions I could find but nothing has resolved this issue. What I can make out of the last .ELT file when I open it with word is: 

Support from the create of the script helped fix the issue. Will update this answer with code when I can pull it off the server. 

I found that these settings are best for setting preferences and security settings with the Windows Based services. I do have a number of system services disabled that are not Windows Based services and that is where I found the answer. The location is