The company has to have in place procedures for how to address changes between the time you sign, and the end of the pay period. If they are following the procedures it is not fraud. If they are billing customers for your time the customers will insist that either time cards can only be submitted after the end of the pay period, or that there are documented procedures for addressing these changes. They will want to be able to see not only the final time card, but the list of changes and the reason for those changes. Besides being able to bill correctly, which does allow them to keep customers, the employee also wants to have these adjustment procedures to protect their vacation. For example if you think you will be on leave the last day, but you are called in for an emergency and have to put in 12 hours of work: you want to be paid for that time not charged 8 hours of leave. There should be time card procedures documented, and you should receive training on those procedures. Many companies require annual retraining to reenforce those procedures. 

Assuming you get a written offer with no contingencies and that is everything that you expect: Decide which job you want. 

It depends on the job situation. You were in an internship, with a limited number of weeks, so you did the right thing by sticking it out then reporting your experience to the university office. If there is a chance that the next summer/semester you would be working another internship I would avoid the same department, or maybe even the entire company. But that would depend on how the other aspects of the internship went. If I was just starting out a permanent position I would be very concerned that my new coworkers and managers were making these types of statements to new employees. I would investigate if there are corporate polices regarding transfers, some forbid people from internal transfer for the first 6 months or year. I wouldn't ask somebody in the department, but I would check either the corporate intranet, or anonymously with HR. Then I would work hard, but then transfer at the first decent opportunity after transfers are allowed. If you are offered an exit interview either as part of the transfer, or if you reach the end of an internship (with no plan on returning), I would bring this up with management. The corporation should be concerned that employees and managers, especially managers, are wasting their recruitment efforts. The company spends time and money recruiting new employees only to have that effort damaged on the first day of work. 

Asking to Move: Explain what you tried. Explain why they didn't work. Suggest some options. Don't call it a health issue, unless it really is one. Say that it impacts your productivity. Now if you do have a documented issue with low light conditions then you can explain the situation. In some places they would have to make reasonable accommodations to deal with the disability. 

I see this working, and being needed, when trying to move from a smaller company to a larger company. Or from a local company to a regional company to a national company. If your first job out of college was a for a small restaurant that had 5 tables and your were the head waiter that is different from being the head waiter of one that seats 500 people. If you have moved cities the names of the restaurants don't mean anything to me, even if I am in that industry. If you are changing from restaurants to being an office manger knowing how big a staff your supervised is important. So let me know in the description of your duties and accomplishments. This is why the resume and cover letter need to be tweaked for the position you are applying for. The way to note these things is not by sounding like you stole the phrases from a marketing flyer. Tell me that in 6 months you were promoted to head waiter and you were responsible for overseeing the hiring, training, and performance of X members of the wait staff. In your second year you were responsible for staffing the new restaurant. Don't tell me it is the best rated lunch for a steak and vegetarian sit down restaurant on the lower midtown section of town. 

The easiest way to think about it is: slightly modify the situation. Imagine if they wanted you to sign an Non-Disclosure Agreement before showing you the code. But you had never expected to look at their code. Would you sign? No. You would want the company lawyers to look at the NDA first. The NDA doesn't just apply to you, it can apply to your entire company. You don't want that responsibility. You have no idea if the interviewee has the right to that code. You have no idea if it owned by another company (one of their customers), if it a company secret, or even worse owned by the government. I would politely decline the offer to see the code. I would also make sure that I highlighted in my notes that they offered, and I said no. I would discuss this issue with my managers and others doing the interviews. It might even be seen as a negative in our evaluation of the candidate. 

Be careful about addressing an email to a client. Your soon to be former company should have a transition plan for working with that client, and will not want you to complicate that transition. They will also be concerned that you might be trying to convince the client to switch to your new company. Unless there is more than a work relationship involved, the future contact information is not needed. It is possible to have them connect to you via a site like LinkedIn, so that they can be a future reference for employment. For an email to your co-workers keep it short, simple, and only as a vehicle to provide contact information. Long emails blasted to hundreds of employees will not be read by most of them. Emails that focus on how the employees are like a family...tend to be skimmed over a quickly forgotten. 

For doctors appointments I would specify doctors appointment. For anything else: insomnia (the original question), flu like symptoms, migraine... I would just label it not feeling well. If the situation lasts more than a single day, or occurs more often than you are comfortable with, then see a doctor; and claim those hours for the appointment as a doctors appointment. A longtime ago the company I worked for used the number of sick occurrences during the year into account when evaluating low level employees. The definition of sick occurrence required strict accounting of the reason for each absence: 

Politely remind them that any code you wrote for your current or previous employer does not belong to you, and that it is not possible to provide a code sample. Unless you worked alone on a significant chunk of code, you will also have the problem that you can't claim to have written all of it. Showing them side projects might not be possible. Most companies will claim all ownership of code you write, even when done after hours. You would have to establish prior to employment that you will be working on these side projects, and consider them your IP not belonging to the company. I can't imagine what a company will get from looking at code samples. Unless they are also provided the entire application, but they don't have the time to analyze how your code fits into the entire application. They will have different samples from each person they are interviewing. Each sample will not be comparable to the other applicants.