If you give all the stuff velama gave wouldn't you get at least a little more than a "whiff of a heart of good will" while doing so - more moments of good will than just one ? The point isn't what Velāma gave; the point is whether Anāthapiṇḍika's family's gifts are fruitful. And, as I read it, "the heart of good will" isn't something that you get as a result of giving. What it says (literally) is , 

In summary the 'aim of avoiding attachment' is the aim of Buddhism. There's more than one form of Buddhism. In one form called Hinayana, the aim is to rid ourselves of suffering. Also, feeling "emotionless" isn't what's recommended. This article describing the four immeasurables says that, 

... although that doesn't say which sutta[s] these words come from. Another place that phrase appears is in MN 49 (but also not an exact match, i.e. "freed from the six-sense base" isn't part of the phrase there). 

This page has extracts from a dozen suttas, which explain what "Right Speech" is. Being "truthful" is an aspect, but not the only aspect, of Right Speech: for example speech should also be affectionate and spoken with a mind of good-will, beneficial, and spoken at the right time. Also polite, not divisive, and so on. 

In case it matters and in case you didn't know, the traditional Buddhist "way" can be described as a Threefold Training, of which ethics (virtue) is maybe the first. I think that includes traditional virtues ... telling the truth, respecting the people who you ought to respect, being harmless at worst and generous at best (though within reason). Also Buddhist society (societies) might traditionally be classified, as a "lay society" and a "monastic society", which are inter-dependent. Having a "good friend" (or "admirable" friend -- kalyāṇa-mitta) is important too, perhaps all-important. 

In a comment (now deleted) Bharat suggested this answer: "I would say Sattpatana Sutta gives us the means that realize the impermanent nature of all dhammas by meditating on various dhammas and observing their impermanent nature. Especially meditation on the 9 stages of corpse." 

Finally, a teacher might need to be able to label it, i.e. to explain what they're doing (everything they're doing, or anything their students are doing) in any amount of detail. i really want to get some cool out of the norm experiences to help strength my believe in not "normal" scientific stuff I haven't experienced any too-miraculous chi phenomena, so maybe I only experienced "normal scientific stuff". On the other hand I do remember being pleased, after an early lesson: that I'd been to school for so many years but that nobody had ever really taught me how to walk before! So it's quite practical: good for posture and balance and flexibility and coordination and so on; and hopefully you'll enjoy the company of the people you do it with. just good old worries doubts and expectations etc As I said, for me it shuts down verbalizing and so on; so part of what's pleasant about it is that it's a break from "old worries" and so on. Instead my "worry" is whether I'm keeping my balance while I'm moving three limbs while standing on one foot! And breathing! And I've practiced enough now to be successful at that, so no worries! 

IMO the hallucinogenic images are conditioned and therefore impermanent, unsatisfactory, and anatta. If it's true that image-bubbles are generated in a continual stream by a mechanism in the brain, why doesn't it dominate our awareness all the time i.e. how do you ever make it go away again? Imagine it's like a waterfall, making a permanent noise: how would you make that go away? The answer is that you'd move yourself away from it, put some distance or close some doors between you and it. I think my answer to that is that we learn to control, for example, our hands: you can open and close your hand if you want to: make a fist, make an open palm. There are connections (like paths or currents) between different parts of the brain. Ideally, when you want to go to sleep for example, then you go to sleep. Your brain reconfigures itself for sleep. Your brain and body begin to go to sleep, you experience symptoms of beginning to sleep, you recognize those symptoms, you like those experiences/symptoms (because you want to go to sleep), you don't resist/discourage/reverse those incremental changes, the changes remain and are added to, and so you move (are moved) into deeper sleep. I suppose that if you don't like/pursue the images, if you don't encourage (using your will) and therefore reinforce (perhaps by subconscious neurochemical feedback) the state of mind in which they're generated, then they will go away again (being impermanent). If you're eventually no longer conscious of it, and if the image-bubble machine is nevertheless still ticking away somewhere in the brain, then at least its signals have become more insulated/disconnected from whatever part[s] of the brain my conscious/attention/awareness/self is at. Perhaps you could say I learned to "shut the door" through which those/its images had been manifesting to 'my consciousness'. I don't have a good answer a) because I don't have a good answer for myself b) because it's difficult to describe. I think it's a difficult question to answer: like asking, "how do you see? how do you open your fist when you want to?" I think it's a good and important question and I hope I've at least added to a description of the problem. 

If you diagree with these statements, please say so. Or if you agree with these statements, then please explain again: what is "a sutta of indirect meaning" (either in your own words or by referencing someone else's explanation); and cite some illustrative example[s] of "a sutta of indirect meaning". Also is there a specific, official, or famous commentary on the suttas where they're "classed" like that (i.e. classified or described as neyyattha or samuti or vohāra)? 

I think that Buddhism talks about skandhas and, instead of "When one looks upon himself as the Self", it's more likely to say something like, "When one looks upon upon the body as the self ... When one looks upon upon the perceptions as the self ... etc." Your quote implies that there is a "himself" to look upon, and a "Self" that he can mistake himself for. That quote, with a capitalized S for Self, seems to me more at home in Shivaite doctrine than Buddhist. As well as from doctrine about the aggregates being "non-self" (anatta), Buddhism also has doctrine about "pride", "arrogance", or "conceit" ... maybe this is part of the doctrine, or the kind of doctrine, that the quote is referring to. Also, non-hostility is core to Buddhist doctrine (see e.g. adosa and the brahmaviharas). Finally, people's answers to your question are quoting from the Pali canon; but an "11th century Kashmiri Shaivite philosopher" might be quoting from a different school of Buddhism (perhaps from the beginnings of what became Tibetan Buddhism). 

This blog entry, The Buddha's Hair, says no: not snails. Also, you're probably right about his shaving his head: 

If you'll forgive an uneducated guess of mine... Imagine you're in a forest, after a rain storm: and then the sun comes out and shines. When that happens, then the air you breathe, the forest warmed by the sunlight, would be heavy with moisture. Perhaps that's how there are other elements (for example moisture) in sunlight: in the real world, the elements are mixed together. In the mental world (of ideas) you separate/isolate components/elements, you say, "this is sunlight, whereas that is moisture". But that ideal view (I'm using the word "ideal" as an antonym for "real") would be like asking, "where is the aapo in the tejo?" Similarly in the real world, even if you're in a desert, there's some moisture, although only an infinitesimal amount. 

I don't think it fits well. The article claims there's an "independent reality"; and that evolution has shaped how we perceive reality (it's not specific, but if I'm to fill in the gaps and play devil's advocate, an example might be that we've evolved to see sex and violence as good?). The article is full of words which aren't well-defined (e.g. "independent reality"). It evokes quantum mysticism again, which I'm averse to. It implies that "first-person conscious experience" is inescapable, perhaps the only possible view (which is naive and maybe contradicted by Buddhism). It makes statements like ... 

According to that definition, perhaps it's a truism (perhaps "understanding" erases the hindrance of "skeptical doubt"). I don't really know what Pali word is equivalent to "high IQ"? 

Another sutta says that what you say ought to be true, factual, beneficial ... and that, although it might be agreeable or disagreeable, in either case, you need to "have a sense of the proper time for saying them ... because the Tathagata has sympathy for living beings." I think if you're angry it's easy to justify angry speech: "what happened is wrong, it's right to tell them, I need to tell them that so that it doesn't happen again." Anger however is one of the things which can cloud/distort your judgement (of right and wrong). So if or while you're feeling angry might be one of the better times to not say too much, instead think about it again later if at all. Maybe anger used to be useful, in the animal world for example: if there's some struggle for life and death, anger might make you strong and quick (maybe it helps you to over-react physically). But seeing a mosquito in the ice cream doesn't sound like that kind of emergency. 

I don't know but you might get some (not specifically Buddhist) answers to this question, if you ask it on IPS.SE. For example, one standard (but non-Buddhist) bit of advice is to talk using I-messages. Instead of you-messages like ... 

Continuing the Kalama Sutta, the kind of person who you should trust as a teacher on this subject should someone who is not greedy, not aversive, and not delusive: i.e. an "ungreedy person, not overcome by greed, his mind not possessed by greed" etc. Such a person might be a doctor, or a monk, or they might be people at a "12 step program" meeting. My guess is that you may have social needs (need for family and/or friends), that meeting new people might be good for you. In summary, don't trust "what I want" and "what I don't want", and instead look for advice that is 'blameless', 'praised by the wise', and 'skillful'. 

First question, if I am beginning on this path, which books would you recommend I read? That is, a book which has all the teachings of the Buddha/ philosophies. There's more than one school of Buddhism (see e.g. "Theravada" and "Mahayana") so that's slightly difficult to answer. I recommend the answers to these topics (which are asking about the Pali suttas):