Unless you only had a couple of weeks worth of muscle mass gain, two weeks is not enough time to lose "all the mass you had" and see bodyfat levels change that dramatically. Most likely all that you lost was some of the fluid in the muscle cells. However, all is not lost. All that you need to do is get on track with a consistent diet plan that supports your workouts. Carbs are not evil, despite what paleo and other people will tell you. Plan for 1 to 1.5 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight per day, keep your fat intake to a 15-20% range from healthy fats and oils, and get the rest from high quality carbs and you should be fine. Work out an eating schedule to where you don't binge, and if you do binge, you don't need to fast. Calories are like working out, it's not the single big day that makes or breaks you, it's the day in day out consistent efforts that yield results. 

As JJosaur points out, however, while swimming will give you fairly defined shoulders, it's not going to layer slabs of muscle over the shoulder area. Part of the reason that swimmers appear to have such huge shoulders is because of the large lats and extreme taper into the waist. Additionally, given the emphasis on the front/middle delts, many swimmers appear to be slump shouldered because the front portion of the muscle overpowers the rear and pulls the shoulders forward. If you do a lot of swimming, you should supplement with dry land training as well. 

First, there are very few muscles that actually run through the palms. Most of it is either tendons or ligaments, and the tendons are attached to muscles that are in the forearm, not the hand. Second, what you are describing is a very commonly known (among cyclists, anyway) effect of pressure on the palms which compresses the nerves and blood vessels, resulting in numbness and tingling. The best two cures are to buy a good set of cycling gloves with pads, and shift your hand position often. It's the resting in one spot for a long time that does the most damage. You could also check your tire compression, too high an air compression will result in more shock from the road being transmitted up through the handlebars. Also note: Mostly for male cyclists, but to some extent female cyclists, pressure on the perineum (area between the scrotum and the anus) for long periods of time can cause short term numbness/tingling, and if continued for long periods of time (months to years) can cause erectile problems as well. There are bike saddles designed to specifically ease this problem. 

Headlamp - You can get ones that clip onto a hat, or you can get them mounted on head straps. Find what is comfortable, if it isn't comfortable, you won't use it. My personal preference is the Petzl series of head lamps. You also need to consider the lumens, or light output. I prefer 50 lumens, as that gives me about 10 seconds of visibility at a 7 minute mile pace. If you run faster than that, you need a brighter lamp so that you don't outrun your light. Rear red solid or flashing light - Almost any brand will do, you just want a light in the back for visibility Reflective vest/clothing - You want something that will reflect both from the front and back - My person preference is Nathans, as you can get quite minimally structured vests that still provide a lot of reflection. 

Start at your head, and go to your feet. That's the muscles involved. :p Seriously, a good punch will involve most of the muscles in the body. The primary single movers in a punch are going to be 

Your rest days are going to be a result of a number of different factors. There are many many people that can exercise at varying intensities for days on end in a row with no ill effects, but others that absolutely require rest days. The basic trick is getting to know your own body and how it is reacting to the exercise. To use your example, you are exercising at what I personally would term a fairly light intensity. This is something that could be repeated day after day without ill effect, at least in my personal situation. However, if I upped the ante and added in more distance, or intervals or other high intensity variations, then I might need a rest day here and there. Unfortunately, as alluded to in the comments, it's very much dependent on your own training, your own adaptation and your own tolerance for fatigue. I can give you the personal guideline that if I head out the door for a workout and within 5ish minutes I just know I'm "not feeling it", I will bag the workout and take a rest day. The best answer you're going to get is "it depends". 

As it stands, your question is way too vague to diagnose. The pain could be due to the ligaments in the knee, the muscles around the knee, bad form, bad equipment, muscular imbalance, tibial plateau fracture, etc etc. I would advise against any kind of knee caps (Not sure what they are) or sleeves or other structural adjunct without a sports doc saying "do this". I've seen people that had knee pain, wore sleeves that caused their kneecaps to track out of line and caused worse problems. It's also possible that it isn't actually in your knee, but is referred pain from somewhere else. Pain is a funny thing in the body, it doesn't always occur where the injury is. Get a good checkup from a sports doc, and go from there. 

Plantar flexion of the foot happens when you point your toes. This is what's happening when you first push off the ground. Your heel lifts first, then you push off with the rest of the foot, ending with your toes. Dorsiflexion is the opposite, so after you point your toes, you need to pull them back up towards your shin. That's what the snippet that you provided is saying, is that that movement to recover from the toe point/pushoff should be one of the first things that you initiate as you bring your leg forward and knee up to prepare for your next step on that side. 

The answer you got on sports is pretty complete, although a bit off in the muscle explanation. You want a good solid core and complementary arm strength, coupled with a solid foundation. I would suggest full body exercises such as pushups, squats, plank work, and to specifically work some of the rotational muscles I would add cable chops from high to low and low to high. Flexibility is also going to be a big factor in your swing. If you aren't flexible, then the only way to get more shoulder turn (And thus a longer arc which in turn gives you more time to accelerate the club) is to start lifting your arms away from your body, which will give you that flying elbow problem. The other advice about matching your equipment is excellent, I was using a regular flex shaft, and couldn't control it because I was overpowering it and it was way too whippy. If you start accelerating more, then you may have to look at getting a stiffer flex. Conversely, if your shaft is too rigid for your swing, then you are actually losing distance because you aren't getting as much out of your club, because you aren't moving fast enough to get the shaft to flex and then come through the ball. It is a typical golfer response to look at your equipment, but that's actually the first place I'd look, especially considering you already have a straight ball flight. Find somewhere that can measure your swing speed over several different clubs, and match your shafts to your swing speed. Do that and add more flexibility and resisted rotation work, and I would guesstimate you could get into the 250 range pretty easily, and probably still maintain the accuracy. 

Structure - Structure your runs. You should be getting in 2-3 short distance runs, 2-3 mid and 1 long run per week. In run speed work - By this I mean periods of the run where you increase to race pace for :30 seconds and then drop down to very easy for :30, repeat 5-10 times. Straight speed work - Mile or two warmup, 400's or 800's on the track for time. Should be faster (substantially faster if you can manage it) than your race pace. Couple mile warmdown. Do this only once, maybe twice in a hard week. Hills/terrain - Incorporate hill work, and run on different terrain such as dirt, sand, trails, running paths, etc.