Traditionally, an umpire only changes his calls after discussion with the rest of the umpiring crew. Technically, the umpire that made the call is the only one that can overturn it. So yes, an Umpire is allowed to change a call like this, however it is highly unusual to do so after coaches protest. If the kid did truly miss the bag, there is really no reason to call him safe, and changing a call like this is unprofessional. However, depending on the ages of the kids, and the opinion of the pitching teams coach, this may not be so egregious. If the kids are young, and the coach of the defense agrees that they want to let the kid have the homerun, than this call might not be so bad. If the kids are older, and this is the championship in a competitive league, or the defense's coach was not in agreement, this is poor umpiring. 

The rule looks that way, but from a realistic perspective, he would not, as in all other situations in which a player "catches" a ball in that manner, it is considered a good catch. I do not see an umpire enforcing that rule 

So the answer to both of your questions is: Because the FIFA laws say so. I can only speculate as to why these laws are there. Most likely, referees and spectators will prefer to have any spelling they can pronounce. For instance, I have no idea how to start pronouncing 郑智, 武磊 or 郜林. Although the spellings Zheng Zhi, Wu Lei, and Gao Lin probably don't match the correct pronunciation, they are sufficiently recognizable and allow any European to approximate the player's name. Even worse than not being able to pronounce these names, it may also be hard to distinguish them during a fast-paced match. In effect, names written in unknown character sets do not fulfill the primary function of a name; identifying a person by name would be hard. I'm not aware of any ruling that forbids writing out the full player's names in press materials such as club websites. My guess would be that it's more important for the name to be consistent than right; if every English fan mispronounces the name the same way, they can still talk about the players. Incorrect renderings may also result in a better pronunciation. Asking a German how Sigþórsson would be pronounced, the result would be likely be Siɡpʰɔʁsɔn, whereas Sigthorsson's German pronunciation of Siɡtʰɔʁsɔn is much closer to the correct one (in addition to creating an excellent pun). The players have to follow FIFA laws. Just as some players would like to play with a cool cap, or have sponsor names on their shirts, they have to bow to the laws. Also, some players may themselves prefer their names' pronunciation to be consistent but wrong - or sometimes, as in the case of Sigþórsson, rendered incorrectly but pronounced (more) correctly, because a recognizable/spellable name increases prominence, and increased prominence translates to increased income. 

The amount of calories you need to burn to cover any given distance is the same regardless of whether you haul ass or you take a leisurely stroll (roughly 70-80 per km, depending on body weight). Properly, you burn more the slower you go, but that is because it takes longer and you have to spend extra calories on bodily functions not related to moving; but unless we are talking about time differences in the range of hours, the difference will be negligible. The extra weight of shin guards is also negligible. That said, soccer is physically harder that running a given distance at a steady pace, because soccer involves things that put a greater strain in the body, e.g., many accelerations to short sprints, jumping, pushing and being pushed, occasionally being kicked in the legs, etc. Then you have to take into account that just running is not mentally demanding (when I run, I usually go thinking about random stuff and snap out of it when I need to cross a road or something like that), whereas playing high-level soccer requires intense focus over long periods of time. 

Yes, although R1 interfered, he interfered in the process of getting the batter out. It would be the same as a base coach or bench player interfering on behalf of the batter; the batter is out. 

Situation as follows: Runners on first and second, zero or one out. Ground Ball is hit to the shortstop. The runner on second intentionally slides into or kicks the ball, getting himself out, so that the shortstop cannot turn a double play. Is this legal? Or would the umpire declare the runner at second out as well, a la the new interference at second play. If legal, has this ever happened? 

I realized I've been using the term for years but never realized that taken literally, it makes no sense. "Alley" - other than the word alley, I have no idea what this could refer to. "oop" - most likely a shortened version of hoop? Is it a shortened version of another phrase? 

Looking at this stats page, it looks like high sticking accounts for ~10% of all minor penalties. From the same site, on average there are about 3 penalties per game per team, so you end up with 6 minors per game, so in 60% of games there is a high sticking minor. 

Badminton rackets vary among a number of properties, none of which are a simplistic worse vs better: 

Finally, the additional Olympic regulations for Beach Volleyball seem to consist of a form where athletes have to register their colors in advance. Gymnastics In section 2 §9 of the general laws, you'll just see (see COP), which turns out to be discipline-specific regulations. In Aerobic Gymnastics' COP, you can see the wording in §2.3. The details are quite technical, but notably men have to choose from five options (basically all tanktops), whereas women are more free to choose. Women are allowed to cover their entire arms up to the wrist and their legs. Men have to show at least 1/4 of their leg and most of their arms. Surprisingly, many other disciplines do not actually have a dress code in their discipline-specific rules. But fear not, there's trampoline with sub-disciplines: In basic trampoline (§6), female clothing must be skin-tight. There is no such restriction for the men. On the other hand, the men are not allowed to cover their arms, whereas the women are. In trampoline tumbling and double mini trampoline (§6 respectively), the rules are similar to basic trampoline, but in addition, men must wear gym shorts (presumably showing the knee), whereas women may wear long tights. Swimming Swimming is a rare sport where men must reveal more than women; see FINA By-Laws §8.3: 

Which competition (or team, if relevant) was the first to print each player's name on the uniform? Was there a specific reason given to do so? Both questions are independent of specific sports. The first one I'm asking out of historical interest. The second is because I see little point in printing players' names when they already have identifying numbers (other than selling replica uniforms, which is, as far as I know, a practice that postdates the introduction of named uniforms). 

Basketball Club and local-language-appropriate equivalent phrases are relatively common among European teams, especially those that are not basketball divisions of a larger sports club. North American teams, on the other hand, invariably (I think) use the template Location Moniker. If the teams in your game are going to be based on the actual teams, then probably you should use the actual names of the teams (in this particular case, Miami Heat, period), provided that there are no legal provisions against that. This is something you should consult with a specialized lawyer. 

Many such examples can be provided. Effectively, the only special characters that regularly make it into shirts are Germanic umlauts and Spanish/Portuguese accents. This is odd, because the change in spelling often entails a change in pronunciation (e.g., Šmicer's Liverpool shirt used to say Smicer, even though š and s correspond to different sounds; this is like giving Ronaldo a shirt that says Renaldo and then going "eh, close enough, who cares"). So here there are actually two questions. First, why do clothing companies systematically produce shirts with known misspellings (unlikely to be economic reasons, I think; the cost of procuring additional characters is probably trivial relative to the size of the market)? And second, why do the relevant players systematically tolerate the misspellings? 

Generally, men move faster on court and have a more powerful smash - this is plain visible in Mixed doubles, where the man often covers three fourth of the court, and in smash statistics, where men are up 30km/h or more. On the other hand, the defensive ability of top women is very close to that of the men. For these reasons, a high shot to the back to a man will put you into a disadvantageous situation where the opponent can play a high-speed smash that you'll struggle to defend against. This is doubly true in doubles, where the back service line is closer, and a front player will cover all short replies. On the other hand, the same high shot to a woman (in level doubles, mixed doubles, or singles) will put you into a much more neutral situation: The smash (if any) won't be as powerful, and she may not get to the back fast enough to execute one of the really threatening jump smashes. The same is true for beginners as opposed to more advanced players, by the way: Beginners will struggle to reach high shots and not be able to produce any threatening shots from the back of the court, especially in singles. At lower levels, a high serve to the back may even put you into an advantageous position. Today's top female players are getting to the point where they are able to dish out threatening shots from the back doubles service line, and therefore we're seeing fewer high serves in Womens/Mixed doubles as well. Even in singles, top players like Carolina Marin or P.V. Sindhu are able to attack high shots (serves as well as clears during the game). That's why players of their caliber often employ backhand serves (easier to play short shots, and to disguise the occasional long serve) as opposed to the forehand serves(easy to get a very high shot) which are ubiquitous at lower levels in singles. There is only some relation between the selection of serve and the receiver's height; professional players can easily produce high serves that go over the reach of any human. Because tall players have a higher center of gravity, they take longer to go the back. That's why discipline and gender of the receiver is a much more accurate predictor of the type of service. In other words, if you serve high to Hiroyuki Endo (1,72m Men's doubles expert), you can be certain that the response will be a thundering smash. 

It used to be the case that the winner of the World Cup qualified automatically for the final stage of the following edition, but that's not the case anymore. France was the last team that this rule applied to, qualifying for 2002 by virtue of winning in 1998; afterwards, Brazil had to go through the regular qualification process for 2006 despite winning in 2002, and so did Italy for 2010, Spain for 2014, and now Germany for 2018. What was the rationale for this rule change? 

There is also the fact that, in the general case, football is a relatively open-ended sport. Baseball is a statistics-friendly sport because there is only a relatively small number of things that can happen, and mostly they are the kinds of things that statistics is well-suited to study. In football, you have many more options at any given point, and often you have to pick one very quickly (e.g., the ball is coming to you! do you play it on the first touch? do you control it and then play it? do you pass it immediately or carry it forward on your own? which foot are you going to use? whatever you do, is it a good decision taking into account the state of the game and the position of other teammates/opponents?). Statistics is much harder when you don't have clearly staticizable data. To give you an example, Real Madrid's president let Makelele go in summer 2003, on the grounds that he didn't have good statistics ---i.e., he didn't score goals, he didn't provide assists, he was too short to be dominant in the air, he mostly played short easy passes, etc. This happened even though his teammates constantly pointed out that he was the one key player that made everything happen as it was supposed to (a largely unquantifiable ability). After his departure, Real Madrid went from being one of the most dominating teams in Europe to not winning anything at all for three whole seasons. In contrast, Makelele's next team (Chelsea) went on to what is probably the most successful 5-year period of their history. 

So if the racket side hit the shuttle during the rally, it's a let, i.e. you replay the rally. In all other cases, it's a fault of the side which hit the shuttle: 

Depends on the sport and discipline - sometimes the differences are enforced, sometimes it is in principle possible to opt for longer clothing, and sometimes it's up to the choice of the individual player. 

In some sports and disciplines, shorts are allowed. In gymnastic disciplines, they are allowed (even required) for men but not women. 

Before each game, the umpire will ask each side which of the players will be serving or receiving. If there is no umpire, the opponents may ask, or more commonly, players just position themselves. At the start of a game, both server and receiver stand on their right side; their partners may stand anywhere on court as long as they don't obscure the opponents§9.5. When the receiving side wins a rally, the players remain on the sides they were at the start of the last rally§11.3.2. The right to serve cycles through§11.4 

The precise rules for clothing are published by the international sport federations (FIVB for Beach Volleyball, FIG for gymnastics, FINA for Swimming etc.). Typically, they consist of 

You are correct. It is worded so that an illegal slide into third base would make the runner going to 3rd out, and the runner going to 2nd out. It is worded that way so that if the third baseman still tries to throw to first, the batter-runner would be out. Another situation would be bases loaded, ground ball to the pitcher. Pitcher throws to catcher, runner coming home commits illegal slide, catcher throws to first. This would mean the runner coming home and the batter are out, because the play was attempted to first. I can't wait until this rule is used to complete a triple play. 5-4-3 triple play with an illegal takeout slide at 2nd. Runner to third is out by force, runner at 2nd and batter are out fro this rule! 

Why is it seemingly forbidden for a lefty to play catcher? Lefties would have an advantage fielding bunts and throwing to first, as they would already be oriented towards first when getting the ball. When throwing to second, it seems meaningless which hand to throw from. Throwing to third would require you to turn around, but I believe that throwing to first, either on a dropped third, bunt, or pickoff attempt is more common than throwing to third. Is there something I'm missing? 

No, not in any of the sports I am aware of. Male swimmers, on the other hand, must have bare stomachs. 

Looking at the google search results for the term "double-elimination game", you and the cited article seem to be the only ones using the term. As the first people to use a term, it is upon you to define it (you could argue that the article is the first known instance of the term, so it gets to define it). However, the related term double-elimination tournament is well-defined across multiple sports. If you look at a number of the google search results, you'll find that almost every mentioning of double-elimination game is actually referring to a game in a double-elimination tournament. You can also refer to google ngram, which lists word usage over years, and see that "double-elimination game" is not even listed in that dictionary, but "double-elimination tournament" is widely used since about 1950. In a double-elimination tournament, there is a top/winners and a bottom/losers bracket. 

A lot of sports require any athlete to cover their stomach. Beach Volleyball only applies these regulations to men.