... but let's be honest, none of these ways are particularly suited for someone in 'survivalist' circumstances. At best you will still need a lot of digging equipment, tools and knowledge for chemical extraction an detailed geological/geographical knowledge to know where to search for raw materials. See for example this group, which travelled to Iceland to try and purify sulfur from natural raw materials. Frame Challenge With respect to how hard sulfur is to acquire in the largest parts of the world I'd go as far as to say it is of negligible significance in a survivalist setting. 

I am quite certain that there are more deadly mushrooms than just the one you mentioned - if only for the other members of the Amanita Genus, many of which are very poisonous and some plain kill you. E.g. Amanita Vitrosa, with the uncommonly poetic name destroying angel (German: Weisser Knollenbl채tterpilz), is just as deadly as the one you mentioned. What makes it potentially even more dangerous (or at least I was told so by several people who taught me mushroom foraging as a kid) is that it has some similarities to the Agaricus (German: Champignon), some of which are commonly collected for eating. Apparently it happens that people mix them up and get themselves killed this way. Bottom line: Best don't touch anything from the Amanita Genus. From Wikipedia: 

I'd suggest either finding professionally built outriggers, then figure out how much lift they produce, or do some experimentation yourself. But I think you're approaching the problem from the wrong side. 

At the risk of stating the obvious... ... just not letting your paper get wet in the first place is by far the easiest and cheapest solution. How you might ask? These solutions worked well for me in the past: 

Now swing the whole thing upside down so that the back of your axe heads (marked X above) hits chopping block. (If you don't have a chopping block, use a sturdy flat log.) This will make the entire weight of the log work in your favor, instead of only the comparably light axe head. Things to watch out for: 

If we compare extremes the results would probably be rather obvious, i.e. people living at 0 and 50m will likely get AMS at about the same (statistical) rate. If we compare people living at 0 and 5100m (La Rinconada, highest settlement acc. to Wikipedia) the former would probably get AMS a lot more often when going to 6000m. But, again, as we are talking about a gradual process there is no sharp cut-off. 

I'm interested in how Viking era1) hikers carried their gear and provisions while out and about on foot. My focus here would be longer walks in civilian life, e.g. to get from farm A to farm B. I.e. no raiding parties, travel on horse back, etc... I have seen some interpretations in videos of reenactment groups where simple wooden racks made out of split branches are used (e.g. video here). In others I have seen people simply carry a cloth bag over their shoulder, or bundles held together with a belt carried on the back by holding on to one end of the belt with one hand. At least the two latter examples don't seem very practical, as they don't leave your hands free and are prone to be rather tiring over longer distances. I do realise that civilians walking long distances was probably not something that was very common at the time - at least not without good reason. These reasons would of course likely dictate how said marches were done and what kind of equipment was used (if any at all). Meaning that farmer Jo Jonson probably spent all his life on his farm and maybe the ones around him, and didn't venture out into the wide world carrying lot's of stuff... Still, if possible, I'm looking for sources (preferably archaeological finds, depictions or texts) that give some idea of the available possibilities. 1) I'm mostly interested in lets say ca. 800-1000 AD Scandinavia. (This is still very broad, I can refine it if necessary.) 

Stopping power The target should be strong enough to stop arrows reliably. It's better to work with a good margin here, especially if the target is used with different arrows (carbon tend to have a lot more piercing power) or stronger bows. Arrows should always be stopped well before the fletching reaches the target, otherwise you'll run into the danger of the fletching being damaged (oftentimes it is just shaved off cleanly). Don't damage arrows Obviously the arrows shouldn't be damaged, even after repeated use. This also holds for whatever construct you use to hang/install/put-up your target. E.g. using a heavy metal frame to hold up your target will mean that any arrow which accidentally hits the frame will be toast. Ease of arrow removal The target should be soft/flexible enough to allow easy arrow removal (if you have to put too much force into it there is always the danger of damaging the arrow). Durability The target should hold up for a good long while without falling apart. Styrofoam is an excellent example which fulfils most of the other requirements, but fails spectacularly on the durability (it'll dissolve into nasty tiny bits after very short use). Stable build This concerns more how you put up your target and less how you build the actual target. The entire construct should be quite stable, so as not to be moved/thrown over while shooting at it, removing arrows or because of wind (the latter can destroy a whole bunch of expensive arrows at once). Price This one is kind of obvious, but came up frequently back when I was trying to create archery targets. The proper archery foam target blocks can be amazingly expensive, not to speak of actual 3D foam targets which cost even more. Straw can be a decent and cheap alternative here, but has its own drawbacks. Weather resistance Optimally a good target would resist wind and weather, which is the case for many synthetic foams. Straw bales or designated straw targets, while cheap, don't like getting wet/moist. Meaning you'll have to manage weather exposure (e.g. cover it with a tarp, make sure it stays dry, ...). 

FYI, this method was shown to me by the farmers who actually set up these barbed wires to fence of their mountain pastures. Seems they found crossing fences that way carried no/acceptably small chance of damaging the fence. 

And because you can't often properly compare the different tent shapes, it can be very hard to compare waterproofness. My advice: Go to your trusted local outdoor store, explain them your requirements and your limitations (money, ...) and they will give you some good suggestions on what you could buy. 

I would suggest not sleeping on the boat. Apart from the safety issues this will bring up - the boat could slowly lose air, or could start drifting away, the water could rise, ... - it will not protect you against wind or rain. So in any case, the least I'd suggest for you to get is a good tarp or a rain-proof bivouac sleeping bag. A tent is obviously even better, but will also be more expensive. Without these you'll not be a happy camper should it rain during the night. Another possibility: You could pull the boat to shore and use it as an improvised shelter. For example you raise it up on one side using the paddles, which will form a sort of roof over your head. Then you'll only need to worry about a sleeping mat and sleeping bag to keep you warm at night. 

Fauna and Flora As always when following leave no trace be aware of your environment and the ecosystem you are moving in. 

Generally speaking, no. Arguably you should never go for out for any kind of extended exhausting activity without ensuring proper hydration, i.e. packing enough fluids at least for your immediate needs. The life straw will allow you to purify water sources you find up to a certain degree, but some concerns remain: 

This will lower the top wire for 20 cm easily, which should allow you to cross by swinging over one leg, then the other. Of course for a smaller person, or when confronted with a very high fence this could be infeasible. One possible way to cross in that situation is to cross between the wires by pressing down on the lower one, thus enlarging the gap. Otherwise you'll have to result to the methods in the other answers. 

Bonus: The fabric of the bags is also quite waterproof. When I took these on treks we also used them as a dry spot to sit on, or as a way of keeping things dry outside of the inner tent (or in beneath a tarp). Btw. here the source for the exact specs. 

If your intended purpose is to call for help and alert rescue personnel in the first place then go with the options mentioned by @Charlie Brumbaugh: 

I don't think it is possible to answer your question in such a general way. Needed lift of your outrigger depends on your type of canoe, the way its built, how it is packed with people/goods (weight distribution), how big your sail is, how high your mast is, if you are sailing with/across/against the wind, etc, etc. What we can observe is: 

According to Fj채llr채ven you can also easily wash out any applied wax by washing your G-1000 piece at 40째C. This means you could basically decide before every use which properties you want from your G-1000 fabric, and then apply wax accordingly. Examples of what I did: 

I have extensive trekking experience in northern Europe (Sweden, Norway), some in Central Europe (Switzerland, France) and some in the Canadian Rockies. What I can say about Scandinavia, which has a comparably strong bear population, is that most people do not worry over bear attacks at all. For example: I have personally spent weeks in the Scandinavian outback, I read many books and talked to a lot of fellow hikers: none out of them consider bears to be a real danger. In the vast wilderness meeting a bear is so very unlikely even the most enthousiastic hikers go their entire lives without ever seeing a bear from afar, let alone getting into a close encounter with it. I've hiked on long and very popular routes that lead through bear country without ever hearing about bear hangs, bear canisters, bear sprays or any other anti-bear measure. 

As you were talking about the Alps I suggest having a look around (on Google maybe) to check what kind of alpine and hiking clubs exist near you. At least in Switzerland there are alpine clubs in every city and many smaller towns (even the ones further away from the mountains) and most of them organise regular hikes/outings for their members.