No. Do they care about Unobtanium? Nope. A lot of conflicts have nothing to do with acquiring energy or FTL travel. Water, religion, occupation, even plain & simple pride, etc. are primary causes of war. Do they even have TV and Radio? Not in the jungles of Colombia. Not in the back of beyond in Burma. For the wars to be ended, it would require a state intervention, which leads us to the next problem. Vastness of War War is not one thing, much like cancer is not 'one' type. There are wars over all sorts of tensions. There are even Buddhist monks slaughtering Muslims in Mayanmar as we speak due to being outnumbered socially. There are wars in Central African Republic, Pakistan, Israel/Palestine, etc. Even Russia has bullied its way around in recent years. The conflicts are too wide-spread for a state-driven eradication or peace treaty in one year. No Single Solution In almost every case, there will be two sides who have extreme belief that the correct "end" to the war would be annihilation or reversal of beliefs or altered borders in their favor. How does intervention decide which side should be taken? Rarely are there middle solutions that both sides would accept. Many Don't Want Unobtainium - Economy Do you think Doha would be happy if everyone in the world had unlimited clean energy? How then will they buy food for the people of Qatar in the first few years. All of the energy-sector jobs would be cut. In renewables alone, almost 7 million people work in that sector. Way more than that in the total energy sector (sorry I can't find a number). Many Don't want Unobtanium - Environment It would devastate our planet. Countries such as Saudi Arabia, Libya, etc. would use free energy to pump vast amounts of desal water to green their deserts and have agriculture. Countries such as Madagascar and Indonesia would us unlimited energy to more rapidly clear cut trees for sale. The spread of mankind's destruction, particularly in rapidly growing under-developed countries, will likely increase. 

As currently configured, no. Way back, the Moon was much, much closer to the earth than it is now, and it has been receding ever since. The effect is well-understood, and it's not going to change. 

A Kemplerer Rosette is not stable in the sense you mean. Any perturbation will eventually kill the configuration. From Kemplerer's paper "While the rosette configurations here studied are capable of revolving as a whole in dynamical equilibrium, they are not stable against random perturbations." 

No question: Special Ops. For working with local resistance units, he would be enormously reassuring, as long as religious objections don't make him The Devil. For LRRPs (Long Range Reconnaisance Patrols), he has the ability both to destroy enemy forces who stumble across the patrol and he provides instant extraction if the situation goes pear-shaped. Everybody on the team carries a harness and line to hook on to him once he shifts. An MBT runs, typically, in the range of 60 to 70 tons, so he can carry a large team. For raids, he provides the "Aaah! Dragon!" factor that Frostfyre mentions, enormous distraction value as the rest of the team scurries around attaching demo charges to points of interest, and (once again) extraction capability. Plus, he can do all sorts of damage all on his own, between setting things on fire and throwing heavy equipment around and breaking it. What he's not suitable for is conventional assaults. If he tries that, he's going to run into anti-tank missiles sooner rather than later, and if a .50 cal round can hurt him you don't want to think about what a shaped-charge warhead will do. 

In addition to the other answers, you could consider the following. If you time-travel but stay in one place, even going a day forward in time, you will find the Earth has traveled FAR and you're in outer space. The Earth, solar system, indeed galaxy - are all traveling remarkably fast from each other and with each other. If your characters could get the extremely detailed precision of predicting when a destination will be in your place in space, you may jump forward, undertake what you need, and then jump backwards to home. But you don't get to pick any destination, just one that will be flying by your point of space at some point in time. 

There are a few open spots in the question, so I'll take some liberties here, to justify why the aliens want to non-violently annex Earth. As an urban planner, I will apply the same reasoning we do here, but on a galactic scale; as well as more insidious reasons. Labor Compared to other planets that may just have bacteria, Earth has a large supply supply of inexpensive and (relatively) highly educated labor. The aliens ensure humans are fed, 'paid' and housed, and in turn the humans produce their products from service to labor employment. Think Abu Dhabi: paying expatriate workers more than they would get back home, providing free healthcare, education, and housing; and the people are complacent. Resources There may be a resource aliens would like to sustainably harvest... trees? They like the taste of wood (replace this with whatever resource is unique to Earth). They offer to help leaders keep their place, and people to be provided with nice things, so long as we sustainably work in the lumber industry (as an example). Right of Way There may be a reason the Earth is an un-owned piece of land that would make a nice traffic or utility easement (a stop-over or temporary accommodation), and before aliens #2 claim Earth, aliens #1 would like to annex the land and plant their flag, so-to-speak. Organization Maybe the aliens truly consider us a 'proper' civilization and biome (how flattering), and would like to formally include us among their amalgamation of civilizations. They're ready to include us as one of the 'territories' or 'states' of their societies, and allow us to join in the inter-galactic dialogue with them and others. (My favorite) Investment The aliens see us as potentially helpful, so they are ready to invest in the infrastructure, technology, etc. of Earth, in exchange for a growing security and resource provider: another ally. This is not unlike the EU Association Agreements with countries: we build ports, utilities and other infrastructure, in exchange for cooperation, investment opportunities, etc. (for fun) Hotties You're only allowed to date someone in your own interplanetary system; and they find us attractive, but until we're part of their system... 

Your packs are too big, and Detroit is too small, and the dogs will starve if they aren't hunted down. African wild dogs need about 3 kg of meat per day, and grey wolves about 5 kg per day. Increased brain function requires considerable increased food intake, but let's split the difference and call it 4 kg/day. That implies about 20,000 kg of meat per day for the entire population. Even if you assume the dogs will be able to consume the entire carcasses of their prey, within a day or so all the pets will be gone, and then it's on to humans. Without leisure on their prey, the dogs will not be able to consume the entirety of an unlucky human, so let's take a rough number of about 50 kg of meat and organs per person. This implies a hunting rate of 400 people per day. You should keep in mind that, while Detroit has what most consider an appalling crime rate, it's less than 300 homicides per year. So you'd start losing more people per day than are ordinarily lost in a year, and this is not the sort of loss rate which will go unnoticed. With numbers increased to 30,000, the numbers above indicate they need to kill about 2400 people per day. The city proper (143 square miles) only has a population of 680,000, which will last the community about 280 days, and that's if everybody stays put, doesn't fight back, and gets hunted. How likely do you think that is? Within 3 days a state of emergency will be declared. There will be sightings of the dogs - they must get out to hunt, and do so only in the darkest hours of the night - say, 2 AM to 6 AM. During these hours, the vast majority of folks are safe behind closed doors, so after a few days the pickings will get very slim. There just aren't that many hookers and drug dealers available. Hollywood likes to show remorseless night hunters making silent kills, but it generally doesn't work that way. People getting killed by dogs will scream bloody murder. This will alert the neighbors, at least a few of whom will dial 911. The existence of blood pools and the occasional scrap of clothing and flesh will be a dead giveaway that something very, very bad is going on. The dogs simply will not be able to hide their presence for a year while they expand to 30,000. But let's say they somehow do. Once discovered, the dogs are in a very bad situation. Humans have this tendency to gang up on any perceived threat. Humans ganging up on a threat while carrying automatic weapons (the military will get called in rather quickly) are very bad news. The dogs may well be good at hiding during the day, and for a few weeks or perhaps months would be a real threat to civilians, but ultimately they would starve. With people either fleeing the city or barricading themselves in at night there is simply nothing to eat. 8-year-old intelligence does not imply an attention span greater than an 8-year-old, so there is no reason to invoke some exceptional strategic planning abilities. 

A Net o' Nanobots We already have very small robots. But I assume you want something larger, like a human scale. Simply have your millions of coordinated and communicating machines that would be like below, but instead of birds, they are machines so small, they're not detected visually by the human eye. 

Stephen King formula My friends and I are terrified of different things. I was up at night by small, complex imaginary things: Gremlins, that thing from Cat's Eye (don't judge me). A brother was kept up at night by (human) intruders. Others are afraid of aliens, ghosts, small things, foreign things, large monsters: full range. The overarching theme appeared to be things that presented a threat of torment more than instant death. I don't care for his writing, but the manifestation of things to be afraid of seem to be covered by the author, Stephen King, and done well enough that we all seem to have one of his monsters (clowns, for some...) in our day-to-day fears. Threat of irrational, undeserved torment is scarier than "instant death" (we don't lie awake at night worried about a car crash, necessarily or heart disease, if we're healthy). 

No. It would be his own DNA that gave him the attribute of being able to change into a canine. He would not be a human being, he would be a different species, supposedly descended not from when we split the primates up, but it would have to be way, way back, potentially as far back as Boreoeutheria splits. Unless you wanted to add in some fantasy mad-scientist thing, where his DNA was somehow created artificially: in which case, this answer still stands: he has his own, unique DNA. 

The country in which the spear is buried does indeed have full legal rights to control it, with the limitation that it's not clear how high their control extends. National control of airspace follows traditional legal guidelines, but vertical limits are not legally extant. Since no country (to date) has protested satellite overflights, a de facto limit of about 100 miles is probably a safe guess. And it could be less, since force is the coin of sovreignity, and if a country cannot enforce its claims it's pretty much out of luck. An organization such as the UN might conceivably claim possession of The Spear ("in the name of Humanity"), but would be hard pressed to put together a military force to take possession of it. And, as a complicating factor, I can't imagine a 100 km diameter object burying itself 3000 km deep would not devastate the surrounding countryside. This would cripple the national government, and as a group the equatorial governments aren't in all that great shape anyways, particularly the African ones. 

Notice that $URL$ gives the total population of the Serengeti plains at 750,000 zebra (call it 800 lbs apiece), 1.2 million wildebeest (500 lbs apiece) and "several hundred thousand" others (let's say 500,000 at 300 lbs apiece, although many are smaller). That's total of 1.35 billion pounds of prey. At 1000 pounds per day, this herd will feed 3700 dragons for one year. This means that within 100 years the dragon population will have scoured the earth clean of anything big enough to catch and eat. So there will have to be some mechanism in place to cut down on the reproductive success of the dragons. Limiting clutches to 3 young every 10 years seems a good start, but it only delays the problem. So, how in the world are people going to domesticate dragons? The above numbers, oddly enough, provide a possibility. With the prolonged draconian childhood, it's clear that adults must have a strong protective instinct toward their young. This suggests that perhaps humans, by some quirk of reptilian psychology, trigger the same indulgent/protective instincts as the young, similar to the way infants of other species produce attachment in humans. Since dragons aren't very bright (by human standards), people could take advantage of the dragons' instincts. This would allow people to survive around dragons long enough to select out those individuals which can be tamed, and eventually produce a domesticable breeding line. At the same time, people could also begin a quiet program of population control to keep the dragon numbers to a bearable level. It would also be important to monitor the dragon population for the appearance of individuals who don't like people, and quietly dispose of them. Of course, this ignores the other side of dragon nature. Although adults treat humans as young dragons, presumably young dragons do so as well - and young dragons kill their own. And at any given time, about 90% of the population is young. Frankly, I'm a bit short of ideas on how to deal with this. And to honest, I'm not at all sure how these convenient draco deaths will be eventuated. That is left as an exercise to the reader. Other than military uses, it seems unlikely that anybody other than the military could afford one as a pet. Each dragon needs 180 tons of meat per year. And, given the metabolic peculiarities of such a beast, I'd expect the poop to be toxic and corrosive. A few might be used for very high-status races, or perhaps as high-speed couriers, but the expenses for any other use would be prohibitive. 

Participatory Public The public can (and likely would) be watching the astronauts a lot. Allow them from time-to-time in a true lottery system to ask the astronauts to do some fun things, like a backflip or to throw a rock or whatever in Mars' light gravity. You can use CGI, etc. to fake lighter gravity, but you can't do it on the spot. The studio would have as low as 8 minutes (4min each way) of "lag time" only to make the astronaut do something in half-gravity. Return Samples - Lots of Them Obviously, we can find Earth-based Martian rocks that have entered our atmosphere as meteors. A large volume of return samples can only be collected by people (rovers are delicate things, and would require a lot of energy for just a small sample). The samples can include regolith, small rocks, etc. that would not have naturally made it through Earth's atmosphere. Have independent scientists of different backgrounds around the world verify the authenticity of these. 

Cultural Some medieval capitals were established from cultural/religious ties, but I don't think that's what you're looking for, since you stated that they all have the "same traditional, economic, religious or political relevance." Again, there are a bajizillion reasons to make a city a capital, but these were the most relevant in medieval Europe. In other places and other times, there are other factors. 

This is D&D, not reality. So, no, it is not remotely realistic. Strength is due mostly to muscle mass and leverage. A 30-pound halfling simply doesn't have that much muscle, particularly after you account for bones, skin (the largest organ of the human body) and entrails. Furthermore, without significant increases in joint size you wont get the leverage needed. 

Guerilla Warfare By this I mean that the 19th century force must give up its focus on a standup battle. Any attempt by such a force using the tactics of the time will result in its being slaughtered. Modern troops, dug in and with proper fields of fire and ammo supply can more or less hold off anything short of human wave attacks, and 19th century armies (of the European persuasion) didn't do that. Machine guns with interlocking fields of fire on flat ground are essentially impervious to infantry attacks - see, for instance, the First Battle of the Somme. Instead, the defenders must disperse and stay dispersed. Hit and run, sniping, and night attacks are the ticket. By refusing to meet the invaders in battle, they never lose. Of course, they don't win, either, and such a contest becomes a battle of political will. This will be very difficult for the defenders to do, though. 19th century technology does not include radios, so communications among the dispersed units is slow and uncertain, and the invaders have an enormous advantage over any unit they can locate. Night attacks, also, are fraught with peril, since the invaders have night vision devices. 

I have an alternate-history story taking place during an extended end of WW2. For naval mines, I need them to be disarmed if a 'friendly' ship (let's say Axis) bumps into them, but detonate if the Allied ship hits it. We have all sorts of GPS, etc., if we cared to make underwater mines today; but I have a sneaking suspicion a mine could be 'smart' with technology from 1950 (yes, my war is extended). Between the ship and the mine, something must ensure an Axis mine must not detonate if an Axis ship contacts it; but otherwise explode when another ship contacts it. There are two parts to the question that must be solved: 

Indentured Servitude In most Gulf countries, the company pays for a laborer or worker to fly over, get their residency visa, and housing set up. Then, they may hold onto the passport of the worker for as long as they deem the debt has been paid off. For some (like me), it was fair: we got to keep our passport, travel with our time off, etc. For others, it is a nightmare of slavery: there were reports of laborers being kept longer because they 'didn't work hard enough,' or maids whose passports were kept by their 'masters.' In the latter, it was even more like slavery, in that most large villas had tiny maids rooms with no windows, and there were often reports about locking them in at night. Also, all refrigerators that you can buy, at least in the UAE had locks on them so that maids couldn't eat/drink what was in the house. (note that the horror stories were minimal, but very real) 

You might point out to her that she already does magic. Tell her to turn on a light. Can she explain how she did that? Have her turn on the TV, and explain to you how she can bring up images of people (even dead people, if she likes reruns) who talk to her. Get a copy of Dragon speech recognition software and install it on your computer, then ask her how something can respond to her voice. At seven, she's probably too young to have experience firing a gun 

The Alliance should win in a very short while. It has the ability to perform decapitation strikes on the Union forces at will. Teleporting a small bomb into the headquarters of the enemy is not easily countered. Political and military leaders will have very short lifespans, and the Alliance will be able to maneuver at will. 

Without knowing further details (and the Devil, or God, is in the details), the process would be fairly straightforward. It would require that chi powers be reliably and uniformly exhibited. Then, in order to explain these repeatable results, various theories would be proposed, tested, and discarded or modified depending on further experiments. Science works by testing theories (well, hypotheses, technically - "theory" has an entirely different meaning in science) against physical evidence until someone comes up with an idea that works. The proposition that there are mind-mediated manifestations of some otherwise undetectable energy/ field / flow is certainly conceivable, but it's up to you to provide the patterns and explanation. Certainly there is nothing in current mainstream science that can do this. And, of course, any practitioner must adhere to the first 30 seconds of $URL$ and strictly avoid the last 3 minutes.