All but the most gentle rides on smooth surfaces can put quite a lot of stress on your wrists. Listen to your doctors on how long you should rest it because in general there's still healing to be done when the cast comes off. Not only is the bone still fragile but the muscles will be very weak. I was a teenager when I broke my wrist so timings may be different, but the length of recovery after the cast was removed was equal to the length of time it was on. Do any physio exercises you're given, which will help you retain strength and movement. Then start in benign conditions - good roads when they're quiet - until your bike handling is back to normal. When you first get back on, you really don't want to fall off, and wrist-jarring potholes should be avoided (you may not have the grip strength to maintain control, in addition to avoiding the shock). This is likely to be worse on a road bike than on flat bars. Everyone is different and everyone's injuries are different, but if you plan on a cautious approach and take advice from the medical professionals you shouldn't go wrong. 

Very good antiperspirant for the morning ride can work, dressing as cool as possible and changing clothes when you get in. Everyone has an upper limit for effort/distance/temperature for which this works, and if you work at the top of a hill, forget it. Slowing down for the last bit can help. You may even be able to take your helmet off for the last couple of hundred metres. This can make a big difference but only you can judge the riding conditions. I didn't find that baby wipes made for a good freshen up. 

Bike seats designed for retrofitting and carefully chosen are going to be as good as anything fitted in the factory to a fairly normal frame. They will be mounted in a very similar way, and may even be the same seat. By all means take advice from a bike shop on which models are suitable for your bike, and get them to do the fitting, I didn't feel the need to personally. Having ridden with a rear seat since my daughter started nursery and with a trailer more recently, I'm strongly in favour of the seat unless there's a wide dedicated bike path with a decent surface. Given my proportions and those of my bikes a top-tube-mounted seat was out of the question, but they look like a very good idea. 

Shifters are notoriously hard to reassemble, and if it came to pieces unexpectedly it's going to be hard to know whether you've got everything. You also don't know (until you've put all the effort in to try and fix it) whether the reason it gave you trouble in the first place is something you can fix. An Altus shifter shouldn't be expensive so it's probably best to replace it. 

(This is more a collection of thoughts to help youtowards an answer, than an actual answer) If wear at that point causes the shoe to sit a touch lower in the pedal, and the rubber sole to press against the metal, you'll get extra friction. My shoes are wth me, and show a similar wear spot; perhaps on your new cleats it's just not yet obvious. And that spot might actually contact something. I could believe so from about 4:46 into this video (M324s, but the mechanism should be very similar) and also from my own shoes (used with M424s) Because I ride on M424s comnbined with walkable shoes, I had to file bits off the pedal to stop them binding against the shoes. To find where they were binding I dampened the sole and dusted the pedal with coloured chalk, then clipped the pedal (off the bike) to the shoe held between my knees. I could then see where the chalk stuck to the shoe. You might try something similar, though it might be easier to see where the chalk (alternatively talc) rubs off the shoe. You may not be able to make the problem go away with the file as your pedals don't have much material, but a light trim of the sole in the right region might help. Which foot do you unclip more? The one that shows the trouble? You can also try throwing some light grease over all the metal parts. 

This is more of an extended comment. If you're mounting it on one side, that's likely to be quite a lot of weight off-centre, which will also affect the handling. I'd aim for vertical, but you'll need something solid underneath to support the weight - like 2/3 of another rack inverted and bolted/clamped to your rack. Alternatively you might get this to work -- it's meant for baby buggies (strollers) and holds the weight quite long way back. It might not be rated for your loads though. The parent category of the linked site might be helpful for inspiration even if you're on the wrong continent. You'd still need some serious strapping as well as a good way of keeping the rucksack straps out of your wheel (perhaps a rucksack cover on the wrong way round). I suggest not having the load stick out much behind the back axle -- I've extended my rack backwards to mount panniers with a baby seat, and also used the buggy-mee I linked to above, and I found the centre of gravity so far back made the front wheel grip suffer (partially offset by carrying locks etc on the front forks). 

There's a product called a Northcore Keypod which is essentially a combination padlock with a key box built in. I've got one (it's meant for locking under your car with the car key in while surfing etc.) I strongly suggest that if you use something like this you make sure your address isn't marked anywhere on the bike or in the keybox. Combined with a looped cable you could use it to lock up your bike, but only somewhere quite secure. I'd use a D-lock as well, locking the helmet and front wheel with this and a cable. Anything like this will be a bit of an ovious target. Something I've considered for emergency cash is hiding it in a screwed-shut rear light (the sort that's screwed to the bike's rack). A mini penknife screwdriver would then open it up. Most of my lights would take a key, but there's a difference between losing (accidentally or by theft) a little cash, and losing your house key. Further downsides: the screws aren't really meant to be used that much; it's a bit tedious. But it could be good for a one-off if you're otherwise stuck. 

That's where I put my pump, so maybe they're for a pump. It looks like a road morph like I've got or an old fashioned pump would fit there. Most pump brackets will fit bottle cage screws or clamp on directly to the frame so it seems a bit unnecessary. I was right next to one of these bikes on the train yesterday and there's quite a bit of clearance there. 

Unless the reason you were off the bike was an injury that changed your fit, you've already got a bike that suits you. That's worth a bit (how much is a personal decision but I rate it fairly high). That aside you can end up with a good as new bike (or very nearly given what they're proposing) for 400 or 650. Needing new wheels is a bit odd, but there are plenty of good reasons, depending on how far you've ridden it. Wheels are easy to replace - no more trouble than changing a cassette and a tyre plus tuning gears/brakes, but if they're working on the drivetrain that's a good time to fit a new wheel of you need one. Overall it probably comes down to whether getting back on an old favourite or having a shiny new toy pleases you more. 

Rather than sitting around in wet kit, you should get changed (in the toilets if necessary), even assuming that wet cycling gear fits your dress code. Gym/football type shorts will dry during the day if you have somewhere to spread them out (under your desk for example). They're also cheap. Look for fairly thin synthetic fabric. As @andy256 says in a comment, rolling them in a towel will help as well. I've got some lined MTB shorts that are quite nice for riding in but inevitably stay wet longer -- they're quick drying fabric but 2 layers of it. Don't forget whatever you're wearing underneath -- take spares (and socks). I recommend looking out for ones with pockets. It's not a long ride, you don't need cycling-specific stuff. In warm weather I've found that riding in rain-proof gear you can get almost as wet as without it from sweat plus the rain that sneaks in. Obviously when it gets cold riding in a single layer of wet stuff isn't a good idea. I found gym shorts absolutely fine for 15km each way every day even in the wet, so long as it's warm enough. But then I've also ridden 25km each way in hiking gear with no trouble -- I must be lucky with my saddle fit. On a road/touring bike the saddle may be less forgiving of seams and fit than on my hybrid.