might point to better results. I am by no means a biologist, and I have little knowledge as of how such Isotopes affect the Immunesystem of the creature, so another approach that might work by the same principle - and is surely more fun for the subject - is getting it drunk and measuring the degree of blood alcohol decreasing. However, this presumes that the scientists have knowledge over the alcohol breakdown process for the species without having it timejumping. Maybe a monitored measurement first? 

This way you can create a map with all major parts of your world, like bigger continents and oceans. By using different colors you can either show different political factions or countries (have a look at the first image again) or you can document different biomes (simply have a look at google maps for this one). With your major parts of the world are mapped out, you can easily add rivers and bigger lakes to the map. Visualizing mountain ranges or forests can be done by using either shading, like in the first picture, or by placing little icons like trees or single mountains on your map: 

It's George Lucas's marketing manager here. We are now working on a new Indiana Jones movie: Indiana Jones and the Blastproof Fridge, where Indiana Jones goes for a quest to find the sacred Superfridge, made by God himself. We're now developing a new blastproof fridge, which will not only be used in our movie, but also put into sale. Here's how it looks like inside: 

Today's big problem (over-emphasized) by media: ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) or, in other words, the biggest and only terrorist organisation that managed to conquer land and keep it for a longer time nowadays. Now, as of September 2016, the area it holds is: 

Imagine this situation: One warm night of 1890, you go home from a pub. You pass a creepy house. In the half-open door, you see the outline of a machine. You go in, and open the lights. You see a big machine, exactly like those time machines you imagined of when you were small. You sit in it, pull the lever, and... you fall out. The worlds goes black. Then, you wake up, and you see everything is different. It isn't nighttime anymore, the room you are in looks a bit different then you remembered, and... there are two city officers shouting on you what the hell are you doing here. You ask, "What year is it?". "1890" "What!? Are you kidding me?" Sounds like you just got drunk too much last night. But the problem: They think you came from the future! That this is some kind of modern 20th century time machine you are on. The guards insist you come with them to some place and say something about time travel. You exclaim: "But I'm not from the future!" "We're not going to let you run just like that! You just came from another time and we're gonna let you go? No way! Now come on!" So you screwed up. Again. How on Earth can you prove you're not from the future to a 19th/20th century person? How could you prove this to a 21st century person? 

I think @Quentins answer of using a radio transmitter is a good approach. However, having a technical device stuck to your species might not work, depending on the details of your timetraveling process. Who knows, whether only the species travels and the device remains untouched? Further, the device probably has some issues due to its size just like he already pointed out. I would probably go for a more cemical/biological approach: The possible timetravelling subject could be injected with a small amount of radioactive material with a high rate of decay, for example that has a half-life rate of . So, 

Image source: $URL$ A Napalm bombs area of effect is somewhere between 2500 sqft 2 and 20000 sqft 3. So to completely cover the entirety of Madagaskar (6,318415e+12 sqft) you'd need quite a few of these (or really big ones). But if you target highly flammable areas like forests, the area of effect of the bomb will highly increase due to the fire spreading widely, leading to massive forest fires scorching wide areas of the land. Note that the use of Napalm against civilian targets is prohibited, but I don't think the Rat Empire cares about such restrictions. They are Part of human law and not Rat law after all. 

So, altogether, we get $$9700 + 244000 + 889500 + 3000000 + 554550 = 4700000$ $$ Every day. That is $4700000 × 365 = 1715000000$ \$ a year. How much does the project cost? What is needed to buy: 

Now, let's calculate, how much water to convert can we afford: Each day, can use $9 × 10^{14}$J to convert water to methane. For each kilogram, we need $294000 + (180 × 10^6 × 0.9) = 162294000$J. With $9 × 10^{14}$ J every day, we get $\frac{9 × 10^{14}}{162294000} = 55455000$kg of water converted every day. That is also a 194000kg load of salt. 

Most probably this can exist, but will be stable for only a very short time. If the planet had really small mass or maybe was just a comet, it could be stable. Here's an animation (I know it's not much - made by eye) showing how this idea would look like - it seems insane to me: 

Looking at the recent questions on dragons and aviation bureaucracy has got me thinking about some animals I could include in my story. I want these animals to be jet powered. One of the answers on the first dragons question explains why dragons can't be. However, cows aren't the only animals that produce methane and surely the characteristics of animals must make them more or less suitable for jet modification. Presumably there's some limit at which an animal can't be jet powered. They'd also need some heat protection, but would thick skin be enough? You tell me. Assuming the hand waving necessary to give these animals wings, which Earth animal is easiest to modify for jets? 

This is... bad. Not only has everyone already died because everything collapsed underneath them, but scientists predict bad things if we lose the moon. 

(source) ISIS has an estimated total of 50000–250000 soldiers and slowly gains strength from 1999, when it was founded. Now, my question is: How can I possibly stop the ISIS? By stop, I mean to or a) totally annihilate the organization - destroy their infrastructure, bases and weapons, free the captured land and kill/jail all it's members, or b) to force the terrorists (or better, terrorISISts) to give up and surrender their forces. Let's assume that: 

(Planets and stars are not scaled right) This animation is a bit hard to get, so I made another one which shows the same, just without the stars rotating: 

TL;DR: It would take 10 YEARS only to refund this project. With a \$224M input, nobody will really do this, but it's possible! Of course, that doesn't mean that it will happen. PS. If you see I made a mistake, please tell me (but don't try to find a mistake, please :) ) 

Generally, you should use lesser detail on your map, the further you "zoom out". There is no point in marking every little village on a world map as it would get confusing. Again, look at google maps, they show and hide routes, villages etc. when you change the zoom. 

I am a huge Minecraft fan and just realized, this hasn't been asked before, so I wanted to ask a live-long (31. August 2009) question, and pay my obulus to the Anatomically Correct series. I have done some research, and found this picture: 

The spherical planet is projected on a plane by slightly distorting the proportions. Displaying coordinates makes the effect more visible: 

injecting a sample of the isotope getting a blood sample waiting a few days taking another blood sample and comparing the results with the expected value 

Together, those points make a fairly convincing argument that I would think should be enough to sway the Orcs. However, you now have an army of Felinus after you and not very long to prepare... 

If you're looking at a mathematical relationship, you could almost use the consequences of crimes at the moment to compute a value: $$ P \propto \frac{1}{\text{length of jail term}} $$ $$ P = \frac{k}{\text{length of jail term}} $$ That is, the number of people who can commit a crime before society descends into chaos is inversely proportional to the length of the jail term imposed as a result of committing the crime today (or equivalent jail term, if the punishment is of a different nature). The actual value of $k$ depends on a number of things, including how close you want to be to chaos at $P$.