The reason is, any other gift even education is only good for one life and afterwards it does not help anyone. But the teaching takes living ones away from the danger of "Samsara" and gives them refuge for life times to come and even complete freedom from samsara. 

Is it essential or somehow profitable to be vegetarian when doing "Metta/Maithree" meditation? Or Is it essential or somehow profitable to any other form of meditation? If not why a lot of people seems to be becoming vegetarian some time after they start their path? 

Lord Buddha advised a form of meditation and worshiping that focus on the holiness of Dhamma / Dharma. It is called "Dhamma Anussathii".These are the reasons that makes Dhamma / Dharma holy. 

My chair is Plastic, So i understand the "Solidity element (Patavi)" but how do i understand the "State of flowing or Fluidity element" in it 

So according to this person Sutra pitaka of tipitaka is a work of fiction. I want to be honest, i was real angry when i saw someone quoting the teaching and telling the world that it is a work of fiction, i was very ashamed of the fact that one of his own references was from a man from my own country.I would also like to request our good friends here to read the whole article before posting as an answer,because someone might get caught up in the wrong side of the isle after reading some person's foolish efforts to review Lord Buddha's realization. Please give me some good advice on how to deal with such people. (I would love an answer from Ven.Samana Johann) 

I'm wondering if pali has a specifically designated word for the view that the outer world is a reflection of one's own life state, not the other way around. Additionally, I am wondering if there are any good recources that people know of online that acts as a pali dictionary for buddhist philosophical concepts. 

I hope this answers your question. I know that some of my explanation may be a bit murky or unclear, so I would be happy to try and clear up anything. Works Cited: 1) The Lotus Sutra and Its Opening and Closing Sutras. Tokyo: Soka Gakkai, 2009. 57-267. Print. 2) "Three Thousand Realms in a Single Moment of Life." Soka Gakkai International Buddhism in Action for Peace. Soka Gakkai International, Apr. 2012. Web. 6 Aug. 2016. $URL$ 3)"Ten Factors." Soka Gakkai International Buddhism in Action for Peace. Soka Gakkai International, Oct. 2000. Web. 6 Aug. 2016. $URL$ 

Here, Shakyamuni is saying that the true aspect of all phenomena is that it has no existence. Another way to say this is that causes don't have intrinsic implications; only effects do. It also is to say that, whatever happens, that doesn't mean anything other than that that happened; how one reacts is all that matters. Here one can see how Shakyamuni's statments of the true aspect of all phenomena can be easily applied to our day-to-day lives, so the next logical step is to have a system of, in essence, figuring out which different effects one can create from any phenomena. This leads us into the next philosophical idea. 

We know there are good and bad things in the world,now that is general knowledge.But our version of right and worlds version of it seems to go against each other, So my question is what are the actual good things as opposed to worlds view of it? 

There are some really bad realms, like "Pretha" beings. They have only suffering with the exception of few having some comforts like clothes and food.These beings have no way of learning, So how does it happen, how do they understand the teaching when they come to hear it? 

I have come to learn the fact that the idea if maha meru is not only included in the buddhist canon but in many other beliefs and cultures which are not Buddhist. This is what Wikipedia says - $URL$ I belong to the theravada tradition so i am very interested in knowing sources in the canon for further learning if you can mention some. Also if you can ease me into the topic with a small explanation it is also very much appreciated. 

Prologue As we all are aware Lord Buddha used a certain method when teaching Dhamma to the common man,and that was breaking things down in a way that particular person will understand. So the teachings were very dynamic bit stayed true to the core.Lord Buddha used this style of teaching because people had different levels of intelligence and potential when it comes to understanding complex teachings. When Lord Buddha found people with very low intelligence much simpler methods were used to teach dhamma.But with people who had great potential much complex teachings were used according to their character and potential. 

I personally have a hard time explaining The Ten Factors and so I'll also add a link that describes The Ten Factors (3) more clearly. To the best of my understanding, The Ten Worlds are how we feel emotionally, and the Ten Factors are how we project ourselves upon the world and how these two concepts interact with each other. -- The final part of The Three Thousand Realms is called, "The Three Realms". I know the least about this part of the Realms, and so my explanation for it probably wouldn't be complete, but there are many websites which I think would be able to better explain them. Everything that I would be able to say about them is addressed in the image I added above, so I'll stop here. -- What is important to know about The 3000 Realms as a whole is that they describe all of the possible effects within a single moment of life. It also means that everything is subjective - in terms of point-of-view - and that all things are equal. The reason that I have included the concept of The 3000 realms is because it shows that not just Shakyamuni has a life force, and also that one's enlightenment (world of Buddhahood) intrinsically exists within one's self (as well as every other realm). 

Fifth precept exist because of few reasons. Addictive drugs and beverages are not only unhealthy they are severe distractions for someone on path. Now let's look at smocking, First of all i am not a smoker :-) but here is the full story. As lord Buddha taught there is a thing called dependent arising. Alcohol,cigars,cigarettes,other drugs have a negative effect on the body of the user which effect brain directly and instantly and total health in the long run.Lord Buddha directly said that Health is the true wealth. Your brain is the center of the thought process and if something happens to your brain you are left with your sub consciousness. That is not how a Buddhist deal with things, we as Buddhist rely on our conscious thoughts (Mindfulness). And as lord Buddha has said beings should not harm their lives and it is bad Karma if you do so. Doing any drug is equal to poisoning yourself slowly to your death, because eventually what happens is that you by conscious choice harm your body which results younger death. And as we all know smoking is an addiction, There is no taste,comfort or and aid to the body from smoking. There is only the joy of consuming. As Lord Buddha clearly said addictions are bad for the path. 

Technically the SGI (Soka Gakkai International) is a lay Buddhist group, but there aren't any priests or nuns, so it may also be considered a secular form of Buddhism also. It is an orginization, but in my experience, I have never fealt like they were just trying to get my money or anything like that. There are many meetings that one can attend and there is a strong community emphasis, so you get to know a lot of people. Once a month, there is a big city-wide meeting which people often attend, but there is also a monthly district meeting, which usually comprises a small number of people (~5-20). In addition to that, there are many other meetings which one can attend (many do) outside of these two meetings. Usually at a meeting, there is a part where everyone medetates, and then after that, we often times talk and discuss the certain literary works of Nichiren Daishonin, a buddhist monk from the 1200's. That is where the meeting is more philosophical. After that, there may be food or something like that and people usually just talk with eachother. There are some meetings where there is only medetation (toso), and meetings where there is only philosophical discussion (study meetings). I'm not sure if that's what you're looking for, but that is probably one of the more common sects of Buddhism, so depending on that country you live in and the size of your city, there probably is at least a group of people there who practice. Here's a link to the SGI website if you're interested. 

According to Buddhism someone who reach a higher level of Meditation (Samadhi) would be born in the Brahma realm. These beings are not sexually attracted to female gender (They don't have a female gender), They are with or without a Physical appearance. But when Buddhism describe the destruction of a universe it says that beings from almost all the realms are born in this "Ābhassara World" which is a Brahma world. 

An accident is the correct set of circumstances.And you are correct with your first example.Here you see the ants after the action really happen. If we add another element.... 

I know Lord Buddha is worthy of every respect but what is the correct answer/what has the Lord Buddha himself has said? What makes a lord Buddha worthy of worship as to lord Buddha are there any reference from suttas that we can find? 

So while i was thinking about this and this came into my mind. If i see an animal getting eaten by another animal what should i do? If i see a someone having an extramarital affair what should i do? and so on.... My question is some of these are without doubt only result in a good way but some will give suffering or pain to that person or animal so doesn't that generate bad karma for me??