There are many factorss to determine what is typical, so I think in most cases, you have to focus on your agreement. I'm no lawyer, but it sounds like you need to determine the "letter" of the contract and the "spirit" of the agreement. An occassional over-time can be allowed, now it is getting habitual. You should ask to exclude over-time or renegotiate for an over-time rate. If you're as good as they say you are and they are in a bind, they may be willing to pay much more for over-time. Maybe you can consider taking on the extra work for a short period of time in order to afford a lengthy holiday in the near future. 

Recruiters get paid when they find someone to fill a job opening for their clients. The good ones will go find people and that may require a direct phone call. It's easy for people to ignore email, but often they may entertain a job opening when spoken to directly. Like you said, you didn't want to be rude. Nothing more you can do but ask them to stop and possibly use another means to contact you. The good ones won't waste a lot of time talking to people who aren't interested. They know when to move to the next person. I hope people at your company recognize that his happens often and you didn't do anything wrong. Just tell recruiters to not call you at work. This shouldn't be any different than a telemarketer, bill collector, etc. Keeping an up to date CV online is one way to find better opportunities. And everyone should be looking for better opportunities; nothing lasts forever including your current job. 

It seems like many people I work with inside and outside of the company always send an email about my availability for a meeting before sending a calendar invite. Is there some workplace social norm that frowns on sending just a calendar invite without some preliminary message? After I accept, they then send the calendar invite or they even respond by saying they're going to send a calendar invite. Apparently, they know how it works. To me, it seems like it's easier to decline or change the calendar item. I know external users may not be certain about someone's familiarity with calendar items or how their system will handle it, but it seems to work fairly seamlessly. I thought this may be a generational issue, but it seems common across age groups and technical expertise. EDIT: I get the calendar isn't perfect, but I still feel (after reading the answers) it is better than just an email. Even if the whole email back and forth and reply to all is limited, you're right back where you started and have to create a calendar item. Seems redundant. 

Get involved in the deadline establishment process. In some structures, this isn't easy and in your position, you don't have a lot of control over your responsibilities outside the project. If you have 20 hrs of work for this client, find out from your manager how much of it you will get to spend before the next deadline. If it turns out you only get 15, ask if you can move the deadline/tell the client it won't be met. Nobody likes hearing bad news, but hearing it later rather than sooner is even worse. This shows the client you are on top of things and if they ask why, you'll have to tell them you are working on something else. Your company needs to understand that you prefer not to lie to clients. After this engagement, you should send a letter/email to the client thanking them for asking you to be on the project and apologize for the missed deadlines. You're not taking the blame, you're showing empathy. Indicate you hope to be in a position to focus on their project a lot more. In many situations, deadlines are arbitrary. The only reason they are there is because most people feel if you don't set a deadline, things won't get done. There are some exceptions where having things sooner is a financial advantage. Your client is putting up with it for some reason. Either the deadlines aren't critical or they're looking for another solution provider. Until you can work something out with your company, you're not going to have any control and better get your letter of apology together. 

In the office, common areas should have a higher standard. Cleanliness and keeping things where they belong are the biggest problems. 

Use your manager as a resource. As part of the goal setting see what he thinks you do well and what areas you need work. Get feedback on current policies and ask why certain decisions were made. The goal is for your learning, so don't give the impression you question what has been done. Work through some alternatives to learn why they may not have been the best choice. Depending on how your company/team operates, you may have to do some unpleasant things: 

How do you know they didn't hire someone more qualified? There is a difference between being good enough and being the best candidate. Two things are missing from your description of your qualifications: 

It is based on your ability to find out what your boss thinks is good. They may tell you, but you can't believe it. They say just get more customers, but bury you in report requests. You can ask, but they'll continue to tell you to get more customers followed by an update on the report request. You really have to pay attention to what they say and what they do so you learn what is truly important. When you learn this, you prioritize what you need to do and then get it done. Example: Your boss tells you to fill out a time-sheet. Wouldn't it be great to know that your boss compiles the data from his team's time-sheets and has a Monday morning meeting with his boss and has to defend the billable-hours. Unfortunately, the team is wasting too much time itemizing their entire day instead of doing more work for clients. It seems obvious most bosses would focus on what's important, but everybody has many tasks come their way and no boss is going to plan your entire day every day. It can become a complex matrix of different things to do, at different times, requested by a hierarchy of people. Pay attention and try to follow their Rule of thumb. It's not easy. 

Ideally in a pair or other group situation, you don't have to nitpick or keep score all the time. Hopefully, the work is close enough or if one person contributes to her team more, management recognizes that and can offer other forms of compensation or at least job security. When you feel someone is trying to be "smooth" an not do her part, you must bring this up to this person. Inform them you are not going to keep doing more work. If the team suffers and management asks why, you have no choice but to put the blame on them. Some people will always try to take advantage of others unless someone offers enough negative consequences. 

I don't think you should advertise your preference. Apply heavily to local jobs. When asked why you like the company/want to work there, then you can indicate you appreciate the short commute. No sense in letting people think they can underpay you because of this even though you may be wiling to work for less. You will get contacted by companies with further commutes and you'll have to decide if they have something to offer that will over-compensate for a longer commute. There could be a time when you want to relocate and may end up with a longer or closer commute depending. If you get an offer, but really don't want the commute, just tell them. You never know, they may offer to allow you to work remotely a few days a week or offer some flex-time if that allows you to avoid high-traffic times. Put more time and energy in hanging around areas where people who work in your area congregate. You'll learn more about who works there and what it is really like to work there. You'll benefit from the location as well as knowing the company is a good fit. 

recently given a verbal warning about their work she is having some work issues she is under pressure to clear up past problems. 

You need your manager to set some guidelines for what your responsibilities are. Second, if you find these requests are outside of what your manager expects, ask the manager what you should do if you get these requests. Have examples ready if he is not sure what you mean. You may discover this is your job or you need to be denying these requests. Other people may become advocates for you if you're as good as you say you are. If that is the case, it may lead to a promotion. Don't go to your boss and ask for a raise because you're doing all this work he doesn't think you should be doing. Know what is expected of you and then when you can show you exceed it, use that as a basis when asking for a raise. 

How you handle it may be a result on the reactions you get when you ask for your chair back. Does it seem like an honest mistake or are there objections to your right to have a chair along with your assigned desk? I'm guessing most people took it because it is convenient and didn't think you were using it at the time. It is a safe assumption, but constantly having to find a new chair is a pain. Take someone else's chair. Post a sign. Ask for a company-wide email to be sent out (Don't do this on your own.). Move your desk. Whatever you do, make sure it fits in with the office policy and culture. If I had an office that entertained clients, all the stupid signs in the kitchen (You mothere doesn't work here.) and the one on the chair next to the conference room would be removed immediately.