I'm far from an expert in this, but I have a reasonable guess at an answer. The White Dwarf page on Wikipedia describes what would probably happen. It seems that the WD would consume mass from the companion star until it can either sustain fusion, or fuse so much so quickly that it explodes into a Type 1a supernova. 

xkcd also shows an approximation of what it would look like if you tried to take a picture of an average desk from orbit. It is just a smear of colors, devoid of any discernible detail. I tried attaching the pictures here, but SE doesn't like the png files for some reason and I don't have time to do the file conversion. Just check out the first link to see what it looks like, plus a more detailed explanation of why. 

To answer this question. Mass distribution does make a difference. For example, if a star collapses into a black hole, the mass of the black hole is less than the original mass of the star due to some matter lost during the supernova. But now the star is compressed into a more compact space. So, now one can reach much more closer to its center(and experience more gravitational force) than one could have before, So, a BH is a deadlier object than normal stars. 

From what I've read, white stars are hotter than red ones. But a white dwarf would have just heavy elements to fuse, so shouldn't it be less bright? 

After Hubble's discovery, we came to the conclusion that the Universe is expanding. We expected the expansion to slow down as time progresses but what we observed as that the expansion was accelerating and is still doing so. Physicists and cosmologists did not have any explanations for this and so it was named "Dark Energy". Dark in the sense that it is unknown. 

I think you're overestimating how quickly stars appear to move as viewed from Earth. Once a telescope like Kepler identifies a solar system around a star, we know where that star is. Stars have coordinates associated with them that astronomers can use to know where to point their telescopes to see it. For example, look at the star Betelgeuse. Look in the info box on the right, the right ascension and declination are the coordinates to find it. On the timescale of one Earth year, or even a few hundred Earth years, the stars are mostly fixed, and that coordinate to find them still works. Sure they move slightly, but not enough to lose track of it, or even enough to dramatically change how the constellations appear to us. Even if one does somehow move dramatically, it would take decades to centuries, and astronomers would be tracking it and updating the coordinate information. Think about it this way. The constellations used in the sky today are named after many ancient Greek and Roman mythological characters. This isn't something we decided recently, they were named hundreds or thousands of years ago and they're still recognizable in the same form they were then. If stars moved across our sky as quickly as you appear to think, those constellations would all have to be renamed. You need timescales of tens of thousands of years to make the sky unrecognizable, and even then it would have more to do with the precession of the equinoxes. 

I recently found this animation which shows the motion of sun as observed from mercury. It seems as if the sun stops in between, retraces a bit and then continues towards the west. What is the reason for this strange motion? Is it because of variation in the distance between mercury and the sun? Or is it because a day on Mercury is longer than Mercury's year? 

Heavier elements like gold, uranium etc. are formed at the end of a star's life. As the star explodes into a supernova, it gives rise to nebula which is the birthplace of new stars. But as the star has already fused lighter elements into heavier elements, where does the new hydrogen required for the formation of new stars come from? Do heavier elements breakdown during supernova or is it some other process? 

xkcd already did the math on this one! Like Gauti's answer, xkcd also links to this question on Hubble's website. Hubble moves too fast for its minimum exposure time to be able to focus on anything on the surface. He goes one step further, linking to this article on Bad Astronomy that points out that Hubble frequently points at the sunlight side of Earth to help calibrate its WFPC2 camera. 

(Emphasis mine) The idea that the core is "rocky" or composed of metallic hydrogen is still unknown. Determining more about this is one of the objectives of the Juno mission currently in orbit. We may obtain better models of Jupiter's internal structure in the coming years, but at this point we just don't know. 

I was considering a similar line of thinking. However, there were a few hangups which I believe prevent yee-average-human from testing the glasses. Many sites suggest a transmittance of 0.0032 (welding shade 12) to be the minimum to be safe (and typically recommend 13 or 14, which has even lower transmittance). That means you're only seeing 0.3% of the light get through the goggles. Your test would need to have enough sensitivity to pick up that tiny amount of IR light, and to not only receive a signal but be able to meaningfully measure its amplitude. You would also need to ensure that UV light is blocked as well... and all the other IR bands (I am not confident as to how wide-band protection one actually needs). Even then, you'd have to deal with the issue of having built your own contraption to test a device which must protect your eyes from a permanent damage that you literally cannot see. I'd want to be quite the confident electrical engineer and systems test expert to make sure that the tests I do actually test what needs to be tested. Note: I have a related question asking how one can track down the ISO certifications and see if your particular vendor has legitimate glasses or not. I run into the same issue: how can you trust that this device performs as indicated, because your eyesight depends on it. 

I know this question had often been asked on Physics.SE as well as this site but I don't get them. What do mean when we say that space is expanding? I mean that space is no physical entity that can expand. Space is just (apparently) "nothingness". Please solve my confusion. 

This is a very brief answer but I hope it helps. Distance Hayabusa collected samples from a near-earth asteroid while Philae landed on a comet after traveling a distance of over 6.4 billion kilometers. The Type Of Mission Hayabusa's did not literally land on the asteroid. It just touched down and collected samples. While, Philae had to land, steady itself, drill and study the composition. Plus, the asteroid on which Hayabusa landed was a near-earth asteroid and so it's nature could have been known easily. On the other hand, the Rosetta team came to know about the exact nature of 67P just weeks before the landing. The Complexity The Rosetta mission used about 6 gravity assists and performed 2 flybys. It was not an easy task to plan a journey of 10 years. Plus, when the probe reaches the comet, radio signals would take a lot of time to reach it and thus it would be very difficult to control the probe if something went wrong. Plus, the surface of an asteroid is vastly different from the surface of a comet. The Hayabusa Mission was not the first to touch down on an asteroid. It had been done once by NEAR Shoemaker and so we knew what to expect. See this for a detailed report. I think this sums up how the Rosetta mission was a major breakthrough. 

There is an accepted answer already, but there is a couple known cases of a star we know has gone supernova, and yet we can still see it. This source describes one such unique circumstance. The star that exploded happened to be in a galaxy that was behind another massive one from our point of view. The alignment was just right such that the light formed an Einstein Cross. The light from each point on the cross takes a different path to get here, and each of those paths are different lengths. Thus, the different points on the cross show the star at 4 different times in its final years. The Space.com article I linked was written in 2015. Scientists first noticed the supernova in 2014, and each image of the supernova arrived within a year of when it was first noticed. If I'm understanding that article correctly, as of now (2017) all of the images of that supernova show the supernova aftermath, and not the star beforehand. However, there was a period of time where we could see the star both pre and post-supernova at the same time. You imply in your question that you are focusing on stars within our own galaxy. I don't know of any such situations of Einstein Cross events closer to home that let us do this. 

According to Hubble's Law, the farther a galaxy is, the farther it is moving away. But do we take into account the fact that we are actually looking in the past? For example, there are two galaxies A and B at distance of 5 and 10 billion years respectively. Now, when we observe A we are looking at how it was moving 5 billion years ago. The same applies for B. So, now we conclude that 5 billion years ago space was expanding at a slower rate while it was expanding comparatively faster 10 billion years ago. What's wrong with this conclusion? 

It doesn't bend it more. It is just that the matter of the star is now concentrated in a very compact region of space. So, previously you could get only to the surface of the star but now as the star is very compact, you can get much nearer and thus you will experience a greater gravitational force. I had a similar discussion here. Check it out and maybe your question will be answered.