Sure, this happens from time to time. The most recent case I know of is Dustin Byfuglien, who has switched back and forth between Defenseman and Forward during his career (sometimes within one season). He began as a Defenseman, switched to Forward in 2008, won a cup with Chicago on offense; then was traded to Atlanta, went back to defenseman. He then went back to Forward in 2014, and then in Dec. 2014 swapped back to Defenseman. Additionally, many players switch in high school or college, particularly as they learn they are more suited to Defenseman. When skating on teams where they are far and away the best skater, they're more likely to play a forward position (where they will presumably have more opportunities to score), but once in a position where they are playing other equivalently skilled players they may learn their body and game is actually suited to defense. Phil Housley is a great example of this. Finally, there have been a few great players who occasionally played defense due to team needs (for example, if several defenders were injured). Sergei Federov is an example of this; while he played Center throughout his career, he occasionally was used on defense, both during the prime of his career and as he got older. 

In 2002, when the Angels defeated the Giants in the World Series, both teams were wildcards (and as there was only one wildcard, the bottom seed by default, though they were not the lowest win totals as Minnesota had 5 fewer wins than Anaheim, as Central Division champions). That is the only example in Baseball, though there really have only been two decades of history where it would be meaningful to say the two lowest seeds faced each other; prior to the wildcard, you only had one team from each division (so 4 total teams) in the playoffs, and with divisional play it's hard to say who would be seeded what in a larger playoff. The NHL and NBA have longer histories of large seeded playoffs. In the NHL, never have two 8 seeds faced each other, but in 2012 the Kings (8) beat the Devils (6) for the first 8 seed win in NHL history and the largest sum of seeds in the Finals history. In the NBA, 8 seeds nearly never beat 1 seeds; the 1998-1999 New York Knicks remain the only 8 seeds to reach the finals, losing to the Spurs (Duncan and Robinson's first championship). The lowest seed to win a championship was the Rockets in 1994-95 (6 seed), but they beat the top seeded Magic that year. No other team higher than 4th has ever won a NBA Finals. In the NFL, there have never been a particularly low combination. Although 6 seeds have been successful, for example in 2005 PIT (6 seed) defeated SEA (1 seed), they've never had to face similarly low seeded teams; the lowest I see is 6 seed vs 2 seed (Packers/Steelers), which isn't exactly a low seeded combo either. 

This is a highly exceptional case. There is no record of this having occurred in any professional cricket match. If a ground has such a short boundary behind the wicket, it cannot be used for professional cricket. If a pitch causes such abnormal bounce, it will be deemed dangerous and the match will be called off. As Ben Whyall mentions, the ball needs to strike the bat for it to be given a 6. 

If the referee feels he did not have a clear view of the ball, he can refer to the assistant referee, who will give him his opinion in whether it is a goal or not. The referee does not have to go by the advice given to him by his assistant, but generally does so. Once he has given his decision, if the players are still arguing beyond reason, he may book them. UEFA has introduced two additional referees into the game, in their tournaments (Champions League, Europa League, EURO, etc), to assist in these kinds of decisions. These additional referees are positioned behind the goal line, beside each goal. Again, the main referee is under no obligation to give the same decision advised to him by the additional referee. The decision made by the main referee in this regard is final and binding upon the game. See FIFA Laws of the Game 2015/16, page 61 onwards, . 

If the referee stops play while the ball is still in play (for an injury or a pitch invasion or any other reason), play is restarted with a dropped ball. FIFA Laws of the Game 2015/16 Law 8: Start and Restart of Play 

Likely, the Houston Texans game Thursday night was the reason. That game stated at 8:25 ET, and while baseball games usually take three hours or so, most likely they wanted a bit of extra time to ensure fans can watch both games. 

In addition to the baseman tagging the bag or the player, or the player leaving the baseline, there is yet one additional way a forced runner may cause an out, although it is not himself that is out: if the runner from behind catches up with him, and occupies the same exact position on the basepaths (either literally catches up with him and touches him, or both occupy the same base), then that runner is out per Rule 7.08h: 

The game at the University of Hawaii (not Chaminade) on Nov. 18 is likely the source of the 32nd game. From the 2015-16 bylaws (the most recent I can find): 

There isn't really a verifiable source on this, unfortunately, without perhaps doing a ton of research of old television announcers. I've never seen that. What I have found so far, is that it likely dates back to urban slang, popular on the east cost (Philadelphia and environs, most commonly attributed), which described "assisting" the police in an investigation as "dropping a dime". That was due to the cost of a pay phone call back then - $0.10 - which would be used to call the police. That apparently transitioned to assists in basketball. Wiktionary shows these meanings, for example, and all sorts of online discussions support this - but nothing meaningful as proof unfortunately. It's also possible that it simply was directly related to the cost of a phone call, of course. The other terminology is fairly similar; a successful pass to someone that then scored off of it might be called "connecting with" that someone, for example, identically to if you connect a phone line. You feed them, same as you feed a pay phone dimes. There are a lot of small similarities that might either have been the initial connection, or reinforced it once it was made by someone. 

The player can put in a transfer request. But the club is under no obligation to let him go. The player must either attempt to patch things up with the management or be resigned to sitting on the sidelines. In this situation, generally, a player good enough to be in the first team would like to have as much playing time as possible. A recent example would be Saido Berahino with West Bromwich Albion. He put in an official transfer request. But the club refused to let him go. They rejected all the transfer offers they recieved for Berahino. He plays for the club in the Barclays Premier League right now, but he is not a regular first team starter, generally coming on as a substitute. 

If the ball has crossed the line legally before the foul is committed, the goal counts towards the attacking team. In this case, any tackle that occurs on an attacking player is late, and hence the player committing the foul is either cautioned(i.e., shown a yellow card) or sent off(i.e., shown a red card) depending on the severity of the foul. However the attacking team does not get a penalty or a free kick. The goal stands and play is resumed via a kick off from the centre spot by the team that conceded the goal(as is normal when a goal has been scored). Even if the attacking team has caused an offence after the ball crosses into the goal, the goal stands and the referee then penalizes the player who committed the offence. Play then resumes via kick off. The only reason a goal would not stand even if ball has entered the goal, is if the attacking team has caused an offence before the ball crossed the goal line. Even if the foul occurs before the ball has entered the goal, the referee will allow the goal to stand, and take appropriate action against the player committing the foul if required. This scenario falls under the purview of the Advantage Rule, where the referee is allowed to let play continue, even if a foul has occurred, if the team against whom the foul is caused has a sufficient advantage as deemed so by the referee. FIFA Laws of the Game 2015/16 (italics my own to provide emphasis) Page 27: 

Note, (3). The ASA rules (link from Mastermind Ed's answer) do not include an explanation of "fielder's choice", but they do include that as part of the exceptions to what is considered a stolen base. I don't see as clear of evidence, thus, but a reasonable reading would include defensive indifference as a fielder's choice (literally) and thus, also, would mean that it would not be considered a stolen base, if it met the other criteria. 

It is legal in the NBA CBA to trade a player for cash (see pages 169-173). Larry Coon's excellent site covers this in detail. There is a limit for the total amount of cash that can change hands during the salary cap year per team; it changes each year but is between $3MM and $4MM total. As such it's not a whole lot of money compared to the total value of a team, so it's not exactly a lucrative way to make money. Draft picks aren't explicitly mentioned as being able to be traded for cash or not being able to be traded for cash, so I believe they are able to be traded (as they're not particularly different from players), subject to the Ted Stepien Rule. They count as $0 towards the salary cap, though, until drafted. Given the fact that draft picks tend to be how you build a lower-salary team [as drafted players tend to overperform their salary due to rookie scale contracts], it wouldn't make a lot of sense to 'sell' a draft pick for cash directly. More effective would simply be trading down - say, a 1st rounder for 2 second rounders. Occasionally a team won't have room for a draft pick (particularly teams with a lot of picks, see the 76ers lately), and they'll trade it for cash in that situation (or a next-year pick) to a team who wants to take a flyer on a guy. What you do find fairly commonly is the concept of trading for a player with an expiring contract; that's quite easy to do and benefits the team losing the pick immensely, as they are then able to clear salary cap space more easily. They also might be more able to trade for another player, as you need to match salaries to make it work. You also see teams trade players after they've been drafted; this is better than trading before they're drafted, as the salary now counts - so they get a trade exception for that amount which they can then use later. For example, the 2015 draft saw the Pelicans trade their 2nd rounder to the Clippers for cash after he'd been selected (though they may well have had an agreement to select that player beforehand). 

NOTE: I know the question asked was not exactly about the Advantage rule. I felt it was required to provide a little extra information for anyone else reading the answer. 

This rule is just for NBA and WNBA. NCAA and FIBA rules state the team must continue to play with 4 players. 

Underarm bowling was banned after the incident of rolling the ball which occurred in the match between Australia and New Zealand on 1st February, 1981. New Zealand required 6 runs off the last ball to tie the match. Australia captain Greg Chappell instructed the bowler Trevor Chappell to deliver the ball underarm(which was legal at the time). Trevor Chappell delivered the ball by rolling it along the pitch so that it was impossible for the batsman to hit the ball for a six. Underarm bowling was banned by ICC as a result of this, as it was considered to be not within the spirit of the game. However, underarm bowling is allowed if it has been agreed so by both teams before the match. A delivery bowled is deemed a no ball if it rolls before reaching the popping crease as mentioned in Law 24 of the Laws of Cricket. 

Technically football officials don't record 'misses'. Only statisticians do so. There is no definition of a 'penalty miss' in FIFA's Laws of the Game. (I'm mentioning this since you have tagged ) The goalscorers in games in major tournaments (like Spanish La Liga, English Premier League, UEFA Champions League, FIFA World Cup, etc.) are recorded during the match by the match commissioner. The competition organizers then keep tally, for awards like top scorer and best player which are given at the end of the competition. In this case, the Royal Spanish Football Federation would add the goal to Luis Suarez's tally, while Lionel Messi would be credited with the assist (which most federations keep tally of as well). But again, there is no record of any penalty (or any other kind of) misses. Statistics companies do keep track of penalty misses and various other statistics for informational purposes and I suppose this would count as a miss as mentioned by Oak in the comments to your question. As to whether this is allowed, FIFA Laws of the Game 2015/16 state: 

For your information, in 2016, Chris Froome ended 18th with 22 points in the Best Climber Classification. Rafal Majka won the Red Dot Jersey with 209 points. So a good climber doesn't necessarily chase the points. The official Best Climber Competition started in 1933. There was an unofficial ranking from 1905 to 1932 by the magazine Auto, but I couln't find these data. In 1966, Lucien Aimar (France) didn't even make it to the Best Climber Classification, scoring 0 points. In 1987, Stephen Roche (Ireland) also scored 0 points. Sources: Wikipedia, bikeraceinfo.com, the-sports.org 

It hasn't always be like this, but these last years, the last stage is not decisive for the victory. The general rankings stay basically the same as the day before. While officially racing in Paris, riders take pictures, drink champagne so this stage is more like a celebration and the stage victory is left to the final sprinters. Is there a reason for this? Are there some implied rules to let the rankins stable on this day and not try to attack the yellow jersey? 

If by "player's space" you meant "a virtual circle around your body where an opponent cannot enter", I would say there is not such kind of rule in football. Two opponents have to struggle to possess the ball and that means sometimes they have to be very close to each other. Even on corner or free kick situations, the defender will be very close to the attacker, even touching him with his chest, sometimes surrounding him with his body, marking him very closely. And there is nothing wrong about it. On your situation, the referee interpreted that your opponent was in possession of the ball. At this moment your body can't be an obstacle of his (even if it wasn't intentional from you), hence the fault. 

Now it's up to the referee's discretion as to whether the offence falls within any of the above categories. 

FIFA has complete control over all footballing activities in the world since it is the recognized regulatory body for the sport of football. Every sport has its own international regulatory body. For example: International Tennis Federation (ITF) for tennis, International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) for athletics, etc. These regulatory(or governing) federations become official only after receiving recognition as the official governing bodies for the sport by the International Olympic Council (IOC). As the official governing body for football, FIFA has the following roles and responsibilities: 

In the case of Aguero, Cristiano Ronaldo, Bojan and Muniain, yes, they turned pro as minors, but there was no problem with FIFA because they all were signed by and played for clubs in the countries they were residing in. FIFA only regulates the transfer of minors to countries outside their domicile. In the case of Messi, Barcelona agreed to relocate his entire family from Argentina to Spain, thus staying within the regulations. As to how the players were paid when they were minors, that would depend on the laws for employment of minors in the respective countries. In the case of the transfer bans handed to Atletico de Madrid, Real Madrid (and previously Barcelona), the clubs were found guilty of breaching the aforementioned transfer regulations by FIFA. Atletico and Real can appeal the bans with FIFA (and then with Court of Arbitration for Sport, if the previous appeal is turned down).