Thermodynamics is an unusually direct application of mathematics to physics. It is entirely a structure that satisfies a given set of axioms. Any other field where the constituents meet the same axioms is an application of this same theory. To the extent that clusters of humans share a microstate, and we can combine those statistically, we have made a sociological model that satisfies the axioms that allow thermodynamic theory to apply. The question then is not whether the model works, but how well these axioms actually describe the situation at hand. People's states are not independent the way molecular states are: we can notice patterns as they arise and actively contribute to them or avoid them. So to the degree the statistics requires independence of interactions, the model no longer applies and will not be helpful. But in situations that are brief or confusing enough to prevent the use of intelligence like this, we have a model. Since all models are approximate anyway, there is some range of situations where this model works. 

In formulations of pantheism where God is a conscious, planning actor at the start of time, and surrenders himself to his creation, there can also be the notion of a 'Convergent Eschaton' wherein consciousness will coalesce over time and God will again be a conscious, planning actor at the end of time. (At which point time will have served its purpose and we won't have it anymore, or it will start over refreshed for another run.) The purpose can be seen as playing out the Hegelian evolution to explore multiple viewpoints and challenge the limitations of being a single organized entity. In that model, he has not annihilated himself, he has parallelized his mind for a given purpose. To paraphrase C.S. Lewis on the necessity of incarnation "He will return to his glory paradoxically informed by the experience of lacking omniscience." The references I have are beautiful but pop-culturish. One notion of the Convergent Eschaton is captured in YouTube recordings of 'spiritual scientists' like Terrence McKenna trying to revive the Hermetic understanding or Alan Watts trying to expound a Western understanding of selected Hindu tropes, my favorite example is $URL$ The other is outright silly, the song "On the Silent Wings of Freedom" $URL$ which is from the period of 'Tormato' and 'Relayer' during which their music is a collection of hymns on an odd collection of religious concepts left out of the Western ambit. (Surely an actual Hindu can do better on accessible references.) 

I guess I would go with at testing procedure -- consistency with a stated or implied theory. Necessity is a modality -- the collection of 'must' statements, construed as rigidly as possible. Instead of Kripke's semantics, consider an older (and better) way of looking at modals. Modal assertions are incomplete statements that gain meaning only when an appropriate context is affixed. So necessity is dictated by what part of your reality is considered accidental, and what part is considered 'the context in which you are operating'. A necessity statement gains meaning only when a global theory is attached. At that point the consequences of the theory are necessary, anything that does not violate it is possible, and everything else is just true or false. This style of modal reasoning is most obvious in the modality of obligation. Every 'should' statement only has implications when an ethics is attached. By the ethics of Aristotle we should not kill our parents. By the ethics of Manson we probably should. A similar relativism applies to 'essence'. Pick your paradigm, and its basic terms dictate what is essential. For biology, acidity is an accident; for basic chemistry it may be essential; for physics, it is emergent. 

In cybernetics and control theory these things are called stable states of dynamic equilibrium, and the processes that maintain them are feedback loops. Within philosophy, especially postmodernism, these are rules in a 'game' in the sense of Wittgenstein. This idea of 'game' is usually seen in the combined form 'language-game' because technical language is the primary example of the positive effects of 'productive, negotiated, groundless arbitrariness maintained by flexible rules and interdependencies'. But this is a case where we take the bad with the good. Most social norms maintained by feedback loops lead to order and maintain various aspects of our psychology and personal identity. The meaning of each individual word in a language, for example, is an instance of such an effect. There is no reason any one word can't just change at random, with very little ill effect. But they don't, mostly because other people feel silly when you do this. The context usually tells them exactly how you have changed the definition, but it is just not right in their head. And to some degree, even the pointless instances may serve a secondary purpose. Having things that are defined as bad, but are really utterly harmless gives risk-takers opportunities to practice harmlessly with calculating how consequences play out. They learn to estimate how social risk works, and from that basis hone their broader skills at risk estimation. This is why it is adolescent girls who mess most productively with the meanings of words -- it is an extraordinarily safe way to play at showing disrespect, as it does not disrespect any individual in particular. By some theories, this is one of the reasons why elite cliques that control a lot of resources often have more seemingly pointlessly intricate etiquette. It is not just about isolating themselves from the out-group. It is primarily about learning and practicing how to maintain perspective on risk, to be ready for the risk calculations intrinsic to the leadership positions they are likely to occupy. 

The explanatory value of mythological tropes is of a different nature than that of scientific facts. Humans construct internal mythological models, whatever the source material. In fact most of those who think they are working from a scientific model of the world have just assembled metaphors afforded by scientific facts into a mythology. The specific Daoist imagery around yin and yang embodies specific messages that are of value, among them: 1) Weakness and incompetence are largely illusory, and apparently weak behavior is often adaptive leverage that simply works more slowly and involves a broader range of action. 2) All strength involves some underlying weakness and actually derives its ability to persist from the flexibility imparted by that weakness. 3) But without looking within the weakness for the underlying strength and within the strength for the underlying weakness one may often be legitimately weak or unexpectedly fragile. You can get the same message from metallurgy, if you want, via a different kind of metaphor. But that is just constructing mythology out of science: Annealing gives you a basis for a metaphor. It does not actually say that, or mean it, it just makes the impression stick. And the fact this can be embedded in a more modernist framework does not mean those messages are not reasonably communicated by this directly mythological trope. It does not matter which thing you take as a metaphor, this particular message is so broad as to be buried within any situation that involves durability or power. So you can look at the sun as a physical object, and find the metaphor reflected that way, or you can look at the Classical Chinese interpretation of the sun through human experience that appears in the framings of the Yi Jing. They both net the same insight, if you just take up the framing. And you can also look at any other star. The meaning might be easier to capture if that star happens to have a planet around it with life on it. But that is not truly necessary. For that matter, you can look at your own exercise regiment, or at the fish in a koi pond, and find the same message. From a Jungian perspective, a lot of our shared psychology evidences archetypes like this. In the West, the elements, the layering of worlds, the sequence of aspects, etc. from Alchemy, Astrology and Kabbalah are equally not nonsense. They don't realistically predict anything. They are not physical facts, or even 'spiritual truths'. But they encode messages that are easily shared, and that can be used easily to greater psychological effect than more correct facts. When a computer scientist takes up a pattern like Model-View-Controler, 90% of the intuition here is captured in the Astrological notion of the three aspects: that the durable aspect of something (the Model, its Fixed Nature), the representation of it (the View, its Mutable Nature), and the mechanism of control it affords (the Controller, its Cardinal Nature) are best understood separately, even though they are different perspectives on the same interaction. By not mixing them, they will be easier to communicate. This is not really 'true' in any deep way, but it is conducive to human psychology. And when the Japanese and Korean car industries decide to adopt a hyper-egalitarian, just-in-time approach that disowns specialist knowledge and explicit strategy and empowers the random worker on the assembly line, it is invoking an acknowledgement of yin, and the understanding that human mastery of machines needs to employ both forms of power. 

You don't really need to go as far as lucid dreaming. Jungians in training are sometimes schooled to record their dreams, especially incomplete ones, upon waking. As you train yourself to do something explicitly upon waking, you become more aware of the exact moment of waking. Most people find that it is a sensation that you have, but do not focus closely enough to perceive. Even if you are waking within a dream, you can identify the point at which you are no longer physically paralyzed, and have the ability to act. Eventually, you can identify the point where you are still physically paralyzed, but no longer 'mentally paralyzed' and are free to make decisions that are not dictated by your passivity or by the context of your mindset in the dream. This point really exists, even if you never reach the point where you can achieve freedom to act within a dream. 

Actually I think it is a case of the lack of awareness of one's own context. The idea is that anthropologists, not being meteorologists or navigators, were amazed by the technical vocabulary around snow. But they were talking to people who went out amongst the elements daily, traveling on snow rather than solid footing, or water, and were therefore effectively something of both of the above. My extended family were dairy farmers who grew their own feed. Farmers are not amazed at the number of words for nasty weather, or the number of words for difficult passages over land, as they monitor the weather, and they choose land to plow or transport animals over. I (the visitor, in the anthropologists' position) often was. And snow constitutes both of these things for Inuits. To me the object lesson here is the craziness of having a professional class of people who study foreign cultures, who were drawn for a long time from the most insular part of our own. However you reach out to foreign cultures, the effort should span social classes. 

One approach to this says 'No. But who cares?'. The idea of mathematical fictionalism asserts that mathematical objects do not exist, and the whole of mathematics is false, since it contains inconsistencies like Russel's paradox, and no system that results in a contradiction, however contrived, can really be true. But the process of proof still preserves truth values, and can therefore be applied to assumptions or observations that are true and net other statements that are true. So, by this standard, there is no number 2, and all statements about it are contingent upon its existence. So in an absolute sense they are false. But there are lots of true statements that have been proven about what you can do with pairs of things, and those are not truly dependent upon the actuality of the number, abstracted away from all its examples. So "Why does it work?" has two very different answers. The one, as given by @CortAmmon above is that when a line of deduction fails to preserve truth, we declare it not to be mathematics. This is absolutely true. But it is unsatisfying because, in practice, we do not simply follow lines of deduction and throw out the bad ones. We can mark out only about a dozen times when our deeper intuitions of serious mathematical concepts turned out the just be completely wrong, and whole areas of math threatened to fall apart or was destined to remain incomplete. (Some examples: Pythagoreanism and irrational lengths. The idea that the Greek set of tools was adequate in geometric proofs. The expectation of a quintic equation. The independence of the Continuum Hypothesis and the Axiom of Choice.) It took quite some time to find significant places where the flaws in our mathematics really matter. To explain this the Intuitionist approach follows Kant's idea that we are constructed with space and time as part of the 'form of intuition' and proposes that the rest of mathematics flows from those bases. Most of the mathematics we pursue seriously as a society turns out to work because we are driven to analyze things in ways that are productive, because we evolved to survive in the world, and particular to deal with our immersion in space and time. We have an internal notion of how to follow paths in our abstraction that avoid the places where our logic is weak. And we cultivate those culturally and refine them.