I am trying to gain strength, which leaves a lot of rest time in between sets (3-5 minutes). I am a beginner and have no clue what to do in between sets! I kind of just dag around. What are some decent things to do in between sets? 

This got me wondering about how much strength crossovers to muscular endurance. I am NOT talking about marathon-like endurance (which weight training improves), but how, say, your bench press 1RM correlates with the amount of push-ups you can do, even if you've never trained push-ups endurance. What is the amount of carryover, and the mechanism(s) of strength increasing muscular endurance? 

Whenever I go for a long run or put extensive stress on my feet I end up bruising on the bottom side of my feet. The bruises are incredibly painful but only last a day. They occur near the ball of my foot or near the toes as well. I get the same sort of bruising after spending time in the pool (in areas where I can touch the bottom with my feet). On my own research I found Metatarsalgia to be the closest related inflammation that matches my symptoms. My question is, what causes this bruising and what can be done to avoid it while remaining active? Update: It seems like any high-impact activity can cause the bruising. I have minor bruises after playing basketball. Update 2: I spoke with a foot doctor in the past and his diagnosis was that there was a higher load of stress on the bottom of the foot from activity. His remedy was stretching my legs out before activity to allow the proper support. 

I don't care about being flexible. I can touch my toes fine because I did a lot of stretching as a kid, I feel like I am naturally flexible. I am definitely not 'tight'. I also think stretching is boring. Given that I don't care about being more flexible, is there any possible benefit to stretching? 

I have been a labourer, chucking bricks, carrying timber, etc. for a month. Despite lifting things all day, our bodies aren't in good condition. We have a heavy risk of straining and wearing down our joints — especially our wrists and forearms (because we grip heavy things all day) and our backs (because of awkward postures for long periods of time). I know nothing about fitness or physiology. What can I do to reduce my risk of getting worn-out, inflamed, injured joints? 

I sometimes get this pain when I sleep with my hand curled in (it's comfy but you pay for it the next day). 

I've heard that the best method for sustained metabolism and muscle gain is proportioning your day into six small meals. My question is what are the suggested/best/cheapest foods for those meals, besides some sort of protein? What is the easiest way to get these meals in? 

The absolute cheapest method of gaining muscle mass would be pushups, situps, squats, and lunges in the privacy of your own home. Most jungle gyms have monkey bars that you can use to do pullups on. There are lots of different exercises you can do on pull-up bars to build muscles: here is a video on pull-up bar ab exercises. 

Nearly every day in the morning, I get up and have a 5 min cold shower. I've heard of contrast showers before, but never tried one (I was too repulsed). I'm relatively adapted (6 months of 5 days a week) and impressed with my increase in recovery time. This is specifically for strength training recovery. I was wondering if contrast (cold/hot/cold/hot...) showers would bring better recovery now. If so, what protocol to use? 

I follow a very basic routine of squat, deadlift, pull-up (weighted) and bench press, and have for many weeks. What are some isolation, muscle-specific or machine exercises to 'fill-in the gaps'? One example that comes to mind is something for the rhomboids. 

I am on a workout where I take a protein shake and a creatine shake (just the ingredient with a little bit of water) after my workout. It is common knowledge that while using creatine you must intake large amounts of water. Most articles say take a certain amount everyday while on it. My question is; is it important to consume water immediately after taking it, or in intervals after taking it, or does it not matter, as long as you are getting a large supply (1-2 gallons) every day? Update: With a very high intake of water, it is equally important to increase your salt intake? 

Nicotine seems to be a performance-enhancing drug, like caffeine. But because nicotine is associated with smoking, it seems dangerous to try a nicotine patch to get better gym results. Is it safe? And if so, how should I dose it? Are there any unwanted side effects? 

If I had a dollar for something along the lines of... "lots of sitting every day gives you tight hip flexors and hamstrings/calves...". I am skeptical of that claim. It's plausible, but seems taken for granted everywhere. Some muscles (eg adductors) seem to be in a constantly tight state. I've never heard "keeping your legs together gives you tight adductors". I was wondering if there is any science based evidence showing sitting actually reduces flexibility of you hip flexors and hamstring/calves. 

There are a few exercises in the Ab Ripper X workout that cause a pop in my hip on each rep: In & Out - on extending/straightening Fifer Scissor - on switching legs Are there stretches or proper forms to do to prevent this popping? It doesn't cause pain, but it is very uncomfortable and it distracts from the workout. 

I am wondering if there is any significant calorie burning from fidgeting (bouncing your heel, tapping your foot, moving your fingers, etc.) LiveStrong has an article on this discussing Non-Exercise Activity Thermogenesis, claiming fidget-ers burned up to 350 more calories per day. Is there any merit to this claim or benefit to fidgeting throughout the work day?