I would appreciate if someone could help me figure out the situation! I had applied for a job and eventually got the offer. The way I received the offer seemed to be a bit weird. After several rounds of face-to-face interview, the line manager asked me to have a phone call regarding the job. I was abroad at that time so I asked him to communicate via email, however he preferred to talk on phone. Over phone I was offered the job with annual salary of £50K plus bonus that adds up to £55K. Yesterday, I received a document to review before they apply for my visa. On the document my salary was mentioned £40K. I contacted the HR for clarification and I was told that the base salary is £40K and the benefits may add up to £50K. In the benefits there are some items like relocation compensation (that are paid only once) and employer's contribution toward pension that they consider as part of benefit/bonus (I don't). I am now in dilemma what to do and how to proceed because £40K is only slightly higher than my current base salary. Am I right to assume that the offer over phone (£50K) is meant to be base salary? 

I've got a question and I would appreciate if you could share your thoughts. I recently had an interview that I believe went well. After interview, I sent a thank you email and expressed my interest in the role. While I was not expecting a reply from the interviewers, I got reply from both of the interviewers. I just wanted to know if it is a good sign and if I should be optimistic to get an offer. The replies are something like "Thank you very much for your interest and it was a pleasure talking with you too. wish you good luck! :)" "... our discussions are progressing internally and we hope to be able to give you further information shortly. Meanwhile hope you have a good day and please feel free to get in touch if you have any question" 

To be honest, I think in this case you went too far, but also your boss's reaction was very strange - way too emotional and not self-confident enough. 

My team are my 2 peers and our boss. The projects of my two peers have been experiencing some extreme issues in the last months. Colleague 1's project - a priority project - is delayed by (at least) 8 months. Her another project by 4 months already. We also receive negative feedback from external partners that they don't feel informed, etc. Our "big boss" actually put an additional PM above her to help her with the projects. Colleague 2's projects are always done by someone else. The guy is not very communicative - many people simply don't understand him, as he mixes up words - and will do as little as possible. This isn't just my opinion. I've seen large escalations with project team's members picking up tasks without even consulting my colleague and sarcastically commenting on his skills. My projects are currently the only ones which are ok. I have just as much work as the two coworkers mentioned above. I've received positive feedback from external people. My boss just decided that everything I do on my project needs to be consulted with my colleague. Colleague 1, who dislikes me and has been bulling me from day 1 at the company, proposed that. It's one-way, she will take a stance on my projects, I won't on hers. Is there a way to solve that? (Or a way to swallow your pride and sense of fairness in order not to quit until finding a new job?) I know that in the long term I need to search for another job. EDIT: I have talked to my boss several times. I reminded him that when I asked to participate in some of my colleague's meetings at the beginning of my employment at the company he turned it down and told me I definitely won't participate because my colleague 1 is the PM there (we have different areas we are responsible for in the team and the meetings I mean here referred to the area which I, allegedly, control and for which I am, according to my job description, the process owner). I also told him that it's additional work for me to prepare presentations and have discussions on my projects. And that of course I always ask questions when I feel I don't know something. I reminded him that I currently don't have any time to spare - I've been telling him that for weeks and asking him to prioritise my tasks, since it's not possible to coordinate 12 projects at the same time). The problem is the communication with my boss is difficult. He says he didn't say what he said (like that I can't participate in the meetings). He now asked me to meet him to go through my tasks again and prioritise them together. It's the 5. meeting on the topic. I've written down my projects together with the estimated effort (e.g. 10 h) and asked him to prioritise them weeks ago. He never ends up prioritising my tasks, instead, when I insist, he arranges meetings and tells me e.g. "I don't think you need 20 h to develop x, I'm sure it can be done in 2 h" - without having himself expertise in the area and knowing what the normal effort is. So we end up having hours of meetings with him questioning everything I say and no decisions taken. I don't think raising the topic with my boss makes sense anymore. These are wanted hours. Also, it's clear that my boss and colleague 1 are very good friends - they are the only two people from the same region in our (very international) team, they seem to be connected by the same culture and they do treat others as outsiders. 

And some hints not directly related to background check, but to your hiring process and job description: 

I hope I have interpreted your question right. If your Job includes meeting people from your business, that's good. Networking is not about becoming close friends, it is more like building an address book. Talk to the people you are meeting and ask them about what they do (most people like to talk about themselves). Maybe exchange business cards, or just memorize the person. Try to get information from as much fellow businesspeople as you can. Tell them about yourself in exchange. If you don't meet as much people (or wrong ones) in your daily business life, go on trade shows or other events targeted at networking in your part of business. This is a longtime process. If you meet one of your former contacts again, do smalltalk, be visible, update them about you and vice versa. The whole point is that they should be able remember you. If everything works out ideally, soon you will have a full address book / spreadsheet / customer management program full of contacts. And this is basically all it takes. The people you have met don't need to be your friends. They just need to know who you are. If they have a problem/need info from your field, they will remember you and call you. The same applies to you. Problem? look it up in your address book. Giving and taking favours is what the network is for. This keeps on running smoothly as long the other guys/girls don't forget you. So talking briefly once and calling the guy 10 years later won't work. A network needs constant care. 

He sees the situation from his perspective and his perspective is that you created problems for him by quitting. However, from the employee's perspective it's much better to wait with resigning till you have a contract with your new company signed. There are plenty of reasons for that: 

I can tell you how other German companies do that. Most of them don't notify candidates that interviews or some parts of them will be in English. Even when I asked several times, I was given answers like "We don't know yet", "It depends on the interviewers so be prepared for both" and similar. These were all big, well-known companies. I don't think I've been ever told my interview will be in a specific language. They don't normally let you know if they want to test other languages you listed in your CV either. However, you might want to tell candidates the interview will be in English for several reasons: 

If you want to be taken seriously only give feedback in situations that fulfil the two conditions above. Too many HR people/ hiring managers enjoy the little power they have a bit too much and give feedback in situations in which they are not qualified to do so. 

And don't feel guilty. If the company had some major red flags about you they would also withdraw their offer. And if the contract is really doubful, there's nothing you can do apart from withdrawing the application. P.S. Mind you, I'm not a native speaker of English.