I had come up with one such world recently. The habitable surface is essentially along the convex side of a parabola. This can either be just a parabolic ribbon, or preferably along the center of a hyperbolic paraboloid (See the second image at wikipedia, or this image, in which the habitable area is on the upper side of the red arrow), just because I think infinitely tall mountain ranges would be a cool bonus feature. As you suggested, there are multiple suns (actually infinitely) that pass over the land in a slightly wider parabola. The suns move most slowly at the apex, and move faster and faster at the extremes, so that creatures living on the apex of the parabola experience normal Earth-like days with one Sun which rises and sets, whereas creatures living in the extremes experience "days" that approach an infinitesimally short over-head passage of the sun - with the leading side of the parabola instead having the infinitely many approaching suns placing it in an eternal dawn, and the trailing side of the parabola having the infinitely many receding suns placing it in an eternal dusk. This would be an excellent discovery - one could start out in an Earth-like world, and as they travel further "West" (toward the setting sun) the days grow shorter and shorter and the dusk longer and longer until at one point they see for the first time a sun rising while one is still setting. Eventually they reach a land of eternal dusk that stretches on forever... an excellent place for vampires and the like. As for your criteria: 

Study of the Xenophyophores down there - we don't know very much about them and a study of how they are able to survive such immense pressures would be of plausible scientific value. Some of the ones identified as living down there are as big as 10cm across! That's pretty noteworthy. 

In the distant past the people of the religion had an Enemy, so naturally the people of this religion had to go and fight a holy war to eliminate the threat, however because of the inclement weather at the end of the year and the need to get people back to plant the crops at the start of the second month there was only really a "window" of the first month where it was ok to go off and fight this Enemy so the leaders (who ruled both the state and the church) mandated that everyone had to wait until the start of the first month to go and had to be back by the end of it. This was a hugely successful war and heralded the start of a bright new era of growth and prosperity for the people of the religion and as such is an extremely significant event. Over the years however the finer details of why they could only go fight the enemy during that first month gets a bit lost in translation - certainly the crops issue is not what it once was, however the notion that the first month was the only "acceptable" month to go and kill the enemies of the religion remained and as the "enemies" now can be taken to mean the criminals within their own society this gets translated into the first month of the year being the only acceptable month to kill them. 

The latter is certainly infinitely more effective. But, due to the high costs of moving around, Kinetocracy is currently inefficient. If individuals had true freedom of movement across different societies, it would become efficient. Societies which implement "good" laws would grow and prosper and societies that implement "bad" laws would shrink and decline. All this through a simple social contract mechanism that avoids the 'government by force' issues associated with democracy et al. Current trends which could strengthen kinetocracy in the future: 

You can justify any local pressure gradient being permanent by simply making it globally circular, like a large hurricane. (Actually, there's at least one planet in our Solar system with a permanent hurricane - Jupiter's red dot) To make it most plausible, just make its conditions similar to those that cause a natural hurricane, but add in conditions for it not to move - maybe there's some heat source on the surface that keeps the eye stationary, and the winds always rotate around this point. 

None of these would provide enough manpower to replace slavery on its own but a combination quite possibly would. 

The melding of the tree and building could be an intentional part of the structure - providing structural support for the building around it. This has advantages in terms of growth - the building can expand as the tree does. As others have said if the climate is hot and sunny the tree would provide natural shade for those living/working in the building (depending on what the purpose of the building was), depending on the nature of the tree you could have it storing water in the trunk/branches as well which would provide water to the building occupants. Also if it's in a densely populated city then the tree would act as a way of oxygenating the air in that area and a kind of vertical "park" as well - city planners often want to include parks and the like for residents but that costs valuable land area which could be used for building on so is very expensive. This super tree would be a very efficient way of meeting that need - like the skyscraper version of a park. 

Proteins are the smallest machines of the cell that can do anything interesting (for some definition of interesting, but I work with proteins and I am biased). They are long chains of hundreds of aminoacids (thousands of atoms) do things like pumping water, nutrients, and waste in and out of the cells, guide chemical reactions, send signals, etc. One of the tools to study them are molecular dynamics simulations. They pretty much use classical mechanics (replacing the atoms with a fancy version of soft balls) with minor numerical tweaks to reproduce quantum behaviour to a very accurate degree. The tweaks are mostly to avoid having to solve the full electrostatic problem of where are the electrons at each time step; but nothing of that would seem strange to a microscopical individual. So, to get generally quantum-weird behaviour you have to go smaller than the basic functional unit of the life as we know it. 

Older (non common-rail) diesel vehicles are a good bet, diesel fuel can remain viable for a year or more if it's stored somewhere clean and dry and older engines can be persuaded to run acceptably relatively degraded diesel (unlike modern ones which are much more sensitive to fuel quality) or even on used cooking oil which will help extend your supplies. Flat batteries are a problem in terms of "jump in and go" as they will go flat in a month or so (less if the car has a persistent drain such as an alarm system) but assuming your apocalypse hasn't obscured the sun you could use a solar charger to get one going. It'll take a while though so if there is peril that would prevent you staying in one place for a couple of days you are going to struggle. Once you've got one charged however it's just a case of using it frequently enough to let the alternator do it's job. Once you've got a running motor if you can gather a few spare batteries you can use the working car's alternator to charge these up giving you the ability to jump start other vehicles, hell if you can get your hands on a solar generator (one off this list would be a start: $URL$ then you could use regular mains-powered car battery chargers or even charge plug-in electric vehicles! 

PS. Full disclosure: I think democracy is a flawed system, and the concept of it an "opiate of the masses" 

Build a maze of mirrors - especially fun if a ray reflected through a mirror instead implants the opposite idea of what the wielder intended! This could either be an overt maze of mirrors, or just a few covertly positioned mirrors in one's house. Or maybe just a fog machine, but that's not as much fun... on the other hand, it is a more portable tactic (think smoke grenades) and thus could be used as a tool in a show of force - a good offence is the best defense 

As we know from real-life "preppers", one of the most highly focused points of personal defense adopted by a highly (excessively?) concerned citizen is his/her home, a.k.a. his/her fortress. 

Kinetocracy - Government by movement, a.k.a. voting with your feet In truth, Kinetocracy is already here, but in a weak form. For example, if a US citizen feels strongly that they shouldn't fear death by firearm as a statistically significant risk to their life, what's the most effective means for them to enact that change in their life? 

Another reason why it couldn't be is that one side could go total war beyond what it would be possible in the real world. For example, one could mobilize the full civilian population into the machine of war: all workshops and factories are reconverted to produce tanks, all food goes to the military, and every other able body is issued a gun and put in the front. This can easily overwhelm an enemy virtual army, but it cannot be done in real life because it would damage intensely the economy of the country; but since the war is virtual, every machine is kept, etc. Another problem is the scorched earth tactics taken to a superlative. You want my oil fields? I'll let your army get close, and then virtually nuke them. And every time you put boots on it, I'll nuke it again, until you give up, and I get them back, intact and productive. The same can be true for the attacker: nuke a enemy factory, wiping all defences, and take over the ruins. The intact factory and its production now belongs to you. The rules may prevent you from using it for this war, but nothing stops you from using it in the next one or during peace time. In real life, taking an industrial complex is much more risky if you want to also keep it functional. Finally, remember that winning a war is more about logistics than combat. You need to keep supply lines, produce equipment and ammunitions, provide food... and all this without taking so much damage that you'll collapse after the war. 

Claustrophobia, particularly the Cabin fever/stir crazy form - it's a an oldy-but-a-goody. Wiki describes the symptoms of being "stir crazy" as including "elevated and often increasing levels of anxiety, frustration, agitation, fidgeting, manic depressive type mood swings, and accessory episodes of acting out impulsively or otherwise antisocially on those feelings," combined with the description on the Cabin Fever article of "a distrust of anyone they are with" and that sounds like a recipe for a bit of good old fashioned homicide amongst "friends". Not everyone is affected by these things and if a member of the team were prone to such effects and it were missed during the pre-mission pysch screenings (maybe they even lied a little to get on the mission?) it could easily only affect one or two people sufficiently to cause them to go homicidal. 

Assuming that in the 25th century you have the technology to reverse aging etc and otherwise return their physical bodies back to the state they were in when they left the past then you can give them years of extra life and wondrous living - just with the caveat that they won't be able to remember it later. If you pick them up not long before their historical death this is probably going to be quite an attractive offer. Add in that if they are spending enough time in the future they will get to see their artistic endeavors being enjoyed and appreciated and I think most artists will take you up on it.