I've always understood that basalt is an extrusive rock (formed by eruption), and dikes are intrusions (no eruption), so I would have thought that a dike could not be composed of basalt rock. It's come to my attention that many people talk about "basalt dikes" in geology, and many websites, including pages of university geology departments, talk about dikes that are basalt. The concept of a "basaltic dike" (note the "ic") makes sense to me: a gabbro or diabase dike whose parental magma had a basaltic composition. So, I know that basaltic dikes exist, but I'd like to have confirmation that there is no such thing as a dike which is basalt rock. 

21.7%, by my calculations (338 / 1556 holocene-active volcanoes). I calculated perennial snow by combining 6 weeks of MOD10A2 data from winter and summer weeks in 2014 to figure out which pixels had snow both in the summer and the winter. My source code for that is available as a gist (an older version accidentally classified cloud as snow; that's been fixed). Then I checked if these pixels fell within 10km of the volcanoes in the Smithsonian Institution's Global Volcanism Database. I also plotted the woefully incomplete Global Land Ice Measurements from Space glacier polygons. There are clearly a few false-positives on ocean islands... I think this is due to MOD10A2 marking choppy surf as snow. Looking into that. I intend to publish this and will put a reference here if it is published. Here's what the map looks like for part of Alaska: 

The authors attributed these effects to decompression melting. If you remove a weight from above a magma chamber, the pressure in the chamber is reduced, and the melting temperature is lowered, causing an increase in the amount of melt available for eruption. (Personally, I suspect that it's not really decompression melting causing the change in eruption rate but actually just fractures opening and closing.) The Tolstoy paper claims that if you look at seafloor topography, you see bumps where more lava erupted and piled up higher. Further, it says those bumps correlate with the 100,000 year Milankovitch global climate cycle. So, orbital eccentricity --> sea level --> midocean ridge eruption rate --> seafloor topography. This is a brand new idea and needs much more testing. (Personally, I find the topography thing hard to believe because that topography is probably more fault-controlled than eruption-rate-controlled.) Tolstoy even claims that low tide causes eruptions! She uses a Schuster test to say that the majority of seafloor eruptions occur during neap tide. However, we don't observe seafloor eruptions very often, so she is making this claim using only 9 data points. It's currently unknown whether these unloading / loading effects are important at subduction zones or LIP. You've asked a difficult question which volcanologists have been attempting to understand for decades and will continue to work on for the foreseeable future. In summary, my answer is that cutting-edge research suggests that global eruption rate fluctuates in response to climate via changes in the masses pushing down on magma reservoirs. 

I have found a wealth of information using Harmonic Constituents to calculate tide levels. H(t) = Amplitude * cos ( t * harmonicSpeed + phase lag). Yet when I try to apply this to constituents from the NOAA the results never match the tables produced. I have since found that the NOAA constituents require an additional term, the Equilibrium value with the resulting constituent function looking more like H(t) = Amplitude * cos ( t * harmonicSpeed + EquilibriumValue + phase lag). I am looking for any hints on how this Equilibrium value is calculated or derived. Addendum: The constituents are found here, this for San Diego, Ca Constituents for San Diego. Sorry cannot find the source of the Equilibrium value but will when I get home from work. 

Your image looks very similar to rocks we get here on the West Coast of Vancouver Island. We have some rock boring bivalves that will effectively drill into the rock which breaks off and erodes into a shape similar to what you are showing. $URL$ or $URL$ There are also echinoderms that will bore into rocks, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, $URL$ $URL$ but the holes from these creatures tend to be larger than the image you present. I a confident that the holes are created by some form a boring bivalve. 

Your rock looks like a concretion. The varying hardness of the layers are typical of concretions in many areas. I don't know exactly how they form but they occur in sediments or sedimentary rocks. Often the center contains some impurity or fossil that was likely the nucleus of the concretion when it formed. There are many locations with concretions. The Wikipedia page Concretion contains many examples and includes mention of a location in Kansas where concretions are found. 

So... doesn't $\lambda$ cancel out!? This would imply that the latent heat of sublimation doesn't matter at all here, which I guess is possible since it's a kinetically controlled process. 

Because of the Coriolis Effect, the prevailing winds on the earth between about the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer go from the East to the West (knows as the Trade Winds). To get to the west coast of a continent within those latitudes, an air mass blowing from above an ocean must cross the entire continent. Along the way, the air mass causes precipitation (rain, snow, etc.) and loses water so by the time it reaches the west coast the air tends to be very dry and average annual precipitation will be very low. "Rain shadow" is a related effect in which the lee side of mountain ranges are dry because air masses experience orographic rainfall when they encounter the mountain range. This causes the Atacama desert to the west of the Andes, and the Mojave to the east of the Sierra Nevada. Note that the Mojave is east of the Sierra Nevada rather than west because the prevailing wind direction is westerly (from west to east) because it is north of Capricorn. Bear in mind that this explanation is extremely approximate and oversimplified, and that your assumption of deserts on the western side of a continent should be reversed north of about Capricorn and South of about Cancer, where the Trade Winds are replaced by the Westerlies. 

Absolutely. Lithospheric flexure due to volcanic edifice emplacement is well-documented. Not only do you get isostatic depression near the volcano, but further afield you actually can have uplift due to a "hinging" sort of effect. Lithospheric flexure drives the growth of underwater coral atolls through subsidence at a recently emplaced volcano (coral forms at a fixed depth beneath sea level), but later can lift the same coral above sea level due to far-field volcanic emplacement, turning the underwater atoll into an island. See the seminal work on this by McNutt & Menard (1978). 

Given your description of the base rock and the age of the mine I would suggest that what you are seeing is what in a cave we would refer to as flow stone (A deposit of Calcium Carbonate in one or more of many crystal structures). Simplified Process: Ground water often has varying degrees of dissolved carbon dioxide in it. This carbon dioxide within the water creates a mild acid, carbonic acid. The acid in the ground water will corrode out Calcium Carbonate in the base rock. Most ground water will be saturated with Calcium Carbonate, the lime, depending on the concentration of dissolved carbon dioxide in the water. When the water seeps out of the walls of the mine it has an opportunity to off gas some of the dissolved carbon dioxide. When this occurs the water can no longer hold as much dissolved Calcium Carbonate and the excess is deposited on the walls in various forms. The mechanism of dissolving the rock and re-deposition is driven by various equilibrium reactions( involving temperature, water mixing, partial pressures of the gases...). A karst hydrologist/geologist would be able to give you much more detailed information on the processes. It is this process that forms caves and causes the formations with the caves to form. The following web site gives a pretty straight forward explanation of what I believe you are seeing. $URL$ 

I would suggest that the rock is a lava rock "Basalt" from a Pahoehoe flow. I have collected similar rocks in California, Arizona, and New Mexico, but I haven't managed to get as far East as Texas. One area I have collected similar rocks from is the Pisgah flows in California. Pisgah Crater I have also seen slag that is similar looking but slag almost always has some iridescence, and has some differentiation of crystal size or texture over short distances within a single sample. Lava is also used extensively for road ballast in areas where it is available. I will try and search my yard for an example piece I can use to post a picture. This type of lava does has a distinctive sharp "ting" type noise when struck lightly with a rock hammer. In the meantime this site has an image of Pahoehoe lava, similar lavas from the Western states are normally duller black with some reddish interiors through there is a lot of variability. Washington University Lava 

On p. 6 of this article: Bliss, A.K., Cuffey, K.M., Kavanaugh, J.L., 2011. Sublimation and surface energy budget of Taylor Glacier, Antarctica. Journal of Glaciology 57, 684–696. There is an expression for sublimation rate as a function of latent heat flux $L$ and (specific) latent heat of sublimation (of water ice) $\lambda$. 

Looks like a chunk of quartz. Please re-write the question following A guide for asking "Identify this rock" questions? . 

Looks like a shell from a bivalve of some kind, that has been worn presumably by wave action. You may want to update your question with more context. Where did you find it? Also, your photos are all out of focus and some are overexposed, so you may want to re-take the photos. You might also want to try asking on a biology or zoology site. 

Together, these two claims seem to imply that if it's not thicker than 30m, it's not a glacier. Are either of these claims correct, and do they indeed imply my conclusion? N.B. The question arises because I've been working with some literature and databases that refer to things less than 30m thick as glaciers. Update: looking closer at GlaThiDa, I notice that it contains 490 glaciers listed with mean_depth less than 5m. However, all of these are from a single article (Cogley, 2008) and some of them are apparently only centimeters thick. Something must be wrong with this data; I'm looking into it. 

Neither displacement nor acceleration; most seismometers measure velocity. If you want displacement, you integrate the output over time, and if you want acceleration, you differentiate the output over time. Check the datasheet for the instrument you are interested in. For example, the Guralp 3T datasheet says that it outputs 1500V m/s, so for each meter per second of ground velocity the output increases by 1500V. (It also says it only outputs from +20V to -20V, so this means ground velocities greater than 20/1500 = 0.013 m/s will be "off the chart" i.e. saturate the instrument). Actually, the voltage output from a seismometer is not exactly proportional to displacement, velocity, OR acceleration. The actual output is the input displacement convolved with the impulse response of the seismometer. It's just that the impulse response is designed such that it will have an approximately linear response to ground velocity within the corner frequencies. In the 3T datasheet we were looking at, they say it's within -3 dB of linear as long as it's measuring ground that's not oscillating faster than 50Hz or slower than 0.0083Hz for one version of the instrument. Measuring displacement directly is known as geodesy (as opposed to seismometry) and the tools used for those measurements include GPS, lidar, and radar. To measure acceleration (strong motion), as Jay says, you can use an accelerometer. Or, precariously balanced rocks for the palaeo case! 

No. CaO will not exist in most environments for any significant time in the presence of CO2, it will react to form CaCO3. I doubt CaO is the primary source of Ca in our world. Silicates are likely the original source of Ca in our oceans $URL$ CaCO3 will partially dissolve or corrode in water to form an aqueous solution of Ca +2 + 2 HCO3 -. The dissolution of the CaCO3 in water is an equilibrium reaction based on the acidity and temperature of the water, this is why the acidification of the oceans is a concern for our marine life. I am not a chemist or a biologist but organisms will extract the aqueous Ca +2 ions found in the water to form shells etc. Because these organisms are not evenly distributed in the ocean their shells and skeletons will and have accumulated the CaCO3 in distinct areas. 

Building with timber is more sustainable than building with concrete at least in terms of the production of green house gases. A timber building is using a raw material, trees, that have been sequestering carbon till they are cut. Cement, or concrete, on the other hand is made by cooking off carbon dioxide from the calcium carbonate, limestone, to produce the lime which makes up a large part of the concrete. In the production of lime you have CO2 released from the limestone and from the fuels used to heat the limestone, see Lime in Wikipedia. In addition the timber panels are significantly lighter than the cement components which should also make the timber construction more sustainable. Most trees used for timber production are grown in sites that are not generally ideal for other types of agriculture, though this is a gross generalization. They get their phosphorous through local sources, primarily the soil, so forest growth wouldn't have an impact on the phosphorous used for agricultural processes. The following quote from the North Carolina State University project site summarizes the overall impact on timber construction. It is important to note that until the advent of CLT, cross laminated timber, it was effectively impossible to build larger structures out of wood.