Contemplate here doesn't mean thinking about it intellectually. Sure we all have to think about it first but real insight happens when you realise it through direct experience.You have to experience the four noble truth not churn it through your head back and forth trying to get a sense of it.This is like contemplating how a mango tastes a hundred times Instead of just picking up the fruit and tasting it. 

I came to know His Holiness Dalai Lama serves his guests meat at his residency Yes but is the meat bought at the supermarket or he keeps animals to slaughter for food? If it's bought at a supermarket than I think it would be less bad karma than if he had it slaughtered. Is it dharma to ask your cook to kill an animal to serve your guest or further is it not your dharma to ask your cook to not kill an animal?.. Yes I definitely think asking your cook to kill an animal to serve your guest is Not dhamma.I think it generates bad karma but only the level of intensity varies according to our intentions.I don't think we can kill another being even for food and get away with it.Though killing an animal for food is better than killing them for fun for sport.So the karma varies according to our intention. I don't know maybe it's just personal opinion but i just can't see that.My conscience won't allow me too.Which is why If I have to eat meat,which I do everyday, I say a little prayer and allow them to kill me for food in the future if a time like that should come.It's an act of compassion to give yourself to sustain others.Though i'm sure some of these animals we're not given a choice.so that's why I feel gratitude.For the food itself.So i do think it's wrong and i do accept all the consequences.We are the owner and heir to our karma.If we must kill an animal for food then we should do so in the most humane way and make use of all it's parts, for meat,hyde,fur for clothing etc.In some cultures that shows respect for the animal you've hunted.And I'm sure that's in line with the spirit dhamma. My main question is how will inactions contribute to our karma as much as our actions?.. Like here for eg. Our inaction of not stopping an animal being killed... Karma is intention.Action with intention. What is your intention for killing an animal? and What is your intention for not doing anything to stop the animal being killed? This will contribute to the fruits of our karma. 

So yes, by downloading SW and movies you have "taken" the creative efforts of others without such items being properly "given" to you. You have "taken" something, which was not "given". As Buddhists we must respect the property rights of others, including their creative efforts. By illegally downloading SW/Movies, the chances are you acted out of greed, desire (loba), ego. Now it is one thing to do something wrong and know its wrong, but its another to do something wrong and think its right. 

In the Tikaṇḍaki Sutta (A 5.144) the Buddha recommends a balance. Contemplating impermanence or the foulness of the body with regards to those objects (people) we are agreeable with, projecting metta towards objects that we find repulsive, seeing impermanence and the foulness of the body in those objects we find repulsive, and projecting metta towards those objects we find agreeable, and considering both the repulsive and agreeable with equanimity. Tikandaki Sutta translation and comments by Piya Tan 

You need to consult a medical professional. You can't meditate your problems away.You can't be more concerned about emptiness,not self or the progress of insight.this is la la land advice.you need to deal with the elephant in the room which is your drug problem. Your sila.Dont bypass sila.I am in the health industry and you need professional medical advice which I am not qualified to give.Its always beneficial to meditate and hear the dhamma but get yourself to your GP.Don't worry about Not Self, Buddhahood,and meditation their not going anywhere they'll still be here after you get cleaned up and you can still practice during the process.Use the dhamma for support But don't substitute it for professional medical help.Understanding reality such as Not Self can really free one from suffering but your not going to get there if your under the influence or if you skip sila.This is why you need to focus on cleaning up your sila.Cleaning up from drugs is liberating. 

Actually it's not a scientific fact. Species are known to go extinct and new species are known to evolve.. There is no count of the total beings on earth yet alone the universe. So it's impossible to say whether the sum total of living beings is increasing, decreasing or stagnant. As for reincarnation the Buddha understood that not all people would accept it. However, he said that accepting it is a safer bet than not accepting it. See the Appannaka Sutta for more about the Buddha's safe bet. Link A search on reincarnation will yield a plethora of results from the Buddhist to the non Buddhist (Edgar Cassey, Richard Weiss, etc). There are many youtube videos of young children recollecting past lives. My opinion is that, if not for theist religions forcefully denouncing the theory of rebecoming, that would be the default theory in the modern world. 

Now, if a person writes 'Buddhist Novels' like we see the many 'Christian Novels', and gets rich on account of the success of those novels, then I see nothing objectionable and within the means of right livelihood. If a person pays $100 for a 1 day retreat and benefits in line with the Dhamma, then kudos to the ones who organized such a retreat. As always let the buyer beware, critically evaluate the purchase (pre & post), and recommend or warn other potential buyers. This all sounds very commercial. So the preference would be to have these types of retreats sponsored through dana. 

Many people believe that their good or bad thoughts can materialize in the future. Yes.In the Dhammapada it says The Mind is the forerunner of all things. Everything begins in the mind.From the most subtlest intentions to thoughts. So some people try to be always in good mood and think positively. When you think good thoughts,you tend to feel good,you tend to do good,and you create good,and enjoy the fruits of your goodness.But this does not happen linearly.So you may think positive but still struggle with depression due to the bad thoughts you have ruminated about in the past.Only because you don't see the results right away doesn't mean nothing's happening. Also it's very important to define good thoughts.Good thoughts refers to thoughts that are skillful or wholesome.Not just thoughts that feels good.As it is possible to have positive thinking and be delusional at the same time.And it is possible to think of unwholesome things that feel good but brings suffering. Others are not so happy and just try not to think about bad things too often to prevent them from happening. To think that by "not thinking about it" they can prevent bad things from happening is slightly delusional.Depends on one's karma.If the fruit of a bad karma ripens due to to the right conditions then ... no amount of "not thinking about it" will stop it.Neither in the sky nor in mid-ocean, nor by entering into mountain clefts, nowhere in the world is there a place where one may escape from the results of evil deeds.-Dhammapada And finally there are large groups of people that pray to some god. It all depends on the individual themselves.Whether they pray to a God or not the key that makes these thoughts materialize is their intentions,their karma,their actions. Can thoughts of all these people materialize into a real events, creatures, things? At least sometimes? Yes thoughts can materialize because of cause and effect.But they are governed by certain laws.Law of gravity,law of karma,law of nature etc and also our own actions and in actions.We can wish for a good meal,but if we don't get up and make it and no one comes by and makes it for us then we're not going to have one. 

It is important to understand what is meant by 'right view' (samma ditti) which covers the origination of thoughts, the causal arising of thoughts, and the non-self nature of thoughts and the entire thinking apparatus. This understanding will help one to be mindful of the arising and passing away of thoughts during meditation without identifying with them. The default view that a thought is mine, created by myself naturally causes one to pursue them. While the right view of the true nature of thoughts eventually leads one to be unbounded from thinking. 

Gautma Buddha is said to have been a Bodhisatva for several hundreds of thousands of aeons. The Theravada school usually says that these extremely long periods are required by a Buddha to train oneself. If we assume that the training took 1,000,000,000,000 years and he taught as a Buddha for 45 years, then the training to teaching ratio is extremely ineffective. The Mahayana school says that Bodhisatvas could have become Arhats way before that but intentionally delayed this decision out of compassion to countless of beings. Hence, these extremely long periods are required by a Bodhisatva not necessarily to to train oneself, but to train others. Therefore the state of Bodhisatva is a special delay mechanism to allow a future Buddha to continue in the cycle of life and death, and gradually train countless of beings into Unbinding from the cycle of death. 

If your really afraid of black magic in Thailand remember,if you don't bear any ill will it "bounces" back to the owner.In other words if your a good person or virtuous someone's ill will can not harm you.Not even a powerful nature spirit can harm you if your heart is pure.A virtuous person is respected by other beings.Take refuge in your virtue.Your sila gives you the confidence to stand up and face hostility because your blameless.Your whole.I advice that you recite the Paritta Protection Book.And do a lot of metta practice.If someone is going through great lengths to spread and concentrate I'll will on you.You should be doing the opposite.For hatred can only be overcome by love. 

how can I overcome the causes of this 'anger' in a way that I don't get angry anymore with something? You overcome anger by being AWARE of anger. 1.When anger arises note "anger".Remember it's not your anger".It's just anger.By doing this you create detachment from it.Creating distance or space.That is usually enough to give you some gap to talk yourself out of it. But if it persists and you find yourself struggling.Then.. 2.Focus on the anger. NOTE: Do not focus on angry thoughts,or memories or plans.When i say focus on the anger i mean focus on the physical/sensations of anger.The heat in your body,the sweat on your face,tension around your jaw,the saliva being produced in your mouth,the heat behind your ears.Be aware of your overall physical state when your angry. Now tell me where is that anger? Show me where it is.Try to find it?So that i can mark that part of your body with a marker.We'll know who the culprit is!Is it that feeling in the back of you neck?Oh it's moved up to your head.Why is it moving around? Now it's gone down your spine. Why is it you can feel anger so strongly but you can never seem to pinpoint it in one spot.It just moving all the time.Anger looks so big, mean and overwhelming when your not paying attention to it but once you take a closer look it seems to be reduce in size,nothing more than tiny particles swirling around different spots of your body and even then if you pay more attention you'll reduce it to nothing.It's dissolved. We think anger is solid and permanent but it's not.When anger lurks in the deep waters of our subconscious we have a distorted view of it.It becomes an impulse that we must let out or it becomes unhealthy,it gathers momentum demanding action to be taken.But the anger is not doing this.We are.By our inability to see it clearly(ignorance).when we bring it to the surface of consciousness we see it for what it is.Just sensations arising and falling going it's own way.So the next time anger arises stay with it in this way.But if you can not then by all means practice restraint.