I am recent graduate student, having just secured a good position in a financial services firm that I love. I happened to hear from a company that found my resume online and want me to come in for an interview. As I am currently employed, I declined. What struck me was the tone of the company recruiter, particularly its informality. The financial services sector has always been characterized by professionalism and tradition and strict adherence to procedure is prized from what I experienced. Interviews are designed to be formal / procedural, with the aim to strictly assess the qualifications of the candidate with deviation from basic business being frowned upon. This was a Fortune 100 company. From the tone of the recruiter, it seemed an informational interview was been requested, in line with a question - answer session. Are such informal, informational interviews the norm in the financial services industry? 

If you're worried about some "blacklist" in which other companies are all going to look at and keep from hiring you, there should be no concern. However, in the event you turn down an offer after a conditional verbal acceptance it's most likely you would not be working for them in the immediate future. I would also advise to discuss this issue with someone in HR to resolve the matter. Every company you work for will have its own case of hiccups and no job will be perfect. 

Sounds like you might be part of the problem here. You shouldn't be whistling in an open office environment, it's annoying and rude 

I am an InfoSec professional working as an IT auditor. For several months now, I have working closely with our information security team to strengthen the security controls governing our PCI and SOX compliance efforts. Last week, new security policies went live in the production environment. In response to a comment by @Lilienthal, we are implementing these safeguards to better safeguard the production environment containing card holder data, customer PII data, and non public financially sensitive data from unauthorized access / use by employees without a need to access this information. The new controls came about both due to compliance requirements (i.e: PCI) and also to strengthen our security due to customer security being necessary and the right thing to do. @Brandin, the new policies were communicated through joint emailing between our team and the IT Security team. @JAB, developers either have no access or R- only access to the production servers. However, other teams such as the IT Security and DBA do have frequent needs to access the production environment, which somewhat prompted such a process change. As examples, the following requirement is now in effect: (among others) 

Let me warn you of the cautions of using a job offer from company B to leverage a raise out of your current company. If you do this - there could be blow back and the company could get the impression that as soon as a better offer comes or more money is thrown your way you'll bail. Is that the case? Probably not. But some people get antsy and worry. Also, even if a counter-offer is made by company A, it may not be what you were offered by company B. Furthermore when/if reviews/raises come out next cycle don't be shocked to find out that the counter-offer basically negates any raise you would have received. The short version - if the only time the company values you is when you're looking to leave, then it's probably time to leave 

I am currently a contractor and I have been offered a position as a federal employee doing essentially the same thing working with the same people with the essentially the same tasks/responsibilities. I would be taking the number 2 spot after the lead retires and the current number 2 becomes the lead. For personal reasons I wish to remain a contractor. Our contract has several years of work remaining so there is no immediate need for me to change positions. The person who is looking to retire soon is advocating that I take the offer which puts additional pressure on the situation, but I currently would feel more comfortable remaining where I am; the reasons being flexibility (I may want to move locations and employment in less than a year) slightly better salary and annual raises. I am aware that I am giving up job security and benefits but feel at the time the pros outweigh the cons. How can I politely decline while keeping a good working relationship? 

To further shed some insight into what can happen when access rights are sloppy, take a look into happened with the OP in these two questions: 

My suggestion is to drop the company afterwards and look into other job opportunities with more reliable companies. Human Resources (HR) is the representative of the company and a unreliable HR member does not bode well for the integrity of the company. It is rude and unprofessional for them to not provide you with notice ahead of time if the original agreed upon schedule needs to be changed. Interviewing is a two way street with you evaluating the trustworthiness of the company as much as the prospective employer evaluating your qualifications as a prospective employee. The time you spent chasing them is time better used elsewhere interviewing with other employers who are more professional. 

I think it depends on the person, management and the organization. I've seen it go both ways as I think many others have. A former developer I worked with was not performing up to task. He was given the dreaded PIP - and from there shifted over to Q&A as an attempt to find a way to use him. 

You just have to spin up a bunch of nonsense that you probably don't mean. Something like, "While I am grateful for the opportunities that were presented to me during my time here - I feel that at this juncture its best for all parties if I move on" Then say something about how you will do all you can to transfer knowledge and help in the transition prior to your departure Then in your exit interview you say a bunch of nice things and leave. 

I am IT auditor and will be soon taking my certification exam - CISA from ISACA. Certification requirements call for passing a rigorous exam as well as a certain number of years of related job experience working in IT Audit / Security / Compliance. I have not fulfilled the work experience yet, and require 2 additional years working. Although I don't have the certification yet, I feel showing I have achieved tangible results in becoming certified show dedication to the audit profession. If I were to pass the exam, how can show this in my resume without misleading employers? 

I want to first start by saying that I work in a very similar field with almost similar objectives: IT Audit. If I understand you correctly, you are frustrated because you feel that others are not heeding your advice and your boss is not being supportive of you by insisting on relationships over competence. When you want people to listen to you and take your feedback seriously, you want first to tell them how listening to you will benefit them in their work. In your case, the benefit will be fewer bugs and better functioning code that is more likely to meet business objectives. Continuously writing poor code and refusing to improve when given chance demonstrates contempt, aggression, and almost arrogance in a sense, as in they know better. If continued, such behavior will almost guarantee termination due to incompetence and not being able to work well with others. I suggest that you assume the positive - that these developers are not trying to be hostile out of spite. Most likely they are not understanding Why you want them to change. Assume people are rational, that as much as they may not want to cooperate, they won't jeopardize their own job due to this conflict. Discuss with these developers when all parties are calm and explain your thinking process - Why you want them to change as you do and how they will benefit from doing so Your boss is also being unreasonable here by insisting on relationships over competence. I wholly disagree. Your work reflects on your boss - either poorly or well. When your boss wrings his hands of all accountability, he is putting his own job at risk. By not recognizing competence and value added through process improvement is what he and his team members (yourself among them) will ultimately be judged upon, he is showing remarkably poor judgement. The situation is unpleasant, but burying one's head in the sand does not make the problem go away. Your work serves as a control over the work of others and you have to accept that due to this fact - There will always be people who dislike you. Take the high road and do not view the feedback as a personal assault, no matter how unpleasant. Grow a thicker skin and learn not to react to the hostility / unprofessionalism of others - In the long run, this practice will serve you well. 

You should be OK if you gave a solid reason when you declined at the end. In theory a hiring manager would rather hire someone that's there for the long haul instead of taking the job and then leaving 3 months later due to external factors like relocation. You acknowledged there was an issue and did your best to resolve it. If your skills are in line with what they are looking for, there shouldn't be an issue. IF there is an issue, then perhaps it's not the best place for you to wind up. 

Performance Reviews are OK and should be welcome. Now if you go through this and they have issues with your work and throw you on a period of performance or some sort of "performance plan" then you can worry. But for now - don't sweat it 

I work with a relatively small (6 people) Software Configuration Management team in what would be considered a more traditional or "non-agile" environment; however, within the past year our CM lead has instituted the practice of holding a daily "stand up" meeting for just our CM group in which we cover: 

I understand this is relatively standard practice within an agile work environment and can see the benefit of it there; however, we do not follow any other agile processes and the meetings tend to be very back and forth and also tend to drag on. Several members of our team go too far into detail which does not concern the entire team and would be better served in an offline conversation when answering the first two questions specifically. Additionally our leads, who essentially serve as the scrum masters and run the meeting tend to ask a lot of follow up questions, which further derails the conversation from being beneficial to all which are involved. These meetings are mandatory and in my opinion a waste of time (45-60 mins a week including driving back and forth five days a week) As a participant, how can I help to make our meetings more focused/relevant/beneficial/shorter to our team? Update: The meetings have become sit down meetings where none of the three questions above are even covered. 

Your mileage may vary but I've found the only way to get a decent pay raise in this industry is to switch jobs every several years. At company A despite amazing performance reviews and hitting every mark given and doing great work - the raise was always ~ 1% with different excuses every time. Jump to company B and snag a 15% pay jump. Lather rinse repeat 

Never give honest feedback in an exit interview, no good comes of it. If they care about you, the quality of the work environment and employees in general you wouldn't be in the spot you're in now. Just go through the formalities and get on out of dodge