Do you ever open the fridge and look around, close it and then immediately forget what you saw? The mind tricks itself all the time. I have this amazing ability to forget names. It's like magic. I've met people who I have to immediately ask to repeat their names because there's something in my brain that just instantly drops it. It's hilarious when I drop it a second time even though I'm ready and trying really hard. It probably has to do with attention limits and some sort of weird social thing I'm doing when I first meet people. An illusionist practices this technique to exclude things from your attention (look over here while I hide the ball). I can imagine someone with the natural ability to apply a face forgetting nudge. Someone with the natural talent might not even be able to explain how it works. It could even lead to interesting situations where it doesn't work perfectly on everyone, or came into play by accident. 

My mother knew she had a terminal prognosis and a projected lifespan measured in months if not weeks, but of course the question wasn't: 

What if the race that destroyed the planet was into some crazy science stuff. They found a way to tune the gravitational attractiveness of matter. Whole mountains could have been made neutrally buoyant by flipping half of the matter to gravity repelling material. Or simpler yet set to gravity neutral. That'd be some weird stuff. It'd still have mass so it would be hard to move around but it wouldn't fall to the surface if it broke off. It'd kind of drift away behaving as if it was in zero gravity. 

The "Anti-Utopia" Proof I will tell you one thing that I do know though: if a utopia is perfection, all it takes is one person who believes that they are worse off to, by definition, make a situation non-utopian; so if you applied StackExchange's principles to my country's governing structure, I can tell you right now that there is near-zero possibility that any utopia could result since I would be miserable every time some group of 5 (or make it 500) "trusted" individuals voted to suppress what I was doing that day. You are going to get a lot of super-pissed-off people. Right now I live in a constitutional-republic with a semi-democratic election process (the U.S.), and it is already bad enough that my neighbors have so much control over my life - I would not want to give them even more control. 

Strictly speaking, the answer is "Yes, that can happen." However, there are so many ways that it could happen that the full scope of "how" would be too broad. Since you don't need the full scope, but rather need only a few good ideas, I will offer some. 

Note: When I first answered, I missed your mention of Celsius. I was thinking -5 to 10 degrees F, which is even colder. This realization makes what you want even easier. There are edible garden plants which can survive the temperature range you specify just fine. I have edited the answer with this updated point of view. Sorry if my changes cause any confusion. 

If you're fixated on fear, maybe figure out a way to make their young taste like bacon. So long as one human survives none of their young are safe. Humm maybe that simply makes them exterminate us. Alternatively we could take a lesson from nature on earth. An injured predator is a dead predator. If a lion thinks lunch is going to be more trouble than it's worth it will back off. Showing that you have the ability and willingness to cripple them (even a minor injury to a lion's paw could mean it can't hunt anymore). Don't try to beat them, stand up a weapon system that makes us more trouble than we're worth. 

Lets reduce the scope of this question a bit to put it in perspective. Is there anything you do that you can be reasonably sure you do better than anyone you're likely to meet? Unless you have objective validation that you're a world champion at something it's unlikely. Objective validation violates the "we don't know about them" stipulation. We could go all touchy-feely and say you're better at knowing yourself than anyone else is. But is that really true? You could study me for a long time, get to know me, create simulations of me in your head. You could then use your objective perspective (free of self-deception and pesky emotional baggage) to predict my actions better than I could. (At least one of my ex-girlfriends can do this disturbingly well.) I can therefore imagine a race of aliens who know our psyche and biology better than we know ourselves. It wouldn't take long to do that if you started with a higher level of scientific advancement. Or you could say, well I don't know that I'm better than you, but I'm really good at the one thing I'm really good at. What is humanity good at? What does history say? Science? Ha. Our history is full of superstition and rejection of science for far longer than we've been making advancements in science. Conflict. Though true excellence is control and we're super bad at controlling escalation (disagreement leads to argument leads to low level violence leads to state sponsored violence or genocide). So maybe we're not good at conflict. We're good at picking fights. I'm better than you at picking a fight, and if you don't believe me come over here and I'll prove it. Uniqueness. We do unique pretty well. Art, craft We probably have woodwork the likes of which they've never seen before. If they have wood it's unlikely they'll have wood precisely like ours. I would expect spacefarers to have lots of metal and synthetic materials. In the future in space wood will be more precious than gold. Also, what makes you think we'd be invited to join an empire. If history has taught us anything, cultures join empires at the point of a sword. 

The smallest geological change necessary to ensure that insufficient fossils exist to create the evolutionary ideas as you requested is: No change at all. Fossils did not provide the "origin of humanity" idea in the first place As has already been pointed out, the idea that creatures evolved from common ancestors did not originate with analysis of fossils. Fossils may already be insufficient to trace the link you speak of Further, even when fossils came into the equation, they did just as much, if not more, to dismiss modern evolutionary theories as they did to support it. For a long time there was a controversy called "The Missing Link." The argument went something like this (simplified for this answer): You have found fossils of humans, fossils of apes, and fossils of an extinct semi-apelike creature that is our common ancestor, but you have found no fossils that suggest the extinct creature ever evolved into humans. Indeed, some prominent evolutionists were concerned about this and looked hard for evidence to connect the proposed common ancestors to their modern day descendants. It was even suggested by some of them that, if they fail to find some of the evidences their model suggested should exist, then the modern evolutionary model should be abandoned. We do have more evidence now. However, the evidence is still not conclusive enough for all scientists to agree. In fact, there is a minority group (but still quite large) of scientists who do not believe that humans and apes have a common animal ancestor from which they both descended. In science, even among people with the same (or similar) beliefs, there is a lot of argument; scientists do not all hold strong to one unified belief where they are all in concert. Even many of the supporters of the current evolutionary model will suggest that the fossil record as dug up so far is not yet sufficient to trace human origin. Summary The fossil record we have is enough for the majority of scientists in that field to support the modern evolutionary model, but it is still sufficiently lacking such that a reasonably large portion of reasonable scientists do not support it. If there are smart, well educated professors and scientists who do not believe that even our current fossil record that we do have in reality is sufficient to make human evolution traceable, to the point where they don't even believe there is a link to be traced, then surely the amount of geological change necessary to suggest such a link is untraceable is zero change. In fact, I speculate that the modern evolutionary model would still exist today, mostly intact, even if we had no fossils more than a few generations old for study. 

A lot of people are bringing up the concern of our time traveler Todd lacking credibility, but you're not thinking with time travel. With time travel you have access to every intellectual authority in history. Go back and teach Aristotle germ theory. That might actually do the trick right there. While you're at it Todd, I have a bonus mission for you. Have some conversations with him about the importance of the scientific method. History can only be improved by earlier emphasis on evidence based knowledge and decision making. 

You could have a lot of fun with atheists flat out refusing to acknowledge the existence of supernatural events or supernatural creatures. A sort of supernatural luddite community. Constantly in trouble and at a disadvantage, but steadfast in their beliefs. You could even draw on the Mennonite assertion that life is better and simpler without the modern complications of the modern world. Simply replace science and technology with the religious and magical. 

Send your torpedos through sub space. They go "underneath" so they're torpedos. Missiles travel through normal space. Different tactics and countermeasures apply to the distinct types of weapons. 

The answer to this question is very important because it's happening now. Millions of truck drivers will wake up some day in the next decade to find that self driving trucks have replaced them. I can't find the article now, but I saw recently that driver wages comprise 80% of ground freight costs. The day it's possible, basically every truck driver will be out of work. Other industries will change more gradually, but manufacturing robots are getting much more flexible and cheap. When that goes you're left with service positions. Those too are ripe for disruption. Ordering by screen is becoming more and more normal. Imagine a day where you walk into a restaurant, order and pay with a phone on your app, the food is prepared robotically (there's a high end robotic pizza place in Palo Alto) and delivered by a roomba thing with a serving tray. All of these technologies exist and they're getting cheaper and better every day. What happens to high school kids when those jobs are not available anymore? How do they get work experience? Perhaps children will grow up learning to herd robots, perhaps everyone will learn to program, or orchestration tools will get good enough that people without traditional technical skills can use their natural human talents in conjunction with the fast and strong, but uncreative talents of robots. Our society will need to rethink preparation for working life around different sorts of entry level work. There will always be work to do, but the entry level will be shifted up a floor. But as in any massive change many people will resist the change, fail to adapt, stubbornly stay put (see the coal miners in Kentuckey refusing to acknowledge the world's gradual shift away from coal, see Pacific islander's refusal to acknowledge steadily rising seas, see people in Louisiana refusing to leave even in the face of yearly devastating hurricanes). And these people will suffer if there isn't a social safety net to catch them. Then we as a culture need to ask ourselves, do we throw those unlucky people away or do we try to find a place for them to do gratifying, meaningful work. I know which I'd wish for, but wishing won't make it so and we have a distressing history of voting in the throw people away policies. 

A lot of answers here seem to be answering the related but un-asked question of "How does the lucky person get away with it or maximize winnings?" The answer to the actual question is rather simple and short... How can the casino prove I'm cheating? If you are not cheating, they cannot prove that you are. How would they? The casino cannot prove something when there is no proof. The casino could try to plant fake evidence. This is unlikely to happen unless you are breaking the bank for any given, specific casino. Some people do walk away with millions, and the casinos don't plant evidence against them all, so why would you be different? If you are raking in Billions from 1 single casino, then maybe they would try something. At that point, though, what they are doing is illegal, so just use your imagination. Maybe they rig their own roulette game in a fashion that you could for cheating and they say you did it, maybe get false witnesses. There are 1000 things they could do here. Speaking of illegal activity, casinos are highly regulated in a lot of ways. It is illegal even for the casino to tamper with their own devices to cheat in the casino's favor, just like it is illegal for you to tamper with them to cheat. That said, they will definitely suspect you of cheating. There have been times when people have cheated, the casinos have looked into them and proven they did cheat, and those people have gone to jail. What Can (or Will) the Casino do? Even though the casino cannot prove you are cheating, that doesn't matter. They don't need to prove it. They can and will simply kick you out. It is that simple. If you keep winning too much money in a way that does no good for the casino (provides no positive publicity for casino, causes nobody around you to bet more, etc.), eventually someone will come over and just force you to leave. What Else is the Casino Likely to do? Planting evidence is unlikely, as mentioned above, since that could get the casino in big trouble. However, that does not mean the casino will just roll over. I will also go into the situation where you try to get one last big win so the casino has little time to react, but I will cover it from the casino's point of view, per your question. I have heard of people being denied their winnings before. Even if this is illegal (some have suggested it is, and I would agree), that does not bother the casino if they do not lose out. This, then, becomes just another bet, another game of chances. Odds are that people who are not given all the chips they deserve are not going to take legal action against the casino, and even if some do then the casino just pays you what you were owed in the first place. That is: there is no negative for the casino since they lose (approximately) the same amount whether they pay you now or pay you when your lawyers threaten them and so there is little incentive to bully you into leaving without all earnings, but there is much positive for the casino if you don't send lawyers. So it's a "win/not-lose" situation for the casino to bully you into not taking that last big winning when they are kicking you out. Further, if you have no witnesses or evidence, it may be hard to prove that you were denied what was rightfully yours. If you leave without all your winnings when the casino bullies you, what proof do you have that you actually were denied what was yours? If you were keeping a low profile, you likely left few or no witnesses. This makes it even easier for the casino to withhold what is yours. Summary The casino can't prove anything but doesn't need to. The casino can and will kick you out. It is possible they might try to bully you into leaving without all your money. 

Flash based ancestor Imagine that it's possible to encode someone's memories and personality and store them in a flash chip. Perhaps like the flash card of a camera. Initially this is invented as a way to prevent death. Everyone has a backup device installed when their craniums stop growing. It has tendrils reaching into the brain and is making a constant copy. Upon a person's death the flash card is removed and stored for safekeeping. After the first generation of this, perhaps someone makes a machine with two slots. One for the constant copy and a second for the companion. New generation rolls around, one of the stored flashcards is given to a youngster, youngster installs flashcard and has access to a lifetime of memory and experience. A second companion with limited duration could be enabled by hot swapping the companion chips. (remove the old chip, but don't flush it from working memory, load a new chip, share computing resources) This would naturally tax the computing equipment and would not be safe for extended periods. Machinery starts to overheat and can cause permanent failure of the equipment (I'm sure you'll want to throw some brain damage in there too just to keep things interesting). Ancestor to ancestor communication happens over a mesh wireless network. Two things are required here. Technology to store a memories and personality, the ability to then run that copy on a machine that can communicate with the natural-born personality. (All this could actually be feasible in a hundred years given the way technology is expanding) You are a hologram If you don't like the aesthetic of physical storage and tiny computers you could possibly use the notion that personality can be expressed as a holographic image atop the computing machinery we call the brain. The natural personality is strongly expressed, but a copy made of a dead ancestor could be overlaid overtop. It would be an light image like a photocopy, transparent and less forceful than the host, but overlaid atop same machinery as the host. A holographic reader could be used postmortem to capture the last state of a person who has died. Faint glimmers of the past companions might persist, but the copy of a copy would be faint. (otherwise you'd be getting persistent racial memory which is not what you asked for) Multiple imprints could possibly exist simultaneously but could lead to all sorts of problems (bleed-through, missing parts, strange and random mixtures of the personalities --up to you ;-) Genetic memory How does a hunting dog know how to point? How does a newborn foal stand up and walk? There must be some component of behavior which is informed by genetics. Imagine a brilliant geneticist unlocks this secret and expands it. Imagine further that he or she invents a way to read all memories into a form which can then be passed on to another. I'd want this to be a destructive process or it gets out of hand quickly (you drink a potion on your deathbed, it blasts through your brain turning it to goo, encoding memories and personality traits as it goes. Your essence ends up stored in a vial.) The mechanism for delivery would be challenging. Perhaps a specially tailored virus painstakingly designed to splice the new memories in without destroying the old. Not sure how you'd cram a second one in there temporarily. 

The heliocentric model already had support long before the time period you are after (1200s). In fact, some of the Greeks tried to prove the heliocentric model thousands of years ago. There was also religious support for the heliocentric model even before that. Technology: Greeks There were some bright Greek astronomers who were on the right track and viewed the cosmos similarly to how we do now. They realized that if Earth is orbiting around the sun, then there should be a calculable parallax for the stars. That is, if you make astronomical observations at one point in the year, then you make the same observations precisely 6 months later - when we would be on the opposite side of the sun - we should have moved enough to see some of the stars in the sky change location relative to each other. The calculations are simple trigonometry. The Greeks tried it, and calculating the trigonometry would have provided difficult to dispute proof of the heliocentric model. Interesting side-note: According to the Wikipedia page on trigonometry, "The field emerged in the Hellenistic world during the 3rd century BC from applications of geometry to astronomical studies". The study of triangles started long before that; this is referring to trig much more as we know it today. So it was the astronomical observations and debates much like the one that we are discussing in this Q&A that actually established current trigonometry. The problem, which the Greeks were unaware of, was that even the closest stars are so unreasonably far away that the parallax is so small that you need a descent telescope just to measure it. The Greeks were so close to proving the heliocentric model, but their astronomical observations just did not provide enough precision to discern the parallax. And so the geocentric model had a victory instead of the heliocentric model. So the answer to your question here is to provide the Greeks with better astronomy equipment. That shouldn't be too difficult. Just shift the timeline of the telescope forward by giving them an improved control over optics. Citation for the stellar parallax, including the Greek use of it. According to the above source, from Penn State, the stellar parallax observation was not successfully done until the 1800s. So you might need to shift the development of telescopes forward a lot. Though usually developments take many generations, it is not unheard of to make drastic leaps and bounds in 1 generation if you get a dedicated individual who devotes their life to it, such as was done for clocks when moving from weighted systems to springs. You could have a history where a Greek person obsessed with optics spends his life pushing the telescope hard shortly before the heliocentric debate happens. Religion: The Diplomacy (Edit: See new note at bottom of this section) Religion itself was not a barrier to the heliocentric model. At least, the predominant Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Islam, Christianity) were not; I cannot say with confidence about other religions. If you are thinking about the catholic church's blocking of the heliocentric model, considering it heresy, that was not a religious issue. That was purely a diplomatic issue. The catholic church was a governing structure which relied on its word being unquestioningly accepted. If the catholic leadership allowed their word to be questioned, they lost their power. The catholic church's actions should be viewed as the actions of a government, not a result of religion. In fact, ancient texts used by the Jews, Christians, and I think the Muslims too actually support the heliocentric model. Despite the catholic church's own proclamations otherwise (which was essentially heresy by the church government), their bible actually states that the Earth is what moves through space. Earth is said by the bible to be a sphere that travels through space, and yet many of the governing leaders who abused the faith of their followers tried for centuries to tell us that the Earth was flat or that it was the stationary center of the universe, despite that bible. So religion itself actually supports the heliocentric model, but the people did not accept that. So the answer to your question as far as religion is concerned is to change the people somehow so that they are not arrogant jerks (not the words I want to use, but I'm keeping it G-rated). Let religious people actually practice their religion and develop it instead of having dictators pervert religion to their whims. Wouldn't that be grand? In theory, this is actually a smaller and easier change than the one above about changing the history of optics, but in practice changing people to be better is very difficult. Please note: I am trying to find sources for my claims in this section. It is easy to find the claims in the bible that Earth is round and suspended in space, but I am having difficulty finding the one I recall about it actually moving through space. Also, some people are pointing out in comment the supposed biblical evidence for flat earth and geocentric models: to that, I suggest people take notice of the fact that the sections that sound geocentric are often in symbolic, metaphoric sections (ex: Psalms is literally a collection of songs and poems), and I find such biblical geocentric claims to be weak personally - but yes, there are hints of geocentric ideas as well. I would also point out that the biblical heliocentric support is generally in the more literal sections. Overall, feel free to take the biblical claims with a grain of salt until such time as I update this section; however, the claim still stands that the catholic blockade of the heliocentric model was, as many catholic actions through history, a diplomatic power play rather than a religious requirement. This is evident in that many supporters of the heliocentric model were themselves very religious Christians as well. Resistance to Change Your other issue was the generic resistance to change that many people have. There is not a lot you can do about this. However, given one or both of the above changes, I don't think you would actually need to do anything else special here. If the religious texts were actually taken at face value, instead of having governmental perverts keeping people from reading their own religious texts, then the religious groups would have been on board with the heliocentric model. If the Greeks had made better observations, they would have been on board with the heliocentric model. The Greeks and the Abrahamic religions were, arguably, the two most influential things in history to much of science and art that would follow, even to this day. If the people in both those camps supported the heliocentric model, I don't think there even would have been a change necessary, as it would have been the default.