Here is a basic working definition of a law of physics from the point of view of a physicist. It does lead to several interesting philosophical questions, which I completely ignore (but am very well aware of). A law of physics is a provisional statement of an observed regularity in Nature. We formulate laws of physics to understand the world around us, and also to control it or act in it (not always: a good deal of astronomy for example deals with things that we will never control). A law of physics summarizes many instances of a given phenomenon in a convenient manner. For example, the law of gravitation summarizes in one formula how objects fall towards the ground as well as how planets go around the Sun. An observed regularity is something that holds in many, most or all observed instances of a phenomenon. A law is always provisional in the sense that a more encompassing or more precise statement of a regularity may have to be made later, given more observations. The laws of physics are usually numerical, holding between observable quantities that can be measured, so that the laws take a precise, mathematical form. However, there can be individual instances of measurements that do not exactly conform to the mathematical law at hand: there can be errors due to the measurement equipment or procedure, or fundamental uncertainty as in the case of quantum mechanics. This gives a statistical character to the laws of physics, and it is usually required to estimate the uncertainty in the measurements. A very basic example, but one that is IMHO worthwhile keeping in mind as a good image of a law of physics, would be the following picture, where we have observed a number of data points, and plotted the line (model/law) that bests fits these observations. It shows what the law/model is: the line, i.e. 2 coefficients a and b in a formula y = ax + b. This line summarizes the data points, it is the regularity/invariant underlying the phenomenon. It also allows interpolation and prediction to calculate unmeasured values of y for values of x. Finally, it shows the notion of error in measurement, as many actual points lie close to the line, but not exactly on it. 

The Aristotelean tradition also criticizes the solitary pursuit of wealth. Here's Aquinas' version of the argument. . Briefly, following Aristotle, Aquinas distinguishes "natural" and "artificial" wealth. Natural wealth refers to the general resources that humans need to live: "food, drink, clothing, cars, dwellings, and such like." (This is a translation from the 1910s. Apparently "car" used to mean any form of transportation.) Artificial wealth refers to money. Both kinds of wealth have no intrinsic value; they're only valuable because they're good for other things. Natural wealth is valuable only because we need it to preserve human life. Artificial wealth is valuable only because it makes it easy to exchange goods. So it makes sense to seek out money — but only for the sake of using it to pursue further goods. Money has no value by itself. It's also important that, for Aristoteleans, the good life is coherent, and failures to lead a good life are incoherent. In other words, we shouldn't be surprised that the endless pursuit of money tends to mess up other parts of our lives. We might neglect our friends and family. We might fail to develop other, more valuable parts of our lives, like artistic, athletic, or intellectual talents. We might become so stressed and anxious that we fall into other problems, like alcoholism or drug abuse. We might become callous and indifferent to suffering, especially the suffering that we cause in the pursuit of money. If some of these things are true in your brother's life, you might try pointing that out to him. Is he really happy pursuing money if it means, say, his children hate him, he never has time to write anymore, and he's going to drink himself to death? 

How should we understand what is going on here from an epistemological point of view? It feels a bit convenient to toss these 2 terms from the point of view of mathematics - well maybe even wrong, in the sense that the resulting Hamiltonian is no longer the result of a sound mathematical derivation? Would it be desirable for the physicist to work with maths that would not yield unphysical solutions? Isn't maths in fact unreasonably ineffective in physics? 

I'm not sure why 5 + 7 = 12 should say anything new: I take it to be a shorthand notation to give a name to 5 + 7, which anyway is nothing but 5 times the unit + 7 times the unit, so there is not really anything "new" here. Or is there? If we see it the other way around, as 12 = 5 + 7, maybe 5 + 7 is not contained in 12: we have a set of 12 objects, and we say that we can see it as a subset of 5 objects + a subset of 7 objects, so we say that that subdivision of the original set of cardinality 12 exists. But is that really "new"? Of course, 5 + 7 = 12 is cited as an example at the beginning of Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, when he explains his view of analytic and synthetic knowledge. The question here though is not meant to criticize analytic judgments, but rather to criticize synthetic a priori judgments. I believe (for the sake of argument) that mathematics is composed entirely of analytic judgments, not synthetic ones, and I am trying to understand why Kant could argue at all that mathematics was in the synthetic camp. More precisely. To define analytic and synthetic judgments, Kant writes at the beginning of the Critique of Pure reason, 2nd ed (emphasis mine): 

So, I have been wondering today. Can humanly created constructs like 'addiction' make matters worse for someone who might have not thought he was an addict before? To explain a little further, when I got together with my partner, it has been a completely new experience, in a very positive way. Sex was a new thing for me which I anticipated would be something beautiful and uniting and so I was looking forward to it. But when things got serious, something did not work as expected and that can really scare someone experiencing it for the first time. I would have never expected to face erectile dysfunction ever, but that was because I just did not know about it in the way I do now. I have overcome that and learned many valuable things from it, but it took time until I realized it was of psychological cause and had absolutely nothing to do with my body. In retrospect I wonder if my way would have been different, maybe even quicker, if I just had not known about things like porn addiction. I am saying that because the first thing I found was NoFap which is very closely related to porn addiction. And as I started reading into that topic more and more, I just assumed NoFap was the holy grail and would get me back on track in a matter of weeks. One thing that scared me from the beginning though was the huge amount of people that wrote about huge cravings and libido coming to a full stop and even disappearing completely. I never faced such problems and all in all I had absolutely no problem not watching porn. I was just assuming I might be one of the few guys that has huge willpower when it comes to things concerning addiction or similar. Turns out, I probably never was addicted to porn, which is a good thing. But what left me wondering as of today is the question, if the pure existence of a construct like addiction makes matters worse... Obviously, there is a huge difference between telling someone he does to much of something and saying that it is bad for him against telling someone he is just straight up addicted. But knowing that you are a self proclaimed addict and somewhat making it your reality makes things worse because you get into a spiral of self doubt compared to just having to turn down consumption of your addiction vehicle. I will obviously be left with the question if just not knowing about porn addiction would have made my 'curing process' quicker, but I still think it is an interesting question nevertheless. Fairly long question and I hope I made my point clear, but does the construct of addiction make the problem itself worse for someone affected? 

First, no one is calling for a gender ratio of exactly 1:1. Instead, highly unbalanced gender ratios are prima facie evidence of discrimination or some other problem. Say, if things were working as they should, probably we wouldn't see gender ratios of 3:1 or higher; but we do see gender ratios of 3:1 or higher; so probably things aren't working as they should. Second, there is ample independent evidence, across many professional fields, of serious problems of sexual harassment, discrimination, workplace norms (60-hour work weeks or expectations that workers will be in the office until 8pm or later are incompatible with caring for children or sick family members), implicit bias, and so on. Specifically, in IT and computer software and hardware development, women played a major role in the first few decades of the field, then were explicitly pushed out as computer programming and engineering were transformed into highly-paid professional fields. The argument here is that these kinds of factors are themselves unjust and should be remedied, independent of their exact contribution to high gender ratios. In terms of your post, it's a remote counterfactual to suppose that "each industry is equally welcoming of men and women (no harassment, etc.)." For some further points, I'm going to paste and lightly edit a short literature review that I recently wrote. I'm short on time, so you'll get academic references rather than hyperlinks. There's a lot of work in history and philosophy of science looking at the impact of women and feminist scientists in specific fields (as specific as archaeology, primatology, embryology, neuroscience, physics, and so on). Two great collections of these examples are Schiebinger (1999) and Creager et al. (2001). Briefly, most fields of research have always had a small number of women. Occasionally women have had a major impact on the development of the field, and this impact was lost as canonical histories simply ignored them. A good example is Émilie du Châtelet, who made some key contributions to the concepts of momentum and conservation of energy, but until recently was basically treated as Voltaire's secretary ($URL$ Then, starting in the 1960s and '70s, many more women began to pursue graduate degrees and academic careers. Many of these women were self-identified feminists, and explicitly or implicitly brought critiques of sexism and androcentrism into their scientific fields. These critiques often identified sexist assumptions and stereotypical metaphors, such as "active" males vs. "passive" females (Beldecos et al. 1988). They also directed more attention to the activities of female animals or human women (Hrdy 2009). In some cases, the drive of redress sexism and androcentrism produced better methods in general. For example, concerns that primatologists were ignoring the activities of female primates led to the development and adoption of more rigorous sampling and observation protocols (see Fedigan's contribution to Creager et al. 2001). Feminist and women scientists also challenged power structures within science and in the relationship between scientists and publics. Obviously sexual harassment is one example. I believe there's also evidence that women faculty do more work mentoring women students, as well as more diversity-and-inclusion-related service work. (The point that women faculty are often more burdened with service responsibilities then men, and so have less time to spend on primary research and teaching.) Women physicians played a role in the women's health movement (think /Our Bodies, Ourselves/), which was one of the major challenges to the paternalistic model of doctor-patient relationships. Feminist bioethics is a major area of bioethics, which has also changed the way researchers relate to human subjects. Finally, the experiences of women and feminist scientists have challenged disinterested, impartial, or value-free notions of objectivity and scientific integrity (Longino 1990; Harding 1991; Hicks 2014). Some women scientists have brought a more "caring" perspective to their work, even in fields like genetics (Keller 1984). Feminist critiques have often showed that "objective" science actually involves implicit sexist assumptions (Fine 2010). And feminist scientists have often designed their research to help understand and address important social problems (Hill Collins 2000). In these kinds of cases, bringing in values has actually made science better. [In the contemporary tech industry, we might consider the fact that many important critics of the social impacts of tech are women: Zeyenp Tufekci, Kate Crawford, Hanna Wallach, Cathy O'Neil, Julia Angwin. I recently spent a year as the kind of in-house ethicist with the National Robotics Initiative. This opportunity was created by a leadership team that was almost entirely women.] Beldecos, A, S Bailey, S Gilbert, K Hicks, L Kenschaft, N Niemczyk, R Rosenberg, S Schaertel, and A Wedel. 1988. “The Importance of Feminist Critique for Contemporary Cell Biology.” Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist Philosophy 3 (1). Creager, Angela N. H., Elizabeth Lunbeck, and Londa L. Schiebinger, eds. 2001. Feminism in Twentieth-Century Science, Technology, and Medicine. University of Chicago Press. Fine, Cordelia. 2010. Delusions of Gender: How Our Minds, Society, and Neurosexism Create Difference. W. W. Norton & Company. Harding, Sandra G. 1991. Whose Science? Whose Knowledge?: Thinking from Women’s Lives. Ithaca, N.Y: Cornell University Press. Hicks, Daniel J. 2014. “A New Direction for Science and Values.” Synthese 191 (14):3271–95. $URL$ Hill Collins, Patricia. 2000. Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the Politics of Empowerment. Rev. 10th anniversary ed. New York: Routledge. Hrdy, Sarah Blaffer. 2009. The Woman That Never Evolved. Harvard University Press. Keller, Evelyn Fox. 1984. A Feeling for the Organism, 10th Aniversary Edition: The Life and Work of Barbara McClintock. Macmillan. Schiebinger, Londa. 1999. Has Feminism Changed Science? Harvard University Press. $URL$ 

I am aware of two major modes of reasoning used for justification of belief: deductive and inductive. Whereas physics relies on induction, mathematics seems to rely exclusively on deductive inference, which ensures the soundness of its conclusions. Is that correct? Are there other modes of inference used in mathematics? Also, to be precise, what I am after here are the admissible modes of inference used for justification in the final product of mathematics, not the types of inferences mathematicians use in their daily work to generate mathematics. For inductive reasoning, what I have in mind here is what is explaining in this entry of the SEP. (if there is nothing in mathematics but deduction, mathematics is an extension of logic, and there is no other way to see the situation) 

If mathematics is concerned with deductive reasoning, and relies on logic to ensure the soundness of its derivations, if on the other hand, the derivations of mathematics, at least in a philosophical and modern view of the subject, start from arbitrary axioms, can mathematics be reduced to arbitrary axioms and logic? Note: arbitrary here means that mathematicians are a priori free to choose an initial set of axioms, as in e.g. Euclidean vs non-Euclidean geometries, that they are not constrained by observations of the natural world in the choice of axioms to derive theorems from. 

Just using logic I would find one big problem. Let us assume for a second, you might just be living in a self-constructed reality with your own rules and you are the only real entity in there. Your question would now turn to "Can I disprove my own construction". To me, this would take some kind of super-self that is disconnected from your thinking. To explain, if you created your reality it must still be linked to you as it would otherwise crash at some point because, assuming age, evolution of behavior and mind and things like time stay constant, you would outsmart your construct at some point and might even find mistakes. Otherwise the situation would be like the student rebelling against his teacher/master, only difference being that you yourself are student and master in one mind. So in order to maintain your construct, you would need to adjust it so that difficulty of the simulation remains at a static level. This is obviously a very limited view on your question as it forces very certain circumstances in order to work. And furthermore it concludes that you might only under even more weird circumstances be able to disprove every doubt you could come up with. So I would say that no, there is no way to 100% surely reject your theory, but following my thinking there will also never be one because the inaccessible part of you that initially created the simulation will always be one step ahead of you. 

In general, there's been relatively little interaction between philosophy and psychology over the last several decades. This isn't just a matter of different questions and different methods, but also the institutional divisions and incentives — philosophy department hiring and tenure committees generally don't give much credit for publishing in psychology journals, and vice versa. However, there have been several particular interactions that you might find interesting. One is the "situationist critique" of virtue ethics, which points to experimental research in social psychology to challenge the existence of stable character or character traits. (Read more about this here.) Second is the "experimental philosophy" movement, which more or less explicitly borrows basic experimental methods from psychology to investigate how people respond to philosophical thought experiments. (Read more about this here.) Third is the field of cognitive science, which has often involved both psychologists and philosophers as primary researchers; some philosophers have also acted as outsider critics of cognitive science. (You can read a philosophical discussion of cognitive science here.) Fourth, and I think overlapping with cognitive science, a certain tradition of philosophy of mind has been heavily engaged with psychology and neuroscience research; I'm thinking especially of Patricia Churchland, Paul Churchland, and Daniel Dennett. In many of these particular interactions, philosophers have appealed to research or methods from psychology to produce critiques of other philosophers. I think cognitive science and the related tradition in philosophy of mind have generally been more collaborative, with philosophers influencing the empirical research; but often even here philosophers appeal to empirical research to criticize other philosophers.