To make the rich do something is very difficult. The simple answer is this: For tax paid over one million per year, each child you have eliminates one quarter of your taxes. (Note too that, especially, the system includes death taxes) They'd call it the "25% kid" rule... So to be clear - 

A plot point might be that the rebels use "rebel local time" just to make a point how ridiculous the Empire is. 

a handful of rebels would scoff at the idea as one of the ridiculous notions instituted by the Empire; most would just go along running the concentration camps. In any totalitarian society the majority just mindlessly go along and do what they're told. 

It's clear that you need a magical script copyright agency ! in the real world, copyright is enforced entirely and totally by the action of legal bodies, civil actions, and industry-national pressure groups. (A great example is the "DOC" system in France - the notion that nobody worldwide is "allowed' to call anything other than Champagne, Champagne: surprisingly this actually happens.) So, much in the tradition of Time Lords, etc, you need a magical enforcement agency, for magical copyrights. Technology is of zero help in enforcing copyrights, in the real world and the magical. 

Note that one huge social effect would be: women who want to have many children would be in incredible demand amongst the super-rich. (Indeed, it would apply to men too: imagine a super-wealthy family and consider one of the females in that family. It would be totally ridiculous if she married a man who "only wanted one or two kids" - you'd be literally throwing away billions.) Almost certainly women (and men) would start having children very, very young (why risk billions of dollars on an older partner - fertility declines with age, there is chance of not being able to have the four children, when one starts older). One plot point could be .... perhaps women would tend to have one "demonstrator" child at a young age, I mean to say as a single mother, at say 16. They would then be really "proven" (i.e. to the world's rich) that they can easily bear healthy children. Conversely older men with lower fertility, would be summarily discarded by the world's female rich: there'd be no room for niceties in the need to quickly reach four children. Don't forget, for the truly rich you'd be throwing away 100s of millions a year, until you got to the "four quarters"; every year you waited until getting the four children would be more zillions down the drain; it's possible very young marriages would become the norm again (as for all of history before about 100 years ago). 

Large Jumps? A person of normal bodily strength on mars should be able to jump a lot higher than on earth, lift heavier things, leap further. If you design the base without stairs or use some other design that forces them to do these things regularly then your people could maintain normal fitness by leaping around and hanging to the ceiling. Alternatively you can make a parabolic floor and rotate it so that real and centrifugal gravity combine. 

Could a computer make all the decisions associated with government. Trivially yes, making decisions is easy, making good decisions is harder. Could it run a vaguely competent government, or an amazingly efficient one? In principle yes, advanced computers could make brilliant decisions. Computer science isn't really there yet unless you offload tough decisions by hiring contractors or running referendums. Would people respect it as a legitimate government and pay their taxes, probably not but it depends on how it comes about and how good it is. 

NO The Alien race starts out as a planetary civilization, with tech similar to ours, they expand and develop better tech all round, build space elevators, orbital habitats, mine asteroids. With a population in the trillions, and vast swaths of space solar panels to produce antimatter, the aliens launch their first interstellar probe, its a small flyby mission. Populations expand further, tech booms, artificial intelligences controlling robots produce almost everything, nanotech lets most things be created atom by atom. Probes reveal intelligence on earth. To get any humans, the aliens would need to build a spaceship capable of supporting humans for many years, and making a return journey at relativistic speeds. They would have to work out what humans eat and breathe, enough biology and medicine to keep the humans alive over the many year journey, decode human language,build a huge spaceship, stop the earth being fried from the exhaust, (actual problem) and stop the human from going mad with boredom, killing themselves or damaging something important. And in just 60 years from the start of the project they have a human, after a huge civilization wide effort. Now you have to train the human to do the vitally important task while not giving them the tools to rebel or damage anything important, given that they have no understanding of your tech or culture and probably wish you dead. Even if you managed to abduct much of humanity, what use would they be? Your toddlers have a far better understanding of your world and culture, they need to be kept in a different atmosphere than you, and your advanced robots do all the work anyway. The aliens outnumber humans nearly 1,000,000 to 1 at this point so humans aren't abundant enough to be cheap labor. 

Locomotion could be more efficient? Particularly at high speed. Hence, saving food. Obviously if you run/march more efficiently, you need less caloric intake each day. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that when moving at high speed a Foxtail would need less food each day. The general point (as far as we know) of a tail on things like leopards, dogs, is some sort of counterbalance system while moving along at high speed. (Check out awesome videos about this in regard to leopards.) It's possible that, quite simply, Usain Bolt would be faster over 100 with a tail. And that for conventional joggers, you'd use less energy - maybe much less - over everyday 5ks and 10ks. Certainly, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert this. (Note that, indeed, human or any animal biomechanics is a fascinating field. Particularly with robotics coming along trying to equal it. The two human gaits of walking, running, are astoundingly efficient. There are some really fascinating results - for example, as any nutritionist / sports medicine person will tell you, when humans run, interestingly they use the same amount of energy per kilometer - it doesn't matter if you run fast or slow; energy use during walking gait is totally different again and interesting in other ways.) Again, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert that adding a tail makes, in particular running, maybe all locomotion, a little more efficient - so you need less food per day! To put it another way, it's a commonplace thing in scifi that adding a monkey-tail makes it "easier to climb around in trees or zero gravity". Similarly, you could say adding a "balance tail" (think of those leopards) makes locomotion a bit more efficient - needs less energy, can go simply faster at top speed. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that, particularly when moving, a Foxtail would need less food each day. More efficient locomotion == less calories needed each day == less food needed each day. Maybe it helps your story! 

In that case the only answer to your question here is: A whacky "one time zone" world would would signal to the reader a very strong, overbearing, somewhat ridiculous centralized government... (Note that, simply, China currently does this: it's an overbearing, "centralized government" move - a holdover from their overbearing, "centralized government" days!) So for example, in the movie Brazil, or perhaps the classic book 1984, it would be a plot point if the nutcase world government in question, established "one time zone worldwide!" (for "planetary unity and order!") 

My Goodness, Yes! Many of the most valuable mineral deposits in the world are found in similar spots - including the famous silver mines of Potosi. There are two primary mechanisms that concentrate ores in such locations. First, magma is a liquid in which many chemicals are dissolved. As magma cools, different chemicals fall out of solution at different temperatures. If you had a ball of magma, after it cooled it would be something like an onion, with each layer having concentrations of specific minerals. Of course, in real life you don't get such a neat arrangement. The second mechanism serves to further concentrate the ores. As superheated water travels through the ground it dissolves minerals. As it cools, it deposits them again. Most mineral "veins" are the result of this action, and the results are often near the ground (as hot water bubbles up from below and cools as it nears the surface). Certain ores lend themselves to either type of ore formation, depending on their solubility in water and magma. You can study a good geology textbook, or you can just look at a map of mines in places such as Nevada and Peru and steal their examples. 

Witchcraft? Heresy? You take Twain much too seriously. Those are specific crimes with specific meanings, none of which are, "Creates cool and useful things." Even during the peak era for witch trials and as the Catholic Church was most active in its search for heresy, alchemy was a common (and fairly respectable) pastime among intellectuals. The idea that the pre-modern cultures feared every advancement is a myth of the Enlightenment. It makes for great fiction but has little historical precedent. This is particularly true for the ancient Greeks, who enjoyed few things more than a good debate. It did not matter in Greek culture if you disagreed with Zeus himself - as long as you backed it with sufficiently eloquent sophistry. (Socrates was killed, not because he was impious, but because he was a political enemy of the new democratic regime.) The answer to the question actually hinges on the infrastructure available. There is no point in inventing a cannon if there are no foundries that can build one, and no metals strong enough to hold up. There are very few "world-changing" inventions that are not similarly dependent on a whole panoply of other (often seemingly unrelated) technologies. Any meaningful advances will likely take years to hone, implement, and finally become influential. 

An infinite amount of power sustained for a non zero amount of time is an infinite amount of energy, which would collapse into a black hole of infinite mass. This would cause space-time to collapse in on itself. Lets assume that you have a finitely powerful weapon. To protect yourself either: 1) use more shielding 2) turn the power down to a manageable level 3) be a long long way away (missile) 

How Long? There have been many questions about how long humans can survive under various conditions. These range from the atmosphere being removed to an increase in gravity. However this question is asking how long humans can survive from now as the world is. Some definitions. Humanity is granted a bit of luck in surviving as long as possible without any implausible or contrived coincidences. At least one creature that is biologically human must exist. (Closer to humans than Neanderthals are) Consider Evolution, Genetic upgrading and Apocalyptic events. Humans are not expected to instantly see the error of their ways and unite in common harmony. EDIT Current earth is the starting condition. Humans are still evolving and progress towards genetic modification and artificial intelligence is very fast. 

What do you mean by earthlike? Obviously no other planet is going to be atom for atom identical( except in an infinite universe), but many rocky planets exist. There are many different features of earth, like mass, composition, spin rate, orbit, atmospheric composition and pressure, star type, moon size and distance, water level, asteroid bombardment frequency, volcanic activity, ect. With all these parameters, it would be unlikely for them all to be similar. They all effect life somewhat. However life could thrive despite a lot of variation in some. There is also the possibility of advanced tech being used. Steer asteroids away from a planet that would get bombarded, make a giant sunshade,... These things aren't that hard if you can get Lots of resources and equipment into space. 

The sun's larger mass makes it much brighter and also causes the earth to spiral inwards. In short you don't have that long to move away. The largest stars, those around 100 solar masses, can last as little as several hundred thousand years. $URL$ At this mass, the earth will be scorched in days as it falls inwards. If the whitehole can't add mass at a rate of 100 solar masses per day, then its rate is the main factor. In short you don't move the earth, most of it is useless rock and the energy needed would melt the surface. Much better to pack up the important bits, and leave, now. (the important bits could be all buildings, all life and most of the soil or just a hundred humans with the bare minimum tech needed to live)