Is there a reason for an average person living in an area infected by the Zika virus to worry about it more than other diseases? We simply don't know yet. Questions that need answering: 

No, this is a twisting of the facts. It's true that there was a period in 2011-13 when Clinton's State Department debated whether Boko Haram should be classified as a direct threat to the US, while the government fighting Boko Haram in Nigeria warned that doing so would aid their fundraising and status. They chose not to until 2013, but, in 2012 under Clinton and with Clinton's approval, they did classify Boko Haram's leaders as international terrorists. The Justice Dept and others did advise around this time that Boko Haram could be considered a threat to the US. This isn't the same as recommending that it should be done and doesn't amount to contradicting the State Department's judgement as to what was the best strategic move. The policy was led by State Department regional experts and there's no evidence Clinton was applying political pressure in either direction. This was all years before Boko Haram were an Islamic State affiliate, while they were almost exclusively active in Northern Nigeria. They were classified as a "Foreign Terrorist Organization" that does constitute a threat to the US in 2013, which was also the first year their reach expanded to neighbouring countries (Niger and Chad). There are lots of fact-checks into this and related claims, the most thorough seems to be this from the Washington Post from 2014 about a closely related claim. 

The best summary is probably to quote from the WHO director general Margaret Chan's statement on announcing that zika had been declared a "Public Health Emergency of International Concern": 

So why aren't we constantly meeting men who can't discriminate red from green? We are. It just doesn't come up in conversation. Red and green are very different in terms of relative brightness. Even when someone can't tell them apart by hue, there are often other clues. Consider this example image using simulation filters, taken from wearecolorblind.com: 

There are also cases of people being criticised for putting their hands on others' knees, for example this article about Adam Sandler on a UK chat show, but there's no suggestion at all that he was in any way forced out of a job or punished beyond being talked about / written about, or that it was particularly reported on in France. 

I am not even going to give credence to some of the ridiculous anti-semitic theories that are floating around this. The only thing I can say is that if this were some elaborate plot pulled off by the Obama administration to ban assault weapons then it failed miserably. Is there hard evidence to dispel some of these absurd theories? 

The debate over if red wine had benefits for the heart or other areas of the body focuses around the current debate over the supposed health benefits of the natural phenol Resveratrol. From the Linus Pauling Institute OSU: 

Link: $URL$ After this claim was made, right wing pundits started to report it as fact as well and further contributed to the claim. While proving this either way may be difficult, is at least plausible that any member of the executive branch could have manipulated these job reports in anyway? 

Considering the mass media hype surrounding the potential health benefits of red wine, and various press releases by pharmeceutical companies surrounding the supposed benefits, this study has never been published in a peer reviewed scientific journal, so claims made here cannot be taken seriously. In all, there may be some truth to this, as high dosages of resveratrol had positive effects in lab mice, but so far nobody can really say for sure. 

A few days ago, former GE CEO Jack Welch made a contreversial accusation/claim that the September 2012 jobs report was manipulated by the Obama administration in an attempt to portray the economy in a good light for the upcoming election. Here is the actual quote: 

There really are several highly charged claims in this vandalism. The first statement suggests that they are highly self-serving and much more concerned about securing funding and grants than any noble cause such as helping children. This claim is probably too generic by itself. We all know that there are some unethical professors and research assistants. The second claim particularly bothered me. It seems to suggest that they are purposely looking for emotional and psychological disorders in these children to further their own agenda and purpose, perhaps their purpose to continue existing and collecting grants. What is more is that since these are children they are incapable of making such a voluntary choice to participate in such a study. It really has to do with the parents volunteering their own children for this study. The study itself claims they are looking for Emotionally Stable children however, which seems highly subjective criteria to me anyway. Why would a parent who actually believed that their child was emotionally stable submit them to a study like this unless they had a seed of doubt in their mind to begin with? Perhaps this is just an enraged fantasy by a parent living in denial about some real psychological issues with their child that these researchers had made known to the parent? But then there is the third claim about them not paying any taxes which might be true, but why deface the ad with that information unless you are just looking for faults? The mostly tax-free status of the many presitigouos and lucrative Pittsburgh higher education institutions is a highly politically charged issue for this region and am wondering if all of these claims simply exist as a political retaliation. As stated earlier I scoured the internet mostly looking for information on child behavioral studies that are scams but turned up nothing. I was hoping to find more information on that. 

So it seems, in Britain's famously complicated class system, avoiding swearing in order to avoid giving the appearance of being lower class is a trait associated with being lower middle class, i.e. the class most associated with worrying about appearing lower class, and the way to appear higher class is to swear away as if you're comfortable enough of your higher class status that the idea of appearing lower class would be unthinkable. 

Counting single bet "underdogs" only If, however, you discount accumulators or pools and count only events treated by the bookies as single bets and given very long odds, I can't find anything close to 5,000-1. It's hard to prove a negative, but ESPN have an analysis that concludes that Leicester have the record (written shortly before their win was confirmed): 

They're promoting research on a vaccine and increasing surveillance immediately. Here's that "explosive" comment in context - in an official, on-the-record speech by WHO Director General, Margaret Chan: 

So the aggression and violence is a real and common consequence of untreated rabies, albeit as an indirect result of how the direct symptoms combine. This is a fairly arcane distinction, however: for example, the very down-to-earth NHS patient information pages put it more simply: 

The first accusation against Fallon to be made public, before he resigned, was that he repeatedly inappropriately touched a female journalist on the knee during a meeting, until she "politely explained to him that, if he did it again, I would 'punch him in the face'". However: 

Here's another 2013 quote, this time from a lobby group on behalf of Asian-American cancer patients calling for more access to clinical trials: 

They then list 10 examples, of which the longest odds were 1,000-1. Sporting Life magazine also make a reasonable case that it is the most unlikely sporting event ever (if only single bets are counted): 

It's a matter of perspective. One average individual is likely to suffer less from contracting Zika than they would from many other diseases, including the much more unpleasant and more often deadly Dengue Fever. But looking at whole populations, Zika is much harder to monitor, trace, predict, control or treat - for many people, there may be little to no sign they had it or were even at risk until it's too late. The (very effective) strategy used against Ebola was all about tracking and tracing, isolating people and beginning treatment as soon as they were found to be at risk, before symptoms developed. And there's another good reason why it's difficult from a public health point of view, quoted from Mike Turner, head of infection and immuno-biology at the Wellcome Trust, in the same article: 

I think the answer is, Yes it certainly can. Is it likely? Electric toasters work much the same way as space heaters or hair dryers, in that they run a current through high electrical resistant wires to generate incredible amounts of heat. Most toasters tend to use Nichrome (alloy of 80% Nickel and 20% Chromium). Electrical resistivity at room temperature: . The Nichrome wire typically under this heat will react with air to be chemically stable meaning it forms an outer layer of Chromium Oxide which has incredibly high electrical resistance. If this isn't enough then in modern toasters these wires are coated with Mica which can provide enough resistance from the point of the coil to the knife where current will not ground through you. Source: $URL$ Knowing all of this it is safe to assume that simply touching the wire with a knife while current is flowing will probably be okay. While the voltage is about 100-115 it will hurt, but the current travelling through is high to generate heat and certainly high enough to risk injury or death (Source: $URL$ Jabbing at the coils can risk flaking away the protective Mica or Chromium Oxide to make such a thing dangerous. Furthermore jabbing inside a toaster and making contact with the wires connecting the coil can certainly electrocute you however these are typically tucked safely away where you couldn't reach it with a knife unless you disassembled the body. (Source: $URL$ The other electrical components if applicable are probably feeding a circuit board and shouldn't go above 5 volts typically. There is no danger from jabbing the circuit board if that happens to be exposed, unless of course if you were to touch the timer relay which could cause a great amount of current to flow through you. (Source: $URL$ So basically, if you are viciously jamming a knife into a toaster, thats plugged into an outlet that doesn't have polarity or proper circuit breaker protection, and you are barefoot, then yes you certainly run the risk of electrocution or death. EDIT: I forgot YET ANOTHER possibility of electrocution! If through the process of jamming an object into the device you inadvertently cause the toaster to short through the aluminum or steel internal casing, and the ground wire for the casing has been damaged OR the outlet is not grounded or not properly grounded... then YOU will become the ground! (Source: $URL$ 

I can't find any more up to date primary source, but here's a quote from 2013, quoted in the BBC from the UK's Chief Medical Officer, Prof Dame Sally Davies, which suggests that this particular expert didn't have access to any more recent data suggestive of any sudden increase: 

Is it true that the Zika virus is prompting worldwide concern by health officials? Yes, very much so, but it's their job to be concerned, and it's mostly precautionary - we don't yet know how serious it is, just that the risk is high enough to take urgent coordinated action. They've been describing its growth as "explosive", and an International Health Regulations Emergency Committee meeting was held on Monday 1st Feb 2016, at which: 

Snopes have looked into the claim that he apologised, and found it to be false. The Atlantic have published an analysis piece around why it is common in diplomacy to stop short of an apology like this, and why the line is drawn where it is. 

As for their evidence and reasoning, they mostly draw on analysis of existing reports, highlighting that the more outlandish claims weren't the only objections: 

I can't find any other mosquito-borne disease with a link to a specific pattern of birth defects. It's worth mentioning that there are other infections that cause microcephaly, notably: 

They then go on to list seven other sporting upsets, the most unlikely of which had odds of 500-1. They also mention in passing that some of the odds listed might have been longer if there was something comparable to modern betting comparison websites forcing competition for unlikely bets. These two articles cover sports from an American (ESPN) and European (Sporting Life) perspective. Two articles from Asian outlets Gulf News and Channel News Asia and one African sports blog also reach the same conclusion (but they aren't nearly as thorough), as does the internationally-minded Reuters. 

Health organisations are always quite restrained in their descriptions of psychological or behaviour-related symptoms, and the violent behaviour tends to follow indirectly from the combination of "rabid" hyperactivity and fear. For a more vivid description, here's an article in i09 discussing how this kind of rabies inspired popular tropes in zombie fiction: