So what I am curious is if anyone can explain to me what justification different philosophies use to justify absolute rules in ethics. I feel you're thinking correctly about this. There can be no rules regarding what actions we should and should not perform since context is everything. Kant, in his explanation of the categorical imperative in a letter to the princess who was his pupil, made a mistake when he suggest lying is always a contravention of the imperative. This view is clearly incorrect because sometimes it is in everyone's best interest to tell a lie. You seem to have concluded that any global rule for actions would lead to dilemmas and I'd agree. They'd also lead to some very inappropriate actions in certain contexts. This problem is avoided by having rules that apply to intentions rather than actions. If our intentions are well-meaning then our actions will be ethically-sound. If we lie in order to save a life then our intentions are 'ethical' and the precise nature of our actions is irrelevant. In Buddhism there is a legend or teaching story in which (in a previous life) the Buddha commits a murder in order to save his fellow passengers on a ferry. I imagine it is preserved because it tells us that intentions are what count, not the details of our actions. But our actions will be very clumsy if we do not know out true situation, so for this approach to ethics the pursuit of knowledge becomes an ethical matter. Only someone with full knowledge of their situation could properly match their intentions to their actions so that their actions will achieve what they intend. So a rule that applies to intentions, such as the doctor's rule of 'do no harm', can be global without causing problems. Another way to say this might be that ethics is about what happens in our consciousness, not what our bodies do. This approach allows the possibility that, say, shooting Hitler in 1933 would have been an ethically-sound action. Perhaps not, but it would be possible. I wish Kant hadn't shot himself in the foot with his poor explanation of the CI. In Kingsely's 19th-century morality story The Water Babies there is a character called Mrs Do-as-you-would-be-done-by'. This seems a good phrase to sum up the imperative. It places no restriction on actions but only on intentions. I know of no knowledge-based ethical scheme that bans any action for such a ban would, as you say, backfire now and again. For banned actions we would have to look at faith-based systems or systems based on philosophical speculation and ideology. 

Heraclitus states 'We are and are-not'. This statement is meaningful because it defines our existential status as having two aspects neither of which is exclusive. This is the language of nondualism, which uses contradiction to avoid endorsing positive metaphysical theories. Hence the convoluted nature of the language of mysticism, which relies on apophasis and contradiction. But there's a twist. His statement does not take the form of 'A/not-A' because he indicates a third option, such that both halves of his statement would be false on their own. Thus the use of contradiction in this language is in the eye of the beholder, not in the eye of the speaker or of Aristotle. So, when looking at seemingly-contradictory statements it would be important to be sure that they do take the form 'A/not-A', and I'm not sure any meaningful statement does. 

I would say that the reason for your question is a complete failure to grasp what those classical Chinese texts are saying about philosophy. Not just your failure but that of most Western philosophers. The Tao Te Ching, for instance, explains metaphysical problems completely. The source of Lao Tsu's knowledge is not analysis but this has no bearing on whether it is a philosophical text. His Taoism is called 'philosophical Taoism' to distinguish it from the much later religionised version and this tells us a lot. As has been said, wisdom is what is sought in philosophy and is not an alternative to it. I have yet to read a mystic who had nothing to say about philosophy that is not immediately relevant to Western thinkers and even to Martian thinkers. Perhaps you're suggesting that Western philosophy is purely theoretical and conjectural while for the Wisdom traditions this is just skimming the surface of philosophy, and that the difference is so great that they cannot be called by the same name. I'd have some sympathy for this idea but don't see the need for it. You could say that Western philosophy has an exclusive claim to being purely speculative and so is not the search for wisdom, thus creating a distinction between philosophy and wisdom-seeking, but you cannot say that the search for wisdom is something other than the search for an understanding of philosophy. 

What do you mean by progress? Without a definition your list of examples looks arbitrary and a matter of opinion. To include religion and division of labour is to make the list highly idiosyncratic. Clearly you want to progress in a certain direction, but it may not be what I would call progress. Off the top of my head I'd list group-think, peer-pressure, scholastic-inertia, fear and pessimism, lack of care for truth, temperamental and self-serving-judgements, sloppy workmanship, the success of the naive exoteric Roman form of religion, human frailty and tendency to not think clearly. But I feel Conifold nails it. It is the ego that causes all our problems. For the mystic and meditator human beings would be perfectly capable of making good progress once this problem is dealt with. The complication is only that once the ego is dealt with one's idea of what constitutes progress may tend to change rather dramatically. Heidegger had this to say. It seems remarkably prescient. "Man finds himself in a perilous position…A far greater danger threatens [than the outbreak of a third world war]: the approaching tide of technological revolution in the atomic age could so captivate, bewitch, dazzle and beguile man that calculative thinking may someday come to be accepted and practiced as the only way of thinking. What great danger then might move upon us? Then there might go hand in hand with the greatest ingenuity in calculative planning and inventing, indifference towards ‘meditative’ thinking, total thoughtlessness. And then? Then man would have denied and thrown away his own special nature – that he is a meditative being. Therefore the issue is keeping meditative thinking alive." Speech commemorating German composer Conradin Kreutzer in 1955 

To the main question the answer is, in short, yes and no. In metaphysics the principle method is abduction, defined by Peirce as 'inference to the best explanation'. This is exactly the method used by Holmes. You have a list of suspects and cross them off one at a time until there's one left, and if there are none let you know the list is incomplete. This is the only way to proceed in metaphysics. But this method cannot establish truth, only the best or most reasonable explanation. Logic cannot prove facts about reality unless we can prove that reality obeys our puny rules. By reducing ideas to absurdity in the dialectic we can establish that only a fool would believe the universe is a pink cube but we cannot actually prove that it isn't on the basis of logic alone. It's a hobby-horse for me since metaphysics is solvable by the methods of Holmes. I feel he should be a role-model for philosophers for his rigorous methods and also his confidence in his own reasoning.If we do not trust abduction then we can make no progress in metaphysics. 

I'm not sure whether your arguments work but their conclusions seem correct to me. I can never get my head around the reasons why self-referential statements are seen as important philosophical problems. They seem to be just badly-formed statements. But others see it differently and perhaps I'm missing something. Perhaps someone could provide an example of such a sentence that cannot simply be dismissed as a party-trick with words. I may ask a question inviting ideas. 

Just as you speculate I would say you are wrong. Philosophers generally do not accept the results of philosophical analysis and so the facts have almost no normalising influence, leaving philosophers to promote a vast range of different views. This is true only for Russell's 'rational' tradition and it would be a mistake to assume this free-for-all of opinion is forced on philosophers. It is a consequence of ignoring metaphysics. There are rational reasons for accepting the results of metaphysics but surprisingly this does not ensure that philosophers accept them. Rationality is a more rare approach to philosophy than you might imagine. 

The subject you;re looking for is Metaphysics. This covers ontology and epistemology. The questions you ask are tricky because opinions vary. Mine would be that, yes, there are 'fundamentals of philosophy'. They could be listed in various ways. Aristotle's logic and dialectic process of abduction would be the core tool and method, while the crucial basic fact for Metaphysics 101 would be the logical absurdity of all extreme metaphysical positions (as proved by dialectic analysis). The most important fact you would need to grasp at the start is that for the most part academic Metaphysics is hopeless and best avoided other than to get up to speed with the 'problems of philosophy' that befuddle academics. For a good book on Metaphysics the choices are few. I'd study Russell and Wittgenstein to see how not to do it, and maybe one or two modern philosophers of mind like Chalmers and Searle to confirm that this is not how to do it, and then focus on Kant, Bradley, Schopenhauer, Nagarjuna and others who do know how to do it. A full answer here would take a long time. If you can track me down I'd be happy to say a lot more in informal conversation. The poor state of Metaphysics in academia is a hobby-horse chez moi and I could complain for week without pausing for breath. Don't be fooled. Plough your own furrow. 

We cannot know from any observed behaviour that another person is conscious. This is the 'other minds' problem and it is well known. There may be other ways to know but if there are they lie outside of the natural sciences. The natural sciences cannot establish the existence of consciousness. It is reliant on untestable first-person reports. 

It's a great question but I feel it's too difficult to write an answer without a day to do it. The usual explanation would be that God does not exist in the way we usually define existence, and as Keith Ward explains in God: A Guide for the Perplexed this is the classical Christian view. The nub of the problem is the word 'exists'. The sages often claim that nothing really exists, including God. But this is a careful use of the word, since it distinguishes between what (seems to) exist and what is real. Your reasoning seems fine, without time God cannot exist, but yet he can be real. Not everyone would use the word 'God' for what is real, which is why the perennial philosophy may sometimes appear to be atheism and at others theism, and in truth these words are simply inadequate. You might like to google Nicolas de Cusa Vision of God. You'll see that language runs into problems once we journey 'beyond the coincidence of contradictories' or, that is, beyond the categories of thought. A huge topic that really needs a book for an answer. 

To answer the question would require carefully defining the difference between science and religion. The problem is that some of what is called science might as well be called religion, and some of what is called religion might as well be called science. Better to talk about methods. The scientific method is what is important, not 'science', and the religious method is what counts, not 'religion'. If religion uses a scientific methodology, as in the case of Buddhism, Taoism Sufism and so forth, then it is science. Hence Yoga is considered the 'Divine Science'. Meanwhile dogmatic faith-based approaches are obviously not scientific and are not even a method of enquiry. In the sciences we see the same division. where many scientists, probably most, hold views that have nothing to do with science (materialism, dualism, the reifification of space-time etc) and more to do with dogma and faith. So I would say that the question is a good one but needs to be phrased much more carefully, and without any tendency to assume that all of what is called religion is faith-based monotheism and all of what is called science is the rational application of the scientific method. Life is not so neat and tidy. I'd vote for someone with the right to do so to re-edit the question into a form that can be answered. It asks how to argue for science against religion, but this just indicates a poor grasp of both. There are those for whom there is no argument between science and religion and never could be, and this would include me. 

The tetralemma can be viewed and handled as two contradictory pairs orthogonal to each other and then it can be treated in the dialectic in the usual way, the 'laws of thought' applied and so on. The vital issue, the issue which is so simple that many philosophers forget all about it, is that the rules of classical logic can be applied only for true contradictory pairs A/not-A defined as a pair for which one member is true and the other false. So, in your case of 'The pot is red or not-red' one would have to be careful since it may the case that it is not either. For instance, the pot may not exist. We see this sort of problem when Heraclitus states 'We exist and exist not'. Plato sees this as a contradiction but Hercalitus is saying that both halves of this statement are false on their own, so there is no dialectical contradiction. The misuse of Aristotle's rules for the dialectic is rife in academic philosophy and everyday life and it causes havoc, and it all stems from forgetting that for a dialectical contradiction one member of the pair must be true and the other false. Examine any metaphysical dilemma and you'll notice that it cannot be shown to be a dilemma because both of the horns may be false. This is the metaphysical point Samuel Butler makes in Erewhon, that the 'illogical mean is better than the absurdity of the extremes', but he forgets that the mean is not 'illogical' if the extremes are both false. I'd say logic is empirical in a way. For instance, it is an empirical fact that all positive metaphysical positions are logically absurd. This may be verified by any logician. So is it an empirical fact, a subjective fact, a logical fact or all three? I suspect this is just a matter of convention. EDIT: I came back to add that it seems like a mistake to imagine that we derive logic from observing the world. To do this we would have to use inductive logic. Logic is therefore prior to observation. If we were born deaf, dumb and blind we'd still naturally follow the LNC and LEM. It just stands to reason... 

I would suggest that Al Kindi and Plotinus give the 'non-dual' description of unity and multiplicity. These opposites must be reduced for a fundamental view. The language here is tricky and can be misleading. The opposite of multiplicity is not unity but singularity, while 'unity' would encompass singleness and multiplicity within itself. The word would not imply a numerical value. Thus to say the Universe is a Unity is to say it is both Many and One. Unity allows us to overcome this logical antinomy and all others. The idea that Unity cannot be described or conceptualised is necessary to this view as is the inappropriateness of predication to the True One. Bradley discusses this in Appearance and Reality where he writes that predication (thus language) is necessary for metaphysics but also illegitimate and misleading. As Lao Tsu puts it, the 'Tao that is eternal' cannot be spoken. Causation here should not be thought of in our usual way. For this view we would need to replace the idea of causation-as-action with that of identity. The world would be the way it is not because it is intentionally caused but as an ineluctable consequence of the nature of Reality or the True One. No creator God is necessary, all would follow 'Tao being what it is'. Al Kindi cannot ground his philosophy on a phenomenon that is in the world of change because this is the world he needs to explain. He reaches back before this to the Unity of the Source, from which perspective the world of change is emergent and not truly real. To make sense of this view requires studying the meaning of 'Unity' in depth. To me it seems the most difficult word in all of philosophy. It refers to a phenomenon beyond all distinction and division which cannot be said to be 'this' or 'that' in any instance. It is for this reason that the mystics use a language of contradictory complementarity when speaking rigorously about the world. When Heraclitus claims 'We are and are-not' he is endorsing this view and indicating the problem of predication and proposing the Unity of All. We would have to acknowledge the partial truth (thus falsity) of two opposite views (we are and are-not) in order to transcend them. In order to see why two opposite statements are required for rigour in our statements about the world a study of Nagarjuna's 'Two truths' or 'Two Worlds' would be valuable. It is not easy stuff, however, and some dedication would be required to see the equivalence of the views of Al Kindi, Plotinus, Bradley and Nagarjuna. It's such a huge topic that justice cannot be done to it off the cuff here. The view endorsed by these philosophers may be justified in logic or even more or less arrived at, but really it is an outcome of experimental practice and direct experience. Al Kindi is leading us towards the Perennial philosophy and the idea that we can establish the facts about the One and the Many, the Origin of this universe and even God without having to read books or visit internet forums. There is a very useful and afaik trustworthy series of books called 'The Essence of ...' by Eagle Editions. I think one is 'The Essence of Sufism' and this would be a good introduction to the view that Al Kindi is describing. Sufism pre-dates Islam but nowadays is viewed as Islamic mysticism. If he is read alongside Al Halaj and Rumi and the rest of the literature his ideas may seem more clear and well-developed.