There is not much you can do about your lower pecs without gym. Try buying a home gym its both cheap and flexible. The best you can do is try pushups at a decline angle using a aerobic/step up board. All the best! 

It is always good not to workout when you are not feeling well as you will be unable to give your best performance. Your headache might be from lack of sleep, work stress, sudden change in climate . In such a case working out may result in INJURIES so your body is not exactly fresh or in mood to perform the sets. Take a day off and see if the headache persists else consult a doctor. Note working out when you are undergoing stressful times, or suffering from lack of sleep may also lead to cardiac arrest. Stay safe and get well soon. So it is better you take a day off from working out. 

My apartment complex gym got a new hip machine that supports four types of hip exercises - flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. I'm primarily a runner (I run 3.5+ miles three days a week, low impact cardio usually on an elliptical on the weekends), but I do strength training two days a week (3 sets of 10 reps, 70% of max) and recalibrate my max once a month. Of the four hip exercises that this machine supports, which one(s) should I be doing to best support my running? A few quick searches suggests exercising (stretching and strengthening) flexors and adductors more frequently than others, but it's kind of vague. Should I do all four, or just a subset? And would be 3 sets of 10 reps at 70% of max be suitable for this type of exercise as well? 

The only thing that I have a question about is how to appropriately chose what recent training run I provide. I plan to adjust the distance I'm training for, intensity, and distance per week appropriately for improvement and maintenance throughout the year as the dates for the races settle. I see a few options: 

Agree Christopher, pre/post doesn't matter. If you are eating enough protein, you will likely still be digesting protein when you workout and for the next few hours after. Do what makes you feel better. Pre will give you more energy, but I personally do IF and lift fasted, waiting till after I workout for my first meal. Sometimes its a shake, sometimes its chicken or shake. I also prefer to get as much of my nutrients, including protein, in as close to whole form as possible. This means if I can meet my protein requirements of 240g/day eating meat, there is no benefit at all to taking whey. If I have enough carbs/fat in my macros, I may drink a whole quart of whole or skim milk. Only if I am too busy to cook or too full do I use whey. 

I've been running for a few years now, but I still struggle with speedwork. I use an online training plan generator that takes previous race time and distance, target race distance, weekly distance, and schedule duration to generate a running plan that includes easy runs, tempo runs, speedwork, and rest or cross-training days. My training plan is based on a four week cycle. Monday is an easy run, Tuesday is an easy run on weeks 1-3 and rest/XT on week 4, Wednesday is speedwork on week 1 and 3 or tempo run on week 2 or an easy run on week 4, Thursday is an easy run, Friday is rest or cross train, Saturday is long run, and Sunday is rest or cross train. The plan also builds speed throughout, across all the workouts. Distance also increases. Total weekly distances range from 22 miles/week to 35 miles/week. The plan deviates slightly at the end, close to the race. When I'm on a treadmill, I tend to adjust the plan paces based on something like this conversion chart to account for the fact it's slightly easier to run on a treadmill than outside. I rarely take a rest day, opting for strength training and/or some time on an elliptical (usually strength + 15 minutes elliptical but sometimes 30 minutes elliptical or 30 minutes arc trainer). I do tend to take the rest days as rest days early on in the plan (which is usually following a race), very late in the plan (the week or two before a race), or if I'm not feeling well for any reason to avoid pushing myself too hard. To give an idea of where I stand, my 5k PR is 29:00, my 10k PR is 1:09:51, my 15k PR is 1:57:21, and my half PR is 2:35:07. Unfortunately, last year, I was coming off an injury. I was healed before the spring, but my winter training was almost nonexistent so my times were far worse. Last years times were 32:55 for 5k (April 2016), 1:17:35 for 10k (June 2016), and 2:53:03 for a half (November 2016). Based on my training, I'm edging close to a 5k PR this coming April. My easy runs on a treadmill are recently around 10:50-11:10/mile. I could probably even push that up a little and be comfortable. I've only had the weather for one good outdoor run, and it was an easy run around 11:30/mile. My tempo runs are around 3-4 miles long and I'm running at around 9:40/mile. Even though my easy and tempo runs distances and times are projecting a near PR, my speedwork runs are terrible. Today, I was scheduled for a speedwork run that consisted of a warm up, and 5 0.5 mile intervals at 8:20/mile, each followed by a 0.25 mile recovery interval (I used a pace of about 11:30/mile), and a cooldown for a total distance of 6 miles. By the middle of the third speed interval, I was physically worn down. Am I doing something wrong in my speedwork if I'm able to complete my easy and tempo runs on plan (and sometimes better than plan), yet struggle with my planned speedwork? What can I do to specifically improve my speedwork without huge deviations from my plan which is tailored to my upcoming 5k race? Are there any modifications I can make on training days that call for speedwork? 

Getting stressed may affect your diet. It also depends on the type of diet . If you are eating a highly protein rich diet then you may not feel that hungry. Perhaps you are not enjoying your food. Try new dishes new cuisine. However try to avoid stress and enjoy life. Remember the good memories you've had in your past while you eat or watch tv. You will be shocked by your Real appetite. Engage your partner in an interesting conversation about her interests you will not only enjoy your meal but also develop better bonding with her. Try to forget work while eating. This is bound to help. Else consult your doctor. Check ypur weight. Maybe you wrte just overloading ypur stomach earlier. With age that is as you near 45 your metabolism tends to slow down. I am sure you will be able to get over this problem. 

This year, I'm planning on running a 5k, a 10k, and a half marathon in 2015. The dates of the races other than the 5k haven't been announced yet. However, based on last year's dates, there will be about 2 months (9 weeks or so) between the 5k and the 10k and about 4 months (16 weeks) between the 10k and the half marathon. I'm also planning on moving from a maintenance schedule to a training schedule after the holidays, leaving me with about 12 weeks of training before the 5k. I completed a 5k last year, and have ran 10k training runs, but never competed at that distance. My official 5k time is 29:32. I'd like to get that down to 25:00 or less. I'd also like to run an official 10k of less than 1:00:00 (hopefully ~55:00) and a half marathon in ~2:30:00, if those times are reasonable. How should I manage my training? I see four obvious solutions that seem reasonable: 

I was finally able to do pull-ups starting last year. I had previously tried assisted pull-ups and was never able to get up to body weight pull-ups What finally helped me do pull-ups were a few things: 1) instead of assisted pull-ups, try negative pull-ups. You start at the top of the bar and lower yourself down in a slow, controlled motion, lasting 4-5 seconds. Do 4-5 sets of 5 of this, with 1-2 minutes rest in between 2) Inverted rows: find a bar or unused smith machine, get under the bar hanging free with your body at around a 45 degree angle to the floor, and pull yourself so your chest touches the bar. Try to be explosive during the pull portion and a slow controlled negative. 3) Lose weight. At some point in doing 1-2 above, and losing ~10 lbs through diet/exercise, I was finally able to do my first unassisted pull-ups/chin-ups. From there within a few weeks I was able to do 4-5 in a row, and now I can do 15 in a row, or multiple sets of 25lb weighted pull-ups. 

How long is the duration for which we are required to rest after workout. Is it good to do 2-3 sessions of heavy workout every day? What should be the rest period between the two sessions. I take 1 gm of proteins per pound of body weight. How I am I supposed to keep up my energy if duration of both sessions is 100 minutes? 

I am a hard core gymer. I work out 2hrs a day at a single stretch. However I am unable to keep the intensity of the workouts halfway. I mean not being able to maintain the vigour and stamina with which I began. Currently I am working out for weight gain and lifting heavyweights so I warmup for 8 -10 minutes. Its cold winters here in haryana, india. Can you suggest ways in improving my stamina? Is there some thing I should do to improve stamina or take certain supplements before working out? Will taking lot of carbs before working out really help?? 

In 2015, I ran four races of three different distances - 2 5ks (9:20/mile and 9:04/mile), a 10k (11:15/mile), and a half marathon (11:50/mile). In 2016, I'm planning on running 2-4 5ks, 1-2 10ks, a 15k, and a half marathon. I'm about to start generating my training plans for the off-season and into next year. Previously, I planned race-to-race. I did a very generic workout in the off-season, but I really need something more structured, and run-oriented, so I'm looking to start planning. Race season is April-October, so I'm starting to plan for how I'm going to train in the off-season. The training plan generator that I use takes the input of a recent race time and distance, a distance that I'm training for, an intensity level, a current distance per week, when to start the plan, when the race is, and when I long run. 

I have taken up a challenge to do 200 kg bench press, 200 kg deadlift and 200 kg squat within 8 months. I weigh 83 kg and can do 1 rep with 100 kg for the above 3 exercises. I take 150gms grams of proteins on a daily basis through different types like whey , eggs , sprouts , milk, chicken. What are my chances of accomplishing it? Please let me know. How can I improve my chances of doing it?? Note I was able to reach my current level in 4 months time . Would wearing a safety belt be beneficial to lift heavier weight? 

Keeping a balanced diet is essential for you to stay healthy. Regular medium intensity workout( whatever exercises you can do currently) on a daily basis will help. Going for regular walks in park during morning will be very beneficial as you will get natural vitamin D as well as motivation on seeing other people walk. You need to first learn to try walking without the stick. You are very strong and you can do it with daily pactice. Once you master it you will be free to workout as you want. Take good amount of rest and interact with people especially those who can encourage and support you as this will prove motivating to achieve your goals. With some will power you will be able to achieve your desired goal. I am sure this will help. All the best.