I guess he could be anyone, but one who more or less fits is Edward IV of England – he was one of four brothers who survived into adulthood, was the fourth king by the name Edward, had four sons (including an illegitimate one), and his reign began on March 4, 1461. Maybe there's more trivia around about him matching the number 4. 

EDIT- I'm adding extra information: The "Grand Turk" was the Ottoman Sultan Mahmud I, who died in December 1754 – his death was sudden, too, and the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica says he died from heart disease, so it's easy to infer he had a stroke; the ambassador was Roland Puchot, the mentioned (Count) des Alleurs,not Ailleurs as I wrote before (corrected that), who died in Constantinople in late 1754 or early 1755, of a stroke ("un attaque d'apoplexie" according to this source). So, if the sources and Voltaire are to be believed, Pancrace Royer has most probably died of a stroke. 

Interestingly, the French Wikipedia article about perrons says that originally the letters were added to distinguish the coat-of-arms of Liège from that of Saint-Trond, which also featured the perron and the letters S and T, and that in the Middle Ages, the coat-of-arms carried the syllables Lie and Ge or Ly and Ge (which seem demonstrated by the picture in Thomo's answer); it also goes on to add, that the "Libertas Gentis" meaning is a recent legend the people from Liège are fond of — they very probably are, since that's what the Liège website says! Further confirmation is provided by a website (in French) that cites a text by Liègian historian Théodore Gobert: 

Some more info to complement what @PieterGeerkens has found: there's a very scholarly work on the subject on Google Books, Het Bier-oproer te Leeuwarden, in het jaar 1487, in zijne oorzaken en gevolgen by Jacob Dirks; sadly (for me), it's in Dutch and several passages are in Old Dutch or Frisian. But more or less, from what I managed to understand from Google Translate and some common sense, there was a political dispute at the time between the Vetkoopers and the Schieringers (a term that doesn't refer to the community near Leeuwarden but, apparently, to the Cistercian monks' habit, as explained here), which apparently had much to do with both the prohibition and the riots. 

And the cited Dictionary by Bescherelle indeed says, but without citing any higher authority, that "by the way, the Ethiopic historian Marcellus spoke about Atlantis before the Greek philosopher." 

The Portuguese were the first Europeans to go around the Cape of Good Hope and build several outposts, later turned into large colonies, at Angola and Moçambique, on both sides of the Cape, but none on the Cape itself, as far as I know. I cannot see the sense in that, for I guess that control of the Cape was essential to keep their own routes open for traffic with India – in fact, that was one of the reasons why the British conquered the Dutch Cape Colony. I guess that a powerful enemy navy at the Cape could seriously hinder Portuguese movements, something that I don't know if actually happened at the time of the Portuguese-Dutch wars. So the question is: Did the Portuguese build any settlement around the Cape? And if not, why? 

It is a difficult question because words have precise meanings, and most people here are a bit ignorant of that. What we call the "Roman Empire" is a translation of "Imperium Romanorum" which mean not "The roman realm" but more likely "the roman dominion" because "Imperium" is a word related to the notion of "commanding". Is "Imperator" the one having an "Imperium", a right to command others. It is in fact a military notion and not a political one on first hand. So if asking who's the true "heir of the roman empire" is like asking "who's the true heir of english dominion?", it make not really sense since their "heirs" are the one recieving a legacy. Obviously, most of countries of the Mediterranean sea are heirs of the roman legacy, but i don't think that what you're asking. I think you are asking "who can legitimatly claim be the romans state?". Now the roman state was not called "Romanorum Imperium", but was called "Libera res publica Romana" which mean "The free common thing of the romans", even after the period historian call for distinction "Empire", romans still consider themselves... a republic! And you'll be surprised for something else! ALL nation of europe, before the XVIII century, considered themselves... republics! Even the monarchy! Because "Republic" simply mean "the common thing". Now that put the question "where's the state in all this?", well, the state... doesn't exist. The notion of a "state" is something appearing in the early XVII century. Before that we have crossed areas and juridictions. In Roma you have a Senat (an elder council) but also Curias Forum, etc... Many different institutions, and at the best an overall "constitution" that should order the mess. So now we still need to know: who are the roman? What's that "empire" we did design the limits? It's the Republic, the territories were roman institutions do have authority. What of it nowadays? Well, the Roman republic first change came from the conversion to christianity. You see, unlike nowadays, christianity was considered to be the most important public matter of all, like the pagan religion was for Roma too in fact... So the religion took the greek name (because when the Republic became christian, Constantin was the Imperator and his seat of power was in the East where greek language held the proeminent role) of "Assemblee" (which is a denomination of the Republic through it's people). In Greek, "Republic" was "Politeia", and "Assemblee" was "Ekklesia". The word was latinised at rome into "Ecclesia" who became in modern latin such as Spanish "Iglesia" or French "Eglise". This word in english is noneless than... the Church. So the Roman Republic became the Roman Church... translated in latin it's Ecclesia Romana which mean... the Roman Republic^^. Yet, the Church splitted into many branches... Orthodox, Catholics, Protestant... Yet all still calling themselves... Churches... So in the end... The Roman Empire is... All people who are christian^^. (And i don't say that because i'm christian... i'm an atheist). But well, there is one last problem: as i said, even in the XVI century, kings pretend to be the defenders of the Christian Church, and so of the "Roman Republic". Yet in the XVIII century, first a bit with USA, but then much more with France, people began to claim belonging in national republic, not in the christian. French began to force their priest to make oath to the french republic as state official working for the common good of... the Nation! This was a terrible strife, for priest began to refuse, arguing they are public official of... the christian and not the French Nation. So when the revolution war started, monarchy from Austria alike Britain or Russia saw on this war some sort of crusade: in one side you have secessionist who want to submitt public officers of the christian for their private political ends, on the other hand you had christianity fighting to protect their bretheren from such heresy. But the war were lost by the christian, and nowadays, states and public recognition lies not on the confession (the christian republic) but on nations. So nowaday what's left of the Roman Empire? Nothing! All nations, even the ones still having christianity as state religion, base their soverainty on their nation and not their confession. So there is not any Roman Republic left since there is not any common share of such republic. Hope it answer your question despite my bad language (i'm not english sorry...). 

Found information and more or less contemporary sources on Google Books (here, here and here, for example) and in gallica.fr (here), but no source cares to say how he died, only hinting that it was sudden and unexpected; the only person I found who said something about how he died was Voltaire, who, in his letters, didn't hide his rejoicing at Royer's death (they had a quarrel before): 

The coat-of-arms is that of the Austrian state of Lower Austria; another source says that "the arms were officially granted in 1920" (the mural crown is usually employed by republics to replace monarchic crowns), placing it sometime between that date and 1938. EDIT: Here's someone selling that same badge and dating it as "Second Austrian Republic", that is, anytime since 1945. 

As far as I know, most if not all rulers in Christian Europe "conceded that the Emperor was the universal lord of Christendom, but only in high office, not in deed" (taken from The Prince and the Law, 1200-1600, which speaks specifically about the King of France). Thus, most were just concerned with obtaining and securing liberties for themselves and their lands (in the case of Germany and Italy), or avoiding interference from the Emperor (as in the kingdoms outside Imperial lands – France, England, etc). Although the Emperor real power was limited, breaking from the Empire and denying the Emperor's lordship over the Christian community would have been quite daring; for example, the Italian cities became independent de facto but never, to my knowledge, declared any intention of breaking with the Empire. I think that didn't happen even after the Reformation: reformed rulers claimed that the Emperor had no right to force Catholicism into the lands they ruled, but didn't deny the Emperor's overlordship, however theoretical it was. Anyway, my knowledge is limited and I might be wrong, so let's see what other posters have to say. 

I'd say Half-Uncial (3rd Century AD) and Carolingian (9th Century AD) scripts; as it says in the Wikipedia text for the latter, 

The quotation "fino al '600 riprodurre monete altrui fu considerato legale" actually means that it was legal to counterfeit other people's [i. e. foreign] money, in fact, aristocrats, churchmen, traders, and guild engaged in such counterfeiting, and it was usual for official mints to counterfeit their own currency (thus producing debased coins) — but a private individual could be severely punished if caught by the affected authorities and could end being boiled alive. There's an interesting chapter on currency counterfeiting in England in Malcom Gaskill's Crime and Mentalities in Early Modern England. 

There were no actual "boundaries" as far as I had been able to research; the Spaniards relocated the natives, not into a closed area but scattering them in some 600 reducciones all around the Viceroyalty, and most of the time the natives appear to have been resettled not excessively far from their original villages, while local chiefs appear to have had a say on the placement of the reducciones. You might want to look at Jeremy Ravi Mumford's Vertical Empires: The General Resettlement of Indians in the Colonial Andes, which appears to be a fine book on the subject — chapter 8 mentions the topic of the placement of the reducciones, and you can see some pages of it in Google Books. In this other text, the author makes a general outline of the thesis he puts forward in the book. 

As identified in the first paragraph of the question, the purpose of Operation Rheinübung was a continuation of the commerce raids on allied shipping in the Atlantic. The Scharnhorst and Gneisenau had previously performed a similar exercise with great success. Commerce raiding was a common tactic used against a superior (or simply numerically larger) naval force. It allowed the smaller force to do disproportionate damage against the enemy shipping while avoiding the risk of putting all of their warships at risk at once. By keeping their own ships dispersed, the Germans would force the British to spread their own forces to find and attack them. In that situation, there was the possibility that the German battleship would be able to out-fight the force it encountered (or simply out-run, as was the case when the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau encountered a couple of British battleships). Had the Germans committed a larger flotilla (or even fleet) to the operation, it would have allowed the British to concentrate their forces too. In a fleet action the Germans would have, almost certainly, been outnumbered and outgunned. In which, case they would have been at risk of losing a considerable part of their surface fleet in a single action. 

Because this is linked to mythology, most of the references to them seem to be heavily invested in woo. However, it does seem that in this case, the snakes were real grass snakes (as the Wikipedia article notes, žaltys is literally 'grass snake' in Lithuanian) kept in the believer's homes. 

A classic example would be the pre-D-day deception aimed at making the German's believe that the actual invasion was to take place at the Pas de Calais. An entire fake army, the First United States Army Group was invented as part of Operation Fortitude South. To help sell the effect and convince the Germans that this was the main invasion force, a large deception operation created fake equipment, such as camps, dummy landing craft and airstrips, to look like a real army was being prepared. This was supplemented with wireless traffic between these fake units to simulate real operational communications. In addition notable senior staff, such as General Patton, were (supposedly) attached to the army to give it some credence. 

Yes, the bit in Master and Commander was based upon the real life action between the 14-gun H.M.B Speedy and a Spanish 32-gun Xebec-frigate named El Gamo in 1801. The British commander, Lord Thomas Cochrane, pulled off a series of bluffs to allow his ship to get along side. The Spanish captain was supposedly killed by the first broadside fired by the Speedy and so his ship was in disarray when the British came alongside. Cochrane's entire crew then boarded (with the exception of the ship's surgeon). The bulk of the Spanish ship's crew were on the lower gun deck, so the British attackers were fighting only a similar number of men on the upper deck. Cochrane then bluffed again, calling for more men to be sent up from the Speedy (there weren't any more to be sent) and also had one of his own men lower the Spanish flag, which was the usual symbol of a ship's surrender. The bluff(s) worked and the Spanish vessel was taken. You might also want to take a look at some of the "cutting out" operations performed during that period. These were operations where a ship's boats (carrying marines and a proportion of the crew) were used to capture larger vessels in a harbour or anchorage. A fine example of "cutting out" was the re-capture of HMS Hermione from the Spanish in Puerto Cabello. Again you had a big difference in manpower on each side (100 British against 400 Spanish) and again the loss of the Spanish captain proved a decisive point. In respect of why it's possible to capture a warship with a small boarding party, it's essentially down to the design of ships of the period. The top deck (or weatherdeck) of a square-rigged sailing ship was the bridge and engine room combined. By taking control of the top deck, you controlled the sails and, therefore, controlled the movement of the vessel. The main armament of a sailing warship of the time would be along the sides, with very little ability to fire forward or aft. So if you could immobilize a vessel it would be a sitting duck for any other ship, even a much smaller one, who could maneuver into a position across the bow or stern and attack with little risk to themselves. Also the limited points of access from the lower decks could cause bottlenecks that would prevent large numbers of defenders coming from below at the same time. So, once the top deck had been taken by a boarding party, any defender counter-attacking from below could find himself fighting multiple opponents (who had more room) and, at the same time, blocking his own crew mates from coming to his aid. As a consequence of these factors, it was usual for a ship's crew that had lost control of the top deck to surrender the ship, even if they were still numerically superior to the boarding party.