Yes this is certainly true. The chances that a planet's orbital plane is directly along our line of sight is pretty small. And you are also correct to assert that it is more likely that most planets will orbit in the same plane. So if we don't see a planet around a star, it doesn't mean the planets don't exist. Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. In the early days of exoplanet detection, we had only a handful of known planets to study. This hardly precludes itself to statistical analysis. However, as the years have progressed, the number of known and confirmed planets has piled up, allowing astronomers to start inferring information based on statistical arguments. One can argue that if we've spotted X number of planets after observing Y number of stars under Z conditions for T time then with a little bit of statistical analysis and math, there should be A number of planets in our galaxy, many of which we can't observe with current techniques. In fact, that is precisely what many astronomers have done. Cassan et al. (2012) looked at microlensing detections and were able to infer, based on known detections and statistical analysis, that: 

Potentially, the ancient Greeks didn't even consider Venus to be a planet initially. The word planet is Greek and means "wandering star". The ancient Greeks identified objects in the night sky which were different and seemingly more important that the normal stars. However, initially, they don't seem to have grouped Jupiter and Mars in with the same type of object as Venus (and possibly Mercury). Jupiter's motion around the sky may have seemed more grandiose and full of purpose, hence why they attributed it to being their biggest and most important god. Love and Beauty As I said, the Babylonians, as well as the Greeks before they figured it out, didn't consider Venus to be a planet, but rather two separate and strange "stars". However, once they figured out the two "stars" were really one and the same and Venus was a planet just like Jupiter, they decided to attribute a proper god or goddess from the pantheon of gods to it. Jupiter was already taken so they had to pick someone else. Despite that, I don't think the argument that Venus is brighter automatically means it should be the most important god. Note that Venus is named after the Roman goddess Venus (of course) who is also the Greek goddess Aphrodite. This is the Greek goddess of love and beauty and she herself was supposed to be exceedingly beautiful. Venus, the planet, is a beautiful sight to behold and it seems appropriate that the most radiant and beautiful planet be named after the most radiant and beautiful Goddess. 

However, he also knows that the Universe is expanding (he was the one to discover this after all) so he took the standard formula and threw in universal expansion. What he finds though, is that the equations now predict that 

Let's walk through the stages of post-main sequence evolution. For reference, the images, and much of the content is being pulled from An Introduction to Modern Astrophysics by Carroll and Ostlie. I'll break this into low mass stars ($\sim1\:\mathrm{M_\odot}$) and intermediate mass stars (($\sim5\:\mathrm{M_\odot}$) Low Mass Evolution 

I know you didn't specifically ask this, but I feel it answers the spirit of your question. I'm just going to go through the list of features and specifications and explain what they mean. Features Maximum magnification: 675x This should hopefully be obvious, but this claims to provide images that are 675 times larger that they would appear to the naked eye. However, don't get too excited about this number. When it comes to telescopes, the magnification power is not the most important number. Telescopes for amateurs will try to play off this ignorance though and very often talk about how good that telescope's magnification to make it sound impressive. Large aperture offers clearly illuminated views The aperture is the physical size of the collecting mirror/lens. Usually aperture size is specified as the diameter of the main mirror/lens and larger is better. A larger aperture means the telescope can collect more light and thus you can see fainter objects you couldn't normally see with your naked eye. The phrase "clearly illuminated views" doesn't really mean much though, its just marketing. Stable construction provides solid support and control I guess they're just telling you the telescope won't wobble on it's stand. Which is good. It would be hard to look at a fixed object in the sky while your telescope is wobbling all around. Metal tripod with slow motion control rod Not sure it matters that the tripod is metal or not. But they do say it has a "slow motion control rod". Basically, these are rods you can turn to move the telescope very slightly rather than swinging it with your hand. This just provides the ability to finely move the telescope to help point it precisely. Strong performance in both high and low magnification Pretty obvious statement, albeit a vacuous one. What counts as "strong performance"? Easy sky focusing with finderscope The telescope comes with a finderscope. You can see that as the small "mini" telescope attached to the main telescope. When trying to point your telescope at a specific star, it can be hard to know if you're pointing at the right one. The finder scope provides some basic ability to view a larger region of the sky and try to get your telescope generally pointed in the right direction. From there, you can look through the main telescope and use the "slow motion control rod" to get it pointed exactly right. Specifications Aperture: 60mm (2.36inch) This is the aperture I mentioned above. They're telling you the diameter of the main lens. Bigger is better here because it means the telescope can collect more light and see fainter objects. That's why professional astronomical telescopes are constantly getting bigger and bigger. I'll note that they're probably playing mental games by saying its 60 mm when 6 cm would have sufficed. More than likely, 60 sounds more impressive than 6 which is why they chose to use mm. Focal Length: 900mm.f/15 This tells you two pieces of information. First, that the focal length is 900 mm. This telescope is a Refraction telescope. The light enters the telescope and immediately hits the main lens. The main lens is curved and bends the light, focusing it to a point. This focused light it sent to the eyepiece which will then direct it right to your eye for viewing. They're telling you that the telescope focuses the light to the eyepiece over a distance of 900 mm. The other quantity is the f-number. It is the ratio of the focal length to the aperture size. You can hopefully easily see that 900/60 = 15 and thus the f-number is written as f/15. The "/" here does not imply division, it's simply how the f-number is written. To be honest, neither of these two quantities will really matter much for you. I think they're just quoted because they're common "optics" numbers you'd see with higher end cameras and they want this telescope to sound like a serious product. The only thing about this that affects anything for you is the field of view, that is how much of the sky you can see at one time. This will only matter when looking at extended objects like the Moon. A longer focal length means a larger field of view. The f-number is virtually useless for astronomical applications. It only really applies in photography. Finderscope: 5x24 This is again the finderscope I mentioned above. It's used to get your telescope pointed more or less in the right direction so you can then look through your telescope and do fine pointing. The number 5x24 signifies that it magnifies by 5x and has a 24 mm diameter aperture. This is going to be cheap and may not focus very well so don't expect anything amazing. You'll only use it to point the telescope though so if you're fine with that then so be it. Diagonal Prisms: 90degree This is just the prism at the end of your telescope, and before the eyepiece, that let's the eyepiece be 90 degrees turned from the main telescope shaft. This is useful because you can sit next to your telescope and view through the lens on the side rather than having you align your eye directly with the telescope's main barrel. It just provides easier and more comfortable viewing. Slow Motion Control Rod For Easy Vertial Micro Adjustment Already described this above. Height: 128cm Just giving you the height of the telescope. Although it's unclear precisely what height this is. Certainly the height changes as you move the telescope around on the mount. Is this the maximum height? Is it the height when the telescope is level? Who knows. Standar: 0.965” Acceddoness Include I actually have no idea what this means. Clearly they misspelled Standard. Other than that, I don't know what an "Acceddoness" is. Eyepiece: SR4mm H12.5mm H20mm Just providing you with descriptions of the three eye pieces that come with this telescope. The measurements are the eyepiece aperture sizes. A larger size generally means higher magnification and higher field of view. 3X Barlow Lens, 1.5X Erector There are two additional optical pieces provided. The first is a "Barlow lens". This will sit in front of your other eyepieces and serves to provide an additional 3x magnification. The second is the Erector lens. It will provide an additional 1.5 magnification but it also will "erect" your image. The optics of your telescope will flip your image upside down. This is just how optics works (and it's the same reason you appear upside down in a spoon). In truth, when looking at astronomical objects, it doesn't really matter if you're looking at it upside down or not, but cheaper telescopes like to provide the illusion of having fancy gadgetry like erector lenses. There's not much of a reason to flip the image to be "correct". Telescopic Aluminum Tripod It's just a basic metal tripod that lets you sit your telescope on a stable mount. The legs can adjust to different heights and are thus "telescopic" which has nothing to do with the fact that it is a tripod for a telescope. 

The answer to this is certainly tidal forces, but that doesn't explain the exact mechanism for how tidal forces result in tidal locking, i.e., an orbiting body showing the same face to the central body as it orbits due to the rotation rate and revolution rate being equal. I'll describe this mechanism using the Earth-Moon system so I can be specific, but it equally applies for any system. To start, tidal forces are a result of differential gravitational forces across the distributed mass of a body. The Moon is not a point mass, it has an extended size. The force of gravity on the Moon by the Earth is dependent upon distance (as is the force of gravity for anything). What this means is that on the Earth-facing side of the Moon, the force of gravity is stronger and as you progress through the Moon to the Earth-opposing side, the force of gravity gets weaker. This means the Earth-facing side of the Moon gets pulled stronger and closer to the Earth while the Earth-opposing side, while still getting pulled towards the Earth, doesn't get pulled as strongly or as close. Ultimately, this results in the Moon being deformed such that it becomes slightly oblate and stretched out in the direction of the Earth. This flexing of the surface is known as tides. Now let's assume the Moon is not currently tidally locked with the Earth, and in fact spins slightly faster than it orbits. The Earth is causing tides on the Moon and the Moon is spinning on its axis. The tides, caused by the tidal forces, want to remain aligned with the Earth-Moon line since that's the direction the tidal forces are applied. However, it takes time and a lot of energy to deform the Moon. Once the Moon is deformed, it's going to spin along and try to pull that tidal deformity along with it, effectively moving the tidal bulge ahead of the Earth-Moon line. The Earth is still applying the tidal force along that Earth-Moon line to try and pull the tidal bulge back in line. This constant force trying to pull the tidal bulge back (or ahead if the Moon is spinning too slow) allows for a transfer of momentum to slow down the Moon (or again, speed it up if it is too slow). The main point here is that tidal locking is a equilibrium state because if the Moon is spinning too slow or too fast, the Earth trying to pull the tidal bulge into the Earth-Moon line will change the rotation rate of the Moon until it becomes tidally locked. Once it is tidally locked, that tidal bulge will always be along the Earth-Moon line and this force will disappear. That covers about half of the answer though. When trying to tidal lock the Moon to the Earth, you have to consider two time periods. The first, discussed in the preceding paragraph, is the rotation time of the Moon around its axis. The other is the revolution time of the Moon around the Earth. Both must match. The previous paragraph described how the rotation time of the Moon around its axis could be affected, but there's also a means of affecting the revolution time of the Moon around the Earth. Fortunately, this is by a nearly identical mechanism as above. In effect, the Moon also causes tidal bulges on the Earth and since the Earth is spinning these tidal bulges won't be directly aligned with the Earth-Moon line. This unaligned tidal bulge on Earth acts to transfer energy to the Moon's orbital speed, causing it to speed up or slow down. Incidentally, through conservation of angular momentum, this necessarily causes the Moon to drift away from us at a small but persistent rate. In summation, tidal forces cause tidal locking, but it happens through intricate and slow forces over a long time period affecting both the Moon's orbital velocity and rotation rate until a equilibrium is found. That equilibrium is tidal locking. 

It seems the crux of your question lies in a misunderstand of how gravity works. So I'll try to answer your question by correcting your perceptions about gravity. Gravity is a force imparted by objects with mass on all other objects with mass. The range of a gravitational force is infinite which means that galaxies millions and billions of light years away are technically applying a gravitational force on you, its just so infinitesimally small as to be not noticeable. The general equation for the force of gravity between two objects of mass $M_1$ and $M_2$ at a separtion of $r$ is given by $$F_g = G\frac{M_1M_2}{r^2}$$ where $G$ is the gravitational constant equal to $6.67\times10^{-11}\ \mathrm{m^3\ kg^{-1}\ s^{-2}}$. If you had nothing in the universe except the Earth ($M_1 = 5.97\times10^{24}\ \mathrm{kg}$) and the Moon ($M_2 = 7.35\times10^{22}\ \mathrm{kg}$) at their current distance of $r = 3.8\times10^7\ \mathrm{m}$, you'd find that $F_g = 2\times10^{22}\ \mathrm{N}$ where $N$ a Newton - a unit of force equivalent to $\mathrm{kg\ m\ s^{-2}}$. So in this scenario you calculate the gravitational force experienced by each body. The important point here is that both bodies experience this singular force. The Moon is pulled towards the Earth with a force equal to $2\times10^{22}\ \mathrm{N}$ and the Earth is likewise pulled towards the Moon by the same force equal to $2\times10^{22}\ \mathrm{N}$. They cannot and do not cancel each other out because each body is feeling one and only force of gravity. The Moon knows it experiences a gravitational force from the Earth and so it responds to that force by moving towards the Earth. It also happens to apply a gravitational force on the Earth to pull the Earth towards itself, but that force is the same force. So in your scenario, two neutron stars which are just sitting next to each other in space would experience a singular gravitational force between them and pull themselves towards each other, eventually colliding. You can hopefully see the above argument works whether the two objects are the Moon and Earth, two neutron stars, or even Earth and you. Due to the mutual, single gravitational force within the system, the two bodies will be attracted to one another. Of course, everything I've just said is the "Newtonian" description of gravity. A more complete and accurate picture is achieved by considering this from a General Relativity standpoint. 

You may be out of luck. If you live pretty much anywhere in the North East, there are very few locations where you can see a truly dark sky. You might be able to get somewhere where you can see the faint glow of the milky way band, but to see a really dark sky, you pretty much have to be out west in the middle of no where. One resource to help you out is to look up the Bortle Scale. This is a metric used to describe how dark the sky is in a given area and thus what you're likely able to see with the unaided eye. There are numerous sites which attempt to predict or inform what your Bortle scale number is at your specific location. In general though, you can get a feel of the light pollution in a particular area by using light pollution maps like this one or this one. Attached below is an image from the first link showing the general light pollution level across the US.