Two other sources, though, are more definite: this Repubblica newspaper article, while Tickets to the Colosseum says: 

Translation: a million in cash, a pension of 200,000 francs, the rank of marshal, the government of Alsace and the castle of Chambord The Republican government found out, though, but the still-popular general was merely packed off to Sweden as ambassador. In 1797, he was arrested for plotting and was deported, but escaped. Finally, in 1804 Pichegru was found strangled in prison after having again been arrested for his part in a plot to overthrow Napoleon. 

Other sources: Tuva. A State Reawakens TUVANS Moscow’s Last Great Territorial Acquisition Before Crimea – Stalin’s 1944 Annexation of Tuva History of Tuva Tuvan People's Republic Soviet Disunion: A History of the Nationalities Problem in the USSR 

There were also several instances during the English Civil War when towns were defended in large part by the civilian population against besieging armies of the other side. 

Source: A. Boyle & W. Dominik, Flavian Rome One could argue this was reason enough for entrance to the Colosseum to be free. And this was not all: sometimes spectators were literally showered with tokens for prizes, and / or provided with free food. On the inaugural games sponsored by Titus, there is this from Cassius Dio: 

The Keith Line was the result of the East Jersey Surveyor-General's attempt to settle disputes "resulting from the 1676 Quintipartite Deed, which created the two territories". George Keith, born in Scotland in 1638, was a Quaker missionary who emigrated to America in 1684 with his wife, possibly because of years of "persecution and repeated imprisonments" in Scotland and England for preaching "about the 'errors' in the teachings of mainstream Christian churches". It is actually for his writings and for leading a schism in the Quaker movement that he is best known, rather than his activities as a surveyor. It was the Governor of East Jersey, Robert Barclay who hired Keith as Surveyor General with instructions to survey the line between East and West Jersey which became known as the Keith Line. Barclay and Keith, both Quakers, had been close associates in Scotland. According to the article How a man named Keith took a long walk and defined N.J. forever, 

On the left, "Grave stone of the legionary Caius Valerius Crispus, about 75 CE, here's [sic] he served in the Legio VIII Augusta. At his death he was 40 years old." On the right, "Detail of the full-figure tombstone of Annaius Daverzus of cohors IIII Delmatarum from Bingerbrück." A more recent source is Stefanie Hoss’ The Roman Military Belt in Koefoed, H., M.-L. Nosch (eds), Wearing the Cloak. Dressing the Soldier in Roman Times (2011). She is more definite in her assessment: 

Source: James MacLachlan, Galileo Galilei: First Physicist This is supported by Naess, who says Galileo 

but gives no details. What evidence is there for the smuggling of goods? Do we know what kinds of goods were most commonly smuggled? As I’m not sure how broad this question is, answers could be restricted to the smuggling of goods into the Italian peninsula and Sicily, and / or to a shorter time period (in which case, preferably during the time of the Julio-Claudian dynasty). 

El Cid may have been involved in the Battle of Graus (1063) at which 300 Castilian knights fought on the side of Ahmad al-Muqtadir, ruler of the Islamic taifa of Zaragoza, against the Christian Ramiro I of Aragon. However, it is unclear if they were there as mercenaries or as allies. Also in Spain, M. Florian in History of the Moors of Spain recounts the following (author's orginal spellings retained): 

The relationship between Diem and the Vatican seems to have already been strained - he had opposed the Vatican's choice for Bishop of Saigon, preferring instead the aforementioned Thuc, his brother. Other sources: The Catholic Church in Sydney & the Vietnam Conflict by C.F.Bowers Catholic Vietnam: A Church from Empire to Nation by Charles Keith $URL$ $URL$ 

Source: K. Bradley, P. Cartledge (eds.) There is also a reference to slaves running away noted by R. Zelnick-Abramovitz in Not Wholly Free, 

There do not appear to be any quotations by anyone specifically saying 'giving women the vote would be like giving cows the vote' although that does not mean that no one did. These words (or very similar) have been used together on a number of occasions, though. As it is not uncommon for people / sources to be misquoted or misinterpreted (see 6 Famous Literary Quotes Everyone Uses Exactly Wrong and List of Misquotations), misunderstanding may be the root of this ‘quote’ comparing women and cows in voting. In addition to the Frederick Douglas quote cited by Wladimir Palanthe, the idea of someone saying something along the lines of ‘giving votes to women would be like giving votes to cows’ may possibly stem from one of the following: 

Whether this can be seen as a genuine desire is doubtful. More likely, Hitler was trying to give the (misleading) impression that he would soon have plenty time for painting, not war. Admittedly, the points made here are not conclusive, and lack of evidence (of painting) is not evidence in itself, but the circumstantial evidence is fairly strong. On the other hand, there can be little doubt that Hitler still sketched and drew after he came to power. Other sources: Enzo Colotti & Riccardo Mariani, 'The Water Colours of Hitler' Martyn Housden, 'Hitler: Study of a Revolutionary' Eugene Davidson, 'The Making of Adolf Hitler' Albert Speer, 'Inside the Third Reich' $URL$ $URL$ 

Source: Atwood Then, at around the age of 15, Temujin had been involved in the killing of one of his half-brothers. Soon after, he became the captive of a rival clan but eventually managed to escape. 

source: Travels in West Africa by Mary H. Kingsley The ship the author refers to, Batanga, was launched in 1893 and was 2,808 tons. A final piece of evidence for travel times comes from the Colonial Report for Gold Coast for 1897 (pdf), where it states: 

According to Wikipedia, "The word Anglican originates in ecclesia anglicana, a medieval Latin phrase dating to at least 1246 that means the English Church." However, this usage referred to the Catholic Church in England. Although the use of the word 'Anglican' "did not become general until the latter half of the 19th century", it was used in the context of the Protestant Church of England long before this. The online dictionary.com says 1625-35 while Merriam-Webster gives the earlier date of 1598. Wikipedia is less specific, saying the 16th century. However, none of these sources say where or who first used it. I've looked at several religious sites but have found no mention of first usage. In fact, these sites use the word 'Anglican' as if it had been in use since the founding of the Protestant Church of England (see, for example, here and here). Is the Merriam-Webster date of 1598 the first documented use? If so, where was it used, or who used it? If not, what is the first documented use? 

Other evidence from the time of the Old Kingdom only seems to indicate what we now term classes of ships. For example, Henet-ships and Shabet-ships were two kinds of funerary boats, and there does not seem to be any evidence of these having names: in the tomb of Seneb, the inscriptions simply state '"rowing in a Shabet-ship" and "sailing in a Henetboat". Even the name of the well-preserved 'Khufu ship' is unknown, assuming that it even had one (but there is evidence from the New Kingdom, as shown in user91876's post). CLASSICAL GREECE From Ancient Greece, Ships and Seamanship in the Ancient World by Lionel Casson mentions that very few ship names are known before the end of the 5th century BC, but 

This celebration was known as Holly Holy Day and the same source says that "the practice faded out after a time" (suggesting it went on for at least several years), but there is no explanation here as to why holly was worn. Googling has turned up nothing (though some promising links were dead). The choice of holly, with it's association with Jesus and the crown of thorns seems a strange one given the Puritan attitude to idolatry (which pre-dates the Civil War). Already, by the end of 1644, Parliament was beginning a clamp down on Christmas and in 1645 the Directory of Worship railed against 

Source: S. & T. Pendergast and S. Hermsen, Fashion, Costume and Culture, vol. 1: The Ancient World As shown in the picture in your question, 

This 'close-knit relationship' was to prove the key to France maintaining a high degree of economic and even political control on most of the Francophone countries after independence was achieved (mostly in 1960), a situation which has featured prominently in the literature on neo-colonialism (by no means the just preserve of left-wing academics). 

The NOI in Philadelphia and the BPP in Winston-Salem Both organizations seem to have had a strong presence in New York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Chicago (and perhaps a few others). The BPP was also strong in Oakland / the Bay Area and Seattle (where the NOI was less visible) while the NOI must have been more prominent in many other areas given its greater membership (details are hard to come by on the NOI). This University of Washington page has a series of maps showing BPP offices and other locations of interest in the areas where the party had the greatest impact. Another complicating factor in trying to get a clear picture is that some BPP centres (in particular) didn’t last long, or were closed, re-opened, closed again etc (e.g. Houston). Further, the BPP, unlike the NOI, had a fairly short lifespan. This was in part due to internal strife and some highly negative publicity (note the notorious case of Alex Rackley in New Haven), but also because of the relentless pressure placed on it by the authorities (the following quote also gives some BPP locations): 

Print shows Bostonians held captive in a cage suspended from the "Liberty Tree." Three British sailors standing in a boat feed them fish from a basket labeled "To -- from the Committee of --" in return for a bundle of papers labeled "Promises"; around the tree and in the background are cannons and British troops. The paper in the hand of one jailed Bostonian says "They tried with the Lord in their Troubl & he saved them out of their Distress. CVIL 13." London : Printed for R. Sayer and J. Bennett, Map & Printsellers, No. 53 Fleet Street, as the Act directs, 1774 Novr. 19. Notable individuals outside of Parliament also had something to say on the general situation in America: 

Source: J. Plaster, History of Sniping and Sharpshooting There is some disagreement among the sources as to how extensively, and in which campaigns, the Girandoni air rifle was used. Plaster claims that: 

Stovia scholars of 1916 (from Dutch Wikipedia) It was not until after WWI that the need for locally trained professionals was fully recognized. Thus, in 1920 

Other sources: The Electoral System and Parliamentary Reform (PowerPoint) How Did the British Press Cover the American Revolution? Lewis Namier, John Brooke, The House of Commons 1754-1790 

SHORT ANSWER Nero, in common with many other rulers, killed people he thought were a threat to him (his mother, his half-brother, those involved in the Pisonian conspiracy). His reason for persecuting the Christians is disputed - they just have been an easy target after the Great Fire of Rome. 

This all seems very, uhm, unchristian (though maybe not for the period?) so how unique was the Irish situation before circa 1000 AD? Did monasteries in other west European countries attack each other and, if so, what were their motives (usually)? (I’ve not been able to find examples for anywhere except Ireland) Note: I am not asking about individual clerics, monks etc fighting, nor about attacks by kings or lords on monasteries (where the motives were usually loot and/or punishment for siding with the wrong lord or king). This question is specifically about monastery vs. monastery (or ‘monastic civil war’ if you like), but evidence up to the 15th century would be of interest if there is nothing earlier. 

Source: Paul Alkebulan, Survival pending Revolution Thus, it was most likely the two organizations’ very different approaches which limited their interaction. Concerning the BPP and NOI’s relative strengths in different cities: in some cities, both were prominent while in others, one was strong while the other wasn’t. The BPP was much smaller in membership (perhaps only one tenth the size) and had a presence in at least 28 states (maybe as many as 48), but reliable estimates are thin on the ground for both organizations. 

Note: The term 'cingulum' does not appear to have been used until the 3rd century. Before then, the belt was referred to as a 'balteus'. 

Source: Brian Delay, 'War of a Thousand Deserts' A less direct attempt had been made to buy California in 1842. This came about due to numerous incidents of stolen American property in Mexico and American ships being seized in Mexican ports. As a result, 

Why didn't Ong Khan, do anything to help Temujin when the latter's father was killed by the Tartars? None of the sources offer any explanation for this, but there are a couple of pointers to possible reasons: 

SIZE OF RAIDING PARTIES Viking raids on England started in the late 8th century. When referring to these groups of Vikings, the Anglo-Saxon Chronicles usually used the word ‘here’ meaning a ‘raid’. A ‘here’ meant more than 35 people. Raiding parties varied in size, depending on the resources of the warlord leading the raid. If the aim was just to grab some loot, this would be more easily accomplished by a small raiding party of not more than a few hundred. Here are a few specific examples: The first recorded incident was in 789 in Dorset and involved 3 ships. From this we can tentatively arrive at a party numbering between 90 and 120. However, this does not appear to have been a real raid and it seems that these Vikings may just have been overly aggressive traders. In the event, the only recorded fatality was the King of Wessex’s reeve. The far more infamous attack on Lindisfarne in 793 was a much bloodier affair and also involved 3 ships, according to Kenneth Harl in ‘The Vikings’ lecture series. This number is also given on $URL$ In 836, either 25 or 35 ships landed in Somerset and defeated the Wessex King Egbert. A similar size force may have also landed there in 843. M & H Whittock, citing other sources, quote estimates of between 1,000 and 2,000 with the true number most likely being 1,000 to 1,100. In the early 850s, attacks on Canterbury and London reportedly involved 350 ships, larger than anything previously recorded. If this figure is to be believed, the Viking army may have been at least 10,000 thousand strong, a considerable force for the period. [I’ll skip the ‘Great Heathen Army’ of 865 and its immediate successors (after which there was a relatively calm period until 980) as these are well covered by Wikipedia.] In 991, according to Eric Christiansen 

Perhaps this is one example you might be looking for, from Ancient Greece, where slaves, women and males who were too young or too old to bear arms: After the Battle of Sepeia (circa. 494 BC) in which the army of Argos was destroyed by the Spartans under King Kleomenes I, Argos was left undefended until (according to Pausanius) the Argive poetess Telesilla organised the defence of the city. Pausanius relates it thus: 

Source: Cristina González and Funie Hsu This policy was also applied to the Philippines, although (for practical reasons), teaching Spanish was not a priority and most instruction (at least outside of the universities) was via local languages. In the Philippines: 

Are any of the above the reason why the people of Nantwich wore holly to celebrate Parliament's victory? Or was there another reason (even a religious one)? 

This was precisely what the Portuguese had feared (as noted in the section below). Portugal Although the Portuguese record on establishing universities in their colonies was very poor, the British, French and Dutch were in no position to boast about their achievements either. The Portuguese, whose education policy was in many ways a 'poor man's' version of French colonial education policy, were wary of creating an educated local elite who might challenge their authority, unless that elite thought the way the Portuguese did. The perceived best way to do this was 

In Comic Relief: Nietzsche's Gay Science, Kathleen Higgins quotes Friedrich Nietzsche (1844 – 1900) thus: 

Piecing together various sources, it is clear that there was a no-passport agreement between the United Kingdom and France from 1961 until 1984 and that, even after the termination of this agreement, British citizens were able to use a British Visitor's Passport (in addition to the standard 'full' passport) until 1995. Between 1961 and 1995, the UK issued from Post Offices 

Translation What is certain is that, in spite of the severity of his condition, the slave could have a happy life. He who lived in the city was not confined to the house, nor was he strictly confined to housework. He participated in the joyful existence of his master, he frequented the public baths as his master did and he attended circus or arena games. 

Although Eck cites no evidence, the stress of running an empire is a possible contributory factor if we consider that Augustus had a life-time of health problems.