I don't think using a formatted signature in email has anything to do with respect. I think you're overthinking this and the guy just responded in the way you wrote to him. It'd be weird to go all formal on an informal job lead someone sent to you, wouldn't it? All in all, I would let this go. No need to assume malice or disrespect when that is so unlikely. 

Thats a thoroughly ridiculous notion. Programming is a highly specialised field and different aspects of programming require vastly different skill sets. The best you can do is point that out to them. While analogies to other professions might be poinient and fitting (Tailor cutting hair, etc), your bosses might not believe them, so point out some of the massive differences in programming, like how different UI design is from performance testing, for instance. But yeah, you should definately try to dispel that notion from your managers, lest they have a very harsh awakening when they find out just how wrong they are. 

You made your bed, and now you have to sleep in it. You said you replied this on May 19th. The time in between that and today was a weekend, so HR is probably slow on the uptake. What you can do: 

Probably. The problem is, europe has pretty much universally much stricter labor laws. In the US you can have people on a regular contract and give them 0 holidays, 0 days PTO, 0 days sick leave and fire them pretty much when you want. In most states of the US, employment is "at will". So unless otherwise specified in the contract, you can be fired for any reason or no reason, with no notice. They offered you this contract as a way to get around the legal requirements for employee benefits that exist in most of europe, since that is what they can do to their regular american employees. You can try to negotiate but I wouldn't expect much. 

Disclaimer: This is not legal advice, it should not be taken as legal advice, I'm not establishing a client relationship with this, etc. This is the musings of a random german off the internet, you need to consult a lawyer specialising in employment law. This is almost certainly illegal. Broadly speaking, surveillance (especially hidden surveillance) of employees is not permitted in germany. You may not even read or forward their emails unless there's a clause in this guy's contract that specifically states they're not to be used for private communication. (ยง 3 Nr. 6, 10 TKG an employer that does not specifically prohibit private usage of business email is an email operator and subject to the principle of telecommunication secrecy) IF there is a clear (provable!) expectation of the emails not to be used for private reasons and IF your boss can prove reasonable suspicion and IF this is a one-off incident then you may be allowed to do this. These are pretty big IFs and I wouldn't risk criminal charges over it if I were you - so go the safe route and get a lawyer. Source(s): Asking out Data Protection Officer, asking my Boss and $URL$ 

First of all, you should probably start looking at other jobs right about now. Considering that pregnancy shows at a certain point, you do not have the chance of keeping it entirely secret from them. After you have something lined up, you should tell them. Be prepared to be fired or not hired after this. 

Its a sign that your company trusts you to not mess up. Thats an awesome opportunity for you to learn, grow, and leverage in future salary negotiations. It may or may not be normal on your company, but in the Industry in general its not, at least not where I live. In any case, it shows huge trust the company already puts forward into you. As a side node, a job handling full projects and beeing responsible for whole customers looks certainly better in a CV and is certainly worth more then "code snippet a for project b under superivison" in terms of experience. 

Have you actually done any of that yet? If so, it might be too late. Consult a lawyer if you have because you could very well be fully liable for that and even face criminal charges (IANAL obviously). If you haven't done any of that yet, you should refuse and find a new job ASAP. I cannot stress enough that under no circumstances should you engage in illegal copyright infringement now or in the future, not even on a direct order of your employer. If you are doing it currently, cease it immediately and consult a lawyer now. 

Whether any or all of these apply is very specific to employment law where you're located, and very dependant on the specific writing of the contract. 

I am from germany. The answer is it is best to not quote at all. In germany the disparity in living costs is quite drastic (going anywhere from 2500eur. /mo rent for a small apartment in or near downtown frankfurt to 250 eur. /mo rent for a big apartment in the middle of nowhere somewhere rural). So it is generally a very good idea to let the employer come up with the first number, and then negotiate from there. 

You should have never done that. Always demand a clear definition of all your job duties and a fair compensation BEFORE you start doing it. 

Senior management is definitely on their side. That means that you won't see senior management pushback for any of this. In fact, they may be welcoming it. (It's also possible they're firing people for cause to avoid paying unemployment to them - not too uncommon). In that case, you can't really do much. Like the other answer suggests you could try to unionize, but that bares the very real risk of them just doing a mass-layoff on the first hint of it. 

Disclaimer: I am from Germany. Your current salary is a protected private information. That means your new employer has no right to know it, and you can lie if they ask it with no legal repercussions. Its in the same category as asking if you have job unrelated chronic diseases or family plans. Furthermore, there is no law governing how much of a salary hike you can get or limiting that. Additional Source (Compilation of case law and interpretation from an attorney's website) [in German] here. 

Not really. You're looking for an internship, nobody sensible expects long winded praises of your achievements in school for that. In fact, if somebody had a really long winded letter, that'd probably be more suspect. There just isn't much to tell about you yet, hence why you want to get an internship. Also, the content of the letter is significantly more important then the length in characters. 

Small companies or companies where IT is only in an auxillary function do that. There are advantages as well as disadvantages to that. 

Thats not a red flag, thats a tower of red flags within an ocean of red flags. Get out yesterday. You really want to be looking for a new job. 

I have two points on this, one from a german perspective, and some advice. In my country, this would be highly illegal and impossible to enforce. You can't do anything like that, lest the company pay for all of it, in advance, without contingencies. Your countries labor laws may vary, drasticly. In the US, for instance, your employer would mostly be well in their rights to sack you for any reason, or no reason. Now, for some advice: Take advantage of this as much as you can. It may seem counterintuitive, but the fact that they will reimburse certification costs are amazing for you, and you should strive to afford as many useful certifications as you can. Its going to make you not only more valueable for this particular company, but also for the next. Thats a great chance to move up the ladder and earn more. 

That depends heavily on the kind of work you do and what you signed when accepting this project. If its a publicly visible project, like a website, most clients probably won't mind you mentioning it, and it would pose no problem to do so. If the project is something more risky, like maybe a specialised app for the financial sector, or maybe something that shuffles patient data in the medical sector, then you may well not be allowed to mention specific details of the project. The same applies if you signed a NDA (non disclosure agreement). For these kinds of work, you can simply list them in the form: 

I'm doing an apprenticeship in germany myself at the moment (also IT) and my advice is: Don't. Find a way to cancel the interview, and try to be more truthful on your resume after you graduate. Its not worth it. 

Continually coasting is dangerous. The company may just decide that you're not worth it anymore and lay you off. If you aren't prepared for this, that can seriously mess with your life. You should either look for a new job or work on finding a way to add value to your current company. It won't last forever and you have to be prepared for when it ends. 

Not necessarily. More responsibility yes, because there are fewer people in development and all bases still need to be covered, but that doesn't imply more pressure. It's entirely possible to be able to set your own deadlines or have a understanding manager in a small company. You also gain a wider range of experience doing this kind of work. 

Its always a value judgement. The value of the experience and not having a gap in your resume versus the value of not having that company on your resume and in your references. There are certain industries and reasons why that might be desireable, for instance if you got fired for cause for stealing or making free with company secrets. Generally speaking having a gap in your resume or declining to comment what you did in that time can hurt your chances, but it will hurt them alot less then to admit you were fired for cause for stealing or in a very public position of a company that spectacularly failed. 

As you said in your comments, merely leaving isn't an option for you. You should still be on the lookout for other opportunities. If one presents itself, don't hesitate to leave this dysfunctional mess. As for covering yourself, document everything. If you had to make a system more unstable due to inane decisions made by your boss, save the emails or make him give the specs to you in writing. Save every last bit of evidence that shows that your boss made the faulty decisions, not you. Make sure you have clear and extensive proof of every unsound technical decisions he's made. Even then it's not guaranteed the higher ups will listen, but it's your only chance if your manager is desperately trying to avoid blame. 

All of these point to that he should ask through the proper channel for this, instead of through you. 

You could tell them to stop it. They could stop it or refuse to. Depending on the laws of your country, you can discipline for not stopping it. Thats about it. Further, we have no idea of what their contracts look like, or where you're from, so thats something you'll have to bring up with HR in your company (if they have one) or possibly a lawyer (if you have to dig into the contracts). But again, only that you "feel" like they're taking an extended break in and of itself isn't a good reason to demoralize and antagonize your employees. If you do something, please only if its actually affecting their performance. 

Do you even know thats the case yet? It could be that they moved him because they have a couple people really sensible to smell there. If it turns out to be an issue, you should mention this in the talk you'll be having with your manager about this. 

We can't give legal advice here, and a lot of what you can do depends on the laws of your country. First off, reading a resignation letter out loud is a horrible breach of trust, and you should absolutely report this incident to HR of the company you resigned from (Make sure to get as much documentation of this IN WRITING before doing that!). If HR isn't cooperative or doesn't see this as a big deal, you should go straight to discussing this issue with a lawyer. In many countrys publishing sensitive information obtained in an assumed-to-be-confidential manner is ridiculously illegal. A lawyer can advise you on this. If the HR department is cooperative you still might want to consult a lawyer, or try to resolve the situation with them amicably. In conclusion, this is definitely not okay. 

No, say something noncomittal like "The employer wasn't a good fit for me and my career". Questions like these in Interviews serve one and only one purpose: To see whether or not you'll badmouth your current employer first chance. Which would be a red flag in the interview. In conclusion: Get out now. When you want help collecting back pay and they make it difficult for you, contact your country's labor board or consult an employment lawyer. Don't try to salvage this. The company has sailed that ship off the coast long ago. 

If your boss said come in casual, come in casual. There is really nothing wrong with following the eqiquette you've been told. If you're unsure, just ask your boss. Coming in overdressed after he told you not to will do more harm then good. 

What are you hoping to gain from this? Unless you're very confident that her boss is actually receptive, not vindictive and would take steps to correct the issue, there is no way this could end positively for you. There are however many ways in which this could be career limiting for you. You may get fired or disciplined. You may never get another raise again. You may get a bad reference or no reference. As unfair as that sounds, its not worth it to rant against your managers. 

You correctly identified the main crux of the issue. Regardless of your intentions, you or anyone you delegate hiring to will have (sometimes unconscious) biases in either direction. Thus a hiring decision you make can never be perfectly equal. You can however take some steps to ensure a relatively unbiased hiring process: 

Your supervisor is using you to commit fraud. You need to immediately extricate yourself from this situation. Do not sign anything. Take the fastest way to HR and explain it to them. The risk to you in this isn't just that you might get fired, this is criminal charges territory. It's not worth it. 

Make the applicant an offer with a very nice desired rate Complete a visa application listing that rate (Higher Salary = Higher chance to get a visa, usually) Wait until it's too late for the applicant to go back. Insert your desired terms into the offer in the knowledge that the applicant has no choice but to accept now. 

You really should take his advice to heart. If there is nothing to do, the best use of your time is to save time for your company in the future by getting up to speed now. There's a reason they don't just put you on cleaning duty or have you file papers all day long. They want you to be ready to be productive and knowledgeable when it will count - when you have work again. If you find just reading / understanding the code to be dull, try to understand it well enough to replicate it for yourself, or try to refactor suboptimal parts of it. If you start doing that, you can even produce value by converting maybe shoddy old code into clean and nice working code. If you find reading framework documentation dull, imagine yourself a task, and solve it using that framework. That way, you'll pick up what you need on the way and it won't be dull. Maybe write some quality of life applications for the office, like an overtime calculator or something of that sort. 

This is going to sound harsh now but you need to let him walk into a wall first. Its not your job to deal with his shortcomings, its the job of his superiors. Be professional about it, but stop giving him the benefit of the doubt, and let your superiors know exactly what causes holdup in the projects you both are working on. Give honest feedback basically. What follows will be one of two things: 

Considering you didn't write the email, but were just CC'd on it, I'd hold off on writing a follow up for now. If the recruiter is interested, they'll contact you (I assume either the resume contains contact data or the recruiter will use the CC'd email). In future, unless you're dealing with references by the friend (these are usually informal) its better to send your CV/Resume yourself, and not have a friend do it for you.