I believe that by offering your peer insight into stakeholders and approaches that you've taken you will help him to feel more confident in doing the same. Encourage him to bring issues to you if he see's them so you can offer insight into tactics for the stakeholder involved. Don't tackle the issue with the stakeholder for him though - if he's the one taking the issues he'll build relationships and confidence and once this has gone on for a while he should be able to come to you less and less. Documentation Suggesting he builds documentation as he learns new parts of the role has the benefit of creating a reference point for him (or future people in this position) as well as helping him to better retain the information. You mentioned you were informally mentoring him also - it may be worth checking if there is anything from a former employee or manager that he can refer to or build upon. 

It's not unusual at all, if anything it's becoming commonplace. If it's not too much effort I would check with them that they're ok with you leaving something on their public profile - just make sure it doesn't sound like you're doing this to seek approval from them and that your intentions are in their interest. When writing your recommendation be sure to avoid company specific topics or sensitive information. Write things regarding their professional manner, for example, something like: 

Phone them Phone calls build relationships! I know you're uncomfortable with calling them because you haven't done so for so long but this is the perfect way to start re-forging a relationship with them. ... and then e-mail a follow up Once you've called him and given him a gentle reminder about the leave approval be sure to follow up from your original e-mail with something like: 

The return is too small for participants There's a lot of great answers here already so I'm not going to write too much. The way I personally view this (as a development manager) is that you are generating a lot of intellectual property for the company without much upside for the participants. Personal recognition is great, but it's not even close to being worth 24 hours of time that I could spend with my family and friends. How would I fix it? Understandably all intellectual property is going to likely be owned by the companies so I would use this as a proving ground for ideas that could then be worked on further on company time. If something is good enough to win, why not give that person the resources to develop the idea further on company time? I'm also in strong agreement with other posters here - 24 hours is a ridiculous ask without fair compensation. 

I have seen this come up with quite frequently in one way or another generally to prove that the potential employee is a legal citizen and able to pay their taxes. That said, something clearly feels wrong about this situation or just this company for you. You should heed that and not ignore it based on the comments of a stranger on the internet! I would reply back to them with something along the lines of: 

Normally, if a payment is made by legitimate mistake, there is a fundamental right to recover the money. But, if the person receiving the money can show that they changed their position detrimentally in reliance on the belief that they were entitled to that money, they have a partial defense and are entitled to keep the money but only to the extent their position changes. An example of this would be if you were denied unemployment benefits because of the extra funds and had to use this money in order to sustain your lifestyle (An Australian example can be found here). That said - wages are a payment for time worked. You have done nothing to earn this money and ethically, and very likely legally speaking you are expected to pay the money back. If this were to go as far as a civil suit you are going to have to try very hard to defend your position. This is going to cost you time and more than likely money and reputation - is it really worth it? You need to accept that they made a mistake in paying you the money and you made a mistake in not questioning the extra funds in your account. I would either pay them back immediately or follow Joe's advice above and arrange a payment schedule. 

If the e-mail is ignored I would probably leave it at that and keep an eye out for future opportunities. Chances are they may already have an applicant in mind for this position, or that the recruiter has been busy and simply forgotten to get back to you. A casual followup shouldn't hurt in this case. 

Answer enough to demonstrate domain knowledge, but do not outline anything that's going to disparage your current company or potentially cost them trade secrets. This extends into future employment with XYZ, should that happen. Although an NDA is only enforceable if the company that you're currently working for can prove a loss why would XYZ ever wish to hire you if you were so willing to give away intellectual property you were meant to guard with your current employer? 

Identify the reasoning behind the change You mentioned that this is your first job out of college so I imagine you're going through quite a significant period of growth. Without knowing the titles you've been assigned I can only assume that they're being revised to cater for the various movements that you're making this early into your career or for changes in company structure. It's possible that these title changes have been made to accommodate your movement within the company or changes within the company itself. Suggest a title you would like to hold If you are approaching a manager stating that you're unhappy with the job titles that you've been cycling through then it's very difficult for them to resolve the matter in a way that satisfies you. You would be best served coming up with an appropriate title that satisfied the majority of your responsibilities and approaching them suggesting that you would be happiest if your title was kept as Position X to accommodate the work that you're doing. Titles DO matter I personally believe that it's a common misconception that title's only matter internally. More and more hiring is being performed through LinkedIn and other networks where an employer will search for or filter candidates by aspects related to their job title. Additionally having "software developer" on a position title sends a totally different message to "software support" - clearly identifying titles will help or hinder you later on. 

It sounds like you and your manager don't see eye to eye on a lot of things so I do feel human resources has done the right thing here in asking you to finish your employment on the same day that they've provided you with your termination notice. They've done the right thing - they're paying you appropriately and although I feel you will disagree, I think it all has been handled quite professionally. Ultimately - you and this company are a bad fit for each other. By the sounds of all of these threads despite your work ability you've made a bad impression quite early on with HR and management. I think engaging a lawyer now is going to be a waste of time and resources. I would instead focus on moving past this and finding a new job. Additionally, I think in your next position you would be much better off taking the time to get the know the personalities and work environment around you before making any complaints - it's quite unsual for somebody on probation to air so many grievances (if any) and it's sounding like a large contributor to why you've had the issues that you have in this last engagement. 

It depends. If you are applying for a larger organization or one with an active Human Resources department you are going to need to be prepared with a statement from a credential evaluation service. The USA doesn't have a central body to recognize international credentials (source) but you are going to be expected to have a statement from one of the many independent credential verification services that verifies your credentials. NACES is the credential verification service I've been most exposed to but given that there are a variety of these you would likely be able to find one more suited to your background. If you would like to look at others you can Google "credential evaluation services in usa". If you are applying to work for a smaller firm/business (such a small development firm) it is more than likely that they won't have these processes in place. Purely having your degree and statement of results on hand should satisfy what they're looking for but having your credentials verified by a third party certainly wouldn't hurt! 

Never just present a problem I took a quick look at your profile and noticed you've been around the StackExchange community for a while. You will undoubtedly have noticed here that the questions which receive the best responses around here are the ones that present the problem and the reasoning that they've taken already in an attempt to answer the question. Work life is just like this. If you are asking a question then you want to be sure to also let them know what you've done to try to answer it yourself already. This benefits you in a number of ways: 

It sounds like the company that you're with funds student work with the grants directly and they are putting minimal funds into these projects yourself. The key here is to network with managers that know and respect you, let them know that you enjoy working there and you want to continue doing so once the grant period is over. There may not be something they can offer you now (or budget for it) but by keeping the lines of communication open you will likely here if something does become available. 

I'm a developer who has developed an idea for my current workplace that I'd like to take a lot further and take to market. The company I work for has no interest or legal way to sell software (we've discussed this before) and I believe it to be in their best interest if I were to further develop the product. I would most certainly be sharing any future updates/revisioning with them at no charge. Before I take the step of approaching any sort of legal advice I'd like to approach the CIO of my employer candidly and discuss this as well as find out their appetite for the idea. My intention is to write a full business analysis of my proposal so the CIO would have a clear understanding of the features that I wish to develop. If they decided that these features are more worthwhile of an internal effort I would instead focus on that and not pursue it as an outside interest, as would be their right and expectation from me as my employer. How should I begin this discussion and is there anything I should be prepared to answer? Is it better left alone entirely given potential legal pitfalls I'm not yet aware of? Finally, ethically is this a bad idea even though through my biased perspective I can see advantages for my employer as well? 

I would think about a professional way to communicate this to him. Potentially I would say something along the lines of: 

If you feel strongly about this then yes, but if you do try to present some solutions to these issues as well. Be sure to keep calm about this situation, don't exaggerate and simply let him know how this is impacting on you. Possible things to suggest to improve upon this would be flexible work arrangements, potentially the ability to work from home one day a week. Maybe a small raise to help off-set the now less desirable situation you find yourself in. Whatever it is, just ensure that you're reasonable about it. Asking to work from home from now on or for an exorbitant raise is a quick way to off-side your manager.