The error is telling you that there's still DNS entries for your dead DC in the domain. Specifically, there's probably still an A record for DOMNAME.A.B that points to the IP of the dead DC. You need to step through the process for completely removing the dead DC from your domain (which is more involved that just turning it off). See here: $URL$ Once you've done that you can probably get through without the error. Note that your replacement DC should have a different name AND IP to the failed DC, ideally. 

I don't know of a specific product that will do this for you, but I can envisage the rough process you'll need to go through: 

The two easiest options I know of: Option 1 Expand the existing subnet to be much larger and accomodate everything. Pro: Real simple Con: Just one broadcast domain You currently have your setup like this: 

Short answer: Neither of them. Long answer: You really need to schedule all experimentation and implementation on test servers, and during scheduled/planned outage periods. This isn't something you can add to production on-the-fly. You can approach NLB a few different ways but here's my suggestion. Allocate: 

I'd recommend spawning your windows 2003 instance inside a VM on your PC first, and playing around with it to figure out how bits and pieces work. If you're anything like me, you'll learn a lot more by prodding around than from reading (although that has its place). The nice thing about a VM is that the install is device-driver-hassle-free, and you can take snapshots before making changes, then roll right back if it all goes pear shaped. The basic server install is pretty much the same as windows xp. Nothing's likely to trip you up there. Careful with your licensing though - A Windows 2003 CAL is not the same as a Windows 2003 server license. A CAL grants you the right to access a server as a client, not the right to install the OS on a server. That said, if your company has an MSDN agreement and you are a developer, you may be licensed for training/development purposes. For a learning resource, technet is the daddy. Your entry point is here: $URL$ 

tcpview is as basic a tool as you'll find, while still retaining some measure of usefulness: $URL$ As for the broader question - You can't break complex troubleshooting down into anything 'dummy proof'. That notion is a bit insulting. 

IMO no, the time/hassle to rebuild a WSUS server is negligable, and it's not a time-critical item that kills you when it's down. If you wany to mitigate the hassle as much as possible, setup client-side targeting via group policy for your workstations/servers. This'll reduce your overall WSUS management overhead as well as making a rebuild pain-free. When you factor in the cost of a SQL backup CAL, or setting it up/maintaining it via a manual method, I really can't find a strong argument to back it up. 

At this point I would suggest that you take a solid backup of everything you have then re-build the SBS from the ground up. You have all your mailbox data and presumably can backup all your file data - An SBS AD structure is typically not massive so it should take under 1 day to set all that back up again. You may be able to recover by removing and re-adding DNS Role on the server but at this point I suspect your troubles run deeper than this. You'll almost certainly need to remove and re-join all of the machines to the domain once more. You can also try a cheat - try adding the domain name to the HOSTS file entry on the SBS, then re-try the /fix process. The issue may be that the server cannot resolve the DNS name of the domain (because DNS is busted!) and this may side-step it. This is a powerful example of why snapshots should never be taken on domain controllers, but that advice is a little bit late for you ;( 

Check that your PDC has a valid external time source. If not, it may be flagging itself as 'unreliable' and clients may back off. Also check that you can run w32tm /stripchard /computer:yourdcnamehere from a client and receive a valid response. Lastly, the domain time sync heirachy isn't consistently documented by microsoft, but I believe your clients will checking in with their logon server for time sync. That may or may not be the PDC depending on your topology. So verify on the clients that doing a echo %logonserver% returns the PDC's name. BTW, as of 2003 and XP, you're dealing with a full NTP implementation rather than the stripped-down 2000-and-earlier SNTP. net time is deprecated and w32tm should be used for configuration. Again, this isn't clearly documented IMO. 

This is not possible using Exchange 2010's Online Archive feature, because a users primary mailbox and archive must reside within the same mail store. You can setup a hokey version by just creating a users secondary mailbox and configuring some rules on their primary mailbox to shuffle mail over there. But it's not a solid solution and you barely get any of the benefits of online archive. 

There are several. For proper analysis you'll want a tool that interfaces with your networking equipment, such as NetFlow Analyzer: $URL$ 

During the migration did you migrate shares from the old server to the new one, or does the new server have the old server's name and share configuration? Quite often there are references left behind that refer back to the old server name (in office file metadata, and offline files to name a couple). If that network name is not available, lookups can stall for a couple of seconds. You can test this quite quickly by adding a hosts file entry for the old server's name, pointing to the new server's IP address. If this resolves the issue, you know where the problem lies and can start to dig out those references. 

Unfortunately there is no way to accomplish this, unless it's catered for as a feature of the particular games you're running. Your choices are to either bind a separate public IP to each different instance of the same game (which isn't an option if you only hold a single public IP), or specify the port number when you tell people about the server. There's a workaround for this when dealing with HTTP traffic, but that only works because a connecting client talks to the server and provides information to the server about what it thinks it's trying to connect to (ie it tells the server it's connecting to what DNS name it's trying to reach, when it connects). This allows the server to make a choice about what content to serve to the client. However, it doesn't bump anything to a different port. 

Can you select multiple files when you're browsing for files to restore? Just Shift-Click or CTRL-click the files to select more than one. 

It looks like you've defined the group policy objects settings in the 'User' tree, but are trying to apply it on an OU that contains computer objects. GPOs won't work this way. See the part of the GPO report that says this: 

LG are doing some very cheap LED-backlit monitors at the moment, and the viewing angles appear to be excellent. I'll try spinning one and let you know the model number if it looks good. I also found that running f.lux highlights the problem much more on panels with bad viewing angles. We run some nice dell units with swivel stands, but they look terrible when rotated. 

Super basic solution: You can configure your DNS entries for the website using DNS Round Robin to point to multiple host IPs. Raise a seperate elastic IP for each front-end instance. On the DNS side, it's just a case of adding a second entry for the same hostname, with the alternative IP. Set the TTL on each entry quite low (5-60 seconds). More info here: $URL$ 

Truecrypt has a recovery disk option, which it all-but forces you to complete before encrypting the disk. That CD can be used to recover the partition even if the password has subsequently been changed. Outside of this if you're after a more robust and enterprise-ready solution, PointSec offer full-disk encryption with administrative recovery abilities. 

I'm a bit rusty on Exchange 2007 admin so forgive me if I'm a bit vague: This often happens if someone's mail account is set to forward all of their mail to a third party. Check each mail account for forwarding rules on the server and client. I believe it's also possible to delegate meeting room managers, who will receive meeting invites if the rooms they 'own' are booked. You may also want to check to see if a resource was booked and if so, whether anyone is setup to manage that resource.