Aluminium coating is a relatively recent process - it became available around the 1920s or 1930s. The Hale telescope arrived just in time to take advantage of this new technology. (It requires a reasonably good vacuum to work, which probably explains why it took a while to come along.) Before that - around the mid-1800s - various chemical "silvering" processes, usually involving real silver, were used. These weren't ideal as silver tarnished over time - the silver literally oxidised on exposure to air. (Aluminium also reacts with air, but forms a thin oxide layer which doesn't harm the image and prevents further oxidation.) Also some of these silvering processes were either toxic or explosive in application... Before that - the first telescope mirrors were made of metal that was cast and ground to the required curve then highly polished. The material was "Speculum" a copper-tin alloy. They were poor in quality; far less reflective than later mirrors. This account gives a nice description of casting mirrors for the Parsonstown telescope using over a ton of molten metal. Two mirrors were necessary for the larger telescopes because the mirror in use had to be taken out and re-polished so often... 

This isn't relevant. Regardless of any "clock" running locally on the photon, it is still travelling for a long time (in our frame of reference) to reach its target (our telescope). In fact if this paradox were so, it would be impossible to see anything. If say a distant probe transmits a radio signal to us, travelling for an hour or more at the speed of light, our radio receiver would have to be switched on ready to receive long before the message reached it. Again, not true. So, there simply isn't a paradox. 

Anyway, in summary my guess is changing the eyepieces straight away won't make a dramatic difference. Eyepiece makers will say otherwise of course :) 

Star S2 reaches maximum velocities of 5,000 km/s according to this ESO page. The orbital period is given as a little over 15 years and this paper gives a peri-center (closest approach to the black hole) of 17 light hours. There's another star in the area called S0-102 which has a shorter period, but its orbit is less eccentric - so its closest approach to the black hole is further out at 36 light hours. Its maximum velocity will probably be less than S2 but I haven't been able to find a figure. 

Your First Question - Can it be done from the ground? Unfortunately making maps that have this level of detail from the ground is not possible with current telescopes. There are 2 problems; first, it takes a lot of magnification to resolve Pluto and even more to resolve surface features. Second, from the ground you need more than just magnification, you need EXTREMELY stable skies or that will wash out the surface features. Getting just one super sharp image is not enough, you need several to ensure that you have high enough signal to noise to believe the surface features are real. This is why Marc Buie, who used the High Resolution Channel on the Advanced Camera for Surveys on HST to create the image you put in your question. Unfortunately, even that level of resolution is not possible anymore as HRC is no longer functional. These kind of maps can be very hard to make. There have been other maps of pluto, both from the ground and using HST. Here is a compilation of several using a compilation of ground based photometry, the Fine Optical Camera on HST and the ACS HRC. As you can see from the ground based photometry you can make a map, but it is very poor resolution compared to what HST can do. 

There have been other HST press releases about those other images Second Question - How well do the maps match? There is a good blog post about how they match up from the museum of applied arts and sciences at the Sydney Observatory. But the bottom line is that they match up pretty well, but not perfectly. This is expected as we expected volitle transport on the surface so the surface features will change. As you can see in the image below, that there were a lot of changes from the map made in 1994 to the one made in 2003. So one would expect changes going out to 2015. 

WFRIST/AFTA is probably the closest thing to Hubble that is going up. It has a similar 2.4 meter mirror will perform wide-field imaging and surveys of the near infrared. It will have a Wide Field Instrument (WFI) which operates in the 0.7 - 2.0 micron range as well as a Coronagraphic Instrument (CGI) which operates in the 0.4 - 1.0 micron range. Since most of the telescope hardware (called AFTA (Astrophysics-Focused Telescope Assets)) was donated by the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) to NASA, a lot of the telescope hardware already exists and does not need to be built so it's likely to be a 'quickly built' mission. 

If this worked, then you can get a T-threaded extension tube to go on the back of your current adapter, to hold the camera in position. See for example this link: $URL$ 

It's not possible I'm afraid. Optical wavelengths (light) are typically of a wavelength under a micron, and an optical surface needs to be accurate to this level or better to be useful. Radio wavelengths are typically 10-20cm or longer, and an adequate reflector can be made with surfaces accurate to a few centimetres (at a guess as I don't know the exact tolerance). Also - I once experimented using a frequently mentioned substitute, a convex shaving mirror(!) as a reflecting telescope. Even that was so poor it was unusable at the lowest possible magnification. (But it is possible to make your own reflector out of reasonably stable glass - it just won't be as big as a satellite dish! Search around for "Amateur telescope making".) 

The telescope has a round aperture (of say 60mm or so) and this behaves as a slit in some ways. It causes diffraction patterns (an Airy disc and concentric circles) when viewing a point source at high magnifications, near the resolution limit of the telescope. Also of slightly out of focus you'll get lots of rings. (By the way this the cause of many "weird" unidentified objects that people photograph or film in the sky; especially a DV camera with odd shaped aperture blades. Surprisingly few people want to hear the explanation though.) So when viewing stars at high-ish power, on very still nights, they actually look like a small white circle surrounded by a single, very thin, circular ring. 

You already have an answer but there are a few interesting Physics things in your question that are linked: 

It was the first thing I thought too, but I would say it won't count in the statistics. The earlier paper by Batygin & Brown was talking about bodies orbiting further out. 2015 RR245 orbits between 33.7 and 129 AU. The "cluster" of bodies considered in the paper have aphelion distances from 150 AU upwards. So I think it would be a mistake to try and fit this new body into the existing figures. 

Your barlow is marked "2x" but I'll bet it isn't. How is your camera mounted on the barlow? More importantly, what distance is between the camera's focal plane and the barlow? An experiment to try (or at least to think about). Get an eyepiece extension tube (or improvise something) and put it between the camera and barlow, increasing the spacing. You will have to refocus a bit and you will get a different (I guess bigger) image size, even though the barlow is still "2x". To get an exact "2x" barlow you might need a particular spacing, and eyepieces are normally closer to the eyepiece than cameras because of the extra bulk of the camera. (I think this is the most likely cause of your discrepancy; your camera is currently mounted further back than an eyepiece would be so projection is making the image larger.) A second experiment to try: without the barlow, photograph the moon and see how close you get to its expected size. If it's close, then our assumptions about the barlow are in question. Third thing to try: are you absolutely sure about the distance from Earth to Jupiter? (It's probably OK but I'm always suspicious about online calculators.)