Quite possibly for procedural reasons. There are a lot of little nits about parliamentary procedures that encourage weird things like this. For instance, under the older Roberts Rules of Order extant at the time, a motion to reconsider could only be made by someone who voted on the prevailing side in the previous vote. So if there's a chance the vote might fail, it pays to have at least one supporter actually vote against it so that they can put forward the motion to reconsider. I understand that usually it is the Speaker (or in the senate the Majority Leader) who casts this vote against, but if he wasn't there at the time (as your note implies), it makes sense that some other supporter would step up and do it. After looking over @twosheds' answer, I think he probably has the right of it. But I still think there's an important general point in here: That votes on parliamentary procedural motions like motions to reconsider, motions to stop debate, motions to amend, etc., are not and should not be seen as equivalent to a vote on the entire measure. I know it has become fashionable these days to rag on representatives who "vote for it before they vote against it", but things like this are part of the process, and it doesn't work nearly as well without them. 

There are several meanings for "white plague", but the only one I've found that makes sense in this context is as a synonym for Tuberculosis (and some similar diseases that make the afflicted pale). The first vaccine for TB was used on humans during Wilson's tenure, so quite likely that (or some competing remedy) is what they are referring to. 

Its very good question, since Americans in the 1850's were asking the exact some question as well! As it turns out, there was a Supreme Court ruling on the issue in 1857: The Dred Scott case. The answer was "No". Not even free blacks were allowed protection under the Constitution. 

He was a progressive liberal, at a time when a very large and influential part of the party (the Solid South) was very conservative. So was FDR of course, but as the holder of the White House they couldn't really attack him. He was a Theosophist (sort of the era's equivalent of New Age philosophy), which to them made him look both unchristian and flat out loopy. Only a decade earlier he had been a Republican. He probably only changed parties because of his position in the Roosevelt administration, not due to any political change of heart. 

Generally, I believe the best place to find old copies of city newspapers is in the archives of the city in question's Public Library. I know mine has every back issue of the two major local papers (at one time we had two) on microfiche, and perhaps in more modern forms now as well. So I'd think the best place to look would be the Richmond Public Library. Rather than waste a lot of time spelunking on their website, I'd get their phone number and talk to a librarian there directly. Tell them what you are looking for. Finding information is their full-time job, and they are way better and faster at it than you or I will ever be. 

While I'm not an expert on literary analysis, I highly suspect The Epic of Gilgamesh is going to be the one we have the oldest evidence of. Its a very wide ranging story, but the hero Gilgamesh does go on a journey, and return to his home in Uruk at the end. At the beginning, he's a bit of a tyrant, while at the end he's been humbled by loss, and expresses appreciation for the works of Uruk. Some of the tablets we have of it date back to the 22nd Century BC. At that time, the only other places we know for sure even had writing yet were Egypt, Elam, and the Indus Valley. 

Ummm..no. As a bit of background, Glass Steagall was passed in the wake of the Great Depression to prevent commercial banks, or entities affiliated with commercial banks, from speculating in securities. This was viewed as a cause for the financial bubble that kicked off the crash of 1929. Investigations found that banks were doing a lot of underwriting of bad loans, and then pooling them into financial instruments*. Afterwards a bank could be a commercial bank or an investment bank, but not both. Glass Steagall's "Affiliation provisions" were repealed in 1999 (although to be fair it was being loosely interpreted and worked around as early as the '60's). The Housing Bubble whose burst was depicted in The Big Short, complete with underwriting of bad home loans and pooling them into financial instruments started in ... 1999. Call it a coincidence if you want. 

Colin McEvedy argued in his Penguin Atlas of Medieval History that conversion was a good political move for the Franks. The thing you have to realize about France is that even though it was essentially conquered by the Franks (Germans), they were never much more than a ruling class. The common people continued to speak Latin, which over the millennium slowly became the language we today call French. We can assume they would have been inclined to keep other aspects of their culture too, and that includes their religious beliefs. At this time most of the larger German tribes had converted too, but they generally would convert to the heretical version called Arianism*. This conveniently allowed them to call themselves Christian, but without acknowledging the authority of the Pope. Colin's argument was that by converting to the standard version of the faith, the Franks were able to better appeal to their subjects, the common people of France, as their protectors. This would have strengthened their grassroots political support. * - No this has nothing to do with Nazi "Aryiansim". It was a minor difference over the mechanics of the Trinity, which ended up being far more important politically than theologically. 

Wikipedia seems to be saying that that entire area up to the Euphrates is considered part of Syria (or "Greater Syria" if you prefer). You are correct that the English name for this particular desert (and only that desert), is "The Syrian Desert". Historically anywhere that is mostly uninhabited is going to have fairly vague political boundaries. If there's almost nobody living there, its going to be a waste of manpower to send armies there to enforce your political will on what few inhabitants there are, and most governmental amenities would be prohibitive to provide. It is possession of the bits on either side that matters, not the desert in-between. In many cases, its nice to have a bit of a buffer area between the two. The Bible tended to refer to any area that wasn't inhabited by farming peoples as "the wilderness" (depending on your translation). 

Actually, I don't think there's ever been a very long period in Indian history where the country was united and was undergoing no civil wars. Just since the end of the British era, there's been the Pakastani partition (a civil war/diplomatic war/war that eventually split the country in two, or three depending on how you count), the Tamil rebellion, and a more or less continuous ongoing low-level rebellion in Kashmir. 

While wating for a Japanese perspective here, here's an American's. They do still seem to be a wee bit sore about the whole thing. I've noticed it appears to be a popular belief among the Japanese that the bombings were unnesscary. Whatever your opinion about this as a historical theory (a topic for another question, please), it does happen to be the position you'd need to take if you were in their shoes and wanted to be upset with the USA over it. Note this goes both ways though. Our WWII generation is dying off now, but they've been the opinion setters for quite a while in this country. Being an ally with the same folks who slaughtered your brothers in Guadalcanal isn't easy. At this point it seems to me the A-bombings are kind of like having a political difference with a cousin that you have to eat dinner with on holidays. We both know its there, but peace in the family is important, so both sides try very hard to avoid the topic. It probably helps a lot that Japanese culture favors being very oblique about difficult topics, while USA culture is so blunt that such sublteties are generally lost on us. For example, ever seen a Japanese monster movie? You know the ones where some kind of nuclear thing (usually done by the USA) creates a gaint monster that destroys Japanese cities? Guess what those are really about. Its probably rather disturbing to the Japanese how much we in the USA enjoy them.