A simple grip exercise is to grab a dumbbell or a weight plate and hold it until you can't any more. The setup is important, as you need to use a pinch grip rather than wrapping your fingers around the edges. If you have a hex dumbbell: 

Exercise is a specific thing, what you work on will be what gets stronger. More importantly, whether you specialize in endurance vs. power output also affects how your body adapts. For example, endurance would be running a marathon and power output would be sprinting in the context of your question. The only way to build muscle is to give it work that is more than it is used to. Your body will respond to prepare itself for that level of work. This is why, especially in the beginning, you will need to keep increasing the amount of work your body needs to do. This is a fundamental principle in strength based exercises, whether you lift weights or perform body weight exercises. The problem with running is that it is very good at burning fat, and most people who run specialize in endurance. That means you won't be getting significantly stronger, and your upper body won't be getting much work at all. In short, the amount of muscle build will be in your legs and won't amount to the 8kg body weight you want. Resistance training is where you will get the most bang for your buck so to speak. If you have a weight set at home, then I highly recommend getting the book "Starting Strength" by Mark Rippetoe and Dr. Kilgore. It covers proper technique (no need for a trainer), as well as how the exercises work the muscles in your body. The routine outlined in that book will make you strong, which in turn will help you gain the weight you want. If you do any type of running (a form of conditioning), then I highly recommend specializing in sprints or interval training as it complements the type of energy use that your body is working for with resistance training. 

I did a little searching and found both some recommendations and some counter arguments. The general opinion is that you get what you pay for. So first a thread covering the recommendations. The most recommendations I saw were for single prong Inzer belts, and nothing on whether it should be the same all the way around or wider in the back. However, the counterpoint is also worth looking into. Essentially the points put forward by Stuart McGill are that belts don't help unless: 

By the description, it sounds like it could have been the second option, but perhaps with a bit of the first. It's common to accompany potatoes with a fat, like butter or sour cream, and that helps to diminish the effect of the insulin spike. The fat acts as a binder to make the carbs release slower in the system. However, if the potatoes, or more likely the corn starch didn't sit well in your wife's stomach--particularly if you haven't been eating that way for a while--it's probably got a more basic reaction to the food. 

There can be no blanket answer to this question as there is quite a difference among available cheeses. Cheap American cheese (the processed kind) are not made with any kind of milk, and are a based instead on oil. When the cheese melts, it separates and becomes greasy. When it returns to a solid, the texture of the "cheese" is more like plastic than anything good. However this class of cheese also does not have any redeeming value--it's high in sodium, no calcium, and essentially no protein either. Some cheeses do not fundamentally change when heated past its melting point, such as a good goat/chevre style cheese. These cheeses usually have a fairly low melting point, and retain their properties when they return to solid form. There will be little difference between melted and solid forms of this cheese. Plenty of protein, based on milk, has calcium, as well as the fats. Some cheeses have carb content (sugar), but most don't. Other cheeses have high melting points, such as a Parmesan cheese. These tend to retain their form very well and have very little change due to heat--even less change than the softer, lower melting point cheeses. These cheeses have plenty of protein and not quite as much fat as the softer cheeses. Even these guidelines are broad sweeping generalities. You'll find cheeses that live somewhere in between the general classes I listed here. If the starting cheese is bad for you (processed cheese product) the melted variation isn't going to be any better. Heat can be a destructive force, but even cooking eggs doesn't significantly change the protein content of the egg. The same principle applies to cheeses. Typically in cooking, the structure of the proteins will change somewhat. This is why cooked chicken is white and firm instead of pink and spongy. Due to the relatively high fat content of most cheeses, the protein isn't in high enough concentration to really have a substantial change in configuration. It's unclear to me whether the cooking destroys some proteins or simply reconfigures it at the molecular level. All I know is that there is a change. 

Without those bare minimums, your body runs the risk of going into metabolic shutdown. Practically, that means no more fat loss, and you run the risk of burning your muscles and organs for energy. Those goals are easy to accomplish when you are only trying to lose 1-2 lbs a week. Some of that initial weight loss was water weight, some was fat, but some could also be lean mass and that's where the danger lies. Again, 1 week isn't going to cause major lasting damage, but prolonged periods like that can cause other problems. My suggestion is this: 

While cutting carbs is a good start, you do have to be smart about it. Basically your body pulls energy from three major stores: 

Only one of those pathways uses oxygen. It should be noted that the metabolic pathways are listed in order of the amount of Calories burned for that type of activity. While aerobic activity burns a higher percentage of fat during activity, the energy demands are fairly low and there is no "afterburn" associated with that activity. It should also be noted that the metabolic pathways are cumulative. You are still operating oxidatively even when you are predominantly operating in the glycolytic manner. The anaerobic pathways, while they burn more carbs immediately, they also require more Calories. When you finally come to rest, the body has to replenish the energy from somewhere. In the absence of food, this means the body has to burn fat to create glycogen--which is what the "afterburn" of high intensity interval training comes from. 

It's best to get 8 hours sleep a night, and having consistent times you go to bed and wake up help that happen. 

It is very important to understand that it takes a tremendous amount of energy to generate new muscle. Additionally the type of muscle you build depends on the type of training you do. So the answer to your question is "yes" you need to increase your calories, and your training. Both by experience, and by anecdotal evidence, if you want to increase the size of your muscles, you need to increase the volume of your training. While there is truth to the hypertrophy ranges (sets of 8-12 reps), you'll need more variation than that. Here are some training related pointers: 

The yoga/body balance is much slower. While it doesn't have the same Calorie burning potential as the circuit training, it does improve your core strength, mobility, and stability. Food Planning You should have 3 Calorie targets: your off day, your yoga/body balance day, and your circuit training day. Your off day will have the deepest Caloric deficit, perhaps 20-30% lower than your normal Caloric requirements. Your yoga/body balance will have a slightly lower deficit, perhaps 5-10% lower than normal. The circuit training will have a 5% Caloric surplus, i.e. more than required for maintenance. Because Caloric deficits can leave your body wanting lots of food, you should focus on foods that leave you full longer. These will be foods that are high in protein and fat. Do make sure you have your vegetables every day--preferably a healthy portion of green vegetables. On the days where you can have more food, increase the carbohydrates--particularly on circuit training days. The purpose of the Calorie cycling is to match your energy intake with the time you need it. It's also important to not overeat, so play with the exact balance of everything to make it work for you. Macro Requirements based on your training: 

All those activities can be done with any diet you have, and minimizes your exposure to most known xenoestrogens. 

With sufficient weight and long enough sets, you should feel it in your chest. In fact, when you get closer to failure you'll feel it more in your chest as you struggle to keep the dumbbells from becoming a chest fly negative. I've used 75lbs for sets of 20 and definitely felt it both in the triceps and the chest. Some of where you feel an exercise might just be where you are weakest at the time. If you feel it more in your lats at the moment, that's because your lats need to be made stronger to support reversing the dumbbells from the bottom position. As you progress or add other assistance work you may find you never feel it in your lats anymore.