You can't actually revoke USAGE, without dropping the user.USAGE is a global level privilege. have a look at This Link. 

I don't have changed anything in my.cnf.I don't know how it get crashed. How can i recover it ... Content of error log are as 

I can increase the value of accordingly. I will first test how much time DELETE with LIMIT 5000 takes if it is Ok (Means executes in 1-3 seconds and Slaves are also Ok), I can increase DELETE LIMIT to 10000, If it is also Ok , I can increase some more. Table Structure of huge table 

Create index on and then check the Explain Plan.The query should user this newly created index. You can also drop index (,) if you are not using it some where else. 

When you install MySQL from binaries you need to create mysql group and user. The apt installation of the MySQL package on linux itself creates a mysql user and a group of the same name. While installing MySQL from binaries It s required for security reasons. You want to give a permission to user which will use the . And you also give the permission on i.e which is default in , because your database files are stored there by default. 

I have 170GB of index and Data. I have to readjust the innodb_buffer_pool size for better performance.The Max table size of a InnoDB table(Index+data) is 28GB. So what should be the optimal size of innodb_buffer_pool. UPDATE we are going to migrate our this local database to ec2 so will set the RAM according to the current statistics of innodb that's why i need the size of buffer pool so we can have available RAM there. File Per table is enabled. I am using Linux machine. 

LIMIT will return after th records but it looks like you didn't have which satisfy your where clause condition. You can find no. of records which satisfy your where clause using this query 

If you don't have backup. I think the recommended way to recover that databases is start MySQL with innodb_force_recovery = 4 (or higher values) and dump the databases to a SQL.Then drop it and recover from backup. Instead of dropping the original database I prefer to create the new databases with another name or in another server and check the content first. STEPS TO BE FOLLOWED 

A file of 4 MB should not take 4 minutes to insert.I see your table have InnoDB engine. I hope you first need to optimize basic InnoDB settings for that please have a look at Innodb Performance Optimization Basics Now How to speed up InnoDB Inserts There's an entire document dedicated to bulk loading data into InnoDB. The main points: 

If you will always have two records corresponding to each id then you can use query below. If there is some other constraint please update that in your question 

Key Buffer Used Find value of key_buffer_size as convert it into MB. Find the All MyISAM index Size : 

What may the issue behind this.? when I created a table with the same structure as this table and inserted the record then the select query is showing result OK. 

Whatever you are trying to do can easily be done by USING ON DELETE CASCADE AND ON UPDATE CASCADE(IF Required) While creating the foreign keys on your table. For your reference have a look at FOREIGN KEY Constraints. 

This is nothing but a folder/file in database directory. The default location for data directory is on ubuntu.Go to that location() and find what is there in that folder if it not your database please move that to some another place. If you need to find the location of data directory issue command on MySQL shell 

I have a Production server On November 5,2011 the ibdata size was 100G. In Approximate 3 months it is increased to 200G.So it has just doubled its size.So it is a Huge Data.Currently lvm is 251G. I Have approximately all tables with Innodb.I am not using innodb per table. I have my idbata on lvm.So How much i should increase it for future use..? Or any other Best way to Handle the Scenario. 

As you have in your tables so you can't go with partitioning directly.As Partitioning does not support foreign keys in MySQL. You may go with partitioning but then you will have to create the work around for that.you have to ensure your integrity by using triggers for (INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE) on tables. i.e Insert into the Child table will only be allowed if the corresponding record exist in Parent table. You have to maintain all these integrity(INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE) by using triggers. Then you can create the partitioning on table's on a quarter basis and then drop the partition. for creating the .sql files you may use clause with it will create the backup in . file format. You can also create the csv's for your old data for the future reference. 

using with will generate the dump without the data. if you want only data dump do as(It will not contain the create statements) 

I have to investigate a MySQL Production server,While investigating I found a query in which was taking more than 400 second in state, I tried to find the query in slow log but i was unable to find the query in slow log. 

In my opinion your sql file contains the statement And have not the permissions to create that database.So generate the dump without the create database statement. Or comment it out in your sql file use for commenting a line in sql file. 

but while selecting the result i am getting invalid output. where budgetID is Primay key bigint and StartDate is datetime and modifiedBy bigint. AND 

If you only want to listen MySQL connections only using socket add a line in my.cnf and restart MySQL server. 

where is file which contains your table structure and data being inserted to it.For various other options of use If you only wants the structure of your tables then write Command as 

From MySQL Documentation on Stored Routine Syntax When the routine is invoked, an implicit USE db_name is performed (and undone when the routine terminates). USE statements within stored routines are not permitted If you need to query tables from other databases you can do it like DBName.TableName. and you can change DBName dynamically. 

What I understand from your question I am answering on that basis. If you want database dump use client utility.You can Execute it as 

I have a correlated sub query, which is taking 16 Minutes to execute how can i convert it to join or optimize it. 

Take these some points in your consideration they may help you in case of generating the dump and restoring it. 

Can Anybody please tell How to handle the Scenario.It is on one of the Production Server. EDIT RAM is of 7GB. And InnoDB Configuration in my.cnf are 

and now when i want to acess it in the MySQL Shell see the result(The world.res is created as #mysql50#world.res by itself. ) 

Use in dumps. Dump with format so you can use , which is faster than . Import with multiple threads, one for each table. Use a different database engine if possible. importing into a heavily transactional engine like innodb is awfully slow. Inserting into a non-transactional engine like MyISAM is much much faster. Turn off foreign key checks and turn on auto-commit. If you are importing to innodb the single most effective thing you can do is to put in your my.cnf, temporarily while the import is running. you can put it back to 1 if you need ACID 

If you face the above error set to some higher value. Otherwise in my opinion increasing it to some higher value will not allow you to quickly load a 700MB file. 

I have tried a lot of indexes on table but nothing is being used , its killing the complete server , query is even not able to complete in 10 mins Below is the table structure for even I tried with MEMORY engine as well. 

I have installed MySQL 5.7.20 on CentOS 7.4 , I see the mysql service is getting stopped automatically every 2 -3 minutes , I am able to start in manually and again it gets stopped every 2-3 minute. 

For your reference i am trying to explain some concepts also. Key hit rate There are basically two forms of key hit rate 1.Key Read Efficiency 

If a procedure is taking more time than slow log time it should be logged into slow log as , But this is not happening there is no call statement in slow log why ? Why the query is spending a huge amount of time in preparing state ? From General Thread States I found the definition of stated as 

Restore the data in table and find out index_length for MyISAM table and set the Key_Buffer_size accordingly. See How to set Key Buffer Size. 

For this you need to grant select permission to user (MySQL User) on that particular column of table. 

I have 3 MySQL servers say A,B,C. What I want to do is that I want to make all of them master as well as slave.If there is update on any of the MySQL Servers it should be replicated to all of the Servers. I have studied about the circular replication and found it can be implemented with it. Can anybody please give me all the steps to accomplish the Replication as stated between three servers. One More Point i want to ignore some of the tables from a database also. Also What are caveats of this type of replication?