Good answers/anecdotes thus far. I find this interesting and asked an avian specialist about this. In addition to most of what has already been said (that crows have more time, necessity, and better vantage points to observe us), they emphasized a point Erik briefly touched on - their sneakiness: Crows are not easy to differentiate, even if we do watch them. If you spend time watching pidgins like crows do watching us, you as a human will become very good at differentiating between the pidgins. Crows however will be more difficult to differentiate between, especially if they aren't trying to become known to you. This has to do with their physique, cleverness at being covert, and of course their flight makes it easier for them to both watch as well as evade us. 

The person who told me about this claimed the tick's mouthpart is a corkscrew and this method literally unscrews them, with the soap lubricating, cleaning, and motivating them to release their hold on you. As I said, this worked for me. This person also recommended using a home-made vinegar-based repellent which worked wonders for me, far better than DEET or Permithrin products. 

To reiterate: what equipments and habits are common through times and places among scouts and people exploring frontiers, journeying through the Great Outdoors? 

Scouts, messengers, pioneers exploring the frontiers of civilization - images of these sorts of characters paints an ancient archetype, one that I think could be useful to understand in present times. There may even be similar characters today. I'm hard pressed to find good information about these types of characters who scout out terrain, more specifically: what did their equipment and habits look like in their adventures? To clarify my search: I'm trying to figure out the general pattern of equipment and habits (ways of life) among the characters I listed above. Who are those characters specifically: could be American frontier explorers (e.g. James Beckwourth or Hugh Glass) or mountain men, a per-Columbian Mesoamerican scout, perhaps even a messenger of civilizations past (I am especially interested in those traveling in uncharted terrain, so the messenger archetype may be less relevant given the use of roads, maps, and potentially backup and support en route). Military examples which focus on more than just an individual or small group aren't relevant to this question in that they apply much less to civilian interactions with the Great Outdoors. I realize this varies by place & time, and that this may be better fit for history. To clear that up: I am interested in overall patterns, so specifics of a certain time/place are helpful but specifics from multiple times/places and comparisons thereof are even better. Since I am trying to extrapolate this to the present, to learn lessons about how I can prepare for and interact with the Great Outdoors today and in the future, I see this as relevant to TGO.SE. A comparison of past examples of gear/practices to modern equivalents is very welcome. There may be modern examples that could help answer my question too (e.g. if we look into the lives of relatively modern vagabonds or wilderness backpackers). In case this is too broad, as if a book could be written about it: answers of books or resources already written about this are much help! So far, a lot of looking yields only small tidbits of info here and there, so I could use a well-marked trail to clarity by someone who has tried to answer this before. 

By puncturing the cambium of the tree with bullets you are on the way to girdling it. Girdling a tree happens when enough of the circumference of the tree has been damaged just beneath the bark so as to interrupt water and nutrient flow, effectively strangling the tree. This is a slow death. In most cases small punctures and bark damage can be healed over by healthy trees, but larger openings increase stress and risk of infection for the tree, reducing its chances of survival. Depending on what you're adding to the environment when firing off each round, you could be exposing the tree and its neighbors to toxins like heavy metals. Unless you're shooting a lot and at the same spot I don't think there would be very much buildup, but there is not a clear threshold as to what is acceptable and what is not. How poisonous something is generally depends on dose and the digester. On the one hand you can be pretty confident adding plastic and brass shells and casings, along with metal fragments, into the area and trees themselves will not help life there. Plants are not deficient in those kind of nutrients, so even a little is probably not a good thing. On the other hand, sport shooting is an outdoor sport, and the time you spend outside can go in tandem with stewardship of the area. These two things - sport shooting and stewarding the area you enjoy sporting in - are orthogonal to each other in that one doesn't rely on the other. Our relationships with the woods are complex. Also, on note of our relationships with the woods: keep in mind sawmills don't want trees with bullets in them as it can damage their saws. So if there is forestry done in an area, be mindful of that and try not to shoot the trees! I'd say same goes in a maple syrup tapping area. Lastly, as a firearms safety measure, it is a good idea not to shoot into trees and instead pick a bulletproof backstop. For example a dirt mound larger than your target area is much safer than a tree, because you can be more confident your accurate or stray bullets will not go beyond the area you're observing and aiming at. Shooting at a tree, a bullet can easily miss the tree - are you paying attention to what's beyond it? Also, after enough shots, eventually your bullets will start going through the tree - can you see what's behind it? TL;DR: My suggestion would be: Research the materials you're adding to your local environment, where they come from and what happens to them over time. Follow your gut, heck even ask the forest and see what your intuition tells you. And of course, stay within the bounds of smart firearm safety, which I think draws the line in this case and demands that you setup a more short-term failsafe target. 

In various sports and even day-to-day life, breathing techniques make a difference in performance. Generally, you want to breathe in your nose and out your mouth, and breathe deeply, steadily, and with your breathing muscles relaxed. Deep, steady, relaxed breathing can be especially difficult during exercise. You may need to adapt your rate of breathing depending on your activity level. Nonetheless if you can breathe deeply and steadily (rhythmically) that will help maintain performance and stay relaxed. It is important not to hold your breath because you put a lot of strain on yourself that way, and you can injure yourself more easily. Regarding particularly strenuous movements when you really have to haul your weight around, Ben C. noted the torso tension that can naturally be produced in weight lifting by holding one's breath, but weight lifters will also train to breathe through lifts for the sake of their long-term health and performance. One way to achieve the positives of both regularly breathing + holding your breath is to time your motions with your exhale or inhale. This is common in martial arts and yogas. You can familiarize yourself with controlled breathing by practicing it with push-ups or other simple movements. Here's an example routine: 

This is one of those "it depends" answers. Based on my experience growing up in-part in America, with other Americans, going to camp: Size matters. Very big camps end up breaking people out in small groups, and the small groups (and entire large group) may not have award ceremonies. Setting matters. Is this a day camp or a sleep-away camp? How long have campers attended? What age are campers? What activities do they do? How diverse are camper demographics? These sorts of things shape the ceremony, including whether or not parents attend. In my experiences, parents are not invited during the ceremony - aside from maybe one specified visiting day and drop-off/pick-up day, and phone or mail contact as needed, parents let kids stay at camp on their own to gain some sense of independence there. 

In this case I think local knowledge, or Traditional Ecological Knowledge, gained over time through the science of experience, is very valuable in your search. Your father had a way which worked to tell if the ice is safe, where did he learn that from? Do others in your area have similar methods which could be passed unto you? For example, it sounds like using a weak point on a larger lake as a reference could indicate if the smaller lakes are safe. That could be sensible if the reference point was an over-cautious indicator of the conditions needed for the smaller lakes to be safe. Others may use other indicators - X amount of days below 0 degrees, some combination of temperature and precipitation, etc. but it depends on the location and environmental features. Thus, I'd say your best bet is to refer to local knowledge on what indicators are reliable for your area. 

A specific example of how this would be applied in tougher hikes: As you begin and work through the hike, maintain a rhythmic, deep breath that uses your entire lungs, from chest to belly. When you move in a way that takes extra 'umph', make sure you synchronize the movement with a strong exhale or inhale. You should do this for all movements if possible (e.g. synchronizing a set of X amount of steps with each breath) but especially for moves that take extra energy or courage. You would begin a movement with eg. inhaling - a moment after your inhale begins you would begin the movement - with the inhale and the intended movement completing around the same time. Throughout the hike, try to keep steady breathing that uses your entire lungs (and accordingly, you'll need steady or smooth movements to match that). You'll find you need to keep your body more relaxed and your motions more rhythmic. The 'relaxed' part is probably the most difficult, because you may tend to tense up muscles in use and put more strain than needed on the main muscle you're using. A key to relaxing is putting minimal tension on muscles - only enough to do what needs to be done - and also working with your entire body to make efficient, balanced movements to 'distribute' muscle tension and keep you most relaxed overall. To do this, try to pay attention to your muscle use. Ask yourself, where am I tense? What muscles am I using, and which ones do I need to use? If you find a part of your body tense that isn't actively being used, see if you can let go of the tension with an exhale, or try to move it around and loosen the muscle up a little (this can even be done while still in motion). Posture is also very important for relaxed breathing and its benefits during hikes, and posture comes with numerous other benefits of efficient biomechanics. Even during breaks, posture is important so your lungs can take full and deep breaths, and so that you aren't unnecessarily straining muscles. Spread out! Open up! Don't get crunched. There are various websites on ideal posture for hiking which you can Google Search, but the important takeaway is pay attention to your body and let your own muscles recommend the fine-tuning. Again, practice it more often than not and practice it in everyday life to make it work in a time of need: Where am I putting my weight? Am I putting energy or tension into muscles I don't need to? Can I use my skeleton to provide support I'm currently getting from tense muscles? This fine-tuning will save you lots of energy and stress over the long haul.