This question was looked at in a nice, very simple and readable paper by Williams, Kasting & Wade in 1997 (see here). That paper focuses on moons of gas giant planets but the idea is the same, and they address the question of what exactly is needed in terms of planet mass for life. The trick is, we don't know exactly what is on the checklist for life. Williams et al considered 2 key things: 1) the planet must have enough gravity to hold onto an atmosphere, and 2) the planet must have enough long-lived radionuclides in its interior to provide a heat source capable of maintaining plate tectonics. They came up with a lower limit for habitability of about Mars mass (0.1 Earth masses). The key limiting factor is the internal heat source, and there is some uncertainty there. I re-did their calculation a few years later with slightly more conservative assumptions and ended up with about 1/3 of an Earth mass as a lower limit. Here is a summary of the different factors: $URL$ 

Replace humans with robots by transforming humans into robots with cybernetics. The Ghost in the Shell manga/anime describes a near-future heading in that direction. Simply replace natural body parts with artificial ones until people start to question just how many parts can be replaced before the patient's humanity is affected. Solve that social problem, wait for the civil rights dissonance to settle, and when a generation arises that allows someone with a "full-body prosthetic", as they're referred to in GitS, to be elected to a leadership position, your mission is accomplished. 

If you expect to sit down, read a spellbook like a textbook, and learn something about magic, you've got a long way to go. The first lesson any student of magic learns is that you can't learn how magic works or how to control it in the way you'd learn to understand and control mundane things. If you look in a spellbook, all you'll see is incoherent gibberish, scribbles you can't seem to quite focus your eyes on, like optical illusions without the trickery. Just like some illusions make more sense when you learn to relax your eyes to focus at a point beyond them, to receive the knowledge contained in a spellbook you must relax your mind and allow the imagery to become your thoughts. The goal isn't to make sense of the lines, because they already make sense - they are a pure expression of the very essence of the spell they describe. Instead of conforming their wisdom to your mind, you must form your mind to their shapes and motions. You must memorize every subtle detail of their intricacies and visualize each page as part of a larger, super-dimensional sculpture beyond space and time. In so doing, and with singular focus, your thoughts create the ebb and flow of energy throughout your nervous system in such a way as to channel the effects of the spell into being. There is no way to verbally instruct this process - the signal patterns your brain must form are beyond description or control. There is simply too much information. Should a madman actually attempt to write a treatise on a single spell and live long enough to succeed in expounding only the necessary details of its nature, he would fill a library. So really, it's amazing that a single book is enough at all. 

Why limit yourself to eight brains when you can have eight millions? ;) Take a look at the Portuguese Man-o-War. It is not a single creature, but a colony of small organisms, theoretically independent but so specialized that they cannot live if separated from the rest of the colony. Imagine something like that, but created by more advanced organisms, like ants or bees which evolved from their nowadays state of eusociality into a much more integrated form of a superorganism. In fact, even now in some contexts we can talk about an anthill as an organism of its own. For example, ants as a colony may perform tasks much more complex than one ant is able to comprehend, like finding the best way to the food source by leaving pheromone trails which are strengthened when they are more often travelled and expire when they are not: Ant Colony Optimization Algorithms. Let's take it into another level: an "anthill" of creatures so integrated that they act as cells of a single organism, but each with their own tiny brain communicating with each other via pheromones. As such, they would probably be unable to move far away from each other or the link gets broken, so in the search of food the "anthill" would release lines of these "ants", each one moving just after another and being able to process and pass pheremone signals, so the anthill - acting as the superbrain formed from all the "ants" which stayed behind - may control this weird flimsy tentacle. As it is with several species of ants we know about, the anthill itself might be just a big group of these "ants" holding to each other and could do without any structure made from earth or leaves. This way the whole "anthill" would be even able to move if necessary. Not exactly what you had in mind probably, but when I started to develop thw idea, I wasn't able to stop myself :) 

If you can let go of the "instantaneous" experience of the contents of the machine as it travels through time, then instead of programming spatial coordinates to "jump" to, a traveller could simply pilot the machine and adjust its position as they observe the world change around them. This assures your machine won't end up e.g. phasing into a rock formation that's been long eroded (and therefore couldn't be accounted for in data available in the present), as well as assuring it's still on the planet and ends up precisely where it's intended too. Furthermore, with this approach time travel isn't limited by something as dry as the traveller's abstract mathematical skills (or reliance on a supercomputer) and confidence in data, but instead by the traveler's ability to observe, react, and navigate as the world changes around them. 

The key thing to know is that planets on horseshoe orbits don't strongly affect each other's spin. Both Janus and Epimetheus are tidally locked to Saturn, meaning that they always show the same face to Saturn. So, relative to the Sun, each moon spins once for each orbit it makes around Saturn. Imagine a more general setup, where the central body is a star and two planets share an orbit in a horseshoe configuration. If the planets are close to the star it is likely they will be tidally locked such that the same side always faces the star. But the planets could well spin at a different rate and that would not be affected by the horseshoe setup. The only really interesting thing is what Artiflexian pointed out, that the other planet would get big in the sky and then retreat. This is likely a very rare setup -- in running thousands of simulations of planet formation (my day job) I have only encountered this once or twice. Much more common are Trojan planets: configurations where two planets share the same orbit and remain roughly 60 degrees apart -- FYI see the second part of this post: $URL$ 

Cultural domination. You can't conquer the whole world, but you can make your kingdom the center of it. It requires spending a lot of money though. 

Let's say West Coast states, Hawaii, etc., are not a part of United States. Maybe California still belongs to Mexico and Hawaii is an independent kingdom. Doesn't really matter. My question is, how much would that affect US as a world superpower? Would it be considerably weaker because of that? And would the international goals be different without easy access to the Pacific Ocean (but there's still Panama Trait)? What about Korean and Vietnam wars? (I considered asking asking about WW2 and Pearl Harbor as well but I see that there are many questions about that, so I would prefer this question to focus on other aspects) EDIT: An additional thought. Maybe this situation would not only prevent US from doing something that happened in our timeline, but it would actually force US to make a decision that was abandoned in this world? 

The more Earth-like possibility is the "hot Eyeball planet", which is very hot on the sunlit side and cold on the night side. The night side has ice caps that slowly melt and provide a trickle of water. The best place for life is in a narrow ring around the planet at the terminator (where the Sun is always near the horizon). See here for more details: $URL$ 

This is an interesting question, and there are some subtleties in addressing it. There are 2 key timescales for your unstable system: the time until instability sets in, and the duration of the instability. The time until instability can vary -- there are trends in N-body simulations (basically, the closer your planets' initial orbits the faster they go unstable) -- but no absolute law. Plus, those N-body simulations are quite idealized and it's easy to imagine systems in which planets go unstable only after a significant delay (e.g., top movie on this page). The time before instability is pretty boring. In technical terms, the planets' orbits are exploring available parameter space but most of this amounts to staying on roughly circular, well-behaved orbits. Instabilities themselves can be pretty dramatic. Giant planets tend to eject each other into interstellar space, leaving behind eccentric orbits (see $URL$ ) whereas terrestrial planets are more likely to end up colliding. There are other outcomes, which can range from disastrous (giant collision between planets, or one hits the star), arduous (being flung into insterstellar space to survive as a free-floating planet; see here), or not that bad (avoiding collisions and only having tidal stretching issues during close encounters and an eccentric orbit). The time during the instability includes periods when the orbit is fixed punctuated by very dramatic close gravitational encounters between planets, which would tidally stretch them and impart strong gravitational kicks that suddenly change the planets' orbits. This would be a very exciting time to live on such a planet, even though you would be doomed... For more on planets with oscillating orbits, see here: $URL$ Your situation would be similar but with a very interesting chaotic element thrown in. I forgot to mention that the duration of instability depends on the situation also. Gas giant instabilities tend to end quick (~100,000 years). For Neptunes it can be much longer (millions). For terrestrial planets it depends -- in some cases it can be very long. 

Confidence is tied to performance, so controlling a player's performance will give you control over their confidence. When a player feels their performance decreasing, they tend to naturally become more cautious. You can control their performance by limiting their senses. Shorter view distance, blurred vision, sluggish controls, muffled sound effects, and inaccurate readings on meters and other UI elements all reduce performance naturally. Some restraint is necessary here, as too much impairment makes a game frustrating and can drive players away. But a little bit can be quite impactful. You can also control performance by adjusting rewards and losses: greater rewards increase bravery, while greater losses increase caution. For example, when a player's character normally regenerates lost health, the loss of that regeneration will make the player more cautious. Similarly, if the player gains the ability to regain lost health by attacking enemies, then the player will become braver and enter battle more often in order to regain lost health. Confidence in performance relies on the player's ability to assess their performance and compare it to the challenges presented by their environment. If a player is very powerful, but doesn't know it, and is confronted by an enemy which looks menacing but is actually weak, the player will be cautious until they realize through trial and error that their power is greater. The inverse is also possible: a deceptively weak-looking enemy could be more powerful than the player, overinflating player confidence leading them to attack it head-on. You can bypass the need for trial and error by providing UI elements to indicate differences in power, e.g. marking enemies which are too powerful with a red skull, or automatically targeting the weakest enemy for the next attack. Confidence is also closely correlated with a player's sense of isolation and loneliness: a player in a group is more confident than one who is all alone in enemy territory. Your game doesn't need to be multiplayer either - the player's allies could be AI-controlled and the effect would be the same. Player confidence also depends on their understanding of their surroundings. Therefore if you want to reduce confidence, you can simply overwhelm the player with information, e.g. by generating more enemies or changing the shape of the terrain. The more things change, the more the player needs to keep track of, and the easier it is for them to become overwhelmed and feel the need to retreat to a more controllable position. 

The orbits of quasi-satellites don't stay that way in the long term (see here: $URL$ "Over time they tend to evolve to other types of resonant motion, where they no longer remain in the planet's neighborhood, then possibly later move back to a quasi-satellite orbit, etc." This means that the star-planet distance would change drastically over time. During quasi-satellite epochs the planet's climate might be relatively stable but then it could freeze over for a long while, then perhaps return to a stable state. A more promising setup could be simply to have a planet orbit in the star's L4 or L5 Lagrange points. If the Sun's orbit around the black hole were 1 AU in size, then Earth sitting at L4 or L5 would be 1 AU away. I think this could work, although there would be really strong tidal effects from the BH that could potentially lead to stability issues. Maybe this would work better with a brighter star so that it could be farther away. E.g., if the star were 16 times brighter than the Sun then you could scale up all the orbital distances by a factor of 4. Of course, the simplest would just be to have the planet orbiting the star orbiting the BH....