It's a part of how we think about or answer the question "what is it"? Aristotle asked the question and tried to answer it in the Categories, an important foundation of classical logic. Hegel is basically answering the same questions, but with the insight from Kant's transcendental idealism. For example: this thing (substance) over there, it's a horse (a good example of existent determinateness, being a horse is a defining quality). We could also say: it's fast (existent quality). Or: it's never afraid (negative determination, i.e. the non-existing quality is helping in determining what kind of horse it is). And: I'd wish this horse could live forever (where immortality is a non-existent infinite quality). References: $URL$ (a few examples with water) $URL$ (Hegel's logic is in many was a continuation of Aristotle's line of thought in Categories) $URL$ (Kant/Hegel: positive/negative, but also infinite judgements) 

This short explanation of the terminology already shows the compatibility of the philosophical positions 2-4. The first term, morality, is descriptive. It refers to observed traits within a society. It does not relate to any other of the terms. ad 1) When classifying different kinds of morality a standard method is to distinguish according to the different types of justification of a given morality. These considerations belong to the field of ethics. Analytical ethics discriminates between deontological (which rules to follow?), consequentialistic (what are the result of the actions?) and virtue ethics (which personal traits should we develop?). Representatives of these three types are respectively Kant, Bentham, Aristotle. Well-known representatives of the philosophical positions are: Leibniz (2), Russell (3). I do not know if there are representatives of the monistic position of physicalism. Sometimes Democritus counts as materialist (= physicalist). For further online information about all four issues I recommend $URL$ 

The main source would be The Critique of Pure Reason, but an accesible book is his Prolegomena which goes straight to the point. Aristotle had stumbled upon the structure of the syllogisms and invented the traditional logic, which alone was in use up until modern times. Kant in turn wasn't arguing against or trying to outperform Aristotelean logic, but was instead arguing against the empiricist view, that experience alone counts on the one hand - and on the other against the metaphysicians, who opposed to the empiricists, held reason in high regard. The former group led by great philosopher David Hume, who was close to willing to abolish fundamental concepts such as causality, was a serious threat to religion, ethic and science as Kant saw it. The latter considered reason as an all to valid source of knowledge - Kant is trying to justify how metaphysics itself can be valid at all and why. Kant wasn't trying to modify the Aristotelian logic itself as mentioned before, but grounded it's source as a active process, where the brain has the ability to schematize what ever goes through it like a stamp, producing judgements. His major insight was that the logic stems from reason itself, also termed the Copernican revolution. Thinking itself involves judging in Kant's regard. Judging is an innate ability, which is why reason and logic are so closely intertwined. To ease it up, a judgement is simply a sentence like "This is a horse". Let's analyze this sentence, which surely involves some forms of judging. "This" is something particular, "is" refers to existence, and "a horse" refers to one or more of the pool of horses. Simply gazing out, dozing off or experiencing without giving thougths to it, does is contrast not necessarily rely on judging things. The oneness or particularity of the horse may or may not exist in reality, it could be a fatamorgana or not, but the distinct logical concepts themselves is no longer up for questioning in the way the empiricists had done. Kant limited and narrowed the scope of reason and in turn the nature of metaphysics. 

Your friend is depressed. He has another kind of mental/psychiatric problem. He just says he wants to die; he doesn't really mean it. 

The most important thing, obviously, is to learn the truth. Many people associate Muslims with terrorism because the media tell us they're associated with terrorism. In fact, the media have a poor track record when it comes to telling the truth, to put it mildly. Second, you might also want to focus on what we might loosely call "organized crime." The existence of the Russian Mafia doesn't make all Russians evil, any more than the existence of the CIA and Mossad make all U.S. and Israeli citizens evil. So you can sometimes sidestep race by focusing on a particular problem within a race or ethnic group. That's a simplistic approach. Ultimately, you do need to consider the extent to which citizens support political systems that support terrorism (e.g. "I support the troops"). But it helps to take things one step at a time. 

In formal sciences like mathematics a hypothesis is an unproved claim which seems plausible to the experts. 

One has to discriminate between a state of affairs or fact, which belongs to the real world, and a proposition, which is a linguistic entity belonging to the realm of mind. A state of affairs happens or does not happen. On the opposite, a proposition is true or false. In order to discriminate both, I recommend: If P denotes a state of affairs, e.g. it rains on 1.1.2016 in Manhattan, then "P" (enclosed in quotation marks) is the proposition "it rains on 1.1.2016 in Manhattan". A proposition does not change its truth value: For the sake of the argument let's assume that it rains on 1.1.2016 in Manhattan. Then the proposition "It rains on 1.1.2016 in Manhattan" is true all days, even on days where it does not rain in Manhattan. On the opposite, a sentence like "Today it rains in Manhattan" is true on some days and is wrong on other days. But the sentence is not a proposition, because it contains the unbound variable "today". Hence what changes in time, are the states of affair - not the truth value of a proposition. Aside: Dirac's delta-"function" is not a function at all. It is a distribution, i.e. a continous linear operator on a certain space of functions. The Dirac distribution does not have the form of an integral with a certain function as kernel. Hence I agree with Conifold that instead you mean an indicator function. Nevertheless I do not think that the issue of your question becomes more transparent when linked with mathematical terms. 

You're a mind reader: I've been thinking of asking a question along similar lines. I can think of a couple significant problems with having an educated mind. Every hear the saying "Ignorance is bliss?" There's a lot of truth to it. The ecologist Aldo Leopold wrote about the penalty of having an ecological conscience. As a naturalist with a degree in ecology myself, I know what he was talking about. Imagine driving down a road lined with beautiful yellow flowers, with more yellowish blossoms carpeting the ground to the horizon. An urbanite might think it the most beautiful sight imaginable. However, a biologist might recognize the yellow blossoms as an introduced species that has largely replaced a native species, which in turn helped support some native animal species. The biologist might also reflect on the fact that there are no herds of bison, pronghorn or elk in sight. In fact, the area might ironically be described as a biological desert. The same thing is true of history and political science. I think someone wrote something like "History is a nightmare from which I have awakened." In other words, it's incredibly bloody. It's a reminder that life isn't fair. If you're a political activist, you know that we're surrounded by corruption, propaganda and foul deeds. A second problem is that intelligent people may have a hard time finding other people that they can relate to. I've been a political activist for more than two decades, even running for public office, and I've never met a single individual in "progressive" Seattle that I could have a really intelligent conversation with - not one. Unbelievable. And the problem is worsening as people are increasingly dumbed down by an ongoing avalanche of propaganda and public schools run by corporate interests. On a similar note, I've read a lot of commentary about people abandoning intelligent partners because they were too arrogant. (The flip side is that stupid people can be pretty arrogant themselves.) Of course, not all sciences are the same. An industrial chemist could be clueless about the environment and social injustice both. But I picked a bad combination - ecology and political science. So for me it's a real balancing act; how do you study depressing things without being drug into the abyss yourself? As an aside, I think philosophy can be a big help in this area, though it, too, can be a two-edged sword. EDIT I just thought of a third tradeoff. People who spend too much time focusing on their studies can suffer from nerd (or mad scientist) syndrome. Again, you have to have some balance in your life. And if you do some research on famous geniuses, you'll discover that many of them had some problems of their own. 

IIT is a proposal to explicate the concept of consciousness by information theory. More precisely, by a mathematical formalization and a prescript how to determine the degree of consciousness of an information system. In a survey article, "Reggia, JA: The rise of machine consciousness: studying consciousness with computational models." ($URL$ compares four current approaches to study consciousness with a computational model. In characterizing IIT he writes: 

Like you I see more similarities than dissimilarities between empiricism and logical positivism. In a broad sense, empiricism also covers logical positivism. In a narrow sense both differ by the historical time and the opponents of each school of thinking - as Mauro explains in his comment. A main topic of logical positivism from 20th century was the question, how to separate science from metaphysics. In the end, it was Karl Popper who against logical positivism detected, that the difference is the possibility of falsification - not verification. This insight of Popper is considered by many as a breakthrough in epistemology. In any case, also empiricism must concede that knowledge cannot be deduced from experience alone. Science get's it life from the interplay of experience and theory. And theory often uses concepts which are freely created by man, e.g., Hilbert space for quantum mechanics, Riemann manifold for the General Theory of Relativity, gene for Biology. 

So I would argue that not sharing knowledge and ideas, though bad, is NOT as bad as not attempting to learn and understand in the first place. The first step in your journey is to EDUCATE YOURSELF. Educating others is the next step. But remember the saying, you can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink. One final perspective: I feel great sympathy for people who are oppressed by corrupt political systems. But at the same time, I can't help but feel a little contempt when I discover that so many of these people don't appear to make an effort to think, let alone fight back. (I suspect the ancient Greek philosophers might have shared this sentiment.) In reading about the Latin American revolutionary Che Guevara, I sense that he experienced something similar; his idealism was blunted by the reality that the people he wanted to help were crippled by ignorance, laziness or whatever. Which begs the question, do we have an obligation to help people who can't be helped? I haven't abandoned the cause, but my first obligation is to educate myself. 

You are considering an example from thermodynamics and statistical physics. The reductionist approach aims on deriving properties of a system 1. from properties of its components and 2. from the interaction of these components. In physics the study of system properties like temperature and pressure of an ideal gas are studied by thermodynamics. Statistical physics derives these system properties bottom-up from Newtonian mechanics applied to the single molecules and from an certain ansatz about the interaction of the molecules. But it does not aim to investigate the fundamental laws from studying macroscopic behaviour. Because the fundamental laws of Newtonian mechanics have been known much earlier. Your supercomputer example gains more and more importance in physics. It aims at simulating the system behaviour bottom-up from tentative laws and parameters. After comparing the result of the simulation with the observed behaviour one adjusts the parameters - and possibly the laws too. E.g., this approach is followed by the simulation of galaxy formation. It has been previously applied with great success to the process of star development. Probably one can name the two approaches "first top-down" and the other "first bottom-up". Both approaches go in both directions, but in different order.