There is a lot more you can do with it. If you combine with the LASR software, you can have your shots scored with a web cam pointed at a target and get very good feedback as well as a lot of fun. $URL$ You can do rifle with the AR-15 SIRT bolt option. The advantages of the SIRT option over the LaserLyte or similar options that convert your real gun into a laser simulator is safety and convenience. The SIRT gun cannot fire a real bullet. The magazines are weighted to feel like loaded magazines but there is no need for real bullets anywhere in your training area. The RT part of SIRT stand for "Resetting Trigger" which means that the trigger resets much like a standard pistol, and continued presses of the trigger will result in more laser strikes, whereas the LaserLyte solution requires manually operating the slide to reset the striker before a second shot. I have put together powerpoints of targets I want to practice shooting, and using that as my training. I have a big deck of deer and elk that helps me identify and shoot the vitals quickly, or pass on shots that are not ethical to take. Even though I am a bow hunter, this has helped my hunting decision making immensely. I also have a powerpoint deck of hostile and friendly human targets to practice similar skills. If the SIRT option isn't going to work for you, then you are best off getting an Airsoft gun that is a replica of your real gun, and practicing in an area that the plastic pellets won't harm anything. If you have great eye alignment and focus, and competent gun manipulations like drawing, reholstering, reloading, etc., then at the range you can work on recoil management and be much more focused. I go out and shoot a box of live rounds every once in a while, but I have found that most of my skill increases come in my house with laser trainer. 

If you have to carry all your water with you then you might as well use 'wet' food rather than dehydrated as it works out at the same weight in the end anyway. Pouch type meals are becoming increasingly mainstream and have the advantage of being perfectly palatable cold and straight from the packet. In cold weather you can carry them in an inside pocket of your clothing during the day so they aren't stone cold. Personally I often like to use food which doesn't actually require any cooking at all and just use a metal mug and very simple solid fuel or alcohol stove for hot drinks. For low fuel cooking cous-cous and noodles work much better than rice as they will rehydrate eventually even in cold water and are quick and easy enough for lunch also both seem to soak up flavours better than rice and, for my taste at least, end up giving you more palatable meals. It is also worth considering things like unleavened bread (chapattis, roti etc), rice cake or crackers, which keep well, are light and robust enough to survive a week in a pack. Also useful are flavoured oils, things like chilli and garlic infused oil or toasted sesame oil. These pack a lot of calories for their weight, keep well and vastly improve the flavour of hiking food. Decant them into small plastic squeezy bottles of an appropriate size for your tip and add a dash to your food. Things like chorizo and sardines or tuna in oil achieve much the same thing and add some texture and protein. 

You need to optimize for putting the shooter in the best place to intercept the bull on the way to caller, while keeping both the caller and shooter downwind of the approach. The bull will try to approach the caller from as downwind as possible, depending on how angry/horny he is. Generally, you will have an idea of which direction the elk will come from and what the possible approaches are. The elk will get close to where he thinks he should be able to see the cow or bull that is making the noise (the caller), and look around, also called "hanging up". If you can figure out where that will be, you set the hunter up in a spot with a good view of the ambush site with enough cover to draw behind as the elk approaches. Hopefully the elk will approach right into the ambush site and sit still while he looks around giving a good shot opportunity. Thickness of the terrain and certainty of where the elk will come from will determine how confidently you can place the hunter in the right location. Sometimes the terrain makes one approach a near certainty and other times it is difficult to tell. When you aren't certain, the hunter needs to be closer to the caller because you are less likely to be in the right spot when the elk steps out. If the elk gets around the hunter to the caller, it is unlikely to work out. So the summary is that the hunter should be as far in front of the caller as possible while still being relatively sure the elk can't slip around behind and end up sniffing out the caller without the hunter having a shot. Terrain and wind will dictate all for each situation. (And then, once you have it all figured out, a little spike elk will come down and impossible cliff face to bust you right as the herd bull is about to walk into your shooting lane.) 

Something like this is probably more likely to be marketed as a 'pouch' than a 'mini-backpack'. A search for 'belt pouch' or 'utility pouch' on ebay will get you what you want. 

I'm not entirely sure this is the right forum but making a functional sword is quite a technically challenging task. If you wan to learn swordsmanship your best bet is to join a local HEMA (Historic European Martial Arts) group. Until you know what you want/need in terms of the sword itself as overall mass, balance dimensions and stiffness will have a significant effect on how the appropriate technique for a given weapon. Equally for anything other than practising drills the quality of the weapon has significant safety implications. 

If you want to get really fancy you could use cotton wool or sprinkle powdered milk or talc to indicate white water. A decent model kt can fit in a large tobacco tin and allows you to create a usable model in minutes. 

The skin of snakes is covered with tough scales, similar to fingernails. On the upper surfaces of their bodies these tend to be approximately round or diamond shaped and on the underside are usually longer bands running across. These scales both provide protection from abrasion and can also help it to grip surfaces it is moving over. On some species the texture of the scales is very obvious eg the horned viper In general both top and bottom sides of a snake are well protected by scales but the bottom scales tend to be smoother and specifically adapted to give it traction for movement. This image of a cobra gives a good view of the belly scales and this one of a python 

Another way, similar to the mesh bag that iontomet suggested, is the Maxpedition Roly Poly bag. It is a bag the rolls into a very small space, has MOLLE attachments for connecting to bags or belts, and can open up and hold just about anything. They come in a bunch of sizes including my favorite that will hold two big mallards easily. 

I have had good luck taking a shotgun in hand and then picking out a spot at a typical bird type height and distance, often where the ceiling meets the wall in a corner. Then I stare at the spot, and mount the shotgun. Without moving, I shift my focus to the bead and see how close the bead is to my intended target. You can do a similar process by closing your eyes and mounting the shotgun. Open your eyes and see where you are looking first, then check how close the shotgun is in alignment to where you are looking. If you do this procedure with one shotgun, you can't tell much, but if you do it with two or three, you will find that one is probably coming up very well aligned and one is coming up way off. I have shot the guns that come up naturally much better than I have guns that don't. I also am primarily hunting live birds, so every shot is from an unmounted start. If you are just doing trap or skeet where you can set your mount very deliberately, this technique might not tell you as much. As a note, once I buy a new shotgun, I use this same drill over and over again to practice the mount and disengaging the safety. I often say the word "Bang" instead of pulling the trigger, then I check the bead alignment visually. This really helps me dial in and get the gun pointing how I want it. 

For serious organised search and rescue there is an argument that you want as much light over as wide an area as you can possibly get as this maximises your field of vision and reduces the area of ground you need to cover on foot. there is also the consideration that a bright light is more likely to pick up a flash of reflective tape etc on a casualty's gear. However there is a counter argument that unidirectional artificial light will never realistically give you the same visual acuity as daylight and at night a bright torch can produce tunnel vision where you only concentrate on the illuminated cone and can ignore more subtle clues from your peripheral vision or other senses. Similarly if you are searching for a casualty who is using a small torch or chemical light to signal then a very bright light may actually impede your ability to spot them. Clearly there are different situations, for example between a small group searching a hillside for a lost hiker vs a long line of people combing a wood for a lost child. There is also the consideration that for a serious search at night on open ground an aircraft with thermal imaging equipment will have the large area/long range aspect covered far better than any search on foot so a foot search may be more concerned with short range vision in dense cover (woods, buildings etc) where light output is less important. 

A lot of the cooling effect of sweat comes from evaporation so it is debatable whether wicking vs non wicking is better in hot dry conditions. Having said that in very hot and low humidity environments it may be a moot point. One area where it may make a difference is if you are wearing a large pack, in this case sweat can build up under the straps and back and the constant moisture and salt can cause skin abrasion. In this case a fast wicking fabric can be an advantage. My experience is that polycotton works well in these circumstances as it gives a good balance between comfort, breathability and wicking. Also don't discount wool, very lightweight merino fabrics can work very well in hot conditions as they have both absorbent and wicking properties. Another aspect to this is that in a desert environment direct sun is at least as much of a problem as ambient temperature so loose fitting very lightweight clothing may be the best option as the insulation provided by a large air space between your clothing and skin is most effective. Note that this is a different situation from cold weather insulation where you want to retain warm air in the space. So in some conditions it may be that a lightweight polycotton smock/shirt is better than a tight fitting wicking T shirt. 

In most ways, it looks like porcupine to me. The scratch marks going perpendicular to the tree trunk make it less likely to be bear, deer, or elk. Bear will strip a tree like this if it is rotten and there are lots of bugs underneath the bark, but generally you see this in the fall, not this far into winter, and it is more often stumps and rotten trees. This tree looks healthy. Deer or elk generally don't strip it down to the ground so completely, and the shavings are much bigger, with the scratch marks going vertically. The only thing that is slightly different than my experience with porcupines is the amount of the tree that was stripped. Porcupines often take of a band around the tree about two feet tall about 7 or 8 feet up and it doesn't always go all the way around. That said, I still think it is porcupine as all the other details match. Did you notice any smell? On a deer/elk rub this size, I would stick my nose right up close to the ground and sniff. If you think you are at the State Fair animal barn, it is elk. If it smells faintly like animal, it might be deer. If it smells like nothing, it might be bear or porcupine. See this link "ASK A MASTER GARDENER: Porcupines likely culprits in stripping bark from maple trees" for a similar looking tree. 

I use lighted nocks on my arrows because it helps me judge the quality of the arrow strike on an animal. When the LED on the arrow tip flies across your field of vision, it leaves a trace in your visual memory of the shot. I can immediately determine if something happened during the shot, such as a deflection off a branch, or if the shot went true. On top of the extreme example of a shot deflection, I also have a memory of where on the animal the arrow struck. With information on shot placement, I now have a better idea of how lethal my shot was, such as whether it was likely a heart, lung, or double-lung shot, which may inform how I approach tracking the animal and how long I wait before trying to find it. Lastly, I hope that my lighted nock disappears during the shot. If I see it run off sticking out of the animal, I know I had a shoulder strike or similar. All of these factors might change how I approach the next step of trailing the animal. If I didn't see the lighted nock run off with the animal, I usually find the arrow and I can asses the quality and type of blood to confirm the quality of the shot. After giving me a lot of really good feedback on how well my shot struck the animal, the lighted nock then does the (less important, in my mind) job of helping me find the arrow if the arrow passed all the way through, or helping me find the animal if the arrow is still embedded. It is much easier to find a downed deer when there is a lighted nock sticking up. Lighted nocks also have an advantage when shooting a traditional bow with an instinctual shooting style. The lighted nock can help you visualize the flight path of the arrow to develop your instinctual shooting at a faster rate because you are getting more feedback about not just where the arrow hit, but the path it took to get there. I was a scoffer until I shot my first deer with a lighted nock after they became legal in my jurisdiction, and now I won't hunt without them.