Cost. I ride year-round in Oregon in the woods. In the sunshine (yes, it happens more than you'd expect in Oregon) I ride my full-suspension bike with many gears. In the winter, I ride my rigid, single-speed bike. The rigid, single-speed is much easier to clean, and when parts do wear out, they are much cheaper to replace. Plus there are many fewer parts to wear out. Riding in the woods in the winter puts a lot of wear on a bike. A quick search shows the following prices: 

I ride through the winter in the Pacific North West and get soaked about every other ride. What are the best way you've found to dry your shoes? I've found that stuffing them with wadded up newspaper works well to draw the moisture out, but if I don't swap the paper out every couple of hours, I just get damp newspaper that smells of mildew. An ideal solution would be passive - in that I would set the shoes up and then just grab the dry shoes a day later for my next ride. 

Spokes breaking at the hub can be an indication that when the wheel was built the builder did not stress relieve the wheel. See Sheldon Brown's article on stress relieving. 

Plus there's the mechanic cost (and time). I can do the work myself, but I'm dog slow, so I take it to the shop - and that adds more $ to the picture. etc. Of course those prices are just ball-park prices, you can find 10-speed parts for less than some single-speed parts, but you'd be getting low-end 10-speed parts and higher end single-speed parts. Edited to remove costs not associated with gearing. 

Lever Pull Reach: easily solved by careful tuning of the limit screws. Were your cassette larger than the lever range you'd be in trouble, but this is not your case. Indexing Step: chances are the sprockets on your 7speed cassette will be farther apart than they'd be on the 10speed your lever was designed for. This means that in theory you can only index ONE chain position to be perfectly aligned with a lever click and all the others will be working slightly out of alignment. 

You will then have to work around the mismatched lever/cassette indexing. There are two main aspects to consider: 

It obviously depends on what you plan to do with your bike, but provided you're willing to get your hands dirty the answer is a definite Yes. I have been riding my modified Tdf-100 (9-speed SORA with 7speed MTB cassette) for 10.000+ km, and I'd feel pretty confident saying that with a little bit of patience and careful indexing you'll have a perfectly functional bike, although maybe not competition worthy due to slightly sub-optimal shifting reliability and braking power. That said, as most of the other answers point out, you have to make sure of the following key points before you even start: 

You can fit the lever shifters to your bar (duh..) You can brake effectively with the available pull: from a quick image search it seems that Miyata1000s do mount cantilever brakes, which require a relatively long pull distance. You should first of all true your wheel (I haven't had time to watch the whole thing with audio but the guy seems to be using a method I personally found to be very effective). You may then proceed to adjust the cable tension by shortening the cantilever "beam" so that your brake pads rest as close as possible to the wheel, in order to reduce the required pull to a minimum. You should then be able to clamp the rim hard even with a relatively short pull lever. 

How To Reach Out As an individual, you must reach out in person. I would show up at their place of business, or at the very least call them. I wouldn't expect anything from a letter - personalized or not. What You Offer Now that you're actually talking to someone... what comes next? What are you going to provide them? If you're active in the racing community, by promoting races, doing trail work, teaching skills clinics, etc. - then that is what you sell to the companies. If you blog/write/podcast/tweet and have an active following, then that is what you sell them. You're Just a Racer If all you are doing is racing, then you'd better expect to put the time in and get good enough to regularly place on the podium in Cat 1 (not Cat 2). While racing Cat 2 would be a good start, there are literally hundreds of people just like you also racing Cat 2. (side note: as soon as you start placing on the podium in Cat 2, you'll likely be bumped up to Cat 1 the following year (or even mid-year, depending on the rules)). You have to figure out what makes you different than the other 100 guys racing Cat 2, what makes you stand out, what your story is. If it is compelling, then that is what you sell them. If you don't have a compelling story, you'd better be winning all the time. Who Will Sponsor You I'd start local - ask businesses in your community for sponsorship. Chances are, if they're willing to provide sponsorship, they'll want to sponsor with what they deal in. A brewpub might offer you discounted pints, a salon might give you free haircuts, a bike shop might give you discounted prices on parts and labor. Our team was sponsored by a sign making shop - they give us any sign/banner we want for free - that's an amazing deal (literally 100's of dollars of value if we make use of it) - but probably not that useful for an individual. If you want sponsorship of a company that isn't small or local... you've got to win. For example, Kona sponsors up-and-coming racers. Their 2013 team could be found here: $URL$ The gal I know on that team won every local (state-wide) XC race she entered, and placed top 5 in the XTerra world championships. That's the level at which you need to be racing to get that level of sponsorship. So start local. Levels Of Sponsorship If you're a racer, about all you have to offer (in terms of marketing space) is a spot on the jersey. The bike is just too small a platform to be of any use. If a part of your agreement is to wear your jersey at bike parks, then get a free-ride jersey dolled up the same way as your XC jersey and wear it at the bike park. As far as deciding the different tiers of sponsors... when starting out, I'd treat every sponsor as a major sponsor. If you get two sponsors your first year (Kate's Knitting and Joe's Tire Shop) - give them both big spots on your jersey. Once you have enough sponsors to need to prioritize, then you'll have an idea of where to draw the line. Good luck! Edited to add: Looks like Pinkbike agrees, check out their article "So You Wanna Be Sponsored?" Note: I'm just a dude who started racing a few years back with a local club team. I have no experience getting sponsors, but I do know what our team gets in exchange for sponsorship. Your best bet at getting sponsored is to join a local club team and get the benefits from that. 

Set your limit screws with no cable on (push and pull the derailleur by hand) so that both limit positions are about 1mm wide of the corresponding sprockets (i.e. left of the large one and right of the small one). Put the lever in hardest gear thus releasing all cable, pre-tension it and clamp it into the derailleur. If you can index your gears normally from here then RIGHT ON, skip the rest of this boring answer, sit back and enjoy this blissful moment of the-universe-sorting-itself-out-for-your-happiness. Otherwise.. Index your preferred chain position: you can choose the perfect chain line (or maybe the sprocket you think you'll be riding on the most?). The more different the spacing is from the lever clicks, the more important that you choose a mid-range sprocket as your indexing centre, so as to minimise the maximum misalignment your jockey arm will have to endure. Click the lever into the desired position, and adjust the cable tensioner (or have a friend hold the derailleur in position as you unclamp the cable to make small adjustments) until the "indexing centre sprocket" turns smoothly and silently. Proceed to make small adjustments until you can smoothly shift up to softest, down to hardest, and back to your centre sprocket. 

It is important to clean and lubricate the entire drivetrain, as you'll be striving to adhere to the First Law: Ye Shall Make No Sound as you make your adjustments. Proceed as follows: 

Clinchers tires and rims are more convenient in that they can be repaired easily on the road, are cheaper, and have more options available. However, they are heavier, won't stay on your rim at high speeds if you get a flat, and have a higher rolling resistance. Tubular tires and rims are more expensive and require a lengthy gluing procedure to replace the tire when it flats. However, they have lower rolling resistance, weigh less, and are potentially safer when going flat at higher speeds (if they have been glued properly). In my opinion, the practicality of clinchers outweighs the benefit of tubulars in all road-racing scenarios short of pro-level racing. One approach to mitigating the downsides of tubulars, however, is to have a set of tubular "race wheels" that you use only on race day, and a set of clincher "training wheels" that you can repair on the fly if you go flat 40 miles from home. The one place I think tubular tires still reign, even for amateurs, is at the velodrome. You're never far from a ride back home if you puncture a tire. The opportunity for having a flat is greatly reduced because of the far fewer miles you put on the wheels plus the lack of road debris on the track. And it's far safer to have tubulars in case of a flat, where you can still ride on rubber down to the apron. With a clincher, if you lose the tire, it's easy to fall if you wind up riding on your rim on a 37° banked curve. 

By trial and error you should be able to get to the stage where the centre sprocket and the closest four work smoothly with minimum racketing. The deviation between clicks and sprockets for the highest and lowest gear might be large enough for them to require TWO clicks (or a full lever swing) to get to, hence the need to allow a little extra slack on the maximum limiting screw (so that you may reach the click with the lever, then let the derailleur settle in position by clicking down once). Extra trick: If and only if you're really not satisfied with the results of the above procedure, you can index your centre sprocket (Step 3) one click up, and have a "ghost gear" click below the hardest to release enough cable to reach the smallest sprocket. The low limit screw should then be as tight to the perfectly aligned position as you can get it. This will allow you a bit more room for manoeuvre but can get quite complicated since you won't be able to rely on the small-sprocket=cable-fully-extended equation. It may all be a bit awkward at first if you're used to perfectly indexed gears but I take if you were that picky you wouldn't even be asking this in the first place. You'll get to know your ride and the way it shifts, and the half-pull and two-up-one-down will become second nature soon enough. I hope this makes sense, I may have assumed prior knowledge in an attempt to keep it linear. Please comment if you need clarifications. Enjoy the hacking!