To generalise a little, in case the moral of the above isn't clear, we 'prove' that two objects are distinct by providing some property that holds of one but not the other. It's an open question in metaphysics whether distinct objects can share every property (contenders might be the object of 52 cards and the object of the deck, I guess). Within logic, though, if two elements of your domain are distinct but the same predicates hold of them there isn't a way to prove that they are distinct - you could show that rigorously in a quite straightforward way; proof systems for first-order logic use (roughly) the above method for proving inequality. 

In mathematics there's a type of book, bordering on the textbook but slightly different, that compiles examples to demonstrate the necessity of various conditions on theorems and the correct directions of implication. For example, to show that a connected space need not be path-connected one can construct the topologist's sine curve. My question: are there any similar compilations in the philosophical literature? For instance, in epistemology the obvious set would be the Gettier cases (to show that JTB is an insufficient analysis), along with Armstrong's (?) barn facades and fake towns (to show that context seems to be important) and so on. In ethics we have Nozick's experience machine (the limits of hedonism). Further, potentially-not-site-appropriate question: do people think such a compilation would be in any way valuble in philosophy? 

As has been pointed out already, if you are using logic to talk about apples and oranges you have already provided some model (say, a is an apple and o is an orange - formally speaking you've set up a function from constants in your logical language to objects or types or fruit or whatever). So I'm reasonably comfortable that the following proof is no less rigorous than what you've got already: let P (a one-place predicate) be assigned the meaning 'needs to be peeled to be eaten'*. Then Po is true and Pa is false, so then clearly ¬(x = y) holds. *obviously if you don't peel your oranges feel free to substitute some other predicate that fits 

This means that if you've proved (A ∨ B) and you have proved (i) C from assumption A, and (ii) C from assumption B, then you have proved C from assumption (A ∨ B). This rule will give you the → direction. To get the other direction, that is, from P to P ∨ (P ∧ Q), there is a rule (∨–Intro) to the effect that: 

Modal languages look very much like non-modal ones. For example, if you have a non-modal propositional language generated by the following grammar: 

An interpretation of the physical constants is a model that satisfies the laws of physics. An interpretation of the logical constants is a model that satisfies the axioms of logic. The assumption is that there is a standard interpretation for these constants (you may disagree; cf. MacFarlane's Logical Constants). That's the motivation behind the definitions. Let's apply Definition (2) to your sentence (2): 

In the context of dynamic epistemic logic, the binary operator 'M | φ' takes a model M and a formula φ and 'updates' M, by removing from M all the worlds where φ is false ([Holliday], Lecture 13, Slide 7; [van Benthem], Chapter 15, Definition 15.2.1): 

Functions and relations have a long mathematical history, and can be approached from many sides (e.g. category theory, set theories). From a standard set-theoretic perspective, we begin with the notion of an ordered pair (a, b), which can either be taken as a primitive or defined in terms purely of sets. Either way, the explication is only to satisfy the following condition: (a, b) = (c, d) iff a = c and b = d. Once we have ordered pairs, we can define relations of arbitrary arity as follows: 

Example. (this one is more abstract). Suppose that you have been able to derive that some number k is prime (P). If you have also been able to derive that that k has, say three divisors (¬P), then you can appeal to &bot;-Intro to conclude that you have derived a contradiction (&bot;). You can then appeal to the fact that you have proved &bot; to conclude any sentence Q you want (by &bot;-Elim). 

As has been said, this is not a philosophical question. However, a few issues off the top of my head: 

If something isn't an intelligent entity, the only way it can act towards a goal is if some intelligent entity causes it to. 

The problem is that 'intelligence' is pretty much a recognise-it-when-you-see-it kind of attribute; as you say, there are plenty of indicators of intelligence that are highly culture-specific, and even fairly culture-neutral tests are very succeptible to scores increasing with practice. So in one sense IQ tests (which are very varied, and range from tests of verbal reasoning through 'pick the successor' non-verbal tests through interviews with psychologists) only measure how good one is at performing that specific test. But a lot of effort is expended in trying to ensure that 'being good at this test' correlates as highly as possible with what we'd recognise as 'intelligence' generally. It's a specific instance of the general problem of measuring a fuzzily-defined feature. So yes, you're right to be skeptical; IQ tests generally produce widely divergent scores (at two different tests in the same sitting I scored 124 and 161) and give a false perception of authority (to the extent that they are used in employment and academic selection processes); it's probably true that you're better off directly testing the skills you require than assuming IQ tests give you what you want. But you should also be aware that, while you think you might have a good notion of what 'intelligence' is, it's an extremely hard concept to pin down in any way more reliable than what IQ tests give. 

Clarification: I used the term 'counterexamples' since that's the popular term in maths; I mean what I've hinted at in the examples above: a case which establishes a conditions or bounds for a theory. 

Truth-assignments can be thought of as possible worlds: all we have to do is extract from them those propositional letters that they map to 1 and we have a set of propositional letters that can be said to be true at that 'world'. For example, formula (p ∨ q) has 22 possible truth-assignment, 4 possible worlds: 00, 01, 10, and a 11 world. The first can be described as the world where neither p nor q hold; the second as the world where p holds but q doesn't, and so on. The formula will be neither a tautology, nor a contradiction (so a contingency), because there are worlds (namely: 01, 10, and 11) where it holds, and there is a world (namely: 00), where it doesn't. That's the basic idea. For a standard treatment of truth-assignments look at: Enderton, H. (1972) A Mathematical Introduction to Logic, 2nd Edition, § 1.2. 

A similar explication can be done for the other non-metaphysical modalities. All that has to be added is an appropriate definition of accessibility (e.g. epistemic, doxastic, etc.). I should mention that we didn't have to go into Kripke models to explicate non-metaphysical modalities; we could have added restrictions to Carnapian models directly using valuations. Similarly, we could obtain (something extremely close to) Carnapian models by considering Kripke models with Rs that are equivalence relations (corresponding to S5); because for such models, since every worlds is accessible from every world, the notion of accessibility is rendered useless. So consider it as my own personal preference to use Carnap's models for metaphysical necessity (as opposed to something like S5) and Kripke models for non-metaphysical ones. Hope this helps. Suggestions/corrections are welcome, as always. 

Based on these observations, we can present a counterexample to the equivalence of (1) & (2) by having a world where some agent α knows P, but some other agent β does not know P. This situation would show that P is known (by someone), but nevertheless not epistemically necessary (because at least one agent, viz. β, doesn't know P). 

Empirically we observe that things in the world seem to act towards goals or purposes despite not being intelligent entities. 

Note that it's not exactly a strong argument, both in terms of logical structure and its empirical claims. 

The question is definitely not philosophy, but whatever. I also don't think you're going to get a particularly interesting answer; we spend early childhood being shown a huge array of animals, and we get pretty good at telling when a new object is similar to an animal we've seen before. Most vertebrates have roughly similar structures (eyes, a head, limbs) and textures (fur, feathers, skin) which aren't similar to most non-animals. And there are very clear cases of our failure to recognise life (think of fungi or mould, which we have to be convinced is technically life). As for your specific case, it's a squid grafted onto a mouse walking almost identically to how humans walk; I don't think you should be surprised we see it and assume it's a living thing. 

A good starting point is to figure out the possible arrangements of people and properties, and then draw a table of what they would answer to various questions in each arrangement.after some trial and error you'll develop an intuition for the kind of questions that give you useful results. Note that as posed there are some questions some men can't answer (specifically, neither the truth-teller nor the liar knows what the random-answerer will say in response to any question). I think Boolos describes this as a head-exploding outcome. 

Losing a limb really hurts. That's a crude but not unreasonable criterion for parts of our body we consider to be our body (skin inwards, basically) and parts we don't (hair, nails, dead skin). We get sense impressions that build up our knowledge of the world from organs with sensory receptors; we don't get any of that from hair. While the 'importance' answer above explains why we care, that's strictly a different issue - if I had dreadlocks that had taken me years to grow and style I might plausibly be as upset about their loss as I would about losing a less important extremity, but I don't think I'd feel like I'd lost part of my body. 

Those are just some possibilities among many others. Ideally, the set of axioms would meet certain conditions of independence, completeness (with respect to some semantics), and so on. A theory of fatherhood is just such a system of axioms for F closed under the rules of inference. Needless to say, everything is relative to a language. If we had started with a language that had function symbols (f, s) and '&in;' but no explicit predicate symbols (F, S), we could either define predicates by putting restrictions on functions, or we could capture the truths about fatherhood using function symbols as follows: 

Although he doesn't state it explicitly in those terms, the idea here is that while sentence (2) is a well-formed sentence, it is not a well-typed one. If we were working with a formalized fragment of English, we would define an alphabet of the usual latin letters and then specify grammatical rules for generating a subset Wff of the well-formed sentences of English. Among those sentences we could find (2) and we wouldn't find (1). Of course, all these matters would depend on the expressive power of our formalized fragment. But suppose it's powerful enough to grant (2) the status of a well-formed sentence. Then, we would specify an extra layer of typing rules for generating the subset Wtf &subseteq; Wff of well-typed sentences of our fragment. The point of typing rules is to ensure that the functional expressions of our language such as predicate expressions ('is prime') and functors ('father') are combined with expressions of a type compatible with the domains of definition of those functional expressions. To see how (2) is not well-typed, let's look at the domain of definition of 'is prime': 

If propositional logic is not what you're working with in class, the definition needs to be altered to say, for example, that the argument is valid just in case all models of Γ are models of φ, and so on. Now we're ready to address the questions. 

Limited as Google is as a tool for lexical research, the fact that Googling the phrase fails to turn up anything beyond this question suggests it's unique to the author. I don't think they've used it as though it's common, though; it's simply a reference to a relatively well-known visual paradigm shift. 

Q1: From your experience how can mathematicians deal (or how they usually chose to behave) with this huge mathematical universe and be satisfied from a philosophical point of view? Generally, the same way most people deal with a huge universe; they don't think about the philosophical underpinnings. Almost everyone handles reality perfectly comfortably without confronting questions of whether possible worlds, universals, temporal parts and so on exist, or whether their conception of the world corresponds in a meaningful way with reality. Mathematicians have the structures they work with, and on the whole don't necessarily interrogate their assumptions about in what sense those structures exist and so on. Q2: How can a mathematician interested in the foundation of mathematics be satisfied by an always partial knowledge of the mathematic? I think someone interested in the foundation of mathematics actually has a good reason not to be troubled by their incomplete knowledge of mathematics: they are working towards a theory of the foundations, not what is built above them. Just in the same way a particle physicist concerns themselves with the fundamental constituents of matter and doesn't worry about their inability to predict the flow of chaotic systems, a foundational mathematician has no reason specifically to worry about their inability to solve some complex problem elsewhere in mathematics. 

If an almighty god is some entity which can cause any proposition to be the case, then if such a god existed it would be possible for it to express pi as the ratio of two integers. I would take that to be a pretty strong argument against such an entity existing, but I imagine there have been views to the contrary historically. If an almighty god is some entity which can cause any possible proposition to be the case, then since it is not possible to express pi as the ratio of two integers such an entity would not be able to do so. So yes, the answer relies on what you think an almighty god is. But not in an especially novel or interesting way, in my opinion.