The major muscle that keeps the neck erect is the trapezius. It is fairly simple to strengthen it assuming you put in a consistent effort. To strengthen it in the best way possible, you should strengthen both the neck directly, and also the traps which support it. To work your traps, the best way would be weight training. The most fundamental exercise that you can do in the gym to strengthen your traps is the shrug. You can do this with a barbell, smith machine, shrug machine, kettlebells, or dumbbells. Just load up a weight that you will be able to do 8-15 reps with, and do 3-5 sets. Basically just hold hold the weight, maintaining a neutral spine, elbows almost straight, literally just shrug like you normally would, but as high as you can, and hold for a second or two until you feel the burn, lower all the way down and feel the strech and repeat. Make sure to progress in some way with every workout, whether it is more weight, more repetitions, more volume or duration. There are also alot of exercises that indirectly work the traps like deadlifts and side raises so just look up on Google how to work the traps and you'll be fine. As for the neck itself, you could wrap an exercise band around your neck, move far away until you feel the tension and simply turn your head from looking front to looking to your side for high reps for each side. You could also use something called a neck harness that's found in many gyms by putting it around your head, looking down then looking up. There's lots of ways to do this and you can easily look up many workouts for the neck online until you find a few that you like and work for you. Here's one: $URL$ 

Start with your arms extended fully and pull your scapula back and engage your lats and arms, squeezing the bar as hard as possible in order to recruite the most muscle fibres. Exhale in order to promote nitric oxide flow as you pull your self up as fast as possible in an explosive manner, make sure your form is good. When you're at the top , hold the position for at least a second, and squeeze your back so you can feel the right muscles working. It is highly debated whether you should inhale or exhale at the top of the movement, and doesn't really matter to be honest, but since for the pullup you already exhaled, start to slowly inhale. Lower yourself over 1-4 seconds while slowly building up oxygen by inhaling small amounts. Reach your starting position again, and use the oxygen you just built up by the slow inhaling to explode up by exhaling and repeat. 

Depends what you mean by effective. You asked at the end about improving your RMR via increased muscle mass. In terms of this, it doesn't even come close to strength/weight training. Alec mentioned a very key aspect for this, but it's even more fundamental than that. You break down most of your muscle fibres during the eccentric part of an exercise (the lowering part of the bench press or the dumbbell curl for example). The eccentric part of an exercise compared to the concentric (lifting) and isometric(static) is MUCH more effective and efficient for muscle building purposes. Note that I'm not saying you CAN'T build muscle with isometrics and concentrics, it's just way harder. And since power yoga is mostly isometrics, it can't be considered equivalent to weight training, at least for muscle building purposes for higher RMR. There are actually a lot more factors than this, for example, hypertrophy has been shown to be caused by tension, time under tension, progressive overload, and metabolic stress. All of these are more efficiently worked on via weights. Moreover, weight training promotes the release of certain anabolic hormones such as hgh, testosterone, improves insulin sensitivity (insulin is very important for building muscle), as well as protein synthesis. This is only in terms of building muscle. In that regard, they can't be compared. But like Alec said for flexibility and basic strength, you can certainly get away with it. 

First, the "immediate" in "immediately after the work out", is always greatly exaggerated. Waiting 75 minutes instead of exactly 60 is not going to have an effect, there's tens of studies showing this, so feel free to look them up. Second, most protein supplements, will usually specify the amount of BCAAs (branched chain amino acids) they provide. Generally this varies between 4-8g, which is pretty good. I'm not sure why you think these are high in carbs ? A protein supplement, on average, will have at most 3-5g of carbs, if that...and if that's a problem, there's tons that have 0 carbs, just go to a supplement store and look for yourself. Third, you can just get the amino acids from a pure BCAA supplement. It will list how much of each amino acid is present. You can find these supplements at literally any supplement store like GNC, Popeyes, bodybuilding.com...etc, even at Walmart or Shoppers. Fourth, 6 grams of essential amino acids is a bit over simplified, what you really need to focus on is at least 3 grams of Leucine , which is undoubtedly the most "essential" of essential amino acids, at least in terms of muscle building via its effects on the biosynthesis of protein. You can usually get that much leucine from 1-2 cans of tuna, or a few eggs. 

The reasons for this aren't perfectly clear and have only been hypothesized from what I've seen. The actual genetics ranges from the number of signaling molecules, to the cell's sensitivity to the signals, to satellite cell availability, to satellite cell pool expansion, to miRNA regulation. Nutrition and optimal programming play a role in hypertrophy of course, and certain genotypes may be associated with hypertrophy too. I could go on but to answer your question (possibly), it's just pure genetics. Now, the second possible answer is, and I actually see this a lot in myself as well, is just good ol' plain sarcoplasmic hypertrophy (high rep work). Increasing the volume of the tissue that supplies energy to the muscle or is involved with the neural drive: Intimately involved in the production of ATP are intracellular bodies called ‘mitochondria’. Muscle fibers will adapt to high volume (and higher rep) training sessions by increasing the number of mitochondria in the cells. They will also increase the concentrations of the enzymes involved in the oxidative phosphorylation and anaerobic glycolysis mechanisms of energy production and increase the volume of sarcoplasmic fluid inside the cell (including glycogen) and also the fluid between the actual cells. This type of hypertrophy produces very little in the way of added limit strength but has profound effects on increasing strength-endurance (the ability to do reps with a certain weight) because it dramatically increases the muscles’ ability to produce ATP. So basically...doing pump work will make your muscles carry a bit more fluid. Now, with that in mind, it's been proven, specially in untrained people (such as when you take a break from working out), that the level of fluid increase in your muscles due to this type of training, can be as large as 30% of your total muscle volume. BUT, when you stop the high rep work, your cells will adapt once again, and you will lose all of it. So maybe that's the case with you as well. 

Obviously, every person is unique and will respond differently to different situations. You say your RMR is around 1960 from online calculators and this is a good place to start but you have to remember to experiment. There is nothing linear in the world of fitness and nutrition. If you're eating 1900 calories a day per weeks and not losing any weight, obviously the only sensible thing to do is reduce the calories, personally I would reduce by around 200. Also note that you added 600 to your RMR. What I personally do is reduce 600 not add it so that's interesting. Im currently prepping for a competition and have been steadily dropping a pound each week for 5 weeks. 

Like I said in your other question. All three of those exercises effect your lower back, obliques, and some of your actual abdominals to a degree..i.e they all work your core. Since you're a beginner, no matter what you do, you will gain muscle where ever you do the work. In this case, you're doing back extensions (lower back), side-planks (your whole core, but primarily obliques, the muscles on the side of your torso and hence waist), and planks (entire core)...Since pants are sized based on the diameter of your mid waist in inches, even a very slight increase in muscle mass in this area will cause somewhere around 0.3-1.5 inches of difference and hence your pants will get tighter lol. So don't worry this is good, unless you plan on becoming a physique model in which case stop working obliques because they'll hurt your v-taper. I'm not gonna rant about it here, but why are you doing back-extensions? Please do some research regarding this exercise and come to the conclusion on your own how unnecessary and harmful it is..there are SO many better exercises you could be doing, which would all incorporate more muscle mass and strength, and spinal health. 

"Clenbuterol is a sympathomimetic that works on the sympathomimetic nervous system. There are several receptors in the body a sympathomimetic can act on. In the case of Clenbuterol, the beta-2 receptor is the area of interest and action. Clen, as it’s commonly known, actively stimulates the beta-2 receptor. Through such stimulation, this actively reverses airway obstructions and provides improved breathing for those who need it. This same stimulation can also be used to enhance the metabolic rate of the individual. Clenbuterol does not actively burn fat by attacking fat cells, but rather stimulates the metabolism by increasing the body’s temperature. This occurs due to the beta-2 stimulation stimulating the mitochondria of the cells to produce and release more heat. In turn, this heats up the body’s temperature (slightly), enhances the metabolism and causes the individual to burn body fat at a greater rate. In reality, the functions and traits of Clenbuterol are very simple and very straightforward. There are several possible side effects to Clenbuterol use, and the primary will surround its stimulating nature. No surprise, after all, Clen is a stimulant. The side effects of Clenbuterol can be very strong and often very annoying to say the least, and they will generally affect most people in one way or another. The most common side effects surround a jittery or wired feeling, shaky hands and increased sweating. Most all who use Clen will experience such effects to a degree, but they will commonly be very pronounced during the early stages of use. As the individual becomes accustomed to the stimulant, such related effects should begin to subside, but they will be so strong in some people that some will not be able to use it. When using Clenbuterol, many often inaccurately assume that when the stimulating effects of Clen began to fade that the thermogenic effects are no longer working. Most will find that the stimulating effects will greatly subside after a week or so of use, but assuming the fat burning properties have vanished due to this lessened stimulation is highly inaccurate. The same dose of Clenbuterol Hydrochloride can actually keep the metabolism revved for as much as five weeks. Granted, by the fifth week mark it will be minimal as the body does most certainly adapt. Due to the body’s ability to adapt, necessarily adjustments must be made to use. The aforementioned side effects of Clenbuterol are the most common, but there are other possible effects of note. As with many stimulating substances, some will experience headaches as well as possible nausea. One of the more bothersome possible side effects of Clenbuterol Hydrochloride will be muscle cramps. Cramps are not exceedingly common, but they will affect many people. Athletes are often at the greatest risk due to the hard and often intense training they are already undertaking. Staying well hydrated is often enough to avoid or remedy this problem, but supplementing with taurine can also help. Clen has been shown to deplete taurine, so supplementation may be necessary for some. Some may also have issues with insomnia; in fact, some may find sleep becomes extremely difficult. Again, this is very common with many stimulating substances, but with Clen it can, for some, be impossible to avoid. Clen has an active half-life that stretches to the 34 hour mark, and that can make sleep impossible for some people. Many will, however, find if they take their Clen first thing in the morning they will not have any issues with sleep, but due to the long half-life some will find insomnia occurs regardless of when they take it. The use of Clenbuterol Hydrochloride also carries with it possible side effects that can be severe; in fact, dangerous would be a more accurate description. Such effects are most commonly associated with abuse through high doses and far beyond recommended extended periods of use. The severe side effects of Clenbuterol include high blood pressure, irregular heartbeat, trembling and even panic. Some studies have also shown that Clenbuterol abuse can also lead to cardiac hypertrophy, which could potentially lead to death. It is very possible to use this compound without such effects, but as with so many things in life it will require responsible use and a thorough understanding of Clen." Source: various online articles, not my own writing. BEFORE you start taking such strong supplements to aid in fat loss, PLEASE make sure your diet is down perfect, or one, you will waste the true effects of the drug, and two, you will do more harm than good in the long run. I won't take the same position as some people that strongly advocate against "steroid" like drugs (clen is NOT a steroid) but since you're asking for the side effects of a drug that is WELL documented on the internet and online journals, this gives me the impression that you're a beginner. As a result, I STRONGLY advise you to maximize your fat loss through proper caloric deficit diet and high intensity exercise FIRST, once you do that, then clen can help you lose the last bit of fat very easily. Think of it this way, if you want to get better at math, what is the point of learning calculus, if you don't even know simple arithmetic ? You should have at least a few years experience dieting properly and you should already be relatively lean before you start. You DO NOT need this drug to lose fat if you are already above, let's say 20-30%, that part can easily be lost through natural diet and exercise. Please note also that, if you don't have your diet down, you are likely to lose way more muscle than fat and therefore end up even unhealthier than when you first began the drug. 

In your previous question you say you're not sure if changing your diet is required...this couldn't be farther from the truth. If you want to maximize results, diet is by far the most important factor in addition to sleep and recovery. Also, this "minimum" concept is horribly flawed but I won't even address that here, I'm sure you're already aware anyways. To answer your actual question, you want to recruit the most muscle fibres in any given exercise that you do. Studies with EMGS as well as my own and various others' experiences show that the most effective way to achieve this from a tempo perspective is this: When you're lifting the weight (concentric), i.e pushing, pulling, squatting up, you want to do this portion of the movement as fast as humanly possible in order to recruit max motor units and develop a faster motor firing rate...effectively improving muscular contraction and overall power/strength. This should be anywhere less than or equal to one second. When you're lowering the weight, i.e descending on the pullup/pushups/squat/dip, you need to maximize time under tension (to a certain limit) in order to break down the most muscle fibres (so you can build them back up stronger and bigger through protein synthesis hence why I said your diet is crucial). This means you need to control the descent which implies that this portion should take around 1-4 seconds depending on your energy levels. You can tweak this number all the time in order to keep your muscles confused. E.g maybe one day keep this number at 4 seconds, but the next day keep it at 1 second. The isometric portion of the movement, i.e the part where you're at the top in the pullup or parallel in the squat can vary depending on your goals and won't affect anything too much as long as you make sure to actually utilize it. What I mean is, you should be "squeezing" the necessary muscles with EVERY rep at the isometric "hold" ANYWAYS, how long you do it however depends on what you want and really won't make too much of a difference and won't make you stronger or bigger...although it will make you better at holding isometric positions. So as long as you do this part for at least a second, and squeeze hard, you're fine. As a working example, let's go over how you would do a pullup.