Pumps have an air chamber (normally cylindrical) that is compressed in order to force the air into the tyre. When the handle is pulled out, air behind the piston is forced out of the cylinder. In single action pumps, this air is vented into the atmosphere and lost (no big deal; there's plenty of it around!). On a double (or dual) action pump, this air is collected and forced through the valve into the tyre. Single action pumps are mechanically simpler, and so smaller and lighter than equivalent double action pumps, but take roughly twice as many strokes to get to the same pressure. With a double action pump, you have to do work when pulling the pump handle, as well as when pushing, which is more effort per stroke (due to the pressure of the air already in the tyre, unlike in the single action pump, where you're working against atmospheric pressure which is much lower). 

I wouldn't worry about it. Repeatedly bending the core could cause it to break, but as a one-off, it should be fine. I quite often end up with slightly bent cores, and don't normally bother bending them back, and I don't recall ever having a valve fail. 

It also appears that your brakes are also not centered properly and that they are pushed to the left in the picture. This is probably due to the wheel pushing them to the left and will probably be resolved once the wheel is seated properly and/or is not bent. To answer the broader question of whether or not hybrid bikes are prone to breakage/misalignment. I would have to say that in general they are not, as they are made for day-to-day use. A bike in your price range is generally built pretty solid. However, from time to time some maintenance will need to be done. Also, crashes can cause things to move out of place. If you don't know a lot about bikes, it's probably best to have someone experienced look it over if anything seems to not be working correctly after a fall. 

SRAM Cassettes are compatible with Shimano Cassettes, but a cassette and a freewheel are different components. You will not be able to use the SRAM Cassette to replace your Shimano Freewheel. You will need to replace your freewheel with a freewheel. The difference between a cassette and a freewheel is that a cassette is just a bunch of cogs that slides onto a free hub. This allows the wheel to spin without the chain moving. With a freewheel, the cogs and freewheeling mechanism are all in a single assembly, and this is screwed onto the hub of the bike. 

I got the blue pinstripe set and I love it - a bright source of light, like a car headlight, hits your bike, and you light up like a christmas tree. It's especially pronounced at night, and as cool as this picture is, it doesn't do it justice. Check out the video on their website for a nighttime demonstration. Edit: I thought I would share my picture of my bike with the blue BrightBike pinstripes on it. This is taken in my dark garage with my flash covered (just enough light to make it glow without the picture being blurry). In daylight, the color is almost the same as my paint color, so they're hard to see. 

MapMyRide.com uses Google Maps in their web application, but I'm not sure if you can import an already-planned route from Google Maps: 

If your car doesn't have a trailer hitch on it, you can have one installed and purchase a "trike and bike" rack that mounts in the trailer hitch receiver: 

This looks like it's generally illegal to cycle along Scottish pavements (using the UK interpretation of "pavement": "sidewalk" in the US). Next, they look at the Act mentioned in the question: 

Why is the "B-Tension" adjustment screw so called? Does it stand for anything, have there been A and C adjustments, or is there another reason for its name? 

Note that different types of bike are designed for different purposes. You've tagged this as "road"; we generally want road bikes to move forward efficiently, but BMX riding (for example) is very different. It sounds a bit like your friend isn't used to this kind of distinction. 

The way he's riding is bad because it damages your bike. That in itself ought to be enough reason to stop. You could point out that all the effort spent pushing the bike from side to side is wasted; he could use he energy more effectively to push the bike forwards using the pedals. I suspect that if your friend was riding his own bike, he'd be less cavalier about his treatment of it. I'd be inclined to say one of the following things to him: 

I would go for the same way I taught my kids to ride. Take the pedals off and let her scoot around until she gets comfortable with the balancing part. Put the seat low enough so that she can touch flat footed. This will allow her to gain confidence and not worry about falling. Once the fear is gone, the rest should come reasonably quickly. 

Check to make sure there's no movement in the brake or pads under real life braking conditions. If something is loose, the brake will pivot around where it's mounted on the fork crown causing the pads to move upward under harsh braking conditions. Such a problem might not be apparent when if you are just looking at the problem on the repair stand. Put some chalk around the wall of the tire to see where it is rubbing off. 

According to Sheldon, mountain bikes use "decimal" sizes, such as 26x1.75 and some older road bikes from the 70s use "fractional" sizes like 26x1-3/4. Although it appears you bought 1.375 which is a decimal size, so it should fit modern bikes. However 1.375 = 1-3/8 which is the size the review is talking about. According to Sheldon, 26x1-3/8 would have a BSD of 597mm or 590mm while newer 26 inch bikes have a BSD of 559mm, making the old sized tired too big for modern rims. 

Tainio et al, (Can air pollution negate the health benefits of cycling and walking?, Preventive Medicine, June 2016, Vol.87:233–236), produced a model for cycling (and walking) in polluted cities, using data of one particular type of pollution (fine particulate matter) from various global cities. Using a measure of minutes per day spent cycling, they find that the health benefits of cycling have a "tipping point" (after which no further benefits are observed) and a "break even point", after which the harm due to pollution outweighs the benefits of the exercise. The authors claim that, in almost all urban environments, the benefits of cycling outweigh the harm. The most polluted city they looked at, Delhi, however, has a tipping point of 30 mins/day and a breakeven point of 45 mins/day, which must make it a pretty unpleasant place to cycle! The conclusion seems to me to be that if the choice is between cycling and driving, you're better off cycling (for any reasonable distance, such as commuting), because you'll be healthier and causing less pollution yourself. Personally, I like to avoid heavily polluted areas of my city for aesthetic reasons and also because they tend to be busier and slower than the alternatives. 

My inlaws ride recumbent bikes and had a hitch installed on their Toyota Camry and purchased a double-trike rack. 

These two books came highly recommended to me, and together they cover about every bike part your bike may have. (The road bike book doesn't cover "V" style brakes, since they're considered mountain bike parts). 

I noticed my crank making a noise when I would crank hard, and it ended up being the pedal. It was the cheap plastic pedals that came with the bike (before I switched to clipless), and the pedal itself was starting to break. It would bend when I was cranking hard, and it finally broke on me (thankfully, just down the street from my house). So, I would check the pedal, and check the bolts for the whole area to make sure everything's tightened down properly. 

Summers in my area get up to 90-100 during the day, and I would not ride around in a long sleeve shirt. My personal favorite shirt to wear is something like the Pearl Izumi Attack Short Sleeve Jersey from Performance Bike: 

My toddler (two and a half years old) has just started scooting around on her balance bike. I'd like to ensure that the saddle is at the best height for her to learn to balance. I know the rules of thumb for adjusting this on an adult bike with pedals, but they obviously don't apply here! What is the ideal height, probably expressed in terms of how straight her legs should be when sitting on the saddle? 

It seems to me (neither a Scot nor a lawyer), that it's generally illegal to cycle along Scottish pavements (using the UK interpretation of "pavement": "sidewalk" in the US). According to a briefing for the Scottish Parliament: 

As we will see... Firstly, they define "footway", and state that it's not generally lawful to cycle on one: 

The consequences for you as an individual are perhaps not as important as the broader ramifications of your behaviour. By behaving as if you think that the local rules of the road don't apply to you, you are contributing to a perception that cyclists are dangerous idiots who disregard the rules and the safety of themselves and others. This has the effect of making other road users much less sympathetic about the needs of cyclists as a whole. This can result in more dangerous behaviour from motorists, which is a battle that the cyclists will only come off worse in. If cyclists are seen as unpleasant or dangerous, we are much less likely to be effective in campaigning for better provision in terms of infrastructure such as segregated bike lanes, safer parking and so on. 

You'll also need to know the manufacturer, so that the shifters will be compatible. Most likely it's Shimano, or SRAM. It should be written somewhere on the shift levers. 

I've heard you should keep high pressure water away from your bike, because it can easily work it's way into the bearings, even sealed ones, especially around the bottom bracket and wheels. Pressurized water will push the oil out of the spaces between the chain links, and it's probably not a good idea to use pressurized water at all. You should be able to sufficiently clean the dirt off your bike with some light water, or, if you want to really thorough, use a chain cleaner. And you should always relube after cleaning regardless of which cleaning method you use. 

I would say that you should definitely work more on long bike rides and less on strength training. You can always wimp out on the hills and put it in an easy gear. If the max you have done is 70km, then you really need to work on the distance part of it. Another important thing to train for is how to fuel yourself during the ride. Most moderately fit people could probably do 70 km without worrying about how to properly hydrate and eat during the ride. But when you get up around 200 km, you really have to think about how to eat and drink in the correct amounts so that you don't "bonk" when you are out on the road.