That link dates from 2012; and the novels you mention date to 2010. I believe that bookshelf poetry dates back further than that, and it doesn't appear to be original to that contest, but I don't have evidence of older instances. I do know of an older example with chapter titles. Isaac Asimov's 1972 The Gods Themselves is divided into three parts: Against Stupidity The Gods Themselves Contend in Vain Together, they are a line from Friederich Schiller's verse poem, Die Jungfrau von Orleans. 

Palindrome poems have been around for a while. They're sometimes called "mirror poetry". A similar form is the reverse poem, where the poem takes on an opposite meaning when read backwards. Those are usually on a line-by-line rather than word-by-word basis, which means you don't have to play as many games about "verb forms". The specification of "five distinct smaller sections, each of which makes a complete thought" is not specifically familiar, though it's not really well exemplified here. The five sections in the example are pretty incomplete as thoughts. Structurally, it sounds similar to a bookshelf poem: 

Since so much of the essay is based around TS Eliot, I suspect another example may be Memory, which was added to the play Cats that is otherwise made primarily of Eliot's poems: 

Apparently, because it was true. The Iliad as we know it was composed over some centuries, transmitted orally, before "Homer" synthesized the version that was written down. Practically every word in that last sentence is subject to debate, called the Homeric Question. But this is the version that I think is most generally agreed on, and which I think best answers the question. The earliest versions may have been practically contemporary. A fair number of details have been later confirmed, most notably details of the walls of Troy as discovered by Heinrich Schliemann at Hisarlik in Turkey. The style is constructed for easy memorization, with a rigid meter (dactylic hexameter, which works as well for Greek as iambic pentameter does for English) and a lot of stock phrases (like Eos rhododactylos, "rosy-fingered dawn", and "wine-dark sea"). So it's entirely possible that those names are in there because those people were, in fact, there. The poem was composed to honor them, and was being told to people who remembered them. You wouldn't want the Cretans to boo you because you forgot Idomeneus, after all. Still... that doesn't explain why people would want to listen to this rather stultifying section. Even if the Cretans cheered being mentioned, surely they didn't care about Diores, son of Amarynces, and Polyxenus, son of King Agasthenes, son of Augeas. Well, literarily, it does serve a number of purposes. For one thing, it makes it all feel like a historical recitation rather than a fantasy. The Greek notion of the distinction between fact and fiction doesn't match the way we think of it, and they seem to have believed in things that they knew were fictional, but that mix included a lot of reality. It also serves political purposes. It helps to cement the notion of a Greek identity. It reminds them of a time they all worked together, even as Athens and Sparta were embarking on a series of wars. And it may have given authority to people claiming descent from those great Greek warriors: "Look, my great-great-N-great grandpappy served with Agamemnon and Menelaus." Finally... the Iliad as a whole is pretty tedious to modern ears even without the Catalog of Ships. It covers a fairly small piece of the war, and could better be known as the Wrath of Achilles. It doesn't tell any of the stories most people think of about the Trojan War: the abduction of Helen, the Trojan Horse, the Achilles Heel. I think the people who listened to it would have found the Catalog of Ships more engaging than we do. 

We don't know much. About the only concrete data is that he's described as a "youth". We also know that his parents and Juliet's parents are social peers, which implies that they're of roughly similar age, but leaves room for him to be considerably older without violating the text. I think his flightiness and moodiness makes an interpretation of "mid to late teens" most justified, but I think you could justify a pedophile interpretation if you thought it made an interesting performance. I suspect that it would not, but I suppose it would be up to a director to try it and find out. There is a more interesting question in the age of Paris, who is often portrayed as considerably older and a figure of disgust, but that isn't a requirement of the text. It is also possible to portray him as only slightly older and a sympathetic figure, one whom Juliet might have made a tolerable match were she not overcome by what she imagines to be true love. Setting up Romeo as a much older man could have some interesting implications for his unjustified murder of Paris. It is noteworthy, I think, that Juliet is considerably younger than women were usually married in England at the time. Shakespeare's wife was in her late 20s, and that was much more the custom. Marrying Juliet off at 12 or 13 would not be impossible, but definitely unusual. Shakespeare often used foreign settings to gain some distance from everyday British customs. Romeo and Juliet are characters of exaggerated emotion, which fits well with the behavior of young teens, and less well with more mature characters. 

It's not an allegory, but it is a common feature of life. It's not "just" about baseball: it's about disappointment, about expectation, about confidence, about the trope of overcoming adversity. Sometimes, you just lose. It happens. There's no need to apply an allegorical reading where the baseball represents, I dunno, the Free Coinage of Silver and Casey represents William Jennings Bryan. (Example borrowed from Cecil Adams.) The poem is appreciated by people who aren't baseball fans because they know the bittersweet feeling it evokes: the heartbreak of loss combined with the silliness of the poem's style. It reminds you that there's another game tomorrow, and life goes on. True allegories are actually quite rare. The trope rarely works well, because no two situations are ever truly identical, and trying to force them to be just makes people uncomfortable. But great works capitalize on common human experiences. As they say about history, it never repeats itself, but it rhymes. 

I believe Shippey meant that this may have been Tolkien's goal at the beginning, but like Tolkien's other "solutions" he seems to have abandoned it as the story grew in the telling. Tolkien's conceit of the Silmarillion as a mythology for England was largely abandoned through the constant rewrites. In fact, Tolkien abandoned it even more thoroughly than the finished Silmarillion we see today. Tolkien realized during the 1950s and 60s that the project needed a ground-up rewrite. Most prominent among those is the "flat earth" problem. Tolkien's early beautiful myth of the sun and the moon assumed a flat earth (originally, shaped like a giant boat). Later, he added a story where the earth became "bent" (round), removing Valinor from the world. But this reads like a mythical form being replaced by science, and that just didn't square with the man who devised not one but several different kinds of calendars calculated to four decimal places. So he set about replacing it with a purely round world, and that was his final thoughts on it. When his son set about crafting The Silmarillion, he chose to use the earlier version, in part because that was more compatible with the published Lord of the Rings. Christopher also abandoned the frame story of Eriol/Aelfwine, which helped set the context for the myths as proto-English. These stories, too, had drifted over time, as did the location of Middle-earth and England. These illustrate how Tolkien may have begun with an intention of "solving" things, but it was rarely where he ended up. Shippey is well aware of that, so I think that's the context he intended it in: Tolkien may have set out to solve the problem of the Sampo, either consciously or unconsciously (he never mentioned it, certainly), but that tale quickly grew in the telling and took on a life of its own. Tolkien remained a problem-solver. He continued to take inconsistencies in his own stories and turn them into stories of their own. His own rewrite of the Gollum story for the current edition of The Hobbit, to take into account his later re-casting of Gollum as a murderer and the ring as the Ring, becomes a footnote in the introduction about how the first edition was Bilbo's self-deceptive lie. And so on. 

Further... it helps to realize that "steep" is being used here in a non-standard way, largely as a synonym for "pinnacle" (or at least, the steep sides of a mountain leading up to the pinnacle.) It's in there because it rhymes with "sleep". (I'm not crazy about that; it feels forced to me. English just isn't a great language for writing triple rhymes like the ones in the poem. Try Italian.) So you can read "pinnacle and steep of godlike hardship" is "each difficult thing that has to be done". And in context: he sees the various battles depicted in the marbles, and that puts his imagination in mind of his own eventual death. Remember that Keats was seeing the marbles in London, rather than on the Parthenon itself. Which gives him a great view of them, at eye level, but they've been removed from context. (Keats never made it to Greece. I don't believe he ever left England. He would surely have known the Parthenon from pictures in books, but I don't know if he would have really connected the marbles to the Parthenon itself.) 

Hamlet refers to the improvisation of clowns, rather than of actors in general. His reasoning is explicit: he doesn't want the audience to laugh. The play has a point ("some necessary question of the play"), and he doesn't want it lost on the audience just to satisfy some clown's "pitiful ambition" (to be noticed, attract attention, and possibly patronage). Shakespeare incorporated clowns into most of his tragedies, including Hamlet. The Gravedigger scene is an excellent example of black comedy, as is the Porter in Macbeth. While Hamlet's "The Mousetrap" doesn't appear to have any comic scenes (we see what is, presumably an abbreviated form of it), it's important to Hamlet that the clowns not change the tone of the play. Clowning had a strong improv tradition, inherited from Commedia dell'Arte. They would start with a plot outline, but the actual text would be improvised (and it was sometimes called "commedia improvviso"). Shakespeare and his contemporaries often followed old, well-known stories, and wrote specific dialogue for them: it wasn't improvisation, but it reflects the way audiences were coming to see a production rather than a story. The would usually already know the story: Hamlet goes out his way to clue them in with a dumbshow (mime) before The Mousetrap. There is thus some tension between the clowns, who see it as their job to make people laugh, and the playwright who has a dramatic goal in mind. The clowns can play with the tension created by the dramatic scenes, but if they break it entirely, then the purpose of the play is lost. Making people laugh is always a hit-and-miss operation. All theater requires actors to feel out what is working for this audience, but comedies get explicit feedback in the form of laughter. The laughter is contagious: it communicates not just to the actors, but to other audience members. (Having one person laugh in an audience is a huge help: a "shill" can be the difference between audiences who are slightly amused and audiences having the time of their lives.) So a comic actor has plenty of motivation, and expertise, to play up to what's working today -- which may be totally different from what worked yesterday. (Or at the matinee. Matinee audiences are particularly problematic, and actors today often dread them. They have a tendency to pull out all the stops just to get something. For Shakespeare, of course, all performances at the Globe were matinees.) So I would view Hamlet's talk of improvisation to refer specifically to comedy, and possibly just to this performance of this show. The "Advice to the Players" speech is often taken as coming directly from the author, and there's certainly good reason to take it more generally (especially, as I said, since Hamlet's play doesn't seem to have any clowns). So it may well also be Shakespeare telling Will Kemp to tone it down.