I don't really see the words you mentioned as profane. Strong words, yes they express strong emotion but they are not actually a direct insult to anyone; unprofessional, maybe, if you're in front of a client or someone from a different department, but not necessarily when inside your own turf. If this is the extent to what your boss says, I'd say you probably should just ignore it. In a free country, you do NOT have a right to not be offended, sometimes you just had to take things in stride. With that said, the best way to go with this, IMO, is to talk with the people directly in private. Make it clear to them that you felt uncomfortable with such languages, that you are not used to vulgar languages, and you want them to avoid using them when in your presence; make it clear that the problem is not them but on you. Most reasonable people should understand. If this is also how your boss presents himself professionally with clients or to another department, then things might be different. This kind of behavior may affect the relationships with your clients or the other departments, so if this is the case, then you do have an objective ground to complain. Alternatively, if your company has a policy prohibiting the use of vulgar languages in the office, then you would also have an objective ground to object. Still, it is better to achieve mutually agreed consensus instead of forced compliance, so try to avoid escalating the situation more than is necessary. 

It's time for a show and tell. Show the management how much money they would have been able to save if they had just stopped the fire and invested in improving the processes in some point in the past. Tell them that this is not a futile situation and that your can improve the situation. Show then that you can do the improvements that you proposed. Tell them what you intend to do, what you needed from the company, and how long it would take for their investments to recover its initial costs. Show them the risks of not improving the situation. Tell them the risks of the investment and the exit strategy if the project doesn't work out. Talk in their own language, in a language they can understand, so they can evaluate the values, costs, and risks themselves. Do your research. Quantify these costs, risks, and returns. Managements usually don't like taking about things in terms of "better", they need real numbers to work with. If the management is still unwilling to buy in and assuming that you believe that you have made a reasonable and sensible proposal, then the biggest problem you have is that your priorities aren't aligned with the company's priorities. You are a poor fit with the job that your company is offering you. Find another job in which you can express your personality better. 

The correct etiquette here is to apply for the job if it seems of interest to you and if you feel you fit the description or nearly fit the description. Your skills and your experience should be visible on your CV. If the hiring responsible find them a good fit for the job, you'll receive an answer. They'll ask further question if needed before considering you. In all case, sending a CV sounds more assertive (because you know you could do the job) than asking :) Sounding assertive is good when looking for a job. Keep in mind: they're paid to browse through CVs. You're not paid at all, so you have nothing to loose in applying. 

You don't specify the the reason for leaving a job (or being laid off, or being fired) on a resume. If you're asked, you explain the situation during the interview. Otherwise, there is no need to explain it. 

A project manager manages projects. If the person's job is to manage projects, the company can title these persons Project Managers. You don't need a certification to manage a project. The stay-at-home-parent who plans the next family vacations manages a project. The parent-partner can call that person 'project manager'. There are certifications for project management. Some companies require their project managers to have these certifications, but it's certainly not standard. I suggest you don't make an issue out of it, until you're high enough in the hierarchy that you'd have the power to change that. Until then, don't worry about it. Other companies do that and it won't make your company look worse. 

Here is a couple of thoughts: Asking an employee about his/her mood on a daily basis is, IMHO, very intrusive to their private life. Theoretically, a persons mood should not affect the work. It's not the case in practice, but a lot of people just don't want that to affect their work and thus make big efforts to not display bad moods and let these affect their work. These persons would probably consider the application irrelevant and would chose the first/default value. Also, you don't mention what kind of App, but if my boss were to force me to install an app on my phone, I would again find that very intrusive, and I would probably find all the reasons in the world to postpone the installation and set up, and then I would probably try to find another job. 

Rather than telling that your colleague is arrogant (which is not a fact, but rather it's an opinion), tell them the chain of events that makes you think he's arrogant. Stick to the facts, and only the facts, and nothing but verifiable facts. Resists making judgmental opinions, they are very subjective and such opinions are hard to defend. It's not your job to judge your colleague, let the hiring committee's decide for themselves whether or not how the hiree handled situations is a suitable fit in their environment. What you consider arrogant in your current team, might be considered as independent thinking by the other team; what you consider a major deal breaker might just be a minor issue with the other team. You don't know what the hiring committee is looking for. If they ask you to make a judgmental evaluation, politely refuse and emphasize that you will only state what you and other team mates know to be true. 

If you believe your departing will be in good terms, ask your HR. If not or if you are not sure how your departure will be received by the company, ask a lawyer. In most cases, "written communication" simply means they want clear communication in no uncertain terms, that you have communicated your intended date of departure at a certain date, so the various people that have to then do the various red tapes know when you will leave and can prepare accordingly (payslips, employment record, reassigning work, hiring for replacements, removing access privileges, etc). They don't want this to be mentioned on the passing to your manager, who might then forget to pass the info to HR or pass it late, that they have to rush the red tapes. Email may suffice for this requirement, and in this case, the HR might not necessarily appreciate a physical copy which can be easily misplaced or searched, especially if they have to scan or retype it to let other people know of the details of your departure. In other cases, "written communication" means they want to archive the physical copy with signature for legal/audit/archival/whatever purpose. In this case, you want to print this out and sign it with a pen and ask your HR what other details/attachments are necessary to be put into the physical copy and who has to countersign if any. This may be described in your employment contract or in employee handbook, but if not, the only way to find out is ask your HR. If you don't trust your employer though, if you think they might try make your departure difficult for whatever reasons, then you want to ask a lawyer how best to deliver your departure. Also, you want to ask for a receipt of any letters that you have delivered to them and anything they said. This kind of precaution may be necessary if you have reason to distrust your employer. 

Aside from what's being said already by @kevincline, telling someone that they'll be laid off, then asking them to train other employees to do their job is quite absurd, they'll just tell you to screw you. In fact, asking them to do anything productive will be most likely be met anger. There is really no valid point in keeping an employee that you have laid off. And for an employee, there is absolutely no valid point to stay at work once they know they'll be laid off. 

Maybe the needs of the company or the team changed between the moment they interviewed you and your first day of work. If your salary does not change, and the tasks for which you've been hired are not different from the job description, you should really bite the bullet and do your job. Don't bring this up as it will serve absolutely no purpose and make you look like you're whining. The HM has job to do, and is able to delegate management of other employees to his own staff. I don't see what is wrong with that. Maybe you could bring this up later when you've been working there for a while. 

You don't have to tell where you heard it, just that you heard about it and you were curious of what were the plans for you (unless, off course, he asks where you heard it). Be prepared for a change, and be ready to adapt. 

Clean up your Facebook/LiknedIn/Twitter/Instagram/Younameit public profiles. This means don't make public that you're part of groups that share common points of interest (e.g. your disability), your comments or posts about it, and if it's visible on your profile picture, change it so that it's not visible (you could go to the extent of posting a picture of your cat instead). Employers will look at it and will judge you on that. Applying for a job with a name that is not exactly yours can cause trouble down the line (for instance: an employer might frown and start to be suspicious "Why didn't you write your real name on the job application?"). Exceptions such as if your real name is Robert-Henry-George-Albert Smith, and you just write Robert Smith because that's how others call you, are legitimate. For the disability, you don't have to mention it at all if it's not to hinder your ability to perform the job you're applying for. 

When I worked corporate and we were recruiting for our branch we were told not to consider length of commute because it could be seen as a pretext for discrimination. They saw a risk that we might favor candidates from only the "right" neighborhoods. I disagreed with them, but corporate HR made the rules so we interviewed people from a wide geographical range . I suggest you leave it to the employee. If he is willing to work 4 hours a day with an hour and a half commute each way, that should be his decision. If you are feeling charitable, consider setting the part time schedule of 3 days a week , 7 hours a day if that suits your needs. He may be looking at the position as an entry into full time positions and be willing to accept the commute, but it should be his choice. 

If asked specifically, don't lie. If they don't ask, don't volunteer the information. If there was a conviction, that is a matter of public record. They don't need to ask your permission to check public records. They do need your written permission to perform a background check including checking your references. You may have been asked if you have a valid drivers license. If you do, that may be sufficient for the job. A single DUI will not disqualify a person from getting jobs as an over the road trucker to my personal knowledge; it shouldn't be a problem for a software developer. Just don lie and don't spin it if you are directly asked. 

An at will employee does not have a contract with the employer. The employee can leave at any time. The employer can fire the person at any time. The employee can be fired for any reason whatsoever. Period. However, if the employee is fired because of the prohibited reason such as the ones listed by Keltari, the employer may be liable for damages including back pay and potentially reinstatement. Nonetheless the employee is still out of work, not being paid and has to litigate to get that job back. Occasionally terms and conditions of employment may be offered by the employer or imposed by law or rule or agreement, but that does not take away from the at will status. For example, a person may be required to sign a hiring agreement that specifies discipline, confidentiality and trade secret agreements and may contain a non-compete clause among other things. That person remains an at-will employee. It is usually explicitly stated in those agreements. For contrast, union members who work under a contract are not at will employees. They can only be terminated subject to the progressive discipline specified in the binding union contract 

From what I've seen around me, you will not move up the ladder in the same company. You'll have to prove your skills in another field to another company. If you can work and make demos of what you can achieve as personal projects, you can start at the bottom of the ladder as a developer at companies who seek new employees. The fact that you have experience as a tester will look nice on your CV, but it will be used only to increase your chances of having a job as a dev, it will not help the salary. Aside from a developer's job, you might consider management as well. There are challenges there, and it's not un-common for former testers to get management roles. 

That's life, and that's the workplace. It might not have been intentional, he might have reasons for it. In any case, you won't certainly change him. But keep in mind that when it'll be your turn to retire, will you do the same? You'll have the chance to pass it on the next generation ;) 

I have never been required to show the actual paper proving I have completed a degree in an interview. Now, you still should not lie on your CV, and the same should be applied to job interviews. So the advice is: be honest. On your CV you can formulate it to say that you completed all the requirements for Master X, and that you've passed all the classes in the programme for Master Y. HR and recruiters are not dumb and will notice the difference in the formulation on your CV, so, during the interview, explain the situation. Depending on the job and on the degree(s), the paper proving that you completed a master might not be important, and your application for a job could still be considered. (For instance, where I live, the title 'engineer' is ruled by laws; you must absolutely prove that you have completed an engineering degree, so you would not be allowed to have a job that would make you an engineer. On the other hand, if the job you're seeking is for a programmer job, generally, your skills will be considered, and not whether you fully completed a Master's degree.)