I believe there's two questions here: what is the earliest use of "aqua vitae" and when did it become synonymous with "distilled spirits". I'm going to answer the latter, when did "aqua vitae" become synonymous with "distilled spirits". 

Not an animal (and I guess not an individual), but worth noting that Brazil is named for the brazilwood tree, pau-brasil in Portuguese, making it possibly the largest place on Earth named for a non-human living thing. 

Later, two supply ships, USS Seize and LST-563 grounded on Clipperton. Multiple ships were damaged trying to get them off. 

Having good equipment doesn't mean you're using it effectively. And the side that wins is not necessarily the side that takes the least casualties. First, how could they take so many casualties with superior equipment? When the Germans invaded the Soviet Union they had a lot going for them. Surprise, superior tactics, good communication, and independently thinking officers. The Soviets had none of that. What they had was numbers, some superior equipment, and room to retreat. But it wasn't always that way, and it wouldn't last after the first year of the war. Between WWI and WWII, the Soviets were on the cutting edge of military technology and thought. Germans and Soviets, both pariah states, worked together on developing new military equipment and tactics. What we know as Blitzkrieg was conceived by the Soviets as Глубокая операция aka Deep Operation. They'd invested early in tanks and aircraft, new technology at the time, and concentrated them into Mechanized Corps for rapid, deep thrusts behind enemy lines. Then in the late 1930s came the Great Purge. Much of the Soviet military leadership was executed or exiled. What was left were mediocre party hacks, incapable and unwilling to do anything but follow orders to the letter. Division commanders had to answer to political officers. Deep Operation, being the idea of purged officers, was discredited. Their tanks were dispersed to support the more ideologically acceptable infantry. The disaster of the Winter War of 1939/40 humiliated the Soviets and made their military the laughing stock of the world. As a result some reforms were begun. Commanders were called back from exile. New units were formed. But it wasn't enough and they were out of time. They thought they'd bought themselves more time with the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact of non-aggression, but the Germans did not honor it. Although the Soviets were able to mobilize, Operation Barbarossa was a surprise attack. By concentrating their forces the Germans achieved numerical superiority in manpower over the Soviets in the opening attack. WWII was fought at a pace never before seen and only the Germans had the experience and training to fight it. They had by this point successfully invaded Poland, Norway, France, and the Balkans all with a speed and ferocity no one else could yet match. Just as the Allies could not keep up with the Germans in the Battle Of France, the Soviets could not match the pace of the German attack. It could take hours for information to work its way up command, for the commanders to make their decisions, and for new orders to work their way back down. By that time the situation would have changed and the orders would be woefully out of date. The Soviets, like everyone else, could not keep up with the pace of Blitzkrieg. As a result their armies were encircled and wiped out. Hundreds of thousands of troops were captured in the opening weeks. On a tactical level, the Soviet army was very poorly trained. Soldiers who had never seen a car before might be driving a tank after a few hours training. The lack of training meant infantry could mostly manage frontal wave attacks instead of outflanking or advancing with fire and movement. It was a great German innovation to give every tank a radio (keep in mind in 1941 radios were bulky and expensive and unreliable) allowing coordinated maneuvers even in the heat of battle. Most Allied tanks of the period had no radio and communicated with flags allowing only the simplest of tactics and almost no control during battle. The T-34 and KV-1 were equal or superior in the important areas (firepower, protection, mobility) over any German tank of 1941, but they were relatively few (only a few thousand). Individual actions lead to heroic stories and often threw off tight German timetables, they were more often very poorly used. The vast majority of the 23,000 Soviet tanks were outdated light tanks such as the BT-7 and T-26. While a qualitative match for the still numerous German Panzer II, their poor tactics meant they were cut to ribbons. Fortunately for the Soviets (and everyone) a combination of German overconfidence, stubborn resistance by the Soviets, and Hitler's amateurish meddling diffused the German armies' striking power. They fell just short of Moscow before winter set in. Long supply lines, a dilapidated transportation system, a lack of logistical preparation for a long war, and surprising continued Soviet resistance further hampered the Germans As the war drew on the Soviets recovered from their initial shock. The outdated equipment had been destroyed. New equipment equal to the Germans was pouring off the production lines. More men and equipment were being shifted east. The Moscow and Leningrad were holding. Most importantly, they were learning from the Germans how to fight. In late 1942 this all culminated at Stalingrad when the overstretched Germans were halted and surrounded in an enormous envelopment called Operation Uranus that clawed the guts out of the German army. 

Was he captured, or wasn't he? Maybe he escaped? As with anything on Wikipedia, citation needed. The former claim is not sourced. The latter comes from Generals.dk which at least lists its sources for the site, and they do include a lot of primary sources. I'm inclined to believe Generals.dk: Brigadier Morgan was not captured. Maybe some other colonel carrying secret information was captured? But that's according to Hitler. Hitler is, to be very charitable, not a reliable source. Quite simply: he wasn't there, and he wasn't a historian. On the contrary, he's well known to distort history, and to fall for stories which flatter him and Germany. "Why would he lie?" His subordinates have reasons to boast to Hitler about their accomplishments and tell him stories about how great the German army is and how stupid the British are. And Hitler, with his need for ego stroking and beliefs in nationalism and racism, is primed to believe such stories. Then Hitler gets to boast to Mussolini about how great the German army is and what push overs the British are. And Mussolini thinks maybe if they join the war fighting the British won't be so bad and they can get some of the spoils. 

From what I've been able to dig up... President Roosevelt visited Clipperton as part of a tour in 1938 on USS Houston. There doesn't seem to be anything special about the visit, but it does mean the US President and military were aware of the island. 

Holder Herwig's book "'Luxury' Fleet: The Imperial German Navy 1888-1918" (1980) is very often cited. The term "luxury fleet" comes from Churchill, then First Sea Lord. 

This is quoted in the paper "Unskilled and Unaware Of It" which we now know as the Dunning-Kruger Effect. 

During the Soviet-Finnish "Winter War" of 1939/40 the Soviets attempted to outflank the Finns many times over frozen lakes and the Gulf of Finland. Well-supplied Finnish coastal artillery would blast great holes in the ice, swallowing the exposed Soviet infantry. 

This is a good illustration of the blurry line between religion and magic. I don't find this report much different than praying before a battle. 

That's it. That's what the Articles Of Confederation have to say about the President of Congress. The "president" was an appointed member who presides over Congress. Presiding means they're the Chairman who makes sure Congress goes about their business in an orderly fashion, but with no listed powers they had only the powers Congress decided to grant to the chair. The list of Presidents of Congress can be found here. 

Yes, though it evolved throughout the war. Prior to the fall of France ships would run in escorted convoys from Liverpool (OB) and London (OA) for a few days until out of range of German U-Boats. Then they'd make their way separately at their best speed, rather than being limited by the slowest ship in the convoy. They could get away with this because U-Boats were mostly short-ranged. Operating from bases in Germany, they either had to risk running the Channel or go north around Scotland. The fall of Norway and France gave the Germans direct access to the Atlantic and forward deployment of U-Boats and long-range attack aircraft. In addition, German U-Boats and aircraft had longer and longer ranges. Now OA and OB convoys were formed together at Liverpool into ON convoys, Outbound from the UK to North America. They'd sail through the North Channel between Ireland and Britain to get as far away from France as possible, then transit the North Atlantic to Halifax. Many anti-submarine escorts are small, short ranged vessels and do not have the endurance for an Atlantic crossing, like the woefully inadequate but cheap and numerous Flower-class corvettes. To deal with this the Mid-Ocean Escort Force (MOEF) was formed. Escorts would leave port with a convoy for about ten days, hand off the convoy to a new set of escorts, and then join up with a convoy headed back to port. A typical early-war MOEF escort group would be one modern destroyer, maybe a Gleaves, Benson, or H-Class, plus a few older destroyers backed up with corvettes and cutters. There were many ON convoy battles. In addition, Allied aircraft would patrol the convoy routes. U-Boats, needing to spend most of their time on the surface, lived in fear of Allied aircraft. Even without being attacked, spotting an aircraft would require them to dive. While underwater they were slow, nearly blind, and using precious battery power. Forcing a U-Boat to dive could cause them to fall behind a convoy, miss spotting a convoy, or leave them with insufficient battery power for a submerged attack. The Mid-Atlantic gap outside of the range of Allied air patrols was a favorite hunting ground for U-Boats, but it got smaller and smaller. Just a handful of B-24 Liberator and B-17 bombers in 1942 gave the Germans concern. Longer ranged aircraft, radar, and Leigh Lights (a powerful spotlight for night attack) continued to close the gap. Escort carriers and Very Long Ranged B-24s finally closed the gap in mid-1943. 

I'm pretty sure nobody liked it, and everyone was finding a way to break the stalemate, but their total lack of experience with modern war meant that most of the ideas were utterly unrealistic. They probably made it worse by employing short sighted or impractical strategies. Everyone was looking for "the big push", some magic bullet to break the stalemate, rather than looking at the problem systemically. Based on your comments it seems the premise is that trench warfare was some sort of choice... 

This is an unfortunately common tactic in pseudo-science: fund a conference or foundation with an important sounding name, invite some experts to comment on your topic, or things related to your topic, get them on tape, take their comments out of context. This was famously done with the film What the Bleep Do We Know!? which attempted to back up claims of "water memory" and the spirituality of consciousness by taking statements from famous physicists out of context. In conclusion, these sources provide no evidence to counter the existing historical narrative. 

Now I'm going to get into a bit of speculation. The Russian navy did not have the globetrotting tradition like the US or Royal Navy. Russian Baltic fleet was a coastal fleet used to being in safe, known waters. Now it's being asked to travel halfway around the world, exposed to who knows what, for months! Spotter aircraft were not available, and radios were new and poorly understood. They had to rely on visually spotting threats, their world of information was restricted to just a few dozen miles and a hazy horizon. There's a lot of ocean. One can imagine a lot of threats locked up in a steel hull for weeks on end. While traversing the narrow waters between Denmark and Sweden, the Russians imagined this to be a perfect place for a surprise attack. They had numerous false alarms about mines and torpedo boats, and one incident of firing on fishermen who were just relaying messages from Russia. Rather than settle his men, Rozhestvensky stoked their fears with orders saying no vessel of any sort should get among the fleet. They were already on edge.