The answer, as already given is "By radiation" . But comments and other answer detail have added extra information which can be useful in understanding this in the wider context, particularly relating to arguments about the Earth's energy budget and climate change. Here is some other extra stuff to consider; We pose the same question for the planet Venus. Venus has an atmosphere composed of nearly pure CO2 (actually about 96.5%). The surface temperature on Venus is around 750K at the equator when facing the sun and drops by a mere 5K overnight. Night and day are about 120 earth days in length so that's a pretty slow axial rotation and a very slow loss of surface heat during the planet's night. Now the atmosphere on Venus is very thick, masses of that lovely CO2, and surface pressure is about 90 times that of earth (9.2MPa). If you calculate the optical attenuation of the atmosphere to incoming solar radiation then the solar flux at the surface is a mere 4W per sq m. It is therefore self evident with such a low solar flux at the surface that the direct radiation from the sun cannot warm the surface to 750K. It is therefore interesting to draw some energy flux diagrams (similar to the Trenberth ones for the earth) and calculate the source of all that extra heat warming the surface. Don't forget to draw 2 diagrams, one for night and one for day to check you understand how a pure CO2 atmosphere works. This is a great exercise for school students (and anybody else) interested in the greenhouse effect of CO2. 

Your rock is mostly anthracite coal. You best diagnostic test is density. Coal even anthracite is generally the least dense rock that has no visible porosity. As for the colors, coal typically shows a large range of surface sheen colors but due a number of impurities like complex organic compounds and metal sulfides. 

Based on the stats for the US only, I would say we have the capacity for using fossil fuels over the next 100 years. Whether or not we worry about it is another discussion entirely. The US has coal resources for the next 250 years and I suspect may be producing and using natural gas for the next 100 years. For the US (from the US Energy Information Administration) 

Your rock is most likely a marcasite nodule. These nodules weather out of the chalk beds along the coast. Here is a reference to UK chalk beds. If you are interested, I would like to trade for one. I'll trade you a nice pyrite nodule I found here in northern Ohio near Lake Erie. See this similar question: What are these metallic nodules that were found at low tide on the UK south coast? 

Another way of looking at the question: I take 2 standard wheelbarrows of bits of plants from my garden. One wheelbarrow is used to fill the compost bin. The other goes to the bonfire. How much ash do I have from burning compared to how much compost from the compost bin. Any gardener will know that the amount of compost will be much larger than the amount of ash. So now we need to compare the chemical composition of the ash with that of the compost. For Wood Ash there are quite a few research articles. Most of the carbon atoms in wood ash will be in the form of Calcium Carbonate (CaCO3). Percentage in the ash will vary widely but lets take a median of 50%. Ash as a percentage of original organic matter will be maybe of the order of 8% by weight. For an original 100kg of organic matter (yes, its a big wheelbarrow) we would have 8kg of ash. In this ash would be 4kg of CaCO3. The carbon atoms would be 12% of that (relative atomic masses). So 100kg of organic bits gives you 0.48kg of carbon atoms left in the ash when you burn it. There seems to be fewer research articles on composting but we found the following approximations. For 100kg of organic matter there will be about 9% organic carbon (9kg). Composting will turn 100kg of raw material into around 30kg of compost in which the organic carbon content will be around 25% ( 7.5kg of carbon). These figures are median "pot luck selection" as results can vary widely. We can however see that composting retains massively more (7.5kg) of carbon atoms compared with burning (0.48kg). The difference will be in the atmosphere. 

Your mineral specimen is most likely cave aragonite stalactite, based on dendritic shape and physical appearance. A common locality for this type of aragonite is Mexico. Mineral definition for Aragonite. Aragonite is more dense than calcite 2.93 vs 2.71 g/cm3. Hemimorphite can have a similar appearance but has a significantly higher density. 3.475 g/cm3. 

The rock you have is most likely not platinum ore. It appears to be sulfide ore most likely composed of galena, pyrite, and maybe copper sulfides such as bornite. It is more likely that your specimen is silver ore rather than platinum ore. Mexico has a long history of silver mining. There is a platinum deposit in southern mexico and it appears to similar to the Bushveld igneous complex deposit. Ref: Mindat. Layered chromtite ore looks significantly different. Reference. 

It would completely depend on location. For instance, Sawtooth mountains in Idaho is a very large granite batholith so the rock in the tunnel would igneous granitic rock with varying textures and crystal sizes. You need to define a geological setting for the location first. - Pacific Northwest - volcanic rock, large volcanic peaks. - BlackHills of SD - Granitic core surrounded by metamorphic sedimentary rocks and unlatered sedimentary rocks. My recommendation is check out a couple of the Roadside Geology of .... books. These books are written in layman terms with explanations of the geology. See Roadside geology of Colorado ISBN:087842105X 

I have got a barometer in my hall (it's supposed to predict the weather). Sure does move about a lot. You know that of course. So the answer to your question is "YES" , in fact any change in the composition of a gas mixture is likely to change its pressure (other things being equal), but the effect will be small as the other 999,600 ppm of other stuff has a rather bigger effect BUT even if the effect was a 1 or 2% change I doubt you could confirm it by measurement as the normal variation in barometric pressure day to day and hour to hour will rather swamp it. 

I am restricting my consideration, for the moment, to just the troposphere. With regard to our understanding of the GHE do we predict that an increased GHE due to increasing CO2/Water/Methane will change the lapse rate postively or negatively? The dry adiabatic lapse rate (DALR), according to my old text books, is easily calculated from the formulae -g/c, where g is the acceleration due to gravity and c is the specific heat capacity of the atmosphere. This is supposed to be a general formulae that can be applied to any planet with a solid surface and a gaseous atmosphere. So for earth is the formulae now -g/c + (GHE) or is it -g/c - (GHE)? The bracketed GHE term being specific to the atmosphere of a specific composition, e.g. including 400ppm CO2. The second part of the question then , after we have the correct sign, is how is the term (GHE) expected to vary as the CO2 (or other greenhouse gas) concentrations vary? 

Yes, prior to 1983, central Idaho was classified low to moderate. On October 28, 1983, a powerful earthquake occurred in Lost River Range at Borah Peak in central Idaho. The shock measured 6.9 on the moment magnitude scale and had a maximum Mercalli intensity of IX (Violent). The earthquake was centered only 50 miles from a Idaho National Engineering Lab (nuclear research laboratory), but no damage was reported a the site. Unfortunately, I can't find an internet accessible report but I remember discussing this earthquake at length in a Engineering Geology class I was taking in 1986. The magnitude of the Borah Peak surprised the US government prompted the USGS to reclassify earthquake hazard zones in Idaho and Utah. Location of Borah Peak, Idaho. 

Himalayas represent a huge area with a complex geological history which I suspect has large areas that have never been adequately mapped to allow for an ore deposit evaluation. Nevertheless, placer gold might be found within any region of the Himalayas. Placer gold deposits are an accumulation of gold formed by gravity separation during sedimentary processes of the gold bearing host rock. Reference: $URL$ Many granite bearing mountains containing quartz-feldspar porphyry dykes/veins associated with elevated concentrations of sulfur and arsenic can be found in many parts of the world. I would assume these deposits would also found in the Himalayas. Reference: $URL$ 

Firstly you need to define what you mean by average daily temperature. What algorithm are you going to use to compute it (from several time spaced measurements), why and what do you think the result represents. Obviously if you use a measurement which is going to be affected by very local anthropogenic activity (e.g. cars) you can expect timing of activities to affect individual measurements. a measuring station which is going to be thus affected is not really going to be useful for anything wider or general though. When siting weather stations we try to find locations which are not subject to such local disturbances. Ideally well away from any heat producing apparatus (e.g. fixed a/c units), heated buildings, variable traffic and so on. Locations in open non urban areas are preferable for understanding changes in the weather and climate. Past locations thus chosen however have often been compromised by the expansion of nearby housing or industry as populations and cities have expanded. This is why you sometimes see references to Urban Heat Islands (UHI) in discussions of climate measurement.