No. Ireland, Britain and Gaul appear to be purely oral (non-literary) societies before Christian times. There are no "proto-Gaelic" peoples in Britain or Ireland because the Gaels are not autochthonous to those islands. They were invaders. Comment on the Gaels/Phoenician Identity I would like to avoid a long dissertation on the Gael/Phoenician identity, but since a commentator is taking shots at it, I will make a few remarks. As Pannetier has pointed out below in a roundabout way, there is a strong archaeological record showing Phoenician development to Carthage (Kartheda), Gadiz, Brigantium and then to England where the Phoenicians established control of tin extraction. Since the timing is coincident with Gaelic expansion, it supports the idea that the Gaels and early Phoenicians were either the same people or were closely linked in some way, especially since the Gaels were invaders, not indigenous. Also, the Gaels repeatedly and in detail characterize themselves as Phoenicians (or "Feeny" as they call them) throughout their most ancient writings. Many of the counterarguments I have seen against the idea are of the ilk the Phoenician X is nothing like the Gaelic Y. However, usually these comparisons are to Phoenicians as we knew about them in 500 BC to 300 BC. The Gaels were established in Ireland and Britain between 1500 BC and 1200 BC. Comparing the Phoenicians of 500 BC to the Gaels of 1500 BC is not a fair comparison. The valid comparison is to use only Phoenician material dated to 1200-1500 BC to make the comparison (ie before the Ramessid wars). Unfortunately, relatively little is known of the Phoenicians during that time period. Comment on the Supposed Central European Origin I will also comment on the idea, current among many scholars that the Gaels somehow originated in central Europe. This is a completely illogical idea. The source of this idea is the archaeology of what is called the "Hallstatt" culture. Since some of the elements of this culture are Gaelic, some anthropologists have drawn the absurd conclusion that the Gaels originated where these burials are found. The Hallstat culture was influenced by the Gaels, not the other way around. In 800BC to 500BC, the time of the Hallstat culture, the Gaels had a huge empire of which Hallstat was just one little piece, and the empire was based in Britain and Ireland. 

To get all the way to India would take several steps. At the turn of the century there were three cables from Aden to Bombay. So, if you needed to wire Madras from London, the message would first have to be sent to Aden, then to Bombay, then on to Madras. In general, most of the long line pre-WW2 cables were single conductor only (one channel). Here is a typical design: 

Foraging is only part of the solution. Once you start pillaging the locals, supplies will dry up fast. Also, pillaging takes a lot of time and makes your men vulnerable. It's not really a viable option if you have an enemy army within striking range. The truth is that foreign campaigns are always financed by money. Commanders would have a big chest full of money and this would be used to cover expenses. Things are no different now. The US army always tries to source supplies locally and pay for them. We only ship things from the USA when there is no local option. In many armies soldiers were expected to feed themselves from out of their pay. So, the general would pay the soldiers, then the soldier would buy his food locally. For example, here is an extract from a British army manual published in 1816: 

No, it was not a distraction. Bypassing Stalingrad was not an option. The essential problem was that the Don River has a geography that would makes it difficult to establish supply lines across except in the vicinity of Stalingrad or much farther north, in the Kursk area. By controlling the Stalingrad area, the Sixth Army would theoretically have a base which would have allowed the Germans to flank the Red Army. With Stalingrad in hand they would be in position to advance all the way to Saratov (the next big objective). Such an advance would have collapsed the entire Don salient and allowed the Germans to put much more pressure on the Kursk salient and eventually Moscow. The area between the Don and Stalingrad is narrow and has no railway other than the one through Stalingrad itself, so it is tank only; there would have been no way supply an army past Stalingrad without controlling Stalingrad. There would simply have been no way to get food and fuel north of the Don bend without controlling Stalingrad. After failing to pass Stalingrad, the Germans attempted to attack Kursk directly instead of flanking and we know how that turned out--not good. 

From this it appears that upper Bulgaria was not occupied by the Mongols at all and was, at most, a vassal state. In the confusion of a succession crisis caused by the illness of Constantine Asen, Ivailo appeared pretending to oppose the Tatars (Mongolians). However, once he was admitted to the city, he killed the ailing Tsar and seized the throne by force. 

The Durants are just repeating what it says in many articles and encyclopedias such as the 1885 article from "The Disciples of Christ" by JW Lowber, where it says: "Plato sojourned for a time in Egypt; and some think that he also visited Palestine, Babylon, Persia and India." These legends are based on dark age Arab accounts of Plato which make these claims and were later repeated by medieval scholars. 

The age of marriage (God) The age of holiness (Christ, the son of God) The age of the second coming, ie the impending future (the Holy Ghost) 

Further research seems to indicate that the last part of the question is correct and that various statements to the effect that the Tartars were "Mongols" or "Turks" may be incorrect. An issue of the United Service Magazine in 1853 published an article stating the following: 

Notice cell number 3 to the right of the name box. This is for the 印鑑 (seal). Normally only people of noble lineage have a seal. Although of course a commoner can make up a seal, executives know the difference between noble seals and common ones. Also, notice the large amount of space in the name box, box 2. The reason for this is that you are expected to put not just your name there, but your lineage. Even for a very lowly position like a janitor, it is expected to put the names of both your parents and your home village or place of origin. Nobles or samurai descendants will list their main lines of descent and any key ancestors. This information has a large impact on a person's prospects for employment, especially for high-paying positions. 

By creating the Confederacy, they obviously were breaking this clause of the constitution to which they had previously agreed. Of course, at the sovereign level there is no such thing as "illegal". Laws are for consenting communities that agree to live together under a fixed set of rules. When the communities fight, those laws are no longer valid. From the answers above you can see that the US Congress and Supreme Court, ex post facto, passed a bunch of "laws" that it was "illegal" for a state to succede, but at the end of the day, there are no laws, just force. For example, lets say Congress passes a law that makes it "illegal" for anyone in Somalia to mine tin. Does that mean it is illegal for Somalis to mine tin. I suppose so, in the eyes of Congress, but probably not in the eyes of the Somalis. For a law to have just force, the court must have jurisdiction. When a group seccedes, they may argue there is no longer any jurisdiction over them. For example, William Wallace, after being captured, was charged with treason, but he argued, correctly, that there was no treason because he was not a subject of the English king, Edward. That didn't stop Edward from killing him though. 

The whole "people died young" thing is somewhat exaggerated. First of all, before 1800 there was less of a focus on age in general, although in 19th century in the United States this tendency reversed and became almost technical. For example, in the 1870-1900 period you can often find death notices that say things like so-and-so lived for 64 years, 4 months and 5 days. In the old days people ate a lot less and exercised more, which are healthy tendencies. If you avoided common causes of death, like childbirth, you could easily live to be old. Living a long time is more a function of bodily quality and integrity than medical intervention. If you visit 90-year-olds in nursing homes you will find that they rarely go to the doctor. People who require medical assistance tend to be the ones that die young. The doctors never even see the long-lived. 

As you can see, it is pretty close to the modern design, but not quite sword-through-the-head. The first full modern design having all the elements we know today was probably the Steamboat 999 deck which was first printed in 1883 and was published in vast numbers at a cheap price, making the design a permanent standard. The portraits are stylized (including the number of eyes showing) to make each suit look different and distinctive. 

He didn't "repel" anything and I doubt Ivaylo defeated any significant Mongolian force. What it says in an article "Les Mongols dans les Balkans" by Gaston Cahen in Revue Historique (T. 146, Fasc. 1, 1924, pp. 55-59) is the following: