Arrange for a sequence of very heavy asteroids to fly by on near-miss patterns, each one will fly through the atmosphere and skim just over the surface of the planet. Each one will blast out a substantial chunk of the atmosphere so if you set up a sequence of them it will act almost like a bucket chain, with the cumulative effect gradually stripping the atmosphere off the planet. 

In practice there would most likely be a combination of these, with buildings at the top linked to the surface and others deeper open to the water. Transition between these buildings could be done using air locks to equalize the pressure. Note that the depth you mention (400m) is just inside the range of human survival. The records for deep diving at external pressure are around 432m. In practice you would most likely need most of your city higher (and at less pressure) than that as we just have no idea what the long term effects of living in those conditions would be. The problems here aren't technical. They're practical and financial. Would you want to live in a steel can underwater breathing recirculating and pressurized air? Especially when doing so would be substantially more expensive than living on land. We have the technology today to build this. What we don't have is the reason to do so. 

The main problem with the portals is that while they maintain kinetic energy (your speed going in) they do not maintain potential energy. That's why you can put one portal in the ceiling, one in the floor, and fall through going faster and faster. That fundamentally breaks the law of conservation of energy. The only way it is possible is if the portal generator is adding energy into you to make up the difference. 

So standard insects already use something different from what we would call "blood", but again it's stuff being carried along by water. Their blood though does not carry Oxygen: 

A roof over the top of the ship would have a number of negative consequences, the severity of each would vary: 

You are correct that the answer is "it depends", what I can tell you though is what it depends on. The first thing to consider is your atmosphere. What light frequencies (colours) does it reflect? Which ones get through to the surface? Our atmosphere lets visible light through, which is one reason our eyes are tuned to those frequencies, but the scattering of blue light is why the sky appears blue. Note though that over time your vision would adjust to any ambient shading of the light though and adjust for it until it seemed normal. The second thing to consider is the materials making up the ring and how they are arranged. If the ring is mostly iron oxide then it might be red, sulfurous compounds yellow. Ice might be white, or blue, or any other colour. But those are wide generalizations, just find out what colour the material reflects and you have it. The final thing is the colour of the star. A red giant will naturally colour everything red, while a brighter blue star will shift things the other way. So now combine those two effects, and you have the colour of your rings: 

So, monomolecular whips requires advanced technology to build ( we still can't), so we can safely apply some technology to our answer. The first thing is that you would need "control points" embedded into the whip. Without them it would have virtually no weight or momentum so would not do anything. The simplest approach is as Pete suggests, building it into a bolas. Alternatively you could build it into a whip with a weight at the end of the wire to hold it out. You would be able to swing the whip using the weight. By having a winching system inside the handle you could even extend and reduce the length of the whip dynamically as part of the swing. Imagine a simple handle, when you flick your wrist the weight swings out and around scything through anything between the weight and the handle, then retracting back into the handle before it starts to wrap around and become a threat to the user. An easier to use weapon be like a net gun, but it fires a net made of molecular wires with weights around the edge. Fire the net into an area and anything in between the weights gets cut into neat rectangles until all the weights hit something and stop moving. Not very effective compared to a gun but certainly a horrifying thing to face, the psychological impact would be real. For something like a sword you would need a way to stiffen the wire. We don't really have any technology that can do that at the moment, in theory a magnetic or electrical field could be used to push the control point away from the pommel but in practice doing that over any distance is not feasible and is too easily interfered with. Ask skye just suggested a small rocket on the end of the wire would indeed work, however it still would work more like a whip than a sword since moving the handle would not cause the rocket to move. This would be a terrifying weapon while the rocket fuel lasted (which wouldn't be for long) though as you could potentially spool out a much longer cable and cut through anything in between you and the rocket. Note though that cuts from a molecular whip are very very thin. Cut through a pillar and you would not cause the pillar to collapse, the stone is still there supporting the weight from above. Cut through it in multiple places and then apply some sideways force (or cut through at an angle) though and you might get somewhere. 

A highly advanced civilization has developed and is about to ascend to become beings of pure energy in a hyper-dimensional universe. Before leaving they restore our universe to a reasonably pristine state so that new life can evolve and explore it. For the most part they remove all trace of their existence, however they want to leave something behind. This could either be out of a sense of fun (they still have practical jokers) or just to leave a signature behind to show that they existed. What sort of things could they leave behind that would be stable for millions or even billions of years, clearly the work of sentient beings, and possible to spot from a distance of many light-years. In other words it must be on at least a planetary scale. There must be no doubt at all to anyone detecting it that this is something unusual, and that it's an artificial construction. However it is a signature, not a library or anything else. It contains nothing of meaning and certainly no intelligence. This includes technology that could be salvaged (for example maintenance robots). It's just a huge "we were here" in the sky that needs to last for billions of years with no maintenance. 

Dragon Giraffes. Stick with me on this, I'll explain. Picture a herbivore, similar to giraffes, with a long head and neck designed to eat the leaves from trees. As a defensive mechanism it develops bladders filled with hydrogen that it uses to breathe fire at anything that attacks it. Over time the bladders expand and it starts using them to support some of its weight, allowing it to reach higher and higher into the trees without needing such long legs, they actually walk on their hind legs and use their front legs to stabilize themselves while hydrogen bladders extending from their back and neck support much of their weight. They evolve over time to reduce their weight and can control the lift from their hydrogen bladders by contracting or expanding them. Eventually they complete the transition to becoming airborne, and in the process avoiding all predators that might attack them. They drift on the winds much of the time using modified tails and fore-legs as wings to maneuver and grazing from the tops of trees, their long necks now being used to reach down rather than up. They can land and do so if the wind becomes too strong but they spend most of their time drifting at fairly low altitude and grazing from the tree-tops beneath. 

Create some lightweight handcar-style contraptions and stash them in the baggage car. Once you've completed the robbery run to the back of the train. Put the handcar on the tracks, step onto it, then let go of the train and apply the brakes. 

While this style is interesting, I don't think it would look how you have suggested. If you think about the logistics of writing your hands and arms go onto the surface below the writing. In the example given you would end up smudging the ink repeatedly. Instead the writing would start at the center and form a spiral (or concentric circles but spirals have more obvious "start reading" points and easier flow) outward from that point. The letters would be arranged with their "top" towards the center of the circle and their "bottom" towards the outside. The paper would then be formed in a circle itself. The circles could be bound in books at one edge by flattening off a small part of the circle. Scrolls would just involve rolling up the circular paper. Or the paper could be laid onto rectangles of a cheaper substance (for example sheets of wood) and then still bound into square books. Alternatively they could use rectangular paper and write the main message in the center and then other messages (like footnotes) in the four corners around that. Even smaller messages could then be entered in the remaining space.