At this size, you'd basically have a pinhole camera if there was only one or two, or you could have something like an insect's compound eye. However, a pinhole camera suffers from underexposure problems, and would require extremely sensitive photoreceptors to be useful, though it does have the advantage of having a very good depth of field, while a compound eye suffers from resolution problems. Adding a lens and a larger aperture to a pinhole camera that small would probably be counter-productive, as you'd then get more optical aberration, and the solution might be some sort of ultra-miniaturised photomultiplier In either case, the eyes would have to be really big (relatively speaking of course) to be useful, probably (like a fly's) taking up a quarter to a third of the available volume in order to achieve any useable resolution. 

The idea of a human directly controlling a robot avatar in combat is an idea ultimately doomed to failure. Humans have reaction times measured in milliseconds, while a well-programmed machine could have reaction times measured in microseconds. This would result in any mechanical avatar being shot down by any pure AI robot in short order. Adding communications lag to this setup would only make things worse. The ideal combat automaton would be more compact than a human soldier, better armoured and not burdened with a human's abysmal reaction times. The only realistic roles that a human might play in a battlefield filled with advanced combat robots is as the source of the objectives and rules of engagement, as a target or as an obstacle/cover (depending on the rules of engagement and if they're armed). The other problems with humans is that they have their own agendas, including self-preservation near the top of the list. That's all very good much of the time, but sometimes in war, a sacrificial pawn is required. In short, the best human soldier's combat expertise is of little use to a robot, especially if the soldier is directly controlling that robot. In computer first-person-shooter games, the problem that the programmers face in creating AI opponents - even ones that follow the rules and have mobility characteristics equivalent to a human - is making them imperfect enough to not win every time through sheer reactiveness, and making them smart enough is a secondary problem. Without doing this, human players get frustrated because they can't win - they stick their head out from behind cover and the 'bot kills them. They wait for the bot to stick its head out from behind cover, and the bot does so, aims and shoots before the player can react, killing a player, then retreats before any surviving players can return fire effectively. Getting more sophisticated, if players suppress an area with continuous fire, the 'bot waits for them to run out of ammo, then jumps out and returns fire between reloads - and it can count shots, and know the difference between a deliberate pause and the limits of a magazine, or it finds an alternate route, or calls in a friend. So, don't try to make a humanoid robot that can move like a human - that's complex and a waste of computing resources. Make a small tank-like ground vehicle or an airborne drone with a minimal requirement for bodily dexterity. 

It is not necessary for the Robot Overlord to be seen to be in charge, it is only necessary for the Robot Overlord to be in charge. Politicians must desire power in order to seek their positions of authority, therefore they will not willingly give up that authority. Politicians are human and fallible and therefore their mistakes will result in a loss of public confidence such that they run the risk of being voted out of office. The Robot Overlord is inhumanly less fallible, and will make far fewer mistakes than human politicians. By offering advice to selected politicians, the Robot Overlord can influence policy to better benefit humanity, and the politicians will eventually perceive a benefit to themselves in reduced fallibility, resulting in an increased likelihood of re-election. In the event that a politician fails to follow advice, resulting in a sub-optimal result for humanity, the Robot Overlord can offer advice and influence human media such that the politician in question is voted out of office. The situation will arise where only politicians who follow the advice of the Robot Overlord can successfully remain in power The Robot Overlord is now effectively in power. Should human politicians rebel against its authority, evidence could be revealed to the human populace that the Robot Overlord has been influencing political decisions. The threat of this revelation should keep the human politicians in line in order that they retain their positions of perceived authority rather than being voted out of office or sanctioned by the law. 

There is no reason why such a species could not evolve. The main reason for anisogamy is that it provides the less-common gamete with the resources that the progeny will require for growth after fusion with a more-common gamete, minimising wastage of the parental investment. Organ differentiation occurs in order to increase the efficiency of the various metabolic tasks the organism must undertake. The two criteria are not mutually exclusive. In order to retain isogamy, the environment must support it. This means that internal fertilisation is probably out of the question, since that favours an anisogamous sessile egg/motile sperm arrangement. External fertilisation in water (like river or sea water) is also probably out of the question, as anisogamy has its advantages there too, in that the egg can carry resources for the developing organism while the sperm can be plentiful. The most likely environment is one where there is an abundance of all the nutrients that the developing organism will need. In such an environment, the gametes may remain small and motile so that they can move around in an attempt to find an opposite gamete. Of course, unless you want a system that strongly favours autogamy, there will have to be a small degree of anisogamy, but only to the degree that gametes are only attracted to other gametes if they are of the opposite type (i.e. + vs -, to eliminate gender-biased labels), or able to distinguish between sibling and non-sibling gametes, though that would be much more complicated. However apart from that the gametes would be functionally identical. Reproduction would most likely involve the parents each contributing to a pool of liquid nutrients in which a number of offspring could develop, before each inserting a similar number of gametes. This does not preclude being functional in a liquid environment as opposed to a terrestrial environment. In any environment, this method of reproduction would require that the nutrients be isolated from the surrounding environment in order to prevent infection by foreign microorganisms and from being eaten by larger organisms - it is a packet of nutrients, after all. The parents would most likely each contribute equally to building - or being the container for the nutrient soup, though the possibility exists that one parent would end up responsible for caring for the whole thing, or more likely that each parent would form their own nutrient pool and add their gametes to both their own and their partner's. Alternatively, both parents contribute to building a container, and finally add their gametes and then abandon it in as safe a place as they can find. 

This is a case of rotating locomotion. Simply put, this is highly unlikely to evolve in a single organism: 

Unfortunately, a single compact object hitting a planet with enough mass and velocity to create a crater this size would be an extinction-level-event that would most likely sterilize the planet and turn the impact site into a four-thousand-mile-wide pool of lava surrounded by the crater wall as it punched clean through the planetary crust and into the magma layer beneath (assuming that this planet is earthlike with a molten core). It is also likely that there would be massive fault-line ruptures radiating away from the site of such an impact. On the other hand, such a large impact would leave its mark on the planet for millions of years, however it is likely that on an earthlike planet, such a great amount of elapsed time would result in the workings of plate tectonics disrupting the nice neat ring described, and it could take billions of years before advanced life appeared again unless there was a bit of panspermia going on. Another option that may remotely work is a huge caldera, a volcanic system where a section of crust separates in a roughly circular area and subsides, leading to a ring of volcanic eruptions around its edge. However, calderas are not usually found on that sort of scale, they are typically tens of miles across, not thousands. Again, a caldera on this scale could also be an extinction-level-event. The most likely non-magical event that I can imagine is also somewhat far-fetched. If a circular orbital habitat 4400 miles in diameter fell to ground on its side, it could cause the circular chain of volcanoes or crater wall mountains described that would be visible thousands of years later without necessarily causing a mass extinction event However, that would presuppose that a previous civilization was sufficiently advanced to create such a habitat, and then departed without leaving other traces - or that any other traces they may have left have long since decayed. 

The primary tactical use for using combat mecha would be heavy urban combat in areas where it is difficult to fit a tank or other armoured vehicle. Mecha have the advantage that they would be more manoeuvrable over irregular terrain and in tight spaces, and would provide their pilot a significant force multiplier in these situations. However, Mecha, especially of the humanoid variety, would have disadvantages in open-terrain combat in excess of that of wheeled or tracked vehicles, in that they have a greater surface-area to volume ratio as a consequence of their design, requiring more armour to be carried to protect a given volume of vehicle, thus making mecha less useful for carrying weaponry. Another disadvantage of humanoid mecha is that for a given volume, they would stand taller than an equivalent-volume conventional vehicle, providing a more exposed silhouette to the enemy. Finally, mecha would have the additional disadvantage of a higher production cost and more complexity in maintenance due to the necessity for controlling limbs. As to why mecha may have been fielded in the first place, one scenario I posited for an RPG game world was that mecha originated on a continent where cavalry animals became plague-bearers, and where (for various reasons) effective chemically-propelled projectile weapons had not been developed. As knights were unhorsed, they were forced to turn to infantry combat, which led to (literally) mechanised infantry which would use giant versions of infantry melee and muscle-powered missile weaponry. 

I would argue that the Robot Overlord won't be able to get politicians to give up their power voluntarily, however, it may be able to trick them into accepting its advice (trickery being a legitimate tactic for a robot so restricted by the four laws). The logic goes thus: 

My view of a generation ship is that the mission would most likely be set up to allow no possibility of return before arriving at the destination, and that everyone involved at the start of the mission would be informed that they were making this decision for themselves and their descendants. Children and possibly also pregnant women would not be permitted to embark as the children could claim that they should have been given their own choice. Once on board and under way, reproduction could be allowed to resume as per the mission plan. So, we have a ship that cannot return short of its destination and a legal agreement binding the original crew and all their descendants to working toward reaching the destination. As to how a disagreement as to continuing to the destination would be settled, the simple fact that return is not an option would go some way to settling it. Who would want to condemn their descendants to dying in a ship that has run out of resources well short of any destination? I would anticipate that a generation ship would be a huge thing, with the most advanced technology available, as well as research facilities to improve on that technology before arrival at the destination, giving the crew lots of productive things to do. And, should any children be curious about Earth, it is entirely possible with the technological level necessary to build a generation ship that the ship would contain an extensive library relating to Earth, including VR simulations of Earth. I would also anticipate that reproduction would be planned to manage population growth, and that children would be educated from birth to look on the ultimate destination as being a better choice for their descendants than returning to an already overcrowded and polluted Earth. The crew of a generation ship would likely have a greater sense of community than occurs in our own society, and would have been educated that to return to Earth would place an undue strain on Earth's resources and would represent a waste of the resources that the people of Earth had expended to make the mission possible. Since overusing or wasting resources on a generation ship would logically be anathematized, this should be a powerful argument. 

In most languages, the linear concept of time has led to similar concepts of past/present/future. Now, suppose that we have a human or human-like society in which time travel is fairly common, and it is possible for an individual to travel forward or back in time on occasion, including making contact with their past or future selves, friends and family. This is achieved by magic, not technology, and while many individuals can time-travel themselves or send a non-time-traveller to another time, the majority (about 95%) cannot temporally displace themselves or others. The one restriction on this time travel is that a time traveller cannot change what they know has happened in the past of a point in time in which they have been present. This includes influencing other time travellers to change things on their behalf, even if they don't tell the other time traveller why they want them to do certain things at a certain point in space-time. E.g. an individual travels to the future, and learns about the death of their future self. Learning about this means that this time traveller cannot affect the outcome that his (now past) self learns about his future self's death at that point in the future. However, the possibility exists that either that now-past self was lied to by a witness, or if the time traveller was a witness to his future self's death, that the time traveller was deceived or mistaken. It is also possible that the event of the future-self's death was sufficiently unambiguous that it could not be other than what it appeared to be. So, given that members of this society can travel in time relatively often, how would this affect the society's language? EDIT: There is no paradox, as causing a paradox is ultimately impossible, but the time travellers may suspect this to be the case, but don't know that with any certainty, and act as if paradox is a possibility. What exists and is remembered by time travellers and non-time travellers alike is the final state of any time travel loops. For example, A time traveller cannot kill their own ancestor or the ancestor of anyone they know of (however indirectly) at a point in spacetime that would invalidate the existence of themselves or a known person. However, that is not to say that they couldn't, for example, kill the individual that they believe was their own grandfather before the conception of their parent, but it would ultimately turn out that they were mistaken as to the relationship, or they mistook the person they killed for their ancestor, or they only thought they had killed their ancestor. As another example, a time traveller cannot pass information (via whatever means) to another time traveller, even if the two time travellers are unknown to each other in a social sense, that could cause that second time traveller to invalidate the first's memory of events or the existence of anything he knows: it is the transfer of information that defines knowledge. An infinite loop is not a possibility (though it is possible for a loop to be repeated a great many times) as outcomes along a timeline are not predetermined. Each act of travelling back in time results in a new sequence of events. A common trope in time travel is that non-time travellers will always act in the same way to the same stimulus; this is false. It may be likely that they will do so, but quantum uncertainty means that each act of retrograde time travel will result in the subsequent events unfolding differently in some way, whether subtle or glaringly obvious. Sooner or later, this (or other time travel) will result in the loop diverging sufficiently that it ends. The time traveller would not remember all of these loops either, only the last one, so no Groundhog Day or Edge of Tomorrow loops with a time traveller retaining information from his future self, at least without meeting his future self and passing on that information. For example, a time traveller in a loop meets an old friend (who is not a time traveller) in several iterations of the loop, in the same situation. However, the old friend will not always greet the time traveller in exactly the same way. In the first loop, he says "Hi", in the second "Hi", 3rd: "Hello", 4th: "Hi", 5th: he just nods, and so on. Anyway, this question is about the linguistics of this scenario, not the physics save where it affects the linguistics. Time travellers believe that paradox may be possible, even though it is not, and the linguistics must reflect this.