To be brutally honest, the only effective control I can think of is culling them when they're detected. Why would a government keep a lot of superpowered people around when they've got a big ole grudge to settle ? Unless the government has an active use for them in the here and now then killing them ASAP makes most sense. 

Apart from the assassins and spy rles mentioned earlier, they'd also be useful for communications, they're living shortwave radios in a medieval world. Battlefield comms would be a great use, the body is expendable and replaceable after all. Secure couriers is another use. A clone is sent from City-A to City-B to deliver info. The magic user is given the info in City-A only when the clone has established contact in City-B. If he gets intercepted before contact is made then he knows nothing to reveal to the enemy. Basically anything that involves moving data would be a potential use for the clones, long range scouts in your army? Food / poison testers. 

Mind Games Lots of good answers to this one, here's another spin, what about the psychological affects ? Your zombie survivors have, literally, been to hell and back. They've probably done unspeakable things that are complete anathema to their previous life, and now they've got to live with those memories. All the survivors will be on suicide watch for the rest of their lives. The knock on effects for the rest of the societies will be profound. Organised religions will collapse, people have seen what happens when you die and it ain't angels,clouds and vestal virgins. Organised religion underpins the rule of law in a lot of places on Earth, when the law collapses then that society is pretty much off the world stage until its restored. A sort race wide depression will settle in, why bring kids into a world with horrors like this ? And not just societal horrors, but fundamental what_is-the-point-of-life kind of horrors. We know there's no afterlife so what is there to look forward to ? What's the point ? 

Rather than explore the dystopian aspects, how about plain old fashioned accidents ? Like many people I've been in situations where some of my credit cards, transit cards, id badges etc have been exposed to a strong enough magnetic field to wipe or corrupt the data. Getting replacement cards is a hassle but at least it's non-invasive. Replacing a wiped chip would require a minor surgical procedure, then there's the problem with what to do with the old one ? Lets say that for practical purposes the best place to implant the chip is in the back of the right hand, for example. A corrupted chip might still be capable of transmitting, albeit garbage, but that transmission is enough to interfere with the replacement chip, so now the old one has to be removed first... I'd be a lot happier if I could replace my credit cards without accumulating scar tissue. Then there's the matter of upgrades. If a security hole was found in the Gen 1.0 chips and a physical upgrade was necessary to close that hole and get to Gen 2.0, how do you that for a population in the hundreds of millions ? It's just not practical. 

They'd find out simply by observing their environment and then making deductions, sorry if that sounds trite I'll explain. They'll have a day/night cycle but with no apparent cause. There's no sun to disappear under the horizon and no moon or stars to take its place. So why is there day & night the natives ask themselves ? Likewise the seasons, how are they implemented and how do the natives observe them ? How did seasonal crops evolve with no apparent reason ? Why do animals hibernate ? Why do the local fauna have fertility cycles (spring) ? Large bodies of water will mimic tides, but why would tides exist with no nearby planet or moon ? If they observe their environment for long enough they'll have enough questions that can't be answered by observation or hand waved away by religion. Medieval tech is reasonably sophisticated but resource intensive. This was a level of tech that was building cathedrals, pyramids and Stonehenge. They may not have had telescopes but they knew enough about astronomical observations and celestial mechanics to make accurate calendars and use them to plan the agricultural year ahead. Their lives literally depended on them being able to read the night sky. 

Not much would change once you got up to the point of WW1. Just because you have difficulty seeing an enemy doesn't stop you pointing weapons at him. Russia and America have hundreds of ICBMs pointed at each other. The missiles have no line of sight to their targets and neither do their operators, they don't need satellites to work, dead reckoning and gyros can do the job. Prior to that, then the obvious first step would be to develop tech that would get around the short sightedness. Longbowmen (or their equivalent) might work with "spotters" equipped with telescopes for example. Long range weaponry might have an accelerated development in your world. Once you've overcome a disadvantage that everyone suffers from, then you've got a hell of an edge. The development of powered flight in our own world is a good example. Once it became possible then every army in the world wanted to be able to fly. Likewise in your world, once it becomes possible to see and accurately target an enemy more than 1km away, then every army will develop that technology. 

Better bet would be to snag an icy comet as it passes by, use a gravity tractor or a solar sail to redirect it and slow it down. There's more water on Mars but that's got a steeper gravity well. There's always the old SF staple of asteroid mining (Remember The Cant!). It may not provide the plot points you're looking for, but foam metal might be the efficient solution in terms overall energy / resources spent. I guess you could make it a plot point that the best foam metal insulation can only be made in (near)weightless conditions. 

"In short, would the benefits of a Yellowstone eruption, on a long scale, be better for the earth and its ecosystems and outweigh the negative effects?" The long-scale benefit for the Earth would obviously be beneficial, no more monkey brain wankers mucking up the planet for everyone else ? Yes please! says Earth and all who sail on her. There's a lot of ecosystems, almost all will benefit "long-scale", can you narrow down your question a bit ? This atmospheric cooling effect is called global dimming and it's been around for over a hundred years, it's the reason why initial predictions about greenhouse gasses and global warming were off by a few years. $URL$ For the planet, for the flora and fauna, for the grandchildren of the human survivors, yes it'd be a good thing. No one sane would argue otherwise. For the rest of us, not so much. 

You're thinking too small. Everything has changed not just warfare. Thinner atmosphere means that fires don't burn as hot and it is now very difficult, if not impossible, to work with metal. I'm talking basic metal working as in making plowshares, never mind armour, swords or spears. Can you shape the metal you'll need for your airplane engines ? Aviation fuel won't burn as hot, you'll need petrol and you'll need to carry more of it. Would bullets work ? I know modern bullets have oxidising agents in the gunpowder but that wasn't always the case. How would your society get to that point in weapons tech if everything they've experienced shows that gunpowder is (pardon the pun) a bit of a damp squib ? A lot chemical reactions are pressure dependant, their chemical and biological scientific development would take quite a different path to ours. Everything has changed. 

I'm liking Jdunlops idea a lot, but here's my own 2cents. The humans built deliberate limitations into the 'bots, they kept their intelligence at around human average IQ, and programmed limitations into their long term memory, lets say they can't recall further than a few months or a year back. They pre programmed a level of WW2 experience and knowledge into their positronic brains. They would have had some basic self-help routines built in. So if a 'bot got injured in the field, it could patch itself up enough to get back to the repair shop. Think field-medic vs brain surgeon. So this level of self maintenance allows them to use cannibalised parts but they can't make any new parts. As a twist, you tell the tale from the POV of the WW2 bots. Then we find out that the "ferals" are actually more advanced and have managed to work around their programming limitations. The "ferals" have a reputation for destroying 'bots, when in actual fact they're kidnapping the WW2 guys. Then taking back to "Feral Base" where they're shown how to break their programming. Then they're sent back out into the world to re-educate more WW2 bots. How did they break their programming ? A few years ago the first "feral" started to write a diary... 

Give 'em a haircut If the shapeshifters turn grey and gooey soon after death or after fasting, what happens to their hair after it's cut ? So getting a haircut becomes a regular community event, they make a party out of it. Maybe a weekly get together. The hair is stored in jars with each persons name on it and the jars are kept locked and guarded. The jars are inspected twice a day by the town barber / sheriff and anyone who's hair has gone gooey gets a rather more violent and permanent haircut very shortly afterwards. If someone's bald, give them a manicure. 

In all honesty, take a look at the last 50 years of Chinese history. Basically, break the rules that the other nations have to follow, or at least pay lip service to. While the rest of the world started to scale back and repair environmental damage, China allowed all sorts of projects that were hugely damaging to the environment, reducing their costs and maximising profits. Then they doubled down on that and allowed the rest of the world to dump their most toxic waste on Chinese soil, again doing what the other nations weren't prepared to do. A couple of other things helped the Chinese government as well, not least of which is the fact that they view their population as a collection of exploitable resources. If you don't care about human rights then its cheaper to run your factories with fewer safety measures which translates into economic dominance. 

The weapons you describe as being effective against the shields all have a large energetic yield. Then an obvious trend would be to develop weapons that deliver the same kind of impact but are smaller, cheaper and less messy on the battlefield. Super-sniper rifles might be the order of the day. 

I don't think you can do it en masse. Death is the most traumatic event anyone will ever experience and they will be in extreme shock, after all the last thing they remember is having a sword shoved in their guts on a muddy battlefield, or someone yelling "Mind that bus!" "What bus ?" Splat. You'd have to do it either on an individual case by case basis and basically counsel them into the modern world. Alternatively resurrect them from a day or two in their timeline before they died. 

Universe Sandbox might help. It's basically a solar system simulator, on steroids :) It'd help you establish the orbits and positions of the bodies and the light patterns of the day/night cycles. It's not a planet simulator as such, so I don't think you can drill down into too much detail on the planetary conditions, it'll report and simulate things like temperature and gravity but it'll treat the entire planet equally, I don't think you can break it down into different climate zones. 

Information Communications will have broken down so wandering minstrels and the like would make a comeback. Communities need to communicate before they can trade, you need to know what I can offer you and what I need before you set off for the long trip to my town. If it's post-nuke-apoc, then there's plenty of raw materials lying around in the ruined cities, so zinc and copper trading probably wouldn't take off. You'd need to be able to extract and refine it but almost every pre-apoc community would have had a library. Services So we have knowledge and raw materials. Now my community builds a smithy, and trains a couple of folks to use it. Let's say they make the best ploughshares in the area. Your community wants one but doesn't have the time or resources to train a smith and equip him, so they buy one from me. Supply meets demand, trade results. 

Balance of terror possibly. None of the alliances wants it as annexing it would be the tipping point for the other three alliances and they would likely ally against the annexer. Being in a central location the planet undoubtedly enjoys some trade relations with its neighbours anyways and as none of the alliances dare to attack it then what would the inhabitants gain from siding with one alliance over another ? If it's in such a central location then maybe you can make it a transportation / trading hub ? Build something into the interstellar travel mechanisms that means most local galactic traffic would have to be routed through that system. So the locals have their niche as the major refuelling/maintenance hub and as a lot of ships are docked there anyways, why not trade while they're there ? The planet is equally valuable to all alliances as-is, simply put no one wants to rock the boat. 

Your technology's a bit out of whack. The ship would have several methods of powering itself not just relying on generators or excess energy from the engines. Solar and nuclear are the two obvious choices. Nuclear (fission or fusion) would be a definite, it'll run wherever the ship is in its initial journey. Solar wouldn't be very effective between systems. So fuel conservation is no reason to power down the ship totally. The auxiliary craft can travel interplanetary, so in theory the mothership could be parked anywhere in the solar system. BBC Radio 4 did a couple of series' based on a very similar concept about 30 years ago. They were called Earthsearch and Earthsearch II, see if you can get the novelisations if you can't track down the audio copies. 

Short answer, yes it's possible. Longer answer, there's more implications. If the mental transfer process involves copying a mind into the simulation, then that's immortality and cloning right there. Whats to stop the user uploading multiples copies of their persona ? If the transfer involves moving the mind from the biological body into the simulation, then that's immortality again, the singularity in fact. The biological body could die but the mind can live in the simulation. Whats to stop the mind being transferred back to a different body ? A younger one ? Maybe a younger clone of the user ? The ramifications go way beyond getting a late homework assignment in on time :) 

Your species could wipe out the humans pretty quickly A species such as you describe would be an example of near perfect racial harmony, everyone agreeing in broad terms how the race/society should exist. This is their entire universe, this is the natural way of things in their view. Their only possible reaction to viewing the violent actions of humans is to regard the "aliens" as extremely ill. They are driven to act completely against nature, from your species POV, they destroy the harmony that is the natural order of life. They threaten life itself, ergo they must be wiped out. And this disease is contagious, they've seen humans fighting amongst themselves, it must be stopped. An entire race is now mobilised against the humans. Single minded, utterly loyal to their comrades, they don't even regard humans as truly intelligent, they're a pestilence like green fly to be wiped out. The entire resources of their planet is now dedicated to the destruction of every human they see. No hesitation, no negotiation, no mercy. 

The knock on effects will be huge if, as you say, all the children die. There will be mass suicides of adults, mostly parents and other primary caregivers. There will be a very sharp decline in the number of conceptions for generations afterwards. Even if the apoc-event could be proven to the population to be a one-off event, psychologically people will be very reluctant to risk having kids and risk all that heartache again. Unless you've been a parent you can never understand what how it feels to lose a child. I think you could probably add on about another billion adult deaths in the months following the event. Recovery for the human race in this case becomes more a matter of psychological resilience than anything else. 

Define self-sufficient... If that includes trading with Earth, then the moons the best bet. It's closer, to the motherland so transit time is considerably less and regular visits home are feasible. Setting up on Mars is a lifetime commitment for almost everyone that makes the journey. The moons got a shallower gravity well, its closer to the sun (solar energy), it's got some water reserves and its very close to soggy ole Earth. It'd be easier to terraform Mars than the moon but that's a long term investment and you said time is of the essence. Providing you don't mind your colonists living under domes or underground and if you'll accept trade as an element of self sufficiency then 20 years or so seems reasonable.