I'm concerned about the offset as you can see above in this picture. On the non drive side the crank looks like it is designed to be much further in and on the drive side it is really close in. Please advise me how one knows which bottom bracket is right for X bike. Shell width is reasonably obvious because otherwise it wont fit but what about axel length. The frame is a late eighties / early 90s cinelli steel frame. Some BB shells also have different design for the casing which means there is more space between the side of the shell and the crank. Are there any hard and fast rules for BB choice? 

I've got a 1x10 set up. Sometimes I have a problem with the chain falling off at the front. I've been reading that a clutch mech will help to prevent this. My mech is Deore long cage without clutch. What is the dis/advantages of a clutch mech vs a chain tensioner / chain guide? Bike is 2006 Specialized Rockhopper Pro. Chain is correct for chainring. Its not worn, nor the chainring etc. Chain line looks fine, but maybe this could be tweaked slightly. 

I've got some panniers to fix. I've bought some impact adhesive and I am working out which material to buy for the patches - will PVC ok ? or polyurethane or something else? Has to be waterproof and strong and preferable available in yellow! 

Since your bike would just look like a bike, as opposed to a bike with a safe on it, it would be less of an unusual target to thieves. 

A commodity security seatclamp, like Fortified, just uses a security bolt, which is still good enough to have kept my seatpost in place permanently on a bike that's regularly parked on the streets of New York: 

So far, I've come across one bike with a broken pedal, and one with a seatpost stuck at minimum height. So eyeball the pedals. In other cities, it's apparently become conventional to put the seat backwards on broken bikes. I've seen it occasionally here, as well. 

What brake pads did you try? I had a heck of a time getting modern Tektro cantis working on a fork of mine until I used Kool Stop Thinlines with the spacers set for in their thinnest configuration. 

Converting to a straight-up mountain bike would be hard. Converting a road bike to a 650B bike capable of handling dirt trails and gravel is a pretty established practice, mostly entailing swapping the wheelset and brakes: $URL$ It's more usually done on older frames, but nothing necessarily precludes doing it on a newish racy frame. However, a narrow chainstay/seatstay/fork gap may make fitting fat tires difficult. However, you'd be able to pick up a decent used mountain bike for the price of a decent 650b wheelset, especially if you'd be fine with a rigid bike. $125 or so can get you Tange Prestige with early 90s Deore LX and the like. If you want a project for your R300 frame rather than selling it cheap, there's always a singlespeed conversion (the Wabi wheelset is great for the price). 

I'm planning on going bike touring in S.East Asia. I've been planning which bike to get. Companies like Thorn offer custom made bikes (specially designed for adventure-style cycle touring), but they somewhat expensive and I have enough expertise to build something similar myself. I was thinking to use a mountain bike frame because they are designed to take more abuse than road bikes and I plan to ride on rough tracks. A mountain bike seems to offer much of the ruggedness offered by a custom made bike, but then not being a bike designer there must be some shortcoming using it to carry luggage and over long distances. 

and I want to know if I can use v brakes with them. It looks like there is a thread to screw in some bosses, but I'm not 100% sure. 

I've emailed a couple of bike shops about Surly bikes - One in Oakham and one down in Richmond. The one in Oakham seems to be understocked and the other one is not responding. The one in Richmond doesn't have the bikes in the store in my size and I believe it is the biggest distributer in the UK. How can I know if the bike will fit if I can't test one out when the bike is niche and shops don't often stock my size (XL 58+) 

Not inherently, but hydroformed tubing has more possible shapes and distributions of material, and potentially allows the bicycle designer to design a lighter bike of the same strength, or a stronger bike of the same weight. Or maybe the bike just looks cooler. 

Bottom bracket compatibility is usually determined by the crank— the manufacturer will specify a length. You can run into clearing issues using an MTB crank with a road bike or vice-versa, but that's not an issue for you. However, if you're using a road double crank converted to a single, you won't really be in the normal usage spec of the crank, and exact BB length will likely be best determined by trial-and-error. You probably will want to use a shorter BB than what's specified for double use, since the specified BB length is generally designed to put the midpoint between the chainrings at the middle of a cassette. Best to buy your BBs from REI or another company allowing easy returns. 

A lot depends on the design goals for the bike. High-end road bike gear often isn't terribly durable because it's designed to minimize weight at the expense of all else. Carbon is likely to be less durable in the long run than metal, especially if the bike's used for utility purposes and regularly locked up and knocked around. A cheap fixed gear is pretty low-maintenance: in order of frequency, all you have to do is oil the chain, change the brake pads, change the tires and chain, and replace the bottom bracket and wheel bearings. After a few years, the brakes might wear through the rims. But you're giving up functionality (that you may or may not want) in exchange for less maintenance. More expensive hand-built wheels generally are stronger than cheaper machine-built wheels. 

I need some new sunglasses for cycling - what features will actually be helpful - I've seen ones with vents, polarized lens, rubberised frame, replaceable lens . I just need the best value model that looks good. 

I wouldn't imagine it is normal for them to be over-tightened - what would be the point? However, its generally advised after buying a machine built bike / wheels to check that spokes / hubs haven't loosening after a breaking in period. This in in comparison with a hand built bike. 

Usually with old bikes like this - the drivetrain (chain, gears, cogs) can be rusted up. You can free these with WD40 to an extent. Inside the hubs may be corroded / rusted. If you can dismantle and regrease these it would help. The cables might be rusted inside- you can use WD40 again or replace them. Check for movement in the headset - check there isn't any knocking there- depending on how much use it has had it might need new bearing or at least a rebuild of the headset bearing. Check the tyres aren't perishing as the old ones tend to - you can see this by cracks in the surface which appear when you pinch the material. Check the spokes aren't loose. Hope that helps. You can also check for movement in the bottom bracket which may indicate needing a new one. 

If you have a local bike coop, they're likely to have pretty much all of what you need very cheaply: 

Tires can crack or dry rot and fail when pumped back to pressure, especially gumwalls exposed to UV-heavy sunlight. This is more likely in the 2-year timeframe than 3 months, but a common issue on old bikes donated to bike coops. 

There are essentially no rides that are 'unimpeded by pedestrian or car traffic' around Brooklyn, because Brooklyn is on a densely-populated island adjacent to another even more densely populated island so there's no nearby countryside, and we still use our rail lines very heavily so there are no rail trails. The 30-miler I've found with the most 'open road' feeling is heading to Breezy Point on side streets through Flatbush— take something like E. 35th Street down to Marine Park, then take the bike trail along Flatbush Ave. to the Marine Parkway bridge and Rockaway Point Boulevard. There are very few lights between the Flatbush Ave. bike trail and the tip of Breezy Point, so about half of the ride is unimpeded. I usually loop back via the Belt Parkway bike trail and take Bedford Avenue back north. Basically, something like this: $URL$ But if you want easy access to 'real' road riding from the city, you'll probably want to live in Northern Manhattan or the Bronx. 

Just a quick suggestion. I ride mtb and after I get back into the swing of riding I learn to push the bike ahead of me more. This allows the bike to do more of the trail work. There are different styles of riding and some riders won't put to the limit of needing to dab. If you dab you lose some of your flow. 

Contact British Cycling and ask them for information. I am sure that there will be some qualification that you will need to be an 'official', but you would also be able to get a lot of practice volunteering at smaller races. If you are a veteran racer, that would probably help, because you will have expertise. 

There are so many different kinds of shorts available for mountain biking. I would like to get a pair that is: durable, can have padding shorts (either insert or worn under), stretchy and flexible material, doesn't make a huge amount of noise when I pedal, lightweight, quick drying. Usually I would wear just lycra but having done that last season and taken a couple of falls with no protection I'm looking for something a little more protective. There are so many kinds of shorts out there though how do I know what is purely fashion and what is function? and is it worth wearing anything but lycra for xc? 

I ran into this exact problem. In my case, it was buying 9-speed chain for an 8-speed drivetrain— I didn't realize backward compatibility was an issue. 

Your seattube is an enclosed metal tube that requires specific tools to access its apertures— pretty similar conceptually to a safe or car trunk, except in wall thickness. Depending on the diameter of your seatpost and width of your keys (which could conceivably be filed down) you could store the keys inside your seatpost/seattube and install a locking seatclamp of the many varieties available, offering various degrees of security. Atomic22's requires an actual key: 

Rideye is coming out with a camera specifically designed as a bicycle black box: $URL$ In your format: 1: 15hr - 3. No weight listed - 4. $149US - 6. 1080p/170° - 7: :) It's not out yet, but at least spec-wise it seems like a winner. It's Kickstarted and a bit delayed, but I'm considering getting one when it's actually for sale. 

There have been quite a few 'alternative road' bikes with wider tires being made in recent years: $URL$ While rarely used for racing, they're very competent for general road riding when fitted with wide, supple, smooth tires. Even race bikes have been moving towards wider tires and rims in recent years. 

You need to first give yourself a rest from the bike, do some other exercises instead - non impact -like walking / swimming. Everyone is different. One of my legs is slightly longer than the other / or I pedal in an unbalanced way so your set up might require some personal customisation. Have a think about your set up - seat height, position of cleats. If you do use cleats, consider switching to flats for a bit or trying out a pedal with more float. Check your fore-aft position of the saddle, that will affect pressure on your knees too. Consider paying more attention to your gait and rhythm when you pedal. 

Cheap suspension forks can have difference attributes to more expensive ones. If you put extra oil on fork stanchion it can mix with the internal oil. If it was a more expensive fork and the performance had reduced I would suggest properly servicing them: changing the oil and seals. Cheaper forks often have elastomers that provides the damping instead of oil which wears out and means you have to replace them. 

Check the axle has not drifted over. You need some cone spanners and you can check. There should be the same amount on both sides where the axel fits into the dropout. Another point is the dishing of the wheel. Rear wheels are usually dished slightly over . If you have done some wheel truing lately or someone else has, make sure its not dished too far over. Check there isn't a small buckle in the wheel hitting at that point only. Another idea is to change down the size of your tyres as previously mentioned, or go for a slicker tyre. Short term solution to protect the frame is put some gaffer on it but to be honest your tyre shouldn't be rubbing, especially not on carbon. 

Are you prioritizing longevity above all else? Because nothing's likely to beat a cheap bike of thickwalled straight-gauge chro-moly steel (which isn't particularly vulnerable to corrosion, especially if you sand and repaint, or apply rust converter to, any nicks in the paint). Lightweight, high-end tubing is more vulnerable to picking up dings, buckling in a bike accident, or, in the case of Ti, just being rubbed right through by a tire. I have a stainless steel fork that I broke an eyelet off of previously, and just irreparably bent in a minor accident. On the other hand, Sheldon Brown rode an 80-plus year old steel bike that by all appearances was pretty neglected before his purchase. 1970s Schwinn road bikes were built so that their lifetime warranty would never need to be used, and you see a ton of them soldiering on through neglected maintenance and harsh urban riding. I'd bet a simply-designed straight-gauge chromoly bike would be your best bet for something similar new. Or you can look for a vintage frame of Columbus Aelle or equivalent, or perhaps a late-80s Miyata, which were also ED-coated, and have shown their mettle by lasting 25 years already. Today's cheap aluminum bikes also likely have thickwalled tubing, and are thus probably less vulnerable to dings, and are even less vulnerable to corrosion than steel. High-end money in the bike market generally buys lighter weight or more refined aesthetics, as opposed to ultimate durability.