First, identify what you need to learn and what you want to learn. These might or might not be the same thing. For example, you might need to learn some basics about doing your job, such as how to check in code or participate in a code review, but you want to learn more about the technology that you're developing for. If you're not getting what you need to learn out of him, then you need to determine ways to get this needed information. This might be as simple as being very direct with him in the questions that you ask him. It might involve doing more research so that you can give him other questions. If you're getting what you need to learn out of him, but not what you want to learn, then you need to determine how you can can get what you want to learn. Is he the only person from whom you can learn this? Are there others around who can help you, or other resources that you can leverage to learn it? You can try to ask him broader questions, such as recommendations for material to read for someone who doesn't have his expertise. You can also observe his interactions with others to try to identify people with whom he has more open communication. You can try out their styles of interaction to see if they are also more successful with you, or you can go to them and ask them if they can give you some pointers on how to be more successful in your communications with him. If you choose to ask someone about it, make sure that you don't make any statements about him (don't call him an introvert, don't say that he isn't open), but rather make it about you: say that you don't feel like you have been successful in communicating with him and are hoping that they might be able to give you some guidance. You might learn that he is more open in his communications at a given time of day, or that he prefers email or IM to in-person contact, or that he never responds to long emails but short ones are fine, or that he feels like his time is wasted if someone asks him a question that they could have answered if they had done some basic research. These are just a handful of ideas that could apply; you'll have to work to determine whether it is any of these or something else entirely. There are people who maintain a strict line between their professional and personal lives. If he is one of those people, then I would observe that line. It's valid to draw that line, even if it's not the one that you have selected. You can still be cordial with him. You might be able to get him to talk about company history, or the history of this application, or about the general technology that you're working on. Or you might not, in which case you simply be cordial with him and keep your conversations to the point and focused on your work. 

Wow, not just "a family member", but your wife. That makes it at least twice as difficult, if not moreso. You have several options, and without knowing her (or you), it's difficult to guess which one might work. 

It can be difficult to structure a homework assignment to allow the employer to assess the candidate, to keep the time investment appropriately contained, and to ensure that there are no unintentional side effects. I've seen plenty of bad homework assignments, from ones that expected candidates to spend a whole weekend on them to ones that were simply tasks taken from the project and thus felt like the candidate was doing work for free. Speaking personally when I have been a candidate, if I get a homework assignment, I don't reject it out-of-hand. I evaluate it, just like I evaluate every step in the process to determine if I want to take part in it. I have chosen not to move forward with an interview process because the requested homework assignment didn't feel appropriate to me. There are other homework assignments that I have chosen to complete. In either case, I am clear about what drives my decisions and what I want to accomplish. Being clear about my own reasoning during the interview process helps me evaluate whether the position is one that will be a good fit for me. 

I think that a code of conduct is a fine thing for a conference to have, and Drupalcon's is a fine place to start. The code of conduct should be communicated clearly to both conference presenters and conference attendees, as well as the potential consequences of breaches of the code of conduct. Examples of conduct that are against your code should be included. Your tweet example is an excellent one to illustrate the point that behavior that happens outside of the conference itself can still fall under the purview of the code of conduct, and thus have repercussions at the conference (or future events, if it's after the conference). Presenters are ultimately representatives of your conference (after all, you've either invited them to speak, or selected their submission to present), and a presenter who slams another presenter reflects poorly on your conference. (It also reflects poorly on the presenter who somehow thought that it was appropriate to slam another presenter, but that's outside the scope of this conversation.) I think that a code of conduct is likely to be something that evolves over time. If you find a case that is wrong but isn't covered by your code of conduct, then you'll need to change your code of conduct to prevent such things. I also think that the existence of the code of conduct, and clear and direct communications about the code of conduct, helps set expectations about behavior that isn't acceptable and helps create an environment where that behavior is less likely to occur. 

While I understand your desire to not lose the formatting that you've worked hard to get right in your resume, your desire to get a job is probably higher than keeping your resume's formatting. They've asked you to do something. Go do it. In fact, go make a text-only copy of your resume right now, and spend a little bit of time on getting the text-only formatting into something that's at least readable. This will not be the last potential employer who asks for a text copy of your resume, so you'll save yourself time and frustration in the future by having it ready to go. This request is possibly about getting your resume into their database, which can then be searched in the future for other positions. You want to make it as easy as possible for them to find you in their database, after all. Even if this isn't their reason, I'm not sure why you would want to ignore their explicit directions. Ignoring directions, especially when the directions are so very simple, doesn't reflect well on a candidate. If you get to talk to someone, as opposed to simply applying online along with who-knows-how-many-others, you'll likely have the opportunity to share your properly-formatted resume with them at that time. But for now, you've got to actually get to the point where you can talk to someone, and they've told you what you need to do. 

In my experience, it's not about selling the undergraduate degree if you have a graduate degree, but being able to explain why you switched from one type of degree to another. Many people have graduate degrees that are different from their undergraduate degrees. This is a pretty easy conversation to manage: you can discuss gaining an appreciation for programming or another aspect of CS during your undergraduate degree, or a job where you had to learn CS concepts and that got you interested in an advanced degree, or a hundred other things. Make sure that the conversation is positive about what got you interested in CS, rather what is negative about the difficulty of finding jobs in civil engineering. A civil engineering degree could be helpful in certain CS jobs. For example, I would guess that a company that makes CAD software would find a candidate with both a CS and a civil engineering background to be of interest. You can use your undergraduate degree to differentiate yourself from other candidates for some positions; this will be about tailoring your cover letter to the position in which you're interested, as well as being able to discuss in depth during the interview how your degree makes you a great candidate for the position. In short, it is unlikely to hurt you for most positions, and it could turn out to be a benefit in others. Keep the conversation about both the undergraduate and graduate degrees positive, and be able to talk about how you're a great candidate for the role. (I realize that this is for your friend and not you, but it's faster to type "you" than "your friend" all the time. :) 

Quitting without notice is unprofessional and could come back to haunt you. When a future employer verifies your employment with your current employer, your current employer could mention that you quit without notice. Even if you have an excellent reason for having done so, this information could cause your future employer to question whether they should hire you. It's bad enough that you have to deal with this situation now. You don't want this bad situation to have a negative impact on you in the future. With this in mind, you need to come up with a plan of action for staying for your full notice period. If the situation is occurring around you but not directly to you, you can reduce the number of opportunities that you have for this to occur around you, and possibly remove yourself from situations when it is occurring. After all, it is your notice period, so you are focusing on getting everything ready so that you leave with all loose ends tied up. If you are touched by your supervisor, you simply say loudly "do not touch me". You might want to identify someone who is also uncomfortable with this situation who can also help you in this situation. You might want to discuss this with someone else (another employee, your supervisor's manager, etc). Discussing this with HR can be fraught with problems, although if you've already put in your notice, this might not be such an issue. 

Go to your client and talk about a specific issue. Your example of people canceling attendance at a meeting at the last minute is a great one. You have spent time preparing for the meeting, and you need something to occur at the meeting, so people not attending the meeting is an issue. What can you do to ensure that this doesn't happen again? Focus your discussion on what you do and on what you are trying to accomplish. Telling the client that their employees have an ego problem is unlikely to get any kind of result that you would want. Overall, you need to understand the underlying cause of their behavior, and try to address that cause so that they will be more open to you and your work. Your description doesn't necessarily convince me that it's ego. They could be too busy, they might not see the point in your meeting, they might feel like you being there means that their job is at risk, they might simply not like you, or a hundred other things. 

Dressing up is a good idea. It is one of the signs that you are taking the career fair seriously. For men, a suit is fine, as is a sport coat and nice pants, or a dress shirt and nice pants. For women, wearing a suit (either skirt or pants) is fine, as is a nice blouse or sweater and pants or skirt. Clothing should be clean and pressed. Make sure that you're giving other signs that you're taking the career fair seriously: your resume is up-to-date and easy-to-read, you can articulate what kind of position you are looking for and why you are a great candidate for that kind of position, and you have done research about the companies that you approach and be able to discuss why you are interested in the company (and have interesting questions too). These are more important than how you dress. For me, as someone who goes to university career fairs to represent the technical team, I don't pay a lot of attention to how a candidate dresses unless it is far outside the norm -- overly formal gets my attention as much as overly informal. As a software engineer from Silicon Valley, I'm going to be wearing jeans at your career fair, since that's representative of my employer and our corporate culture. So yes, you're going to be better dressed than I am at your career fair. 

As someone who has served on conference committees for various conferences, our goal is to create an excellent conference. We are looking for speakers who are going to be part of creating an excellent conference. We have a call for participation that is open to everyone, and we also solicit proposals from people who we think have something of interest to share with our community. If you're responding to a call for participation, then craft a proposal that will be awesome for that conference. Consider filming yourself giving a talk (even if it's not in front of an audience) to prove that you are a good speaker in addition to having a great proposal. If you're going to approach a conference organizer to discuss how you could be a speaker there, then ask them what they are looking for in their speakers. You might get more insight into what that particular conference needs to do to be an awesome conference. If you submit a proposal or approach a conference organizer and are rejected, then listen carefully to the reasons why you were rejected. Use this information to help you determine where you need to focus your efforts to make your next proposal more likely to be accepted. You might learn that your topics are more appropriate for another conference instead of the one that you had originally targeted. While you're working on this, hone your speaking skills. Look for local opportunities to present, such as meetups or small conferences. Also establish an appropriate presence in your field to show that you know your topic. A blog might be appropriate to show your technical and critical thinking skills. Answering questions on an appropriate Stack Exchange site might be good. Go to conferences and take notes during the presentations to see what it is that makes a good presentation, as well as what makes a bad one, and use that information to help you determine how you can be a great speaker. While you're working on your overall goal of being seen as an expert appropriate for speaking at conferences, set yourself smaller goals that move you in that direction. 

If you like the other intern, then pull him aside and tell him that he's being unprofessional and that his jokes make him look bad. If you really want to make the point, look up your company's sexual harassment policies and point out what could happen if someone else officially complains about his jokes. If you're indifferent to or don't like the other intern, or if he continues making the jokes after you've said something to him, ask for the advice of your manager. Tell your manager that the other intern is behaving this way, and you're not sure how to handle the situation. Your manager might ask you to say something to the other intern and report back about whether there is an improvement, or might do it themselves. If you have both a mentor and a manager, you could ask your mentor first. Part of the job of your manager (and mentor) is to help you get real-world experience, which is about more than just about the job skills. Real-world experience is also about handling uncomfortable situations like this.