Born on December 25th There is no date of birth given in the bible for Jesus (hence no citation). The whole Julian Calendar was quiet a mess until reformed by the Gregorian Calender 1582. But the date isn't important at all, from a religious viewpoint. 

I have a bucket of random thoughts to this. Two months ago, I saw two broadcasts in the Swiss TV, LANG=de_CH about near-death experiences, the first being a kind of report, and the second a talk. The first of the videos isn't available anymore (only to buy on DVD/VHS) and few wordings and a link to literature remains. I can try to give a brief conclusion. At most, the broadcasting station, which is a federal, not a private station, is serious, tends to higher culture and quality, but when it comes to religion - well... . Now the Swiss is, afaik, mostly protestantism, at least the German speaking part of it; two of the first popular heretics origins from the Swiss, Zwingli and Calvin. But not all of the religious people believe in near-death experiences. My impression was, that the report couldn't decide, whether to support the claims of NDE or not. They hadn't much material, some witnesses from hearsay, and hadn't much against, but mixed it - for my feelings just to keep the interest high. If you debunk such a claim in the first minutes you can stop the video after 5 Minutes. After the report, there was a talk which is today still available, but might vanish in near future: Talk with Judith Hardegger and sociologist of religion, Hubert Knoblauch, again, language de_CH., duration about 30 min. I don't remember much from the video. People, talking about a tunnel with light, of cause. And an experiment, but which was planned, at least not yet finished: Since people often experience such NDE when being in a surgery, and often claim, that they leave their body (out-of-body experience, OOBE) and floating at the top of the room, looking down towards their body, the experimenter placed some kind of beamer at the top, which displayed simple figures in a random way, so that they could only be seen from above, and that the doctor and other people wouldn't know what was displayed, but a floating ghost would be able to see them. Or not. Which would show, that they weren't really out of body, floating around. Now I try to summarize the talk. It is a different video, but the scientist had just seen the other video. It's not my opinion, which I report, but the opinion of the sociologist, which I try to repeat in condensed form: 

Red mercury does indeed exist, mercury (11) oxide (HgO) varies from yellow to red, here. The more fine the particles the more towards the yellow it is, the bigger the lumps, the more red. There is the neat trick that if you heat it in a low oxygen environment (say one in which there is charcoal to snap up the O2), it decomposes to mercury and oxygen (2HgO => 2Hg + O2). 

If you finish the article here, it emphasizes that more research is needed, ie. a strong causal connection can not yet be made between a particular diet and the onset of Prostate Cancer. With regards infertility, here it is suggested avoiding fads such as ginseng, kelp, oysters, garlic and champaigne, which have a folk-tail connection to increased fertility, and just follow a balanced diet: 

The characters of the hebrew alphabet are meanwhile the ciphers of their numbers, so the is just name of the devil, interpreted as a number - the same phenomena is the source of ideas like . So this is a constant value, which is said to be 666, by the way while the RFIDs transmit unique numbers - each number represents an individual cat, so the numbers can't be identical, and so they can't identify the same . And they are, of course, much bigger, than the name of the beast. Meanwhile: 

Lenon, Elvis, Zappa, Jackson - none of them died at an age of 27. And Mozart, Beethoven, Wagner, Paganini, Liszt, Caruso, ... 'Musician' is a wide field, but what's about rock stars? Caruso wasn't a rock star? Well - Amy Winehouse isn't exactly Rock, is she? It's Soul. Is Aretha Franklin still alive? Tina Turner? James Brown was or is older than 27. Why are so damned much musicians older than 27 still alive? Okay, back to the standards: Here are some diagrams, showing 100 dead, most well known rock musicians (without explaining, how 'well known' was measured). But I link it, because of the skeptic questions raised in the text and in the comments: 

Here. This can then be re-oxidized. Rinse and repeat. That's magic. However, if you read to the bottom of the "Reactivity Profile" et al. in the above link, you will see it's quite dangerous to play with and highly toxic. It can decompose spontaneously (explosively) under sunlight and/or friction. - It's conceivable that this was viewed as magical too. As I am unable to prove the existence of a special property of any mercury compounds or amalgams regarding nuclear weapons, I would posit that red mercury may have been spoken of or written about because it was covering for or being used as a synonym for something magical during WW2 - in technical terms, Germany and the rest of the industrialized world were trying to solve the supercriticality problem (creating a nuclear fission event on a large scale, ie. a bomb.) with the uranium, in simple terms they needed to create High Explosives, and ways of detonating them, to smash the uranium pieces together really hard or to compress a sphere of the material by surrounding it with the H.E. and detonating it as quickly as possible. Thus the code words Red Mercury might have come about as a "magical bullet" that wins the war. This is an unproven hypothesis though, it would need a reference from a consensus of historians of repute, there doesn't yet appear to be one. This is not to be confused with mercury fulminate, another explosive discovered in the 1830s, used to prime ammunition - this may well have been the chemical end-product that the terrorists were after in the article cited by the OP, here. 

There were more arguments made, so if you speak german, watch the video and correct or complete me. In sum, it was a differentiated view on the facts, and afaik a honest presentation of the known facts, as far as he knows them. Weak, in the absence of natural science, but aware of this weakness. One thing bothered me often: The acceptance of the term NDE. The people did not die. They survived, and their living went on. So why name it 'near death'? He is on the one hand aware of this fact, and tells it that way himself, but few sentences later he says, that, while it isn't objectively near death, the people experience it as such. But since no living being had experienced the death nobody can, not even subjectively, claim to have knowledge, how close to a real death experience it is. It's just a projection, an illusion. But I guess that's the strength of the talk: While this person has a different opinion about the conclusions of the facts, he doesn't mud the water but is a reliable source of his observations. 

An high-fat diet must also be taken into account. Here is a comprehensive breakdown of what types of fat there are, what it does to help you (obtain fat soluble vitamins such as Vitamin A, provide energy.) and harm you. (As in heart disease, narrowing of arteries because of fatty deposits such as cholesterol.) This is true not just for those who are obese, though both high fat diet and obesity are risk factors for cause heart disease and vascular problems. Obesity on it's own but with a favorable diet - ie. a balanced one, but eaten in excess quantity - is known to cause heart disease, type ll diabetes, increased risk of certain cancers, heart attack and stroke. See here. Prostate cancer seems to have flimsy evidence to support the idea that a high fat and low fruit diet may add to susceptibility: 

Yes, there is a Law, 202c StGB, which prohibits several things in relation to computer programs: $URL$ 

Goltz raised the temperature by 3.8째C per minute while Heinzmann heated with 0.2째Cpm. Other sources talk about 0.002째C per second, which is 0.12째Cpm. In the end, the article mentions modern scientists, Professor Douglas Melton, of the Harvard University Biology department, Dr. George R. Zug, curator of reptiles and amphibians at the National Museum of Natural History and Dr. Victor H. Hutchison, Professor Emeritus of Zoology at the University of Oklahoma, but only mentions their opinions, not research or papers. They all agree that the frog will flee. 

The central statements of these witnesses about Jesus would fit on a postcard. These witnesses have been massively overestimated in the past. They where treated as if they were independent source. However, in reality, they where redacted by Christians, which is of little surprise, since copying at that time took place by handwriting. In younger times, there were 3 new texts discovered: