I suspect that this diagram has nothing to do with polar vortices in the meteorological sense. It’s hard to prove a negative, but digging into the source of this image led me in some very non-meteorological directions. The file itself is entitled ‘Growth measure and vortices’ on Wikimedia (note absence of ‘polar’), with a source of ‘own work’ (by the user ‘Snowy Weather’) and the description ‘Projective geometry block in a Waldorf high school’. Apart from the ‘Projective geometry’ page, the only Wikipedia page using this image is the one on Waldorf education, where it’s described as ‘Student work from a projective geometry block in a Waldorf high school’. The image was added to both the projective geometry article and the Waldorf article by the same user (not the original uploader of the image), who doesn't seem to have any background in meteorology. This makes me suspect that the ‘polar’ may have been added in error. On the ‘Projective geometry’ page, the image is described as being ‘based on the work of Lawrence Edwards’. Almost certainly, this must refer to Edwards’ book Projective Geometry, which seems from the reviews to be rather esoteric: 

In their paper, they set the definition of a seamount as a sub-surface feature, not breaking the water. This puts the highest elevation in their dataset is 2m below sea level. The pulled their definition from Morato, et al (2008), which states: "seamounts are defined as any topographically distinct seafloor feature that is at least 200 m higher than the surrounding seafloor, but which does not break the sea surface." Then, they subdivided the features into knolls and seamounts at an heigh of 1km (with knolls being between 200m and 1km in height). So, specifically answering the question, that databases uses the Morato, et al (2008) definition, which excludes super-surface seamounts. 

The largest database of seamounts contains over 33,000 seamounts and was created by Yesson, Chris; Clark, MR; Taylor, M; Rogers, AD. Link For their list, they defined seamounts and knolls as 

Source: Black Tusk, Wikimedia Commons The entire Intermontane Plate was subducted under the North American plate. However, we are able to see the remnants of the plate in the volcanic islands it left behind. Once this Intermontane Plate was subducted, the Insular Plate became the new subduction zone. This entire process was actually repeated with the Insular Plate, subducting the entire plate, leaving behind yet another chain of volcanic islands that fused to the western coast of the North American Plate. The Burke Museum has an excellent article that describes the subduction of both the Intermontane Plate and the Insular Plate. Well worth the read. 

The ‘Oligo-Miocene’ part The Oligocene and the Miocene are epochs of geological time. The Oligocene lasted from ~33.9 million years ago to ~23 million years ago; the Miocene followed immediately after the Oligocene, and lasted until ~5 million years ago. Oligo-Miocene refers to events that happened around the boundary between the two epochs at ~23 million years, or that happened throughout the Oligocene and Miocene epochs. The ‘radiation’ part ‘Radiation’ here is evolutionary radiation, a biological term usually referring to an increase in the number of species or in the differences between them. The Palaeontology Online glossary defines ‘evolutionary radiation’ as follows. 

The plates are not as rigid as you think. You seem to be imagining the situation as something like this: I boil an egg and take the shell off in pieces, but I can't take a piece of shell from the end and make it lay flat on the side of the egg. However, rock is not that rigid on scales of thousands of kilometres and millions of years (I don't think there exists any material which would be that rigid). Also, Earth's equatorial bulge is tiny relative to its diameter -- less than 50km. Tectonic plates move very slowly, and there is plenty of time for them to deform as they move. 

The only signs I know of to identify glacial retreat on first meeting is the presence or absence of "dead ice", the presence of "push" on moraines, and the state of any terminal lake. 

The only thing that's clear from that photo appears to be the colour, if it is as silvery as it looks I'd say it's Galena, Lead(II) Sulfide, you're looking for a specific gravity of about 7.5, Pyrite is only around a 5 and is also a gold colour. It might be Chalcopyrite but that should show some purples in it's colour which don't seem to be present. 

Best guess based on texture more than anything else is Chert, we have a lot of honey coloured chert in my neck of the woods but I'm not sure if it's as common in the north hemisphere. 

There are a number of publicly available proxy records for sea-level/temperature curves, I'd start with Google Scholar if you want refereed articles but a straight Google search can give you good results if you use the right search terms, like "sea-level over time" gave me some useful results; I'd recommend the Wikipedia result as most useful to you. 

Note the lack of capitalization. I don’t think that this implies the existence of a single, officially defined ‘International Reference Observatory’ at Mauna Loa. Rather, it's like writing ‘the solar observatory at Mauna Loa’: there are many solar observatories, and this clarifies which one we're talking about. Similarly, there are several observatories which produce internationally used CO2 data, and this specifies which one we’re talking about here. 

The combination Putting the two parts back into the contexts where you found them: the first article mentions an increase in the diversity or marine mammals, and the second in the diversity of dry-adapted shrubs. Both these increases occurred between the start of the Oligocene and the end of the Miocene. 

If you want more detail, Maliva and Siever (1989) would probably be a good reference. (Free online reading for all, and download for many institutions, at the JSTOR page.) Here's the abstract: 

An oddly specific question, but quite straightforward to calculate. Let's start by calculating the volume of your slice. I'm taking values for the inner core's physical characteristics from this Wikipedia page. 9 inches is ~0.229 m. Radius of inner core: 1.21e6 m We'll approximate your slice as a cylinder: even if we imagine the inner core is a textbook sphere down to the centimetre scale, its curvature would be miniscule over such a thin slice. $\pi \times (1.21 \times 10^6)^2 \times 0.229 \approx 1.05 \times 10^{12} \,\,\mathrm{m^3}$ So the volume of your slice is around a trillion cubic metres -- about one-fifth of a Lake Michigan, if Wikipedia is to be believed. Now we just need to turn this into a mass: Density of inner core: 12800 kg/m³ $12800 \times 1.05 \times 10^{12} \approx 1.348 \times 10^{16}\,\,\mathrm{kg}$ So, roughly 13 trillion metric tonnes. As jamesqf points out in a comment, this calculation just takes an estimated average density for the inner core, and assumes that this is the constant density throughout. In reality, the density increases with depth. Kennett (1998) gives a model for this density gradient. 

I would have expected to find something here but there isn't a guide to ceramics there that I can find. This article and it's references may give you some guidance though. Found a limited table in this that will probably help too. 

Okay have a look at this article it may be some use, it's the Journal of GeoEngineering, Vol. 8, No. 1 April 2013 Pgs 27-32 so you may be able to get a hard copy if the link fails, it talks about clay core dams and seepage calculations thereof, including phreatic pathway estimation. If I remember correctly rock fill in earth dams is treated as earth for the purposes of working out seepage lines etc... as it is generally small enough (particle size), relative to the dam as a whole, to have little or no effect on total mean permeability. 

I can't be definite but my three best guesses are Travertine, Agate and maybe Halite, if it fizzes in mild acid it's Travertine, a form of Limestone, if it dissolves in hot water it's Halite, or Rocksalt, otherwise if it's more or less inert it's probably Agate, an amorphous silicate. I find Halite unlikely, the other two are probably pretty equally likely in that location. 

We know that plates can subduct, causing one plate to be pushed into the core by another. As the plates move, the subduction continues, pushing one plate under the other. If this process continues, logic says, the entire plate could be subducted under the other. Has this ever happened? How would we know? 

This answers one of the questions you list, but the shallowest seamount, per this list on Wikipedia is Banua Wahu, which is 8 meters below the surface, but has risen above the surface and fallen below the surface several times in recorded history. However, this is definitely not the tallest seamount, standing only 400m high from its base. Edit A larger database by Yesson, C et al. includes several seamounts that are within 2 meters of the surface. However, the data does not suggest when the measurements were taken (high tide or low tide), which would have obvious implications. Also, there are many seamounts within that range (I stopped counting at 100). 

Excellent question! Indeed, entire plates have subducted before. One example is the Intermontane Plate (Wikipedia). This plate sat west of North America around 195 million years ago. The plate contained a chain of volcanic islands on its western edge (known as the Intermontane Islands). As the plate subducted under the North American plate, that island chain stood too tall and merged with the North American plate. An illustration of the plate: 

I'm assuming here that you're asking whether you can apply the term ‘erosion’ to the damage your stone suffered, rather than the damage your floor suffered. In this case, the applicability of the term hinges not so much on who's doing it as on what it's happening to. In geology, the term ‘erosion’ is usually applied to land surfaces rather than individual, loose bits of rock. For instance, the Oxford English Dictionary has: 

References Sylvie Roussel-Debet, Gilles Gontier, Françoise Siclet, Marc Fournier, Distribution of carbon 14 in the terrestrial environment close to French nuclear power plants, Journal of Environmental Radioactivity, Volume 87, Issue 3, 2006, Pages 246–259, ISSN 0265-931X, doi:10.1016/j.jenvrad.2005.12.002. Von Herzen, R. P., M. J. Cordery, R. S. Detrick, and C. Fang (1989), Heat flow and the thermal origin of hot spot swells: The Hawaiian Swell revisited, Journal of Geophysical Research, 94(B10), 13783–13799, doi:10.1029/JB094iB10p13783. 

I don't know if anything has come of those attempts in the three years since the article was published, but you could email the authors and/or Omega to find out. 

That's certainly one factor that makes Mauna Loa an excellent site for this kind of study. This Skeptical Science page lists some others: 

1 part per billion is 1x10^-9 kilograms per kilogram so to convert a kilogram per kilogram ratio into a parts per billion figure divide it by 1x10^-9. 

Wow, I just finished watching this it seems we know, or can guess, quite a bit about the level of Carbon, particularly Methane that were released at the end of the Permian and what they did to the climate. What seems to be missing is any consensus about why the Permian extinction stopped just that once things settled down climate and atmosphere swung back to about where they'd been beforehand. Inference to best-guess? It was rain and rocks that did most of it, with the biosphere in such a mess and so much new surface rock in Siberia the main mechanism to remove Carbon from the atmosphere would be chemical weathering; the rain dissolves Methane and Carbon Dioxide forming complex acidic solutions that react with the fresh rock, this forms insoluble Carbonates which lock carbon in the ground. 

I know in New Zealand we have a number of soils you can't raise dairy herds on because the nitrate in their urine strips too many nutrients too fast, to the point where one can tell where the cow urinated a couple of weeks ago because that patch of grass is dying from several different deficiencies simultaneously. My understanding is that dairy cows are, hands-down, the worst farm animal for this because they stand still when voiding and dump up to 15 litres of moderate-high nitrate liquid waste at a time which all goes effective straight down through the soil column robbing it of nutrients along the way. On the other hand there are also some soils, generally in more arid areas, where nitrate doesn't migrate right through the soil column at all but concentrates in the subsoil as a visible, white, salty, horizon. As a rule the more water retentive the soil the longer water soluble compounds like nitrate will take to work down into the ground at a given water input. There are also some chemical interactions that will bind nitrate and slow it down more than you might expect we need study them in my soil fertility papers but I can't think what they are right now. But to answer your question, usually soluble soil ions (which nitrate is) move on a timescale of days, weeks or maybe months, but not decades. We wouldn't need to apply slow-release nitrate fertilisers annually if it didn't migrate through at least the top-soil relatively rapidly.