One example is August Strindberg, who translated some of his works into French, and even wrote some original works directly in French. One of the works he translated is The Father, in his transaltion called Le Père, and in a more recent translation Père (at least if I interpret French Wikipedia correctly). From what I understand from secondary sources, Strindberg's French was passable, but it was hardly of the quality that his translation was as readable as they would have been if someone more capable had done them. Normal translations usually age, so that a work needs a new translation every fifty years or so, even if the original might only need small adjustments in spelling. Whether this is also true for self-translations is doubtful, but this might also be an issue. 

He also doesn't spin Amira's "ball so the men can find husbands" suggestion into a competition for her hand--in fact, Amira is the one who brings up the idea of her being a prize in a contest. So, what could he mean? My suggestion (though it's a guess only, of course): the king could marry Amira himself. This meets all his requirements, would almost certainly be considered "unspeakable" by Amira (and disgusting by Tabitha, when she reacts later), and is a motif found in several other fairy tales. Donkeyskin and The King Who Wished to Marry His Daughter are two of the most prominent, but there are a variety of stories that involve this--usually because the daughter is the only one beautiful enough to fulfill some sort of condition. However, as this story is pretty explicitly about the patriarchy and various people's roles in it, I think it makes sense that the king's reasoning would be changed a little here, especially as he's shown to take pity on and emphasize with the men re his daughter's "irresistibility," as well as to meld with the other tales more seamlessly. 

In Richard Russo's novel Straight Man, the protagonist Hank claims to be a philosophical disciple of William of Occam, and applies Occam's razor to his approach to deduction many times. As I recall, the use of Occam's razor was the only way in which Hank considered himself a disciple of this William, which is also Hank's given name. He names his dog Occam, which escapes from his house near the climax of the book, and is hit by a car and killed by one of his colleagues, Finny. This provides some natural narrative symmetry by leading to a scene at the end where he buries his dog with his estranged dying father looking on, complementing a scene from the beginning where his father buries a dog with him as a child looking on. One could also read into Occam's death some symbolism regarding the distance Hank puts between himself and others in his relationships. Putting those points aside: 

Expanding from my comment. Warning for disturbing themes and also a lot of links to fairy tales. "Seasons of Glass and Iron" pulls from several fairy tales. It looks to me that variations on The Princess on the Glass Hill, The Enchanted Pig, and The Black Bull of Norroway are most prominent--however, there are references to many others scattered throughout. Tabitha thinks of her brother with winged sandals, and of women forced to wear "shoes of glass; ... shoes of iron heated red–hot." Amira references "words of desire [that] tumbled from men’s lips like diamonds and toads," and "a story about nettle shirts thrown up to swans." Therefore, I think it's reasonable to look at other fairy tales for inspiration as to what the king and Amira could have meant. Here's what we know his requirements are: 

Remember chapter 17, when Elinor and Marianne discussed what money they hoped for after their marriages? Marianne thought 2000 pounds a year would be sufficient. Elinor thought that 1000 pounds would be "wealth". Well, she didn't quite reach that, but she did get almost there. Sources The answer owes a lot to John Mullan's What matters in Jane Austen?, which reminded me of details and gave some useful comparisons. 

As for the nationality of the Academy, I have not been able to find the statutes, but this LTE makes it clear that only people of Swedish nationality are eligible (and thus not, e.g. Swedish-speaking Finns). They could, I guess, involve more non-members in the preparatory work, but I think it would be hard to wiggle away from the wording of the will, even if it is clearly the work of Nobel's own hand, not a lawyer. In the end, it is the Swedish Academy, and no other body, that is responsible for awarding the prize. Also, remember that there was actually an uproar about the fact that the awards should be granted "without regards to nationality" when the contents of the will first became known. Even so, while the prizes have always been of a very substantial sum, it was in no way clear from the start that they would take on the significance they have today. Sources 

In The Elephant and the Kangaroo, T.H. White names his protagonist "Mr. White," with no first name ever given. There are several notable similarities between the author and his protagonist: 

Quite a number of authors of English literature around the early 20th century published with initialed pen names (EM Forster, JRR Tolkien, TS Eliot, ...) whereas others did not (Thomas Hardy, Rudyard Kipling, Joseph Conrad, ...), and I was curious as to what might lead an author to use initials for their given names. To ask a concrete question, why did JRR Tolkien publish as such, as opposed to something like "Ronald Tolkien" or "J. Ronald Tolkien" since it seems he went by Ronald? Is there any record for why Tolkien chose (or was convinced) to use this? (If you happen to know why other authors around this time period chose to use initials, I'd be happy hear about this also--the only case I know about is the recent case of JK Rowling.) 

Holofernes is a character in the biblical Book of Judith (which is considered canonical in Catholic and Orthodox tradition, but not in Protestant). He was a Assyrian general under king Nebuchadnezzar, who invaded nations and destroyed their temples in order that they should instead worship the king. When laying siege to a Hebrew town, the widow Judith seduced him and cut off his head. Holofernes was later (in e.g. Dante) considered as an example of pride. Bramarbas seems to be the German title of a play by Holberg, where the title character is a soldier who brags about his (imaginary) exploits; "bramabasieren" seems to have become a German word for this sort of bragging. I believe Bierce tries to use the two names to characterize the people as proud, strident and combatative, but not necessarily very effective fighters. 

So, it's reasonable for no one to say "here's how Susan is reacting to the death of her whole family", given that, well, her family doesn't know they all died. They expect to go back to our world. The last time they saw Susan, they were all alive and Susan was "silly." (Note: Lewis's opinion, not mine, etc.) The omnicient narrator doesn't bring it up at the time because at that point, the reader is also not supposed to know this. The revelation that they're in Heaven doesn't happen until the very, very end of the novel (literally the second to last paragraph), at which point there's enough grand-scale wrapping up to do, and enough on the characters' mind, that the narration doesn't return to Susan.