If we resolve the problem of information overload by simply calling the BwO the 'attained' phase space or as consisting of those configurations which have been 'experienced', then it would seem we have a fairly cohesive picture: At the climax of the desiring-machine or equivalently, the experience, e.g. when the baby has had its fill of milk, the connective-synthetic bonds dissolve and their energy records a 'memory' of that experience in an (indeterminate) code of representation. Yet this seems to clash in some respects with the language D+G use to describe the recordings, specifically how they are "on" the BwO. We could instead take the BwO to be an image of the body as an undifferentiated mass, or equivalently at the point where every organ is in a state of quiescence; the disjunctive synthesis would then attach to each quiescent organ the phase space of possible (or attained) assemblages grafted onto that organ. For example, we have the series "either resting hand or hand-object A or hand-object B or hand-object C...;" all of which are written in parallel on the BwO's hand, so to speak. 

To summarize, so far I have found two understandings on the BwO, neither of which seems completely reasonable. a. The BwO is a phase space (or attained phase space) for what D+G call the various "organ-izations" of the body, i.e. the various configurations of body parts into desiring-machine assemblages. Disjunctive synthesis operates at each configuration in the BwO (point in the phase space) to link together the representations of that configuration in the various sign-system. So for example we have "either a hand or una mano or la main or die hand or..." b. The BwO is an 'image' of the physical body as an undifferentiated mass, where every body part is in a state of quiet. The disjunctive synthesis attaches to each body part representations of all attained assemblages containing that part as an organ-machine. So for example we have "either a resting hand or a hand touching something or a hand touching something else or a hand making a rude gesture or..." Which of these is what we are going for in Anti-Oedipus? Buchanan remarks off hand that the "disjunctive synthesis... is functionally equivalent to Althusser's interpellation" - a statement that I can't quite make heads or tails of. 

The wager concludes that not believing in the Christian god is too risky for the modest potential gains. 

However, the second point is not at all true. There are infinitely many possibilities that could completely change the expected value of the wager. Here are a few examples: 

Pascal's Wager sounds convincing at first, but if you think clearly about it, the wager quickly reveals itself as deeply flawed logic. 

It is very loaded question (or at worst, a very dishonest question) because you use the word 'god' much differently than what people ordinarily understand the word to mean. If I asked you 

If you simply define god as the prime cause, then that is simply word-play. You obviously understand that the vast majority of people do not use the word 'god' simply as the definition of the first cause. They attach much more meaning to the word. The vast majority of people who believe in 'a god' believe in some being, which--currently or in human history--has had direct effects on the world. Your definition of god comes closest to the deistic version of god, although even deists believe that god exists (whatever that means. By the way, question: does the "first cause", which you define as god, exist?). When you ask 

Your first example is incorrect because the negation distributes across the conjunction by way of De Morgan's Law. Therefore, the "AND" symbol needs to become an "OR," but otherwise, it is correct. Your second example is correct as is. 

Epistemologically, is there any difference between a belief in non-interventionist evolution and a belief in young-earth creationism? If so, what is it? I'm not interested in the question of whether evolution is compatible with religious belief but rather in discerning whether there is any meaningful epistemological distinction between what Richard Dawkins (as a prototype) believes and what is believed by many Biblical literalists. Is one belief more "justified" or "sound" than the other? Do these beliefs belong to the same "class" of knowledge or are they fundamentally different? 

Kant's Categorical Imperative relies on what is logically possible. Even if we take your position that it is only okay to lie to a murderer (and not at any other time), Kant can still construct a logical contradiction. Namely: Assume everyone lies to murderers. Therefore, everyone would know that anything said to a murderer is false. As a result, the information that one might wish to conceal by lying is laid bare because it is simply the opposite of what was said. Therefore, your statement is no longer a lie since the conveyed meaning of the statement within its linguistic and social context is in fact a truth. This is a contradiction because we assumed that the statement was a lie. At this point, your more subtle argument comes into play. "There are many ways to lie," you might say, "Therfore, there is no way to discern the truth merely from the knowledge that the statement is untrue." This is analogous to your position that motivations are complex and that context matters. Maybe it can be okay to lie in some situations (or to some questions) but not in others. The answer to this criticism is that not every situation that is willed universally must create a logical contradiction. As long as any do (such as being asked a strictly yes-or-no question by the murderer), then it is disallowed. Therfore, it is not a straw man fallacy because it is more nuanced and flexible then you are giving it credit for. It was actually designed to accept different situations or different contextual details as parameters. The upshot is that lying is pretty much never allowed under Kant's arguments, but other things (such as killing another human being) can sometimes slip through depending on the context. Although, off the top of my head, I can't think of a good example where the CI would allow for murder. 

Then you might respond with something like "because there is no positive evidence that unicorns exist", and then I respond with "I define unicorns as being horses." Of course, by my definition of the word, most people actually believe in 'unicorns', but it would be silly of me to expect people to go around and say that they believe in unicorns, because my definition does not match the common usage of the word. Why not simply skip the word 'god', and be much clearer and simply say "first (or primary) cause"? Lastly, there is a bigger philosophical issue at hand. That is that we simply do not know if there is such a thing as the "first cause". Our understanding of the physical world basically breaks down near the creation of the (observable) universe, and our intuitions are often completely wrong about how physics work at the quantum level. Therefore, the honest thing to say is simply that we don't know. 

If the Christian god is real, then you either receive eternal reward (+infinity) or eternal punishment (-infinity) based on belief. If the Christian god is not real, then you do not stand to gain or lose much by (not) believing in the Christian god (say, +1/-1). 

The short answer: Your premise is not correct. Quantum Mechanics is not necessarily complex-valued. Here is a primer from Physics.SE if you are solid on the math. An explanation that is light on math: Complex numbers represent a particular collection of symmetries that behave in a particular way. They happen to be closely related to Real numbers because real numbers encode information about size and directionality in one dimension while Complex numbers do this in two dimensions. The number "i" is actually a sort of mathematical shorthand for "rotate 90 degrees counterclockwise." This has the upshot that 2-D vectors and traditional 2-D vector algebra can be simply and cleanly represented by complex numbers and complex algebra. The important thing about quantum theory is that states are no longer coupled to observables as they are in classical physics. Now, the state a particle is in can mix and combine with other states freely, and the observables have no value until measured. Complex numbers (since they add extra "room") encode this mixing potential in a convenient way. I would recommend that you think about mathematics as being the "science of thought." Every mathematical idea was invented by someone to systematically describe something. This means that when a mathematical idea doesn't generalize to a "common sense" situation (like "i" mangoes) then that means you have removed it from its intended realm of application. Natural numbers are good for counting mangoes because they act like mangoes; complex numbers are good for describing wave functions because (in a way) they behave like wave functions. Try not to put the cart before the horse.