Now on a simplistic level - this appears to be a Karmic idea. But I wanted to find the origin of what he was quoting. All my google searches came up with nothing. (Perhaps I'm spelling it wrong). Has anyone heard of a worldview that sounds (phonetically) like this? My question is: What is the common term for "Zeigzigler's Philosophy"? 

Now I'm not making a judgment for or against supernatural claims in this - I'm just trying to understand (a) the assumptions in this observation; and (b) how we reason about such claims. As I understand it we have four general ways of knowing things (epistomology): 

Now applying this to the original comment - it seems that most observations of the supernatural come from the 4th category - truth my message (sometimes called Revelation). The original comment seems to be saying that philosophy and logic lie in the first three spaces, Truth by authority, Truth by reasoning (rationalism) and Truth by experiment (Empiricism). To me that seems limited. I think you can still reason about all four types of truth claims - but I'm open to the idea that philosophy may have particular boundaries. I understand the original poster was trying to say that supernatural claims are inherently outside the bounds of experimental truth. My question is: Are philosophical claims grounded in the observations of the material world around us? (With regard to supernatural claims) 

It's probably useful to note that the very appealing "definition" of Frege for 2 as "the set of all sets with 2 elements" is still a useful philosophical guideline, even though the Fregian logic itself turned out to be unsound. In particular, the theory of cardinalities starts by defining a cardinal as an equivalence class of sets, which itself may be larger than a set, and then identifying a special representative of that class, which is a particular set, usually an ordinal. The advantage of ordinals is that they are somewhat canonical, though one must fix a particular construction of ordinals to avoid similar issues. So morally 2 is the set of all sets with 2 elements, though one may choose the ordinal {0,{0}} as a canonical representative. There are consistent theories which do allow the impredicative definition, e.g. System F, where 2 is the function which takes a function and an argument and applies the function twice to that argument, or Quine's New Foundations. 

"X is round" like "X is an even number" is not a proposition but only a form of a proposition. (It could be a definition if you claim: Let X be a round object" or "let X be an even number".) In your example nothing about X is known. Words that we use in daily life have another status although they are usually not as clearly defined as words of formal languages. (That's why in mathematics it is attempted to use only uniquely defined expressions.) You have learned the meaning of most words as a child by having seen examples. Your mother has said "mother" (of course in your language) and has pointed to herself. Later you learnt what the word car means. Of course you have had to do a large amount of abstraction in order to conclude from your mother on other mothers and from the special car on the general meaning of this word. The same process of abstraction had to be accomplished by mankind when devising mathematics, for instance to obtain from "three sheep" and "three apples" the general meaning of "three animals" and "three fruits" and then the meaning of "three". But the deeper problem that you may have in mind are words that have a different meaning for different people. What you think is good or useful or desirable may appear to others as the contrary. Here it helps only to explain your opinion as well as possible by simple and clear words which you can expect to have the same meaning for everybody. Of course you can never be sure about the degree of "sameness". 

Classical logic is consistent if and only if intuitionistic logic is as well, as shown by the Gödel-Gentzen translation The principle of explosion is consistent if and only if minimal logic (which removes this principle) is as well. See this paper for a nice survey. 

The combination of 1 and 2 shows that there is no fundamental disagreement between these various formulations of logic, just about what the statements in various logics express. But this is more a philosophical question, and mathematicians are not necessarily interested in these. Note that there are deeper disagreements about which principles are acceptable in mathematics, more or less related to the question of finitism. In this case, there is no hope for a clear resolution as above, since consistency of non-finitary systems can not be shown to be equivalent to that of finitary systems. This last point is essentially the failure of Hilbert's Program for building a consensus about the consistency and completeness of mathematical foundations. However, despite the prima facie failure of this program, reverse mathematics and proof theory can be seen as a rigorous way to explore the different viewpoints and find a compromise. My conclusion is that, while these are very interesting philosophical questions that are still being explored, there is no fundamental disagreement about what constitutes a sound mathematical argument. 

The answer in my opinion is a clear no to the phrase "always". There are many humans who have done evil things and threaten to continue, who in countries with capital punishment are executed. According to the law such humans do not deserve to live. Therefore it would be a mistake to sacrifice an animal in favour of such a human. 

If God exists and if Cantor is right, then God cannot know every real number, because there are uncountably many and hence there is no memory that can store and no intelligence that can define all. God would be overtaxed in the same way as when he had to name an even prime number beyond 2. This means, under the given constraints, God would know that he does not know everything. 

Of course there are objects like an electric field or a phonograph that were inconceivable to primitive humans of Stone Age. And there are modern devices like micro chips or lasers or cell phones that were inconceivable to people 200 years ago because the effects they are based upon were far out of reach even for advanced physicists of that time. It is inconceivable that this series will stop. (And if it would then this very fact is inconceivable today.) 

At certain points in history some authoritarian regimes have proposed points of view that opposed individual rationalism. (To give too much detail might invoke Godwin's law - but categorising that behaviour is becoming more important.) An open minded point of view might say this is merely behaviourism. My question is: What is the name of the belief that acting ("the Will") is better than thinking? 

My question is: Is there evidence to suggest Evolutionary Psychology is essentially Leibnitizian Optimisim? 

I'm struggling to make the jump from the Paradox of Tolerance to the Liars Paradox - can someone help me with this? My question is: Is "Intolerance of intolerance" equivalent to the Liar's Paradox? 

(I didn't hear what the XXX was - but apparently this has a name). My question is: What is the name of the viewpoint of 'pulling up the ladder of Judeo-Christian morality'? 

I'm hunting through Plato quotes and I can't find this one. (But it sounds plausible.) My question is: Did Plato say "In order to argue, you must express your opponents argument better than they could?" 

This is not a logical fallacy. In logic "If A, then B" is equivalent to the so called contraposition "If not B, then not A". Both statements are true (or false) under same conditions. You can only doubt that "If good lecturere, then slides are made available in advance" is a true statement. But that has nothing to do with logic. 

Lying is a natural habit that is even common among intelligent animals. I have often observed that one among a group of sparrows eating my grass seed uttered a warning cry in order to make his buddies fly away and leaving the table to him alone. Apart from the reasons spelled out in the question a very important reason seems to me to spare other's feelings. If I met a contemporary who in my eyes is very ugly or stupid or is a loser I would never tell him or her this mercilessly but, if asked, try to address his or her merits. In my eyes this kind of lying is a moral obligation of every human. Philosophers rigorously forbidding the lie are unwordly (or they are like my sparrow to have the lie exclusively for themselves). I am not a notable philosopher but I hope the above is acceptable as a notable philosophical doctrin. (If you think otherwise: lie.) 

Truth by authority - this is true because a judge, a scientific authority, a person at the top of an organisation, or a well-recognised book/publication said it was true - and I don't need to question it further. Truth by reasoning (rationalism) - this is true because someone has given me a bunch of reasons, and I have weighed it in my head, and I can't come up with a competing set of reasons that knocks it down - so it is valid in my head. Truth by experiment (Empiricism) - this is true because I saw it or felt it. Further more I could repeat it, and if you repeat it, you will see the truth of it as well. Truth by message (testimonial evidence) - I heard this message from a person I trust, and I hold their observations of reality as true. You can choose to listen to their message as well. 

Plato's rejection of the Sophists is reasoned by their rhetoric lacking justice (khairos) - and he says they need to move to 'Maintenance and Restoration'. $URL$ The broader point in this reference was that Plato was the originator of arguing with empathy by better understanding the opponents position first, rather than saying something appropriate to the situation. 

Cantor devised set theory for application to reality but started from the divine wisdom of the hierarchy of infinities. My question is: What of Cantor's claims has become reality? What are practical applications of set theory? And what parts of transfinite set theory require the philosophical position of platonism? Here are some quotes which may help to familiarize with the stuff. In a letter to Hilbert he wrote about his plan of a paper on set theory and its applications: "The third part contains the applications of set theory to the natural sciences: physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, anthropology, biology, physiology, medicine etc. It is what Englishmen call 'natural philosophy'. In addition we have the so called 'humanities', which, in my opinion, have to be called natural sciences too, because also the 'mind' belongs to nature." [G. Cantor, letter to D. Hilbert (20 Sept 1912)] Cantor explained his impetus for devising set theory to Mittag-Leffler: "Further I am busy with scrutinizing the applications of set theory to the physiology of organisms. [...] I have been occupied for 14 years with these ideas of a closer exploration of the basic nature of all organic; they are the true reason why I have undertaken the painstaking and hardly rewarding business of investigating point sets, and all the time never lost sight of it, not for a moment. Further I am interested, purely theoretically, in the nature of the states and what belongs to them, because I have my opinions on that topic which later may become formulated mathematically; the striking impression that you perhaps may obtain will disappear, when you consider that also the state in some sense represents an organic being." [G. Cantor, letter to G. Mittag-Leffler (22 Sept 1884)] "By applied set theory I understand what usually is called physical science or cosmology. To this realm all so-called natural sciences are belonging, those concerning the anorganic as well as the organic world. [...] For mathematical physics the theory of types is particularly important because the latter theory is a powerful and sharp tool for the discovery and the intellectual construction of the so-called matter. Related to this is the applicability of the theory of types in chemistry. [...] Of very special interest seems to me the application of mathematical type theory on study and research in the realm of the organic." [G. Cantor, letter to G. Mittag-Leffler (18 Nov 1884)] "This has created my desire to replace the mechanical explanation of nature by a more complete one, which I would call in opposition to the former an 'organic' one." [G. Cantor, letter to W. Wundt (4 March 1883)] "The actual infinite in abstracto and in concreto, however, where I call it transfinitum, are not only subject of an extended number theory but also, as I hope to show, of an advanced natural science and physics." [G. Cantor, letter to I. Carbonnelle (28 Nov 1885)] Cantor says that he has no safer knowledge of anything in nature than of his transfinite set theory. "Therefore I am convinced that this theory one day will belong to the common property of objective science". [G. Cantor, letter to I. Jeiler (20 May 1888, Whitsun)] Finally Cantor devised transfinite set theory in order to defend Christian religion. "The time is not far, however, that my teaching will turn out to be a really exterminating weapon against all pantheism, positivism and materialism." [G. Cantor, letter to J. Hontheim (21 Dec 1893)] "The general set theory [...] definitely belongs to metaphysics. [...] and the fact that my presently written work is issued in mathematical journals does not modify the metaphysical contents and character of this work. [...] By me Christian philosophy is for the first time confronted with the true teachings of the infinite in its beginnings. [G. Cantor, letter to T. Esser (1/15 Feb 1896)] Concluding: "If one has recognized the truth of something, then one knows to be in possession of the truth and one feels [...] sort of duty, as far and as long as power reaches, to tell it to others." [G. Cantor, draft of a letter to A. Schmid (18 April 1887)]