The front brake should be easily sufficient on its own to stop quickly, so it sounds as if your front brake needs adjusting too. For your own safety and the safety of other road users, get your brakes fixed! There are lots of instructional videos out there, or your local bike shop will be happy to do it for you. 

It's not clear from your question whether you ride regularly a bike, but really the best way to understand the requirements for a product like this is to get on a bike and do a bunch of riding around at night. When you do this you'll find that the visibility of signalling at night is not as big a problem as all that. First, the proper approach to making a manoeuvre is look–signal–look–move: that is, you always check that it's safe to move and never presume that anyone has seen your signal. Second, bicycle position within the carriageway is a clear signal to other road users of your intentions: if you are positioned towards the left side of the carriageway, you intend to go straight on or left, and if you are positioned towards the right side of the carriageway then you intend to turn right. (Assuming drive-on-the-left as in the UK.) Nonetheless, there might well be people who would like to buy lights to improve the visibility of their signals, so I'll make a couple more comments: 

A device that clips on to clothing depends on you wearing long sleeves and so will not be usable in the summer. If you're going to wear a light on your wrist for signalling then the light ought to be visible from all directions (so that it does not matter which way you put it on or how you hold your arm while signalling). The best shape would be a bracelet with lights all around. 

So given the assumptions of your question (moderate speeds and not too hilly), I think road cyclists do not need to worry very much about the weight of their bike. 

The author timed his commute from Sheffield to Chesterfield in the UK (about 22 km each way; moderately hilly; ridden at about 30 km/h), randomly choosing each day whether to ride his 9.5 kg carbon frame bicycle or his 13.5 kg steel frame bicycle. The article is open access, so I'll just quote the conclusion: 

In England and Wales, the relevant legislation is the Pedal Cycles (Construction and Use) Regulations 1983 which say: 

In "Epidemiology of bicycle injuries and risk factors for serious injury" by Frederick P Rivara, Diane C Thompson, and Robert S Thompson, the authors gave a questionnaire to 3,390 bicycle riders who had attended a hospital emergency department in the Seattle area. They found that cyclists involved in a crash at a speed greater than 15 miles per hour were 1.4 times as likely to have a "severe" injury (defined as an injury severity score greater than 8) as cyclists involved in a crash at a speed of 15 miles per hour or less. The 95% confidence interval was 1.0 to 1.9. (Caveats: 1. It seems strange to me that the authors only reported odds ratios, when they apparently had the data to compute effect sizes too. 2. The fast cyclists differ systematically from the slower cyclists: the odds ratio fell to 1.2 when other factors in the study were controlled for. 3. It's Rivara, Thompson and Thompson.) 

Roadies are concerned about weight because they believe that lighter bicycles go uphill faster for the same effort. This is obviously true (it's simple physics: the energy required to lift a mass m a fixed distance against gravity is proportional to m), but how much difference does it actually make in practice if you're not racing up mountains? Let's calculate some back-of-the-envelope numbers: to lift a 1 kg weight up a 1,000 m climb takes 10 kJ; if you climb with a (decent amateur) power output of 200 W then you'll take an extra 50 seconds to do the climb. On less hilly rides, the effect would be even smaller. Here's a randomized (non-blinded, n=1) trial that looked into this question in a realistic setting: 

Most times when the three situations above occur, on checking the mirror I see that no cars are approaching from behind (close enough to be a danger), and so there is no action required. On a typical 200km Audax ride I would say that I average 5 times where I have had to leave the bitumen. And on the other occasions I have just had to move over the white line on the left, to near the edge of the sealed verge. So I have left plenty of room for the overtaking car to not have to cross the centre line. Or maybe just by a small amount. This well rehearsed system has possibly saved my life on several occasions. The last one, about a year ago, was when I was daydreaming actually, enjoying a nice downhill run on a narrow road. Suddenly I heard the roar of a semi speeding down from behind! (I really should have spotted the truck earlier, either by the regular 10s check, or by noticing that about 200m ahead, at the bottom of the hill there was a blind corner to the right. A trigger point!) Well, as the driver 'put the pedal to the metal', the roar of the engine woke me up, so I instantly checked ahead - a blind corner! I just had enough time to use the brakes, slow a bit, and go onto the dirt and stop. Then I saw a large 4x4 come from around that corner, quite fast, and a lot less than 200m away by now! Just a second or so after that, the semi sped past me with his string of huge wheels on top of the white line. The same white line that I had to my left just a few seconds before! So it would have been either myself smashed to pulp, or that semi would have hit that 4x4, or hopefully the 4x4 driver, being alert to the problem, being able to leave the road without a roll-over! But by me being out of the way, right off the bitumen in this case, I had taken charge of the situation, and so I was not depending on others to do the right thing, or be alert and skilled enough to do the right thing. I had not only possibly saved my own life, but at the same time, by taking myself 'out of the picture', I was not putting other lives in danger either. It is a good feeling to be in control, and not be at the mercy of others. And as a result I don't feel at great risk, or in great danger, when riding out there on the highways with cars and trucks doing up to 110km/hr and sometimes more. Provided I stay alert and stick to my system - the 'system of bike control'. To put all this in a nutshell - Riders need eyes in the back of their heads - No, riders need a mirror. A rider without a mirror is a rider half blind. A rider with a mirror also needs a plan. A mirror without a plan is a mirror wasted. 

I am an Audax club member and so am mostly riding on high speed country roads - B class highways in the main. Firstly I would say that just as a good driver should be using a 'system of car control' to avoid collisions, then in exactly they same manner, and with exactly the same system, so should a bike rider. And this would be whether in the city or the country. Bike riders should be even more diligent in using such a system because if they are hit they have absolutely no protection - just a foam helmet! The well recognised 'system of car control' emphasises the importance of knowing what is all around - both in front, and behind, on a regular 10 to 12 second basis. That is, the rear-view mirror should be checked about every 10 to 12 seconds in a car, and whenever a hazard is first detected. I do the same on my bike - both in city and country riding. I use a good sized mirror that is sturdy, does not vibrate on coarse metal roads, or get pushed around by the wind, and is either flat or only very slightly curved. The mirror should be able to see a silver or white car at least 300m away. They are the hardest to see because they can blend in with the clouds. A curved mirror is not up to the job. And there are an awful lot of silver cars out there! Although a curved mirror, not too small or too curved, is ideal for the city. I have also developed a particular system I call 'trigger points' - points in the ride that trigger me to check my mirror, over and above the regular 10 - 12 second checks. These trigger points are due to three hazards that are of particular relevance to riders, especially on high speed country roads, to avoid being hit by a car coming from behind. Those that overtake when it is not safe to do so. The three situations, or hazards, that cause me to instantly check the mirror are a) an ONCOMING CAR, b) a BLIND CORNER less than 200m ahead (or less than 100m - 150m behind),or c) a BLIND CREST less than 200m ahead (or less than 100 - 150m behind). I have observed that a) in the situation of an on-coming car, and another car coming up from behind, most (I estimate 80% to 90% of drivers) do not do the right thing and slow down behind the bike, and wait until the oncoming car has passed before overtaking. b) and c) - In the case of blind corners and crests - Most drivers just hope that no car will suddenly appear from around that blind corner, or over that crest, while they are on the wrong side of the road. I do not take the "bugger you, I'm all right" approach. That is, just keep riding along hoping that if a car does approach from behind, that the car will do the right thing and slow down and wait. But if they don't, and then have an accident - a head-on-collison, or a side swipe with the oncoming car, or a roll over as they try to avoid that car . . . "Well it wasn't my fault - it was their fault. I was entitled to be on the road - they should have waited before overtaking . . . I never got hit, so too bad people, sorry you are injured, or dead, but at least I am still alive. And I did not break the law - you did." Of course the bike rider will also be at risk in these situations, whether by the overtaking car suddenly realising they are in trouble and just trying to miss the rider by a few cm, or actually deciding that they have to save their own neck by wiping out the cyclist! By doing that mirror check when triggered, in that 200m 'danger zone' before those three particular hazards, then I have plenty of time to move right over to the left of the bitumen so that any overtaking car can safely pass without having to cross the centre line. Or if the sealed surface is not wide enough, I have plenty of time to slow down to a safe speed so that I can go onto the unsealed side of the road. Either stopping if it is unsafe for my tyres, or continuing riding slowly until the cars have passed, and I check the mirror, plus head turn, before going back to the bitumen. All this is just exactly what good car drivers do anyway - use the same system. 

In my experience, which is sadly rather high, bike thieves tend to look for shiny, and easy targets of opportunity. Camouflaging your bike as a beater will cause most to simply scan right over it. Incidentally, the following happened to my roommate in Paris, with a brand new $3K mountain bike: He pulled up to a fixture of some sort, leaned his bike against the fixture, and started fishing around in his bag for a lock. Whilst doing so, a thief road up on a beater bike, sprung off said beater, sprung on roommates fancy pride and joy, and road off while my roommate looked on in shock and horror. Probably wouldn't have happened if his bike looked like a beater. A further tip is to look for a good locking place -- somewhere with nice bikes on parade, in view of gendarmarie, or in view of many cyclists (where a thief might suppose you are among said cyclists) are good choices, as is underneath a security camera, such as those typically found in car parks. Finally, workplaces often have a sheltered area where you can lock your bike in relative safety. Last but not least, you can leave the QR for your bike seat, and take the seat with you when you are leaving the bike for an extended time. This tends to be quite discouraging as it both makes your bike look like an abandoned beater, and makes riding off on your bike uncomfortable. 

For those of you that want to commute on a nice bike in bad neighborhoods, let me give you a few tricks that have served me well. 

I also strongly recommend a chain-checker -- a simple little tool for checking chain wear, but you can always just run by your shop periodically to have them check it, if that's convenient. Cleaning a gunky drivetrain I say drivetrain, because it's usually not just your chain that's gunky, the casset, chainrings, and especially derailleur typically get really gunky too. If you're keeping your chainring lightly oiled (defined below) you won't have to do this too often -- after a really muddy ride for example 

Replace all quick release fixtures with tooled fixtures. This is generally a small investment. Take a black marker to all component markings, making all those Deore XT's look at first glance like no-name-brand cheapo components. Either give your bike a crappy paint job -- spray paint some garish, noticeable color. Dont' bother making it beautiful, but make sure any brand markings or indication of quality of bike disappear. An easy alternative here is to wrap the frame in packing tape, which will make your bike look like a beater, but preserve the original finish if you ever want to resell it. Use a good lock, but it should look old and beat up, not like you take your bike too seriously. 

clipless pedals : buck for buck experience tells me this is your biggest win. It makes a big difference in power transfer. frame stiffness: while bike weight (unless your talking >1kg) isn't going to make much difference, a stiff frame which allows for efficient power transfer will. Changing your bike doesn't seem to be an option for you, but adjusting your seating position and height so you get most effective oomph from your pedalling is worth trying. Aerodynamics makes a big difference for a strong headwind, or at higher speeds. So drop bars, a longer stem, or possibly bar ends could help you out here. Rolling resistance can be a big factor too, and this is a cheap one to improve -- get kevlar bead, high pressure tires with a slick surface (if your current tires have a degree of knobbyness to them, you'll notice a big difference here). Light tires make a much bigger difference than frame weight because of rotational momentum. 

Also note weight, including rotational weight, only affect acceleration (and maybe climbing a teeny bit), not how much work it takes to maintain cruising speed. Rolling resistance and wind resistance affect what your top speed is. So if your can keep up with your colleagues cruising speed but not acceleration, focus on weight. Otherise focus on aerodynamics and rolling resistance.