I have a hardtail MTB with much older Alexrims AD-something (the numbers on the decal are gone now) They are doublewall, 32h, but have no eyelets on the spoke holes. I have had them for at least five years of moderate XC, and road use. Since they where laced somewhere near 2010 they never went out of true, and I know because I use V-brakes. My weight ranges from 150 to 175 lbs (68 - 80 Kg) and add to that roughly 8 lb (4 Kg) of gear, water and tools. I'm an aggresive descender (for XC) and even perform jumps and drops on this bike. What I'm trying to say is that even though there are quality diference between the two rims that you are comparing, the "lower" one is not bad at all, so, if budget is a limitation, rest assured that in this case, the low priced one will perform well. I agree with Mattnz in that the quality of the wheel depends way more on the quality of the workmanshipwhen lacing and truing the rims, and that providing the adecuate maintenance is key. 

Unfortunately it depends a lot on the specific manufacturer. I usually get around 1500 km (or more) out of SRAM and Shimano chains. I always buy the least expensive option and usually 9 speeds. (All of my bikes are 3x9 speed mountain bikes) And I ride mountain trails in muddy or otherwise very humid conditions. I clean after each ride if needed, but when the weather permits I skip cleaning up to 3 or 4 rides. I use Finish Line Wet lube, or 3 in 1 and even cheap 3 in 1 knockoffs usually sold in my country. Except that I'm currently in another country, And used up an 8 speed Taya chain in just 500 km of city/road-ish riding and using Finish Line wax lube (A lube for dry conditions). I'm in a city that is almost flat, but it is very dusty. Due to the short duration of this Taya Chain I switched to 8 speed Shimano Chain on Finish Line's dry lube. The change is at this point to soon to review, but as short as the first ride I noticed much better shifting performance and quieter operation under heavy load. 

Here's the Shimano datasheet. So we know it's a square taper, ISO-threaded BB. So a UN54/UN55 is the replacement part (take the UN55). 73 is the shell size: 73mm. 113 is the spindle length: 113mm. 

Your crankset, front derailleur and bottom bracket can remain as they are (matched groupsets are a lie sold to everyone by Shimano). If you do decide for a lighter crankset, you can still leave the front derailleur alone so long as it suits your chainring choice. Similarly you can reuse the bottom bracket if it has the right interface and spindle length. 

You're looking for a headset. These come in two forms, threaded and threadless, based on whether your fork has a threaded steering tube. Both are available for all budgets. Headsets come in a couple of sizes, so use a pair of vernier calipers to measure the size you want. Park Tool has a howto on servicing a threaded headset, however assuming you don't have the right tools: 

This crib sheet is useful. Front chainline is determined by combination of the BB spindle length, BB offset (i.e. spacers, asymmetric spindle) and the crankset. The crankset manufacturer will typically recommend a spindle length (or see this database). As for a replacement crankset, you can buy new (basically any road double crankset square taper is likely to fit; or there's a few manufacturer's making quality, vintage-esque cranksets, e.g. Velo Orange), however you can also find some great quality stuff at your local bicycle swapmeet/bike shed. Whatever you choose to do, I recommend getting something with replaceable chain rings, so next time you wear your chainrings down you can simply replace the chain ring and not the whole setup. Be aware that when your chainring teeth are this worn you have likely accelerated the wear of your chain and rear sprockets. You quite likely need an entire new drive train. On chain itself, this is dependent on the number of cogs on the rear. With 5 on the rear you're using 3/32" chain, but modern 8-speed chain fits just fine (this is often sold as 6/7/8 speed chain). 

You probably need a 15mm cone wrench and a 17mm regular wrench. If you're going to buy a cone wrench, the 13/15mm double-ended wrench covers most hubs. I recommend any PTFE-based bearing lubricant. You can buy a huge tub of it from an automotive store for very cheap. 

My late answer will be very similar to the other (s), but I want to contribute with various experiences. First, proper brake lever travel gives you optimum brake performance for your system and hand size. Effectively the brake lever should make the pads touch the rim a little before your hand reaches top "grip force". This is because several parts on the system flex or compress a little before really beguin acting, causing the lever to travel a bit further down before any braking force is developed. When you start squeezing the lever, the hand forms a hook with the last joint. Continue squeezing until the hook is formed with the middle joint. Most people would have the strongest grip when this "hook" is roughly 90 degree (observe hands carrying a lot of grocery bags for example). This is the point where your levers should act. With caliper brakes you calibrate this by releasing or taking up cable, that is loosening the bolt that holds the cable, sliding it and tightening again. Then you fine tune using the barrel adjusting bolt(the one the cable goes through). Other systems have this bolt in the lever, for example cantilever, v-brake or linear pull and almost any lever designed for straight handlebars. On the maintenance side, I recommend replacing the pads before they loose to much flexibility, (the get dry and stiff with time). But before that happens, periodic cleaning enhances breaking performance. I use kitchen products to clean my brakes. Dish washing soap is designed to break grease but does not damage rubber nor plastics. I also use a dish washing pad, the famous brand is Scotch Brite, but the generics work as well. These pads are designed to be barely abrasive, so they remove hardened food without damaging antiadherent coating from cooking pots. This is why I recommend them for brake pad cleaning; they remove grease and stuck debris without wasting pad material. The general grease removing capabilities of these products work wonders with rim brakes and are cheap and easy to find. 

It largerly depends on how you are marking the route in Google Earth and how you actually ride it. There are a couple of factors that introduce small diferencies when measuring distances and their effects are multiplied over distance, so the longer the route, the bigger the difference. The straight line effect For example, if I plan my route drawing a line over the map, but I only mark some points, Google will draw a straight line between two consecutive points. Remember that the shortest path between two points is a stright line, any other path will be longer. But when you actually ride the route you hardly ride straight lines, you ride curves. Each curve will add a little more than each line segment in your map, so, when adding all these diferencies up, the result is a longer actual ride than the planned line. When following or marking a route using some sort of GPS based solution, you have to account also for the "sampling frequency" of the device. For example, lets say you take a minute to travel around a roundabout. If your GPS device also "samples" your position every minute, it will likely mark your position twice in the same spot, so it will record 0 traled distance. This will affect you more in the more curvy trails and routes, specially if you ride at higher speeds. GPS based solutions also work calculating the distance from two consecutive points and adding up with the next pair, and so on. (Yes, it asumes a straight line between points). The higher the sampling fequency the more acurate the distance will be recorded, but also battery consumption will be higher and if files are a concern, they will also be bigger. This also occurs in the vertical dimension. For example if you side over a small hill first going up a few meters, then going down over an otherwise straight path, but you marked only the beginning and ending point, most likely the software wont take the hill into account, measuring the distance as the straight line between the points. The curved line effect There are also another factor that comes into play: We all know that most bike odometers work by counting wheel revolutions. But many of us do not mentally acount for many wheel turns that are not actually accounting for travel distance. Lets say, you lift up the bike and let the wheel spin, or when you get to a resting point and do a few empty loops while waiting for other riders, etc... Something else is that, in curves, the front wheel actually travels a longer distance than the rear, and you, actually travel a distance that is in between. For example, lets say you ride trhoug a puddle that makes both your tires very wet, an then on a dry surface you ride a really tight U-turn. Now see the path marked by your tires. The fron one must have drawn a bigger semicircle than the rear one. If you want to be sure, measure them with flexible metric tape ;) This seems too little, but over a long route, every tight corner you ride, actually adds up to the distance "seen" from the front tire. The longer the route, the more this will affect your predicted route distance versus actual ridden distance. But also, the more curvy routes are the ones more severely affected. To improve the distance acuracy of the planned route, use shorter line segments along curved parts of the trail, i.e. put the points close together. Note: I have always doubted about wether Google really takes into account ground level when measuring distance over traced paths, I don't know if it includes altitude of the ground at the marked point or if it assumes all points are at the same height. If it asumes same height, calculated line length is less than the actual path. 

As usual Sheldon has the answer. However you can also find a great range of second hand parts such as derailleurs from your local bicycle shed. There's little point replacing the entire groupset, however if you want to move up to 9-speed then there's no problem replacing the rear derailleur, cassette and shifters. If you're replacing your cassette, replace your chain. Sheldon writes: 

From this photo we can see you have cotterless cranks, probably square tapered, which you'll be pleased to know are still a very common interface. Yours look like they're held in place with a 14mm nut easily removed with a socket wrench and crank puller. I don't think there's any modern, cartridge bottom bracket with this style of nut, so this will be a cup and race type. You can typically remove the non-drive-side cup with a large shifter wrench and assuming the drive-side is left-hand threaded you can remove the fixed, drive-side cup using this one neat trick. Depending on the desired chainline, if the cups/races of the bottom bracket are smooth and without pitting or gouging you can continue to use this BB with another set of square taper cranks. If the bearings are pitted replace them (they're almost always 1/4"). The four important factors in choosing a bottom bracket are: 

Make sure everything is installed in the right way. It's an easy part to accidentally install upside down because you've had one too many beers. If your steering feels funny or wonky or is binding up, there's a good chance you've installed a part in backwards. 

Shimano stopped selling disassembleable cogs when they moved to Hyperglide. With Uniglide you could build up your own cassettes and even flip the direction of a cog to wear out the other side of the teeth. I've heard a number of reasons for this, but ultimately I reckon it's to sell more cassettes. Depending on your derailleur you will likely also need to replace that. Typically they work down (i.e. 10-speed derailleur on a 9-speed cassette) but not up. This is because the cable pulls are the same, but the geometry is different because of the narrower cassette and extra cog. You do not need to replace anything on the front, unless you're running some super chunky chainrings that won't fit on a 10-speed chain. 

It depends on the kind of bearing, but I can offer a little hint. The easy ones are the open bearing, the kind that comprises a race, a cone, bearing balls (or rollers) and (optional in many cases) a ball/roller cage or retainer. These are common in non sealed hubs, non sealed headsets and non sealed bottom bracket. For these types of bearing, proper disassembly and inspection gives the best diagnosis. All components should be cleaned and degreased with a suitable solvent. Then close inspection is what follows. Do this in a rather clean work area, with good light. Look for cracked, bent, corroded, chipped or otherwise abnormally worn parts. Depending on the materials and procedures used on fabrication, some items are prone to get some weird wear patterns. (For example, during a time, here in my country was difficult to get another kind of wheel bearing than a Chinese variety, where the balls quickly developed tiny pores, which in turn led to ball breakage. Another kind had balls that used to "peel off" like an onion). Any rough surface in any of the parts justifies replacement. In short term or emergency, it is ok to replace only the damaged part, but chances are, the other components have received damage as well, even if it's non perceivable, so for the long term (or heavy use) the best is to replace all components. This inspection can be part of scheduled or preventive maintenance, but should also be performed in case grinding noise is heard when spinning the suspected axle, or when "ticks" or "clicks" are felt from normal operation or external inspection. This means that every "now and then" you should spin your wheels while hand-holding them by the axle, steer the bike while lifting the front wheel (or with the bike in a workstand) and spin your cranks delicately by hand when the chain is off. Sometimes, noise or rough feel is caused by sand and other debris that managed its way into the bearing and is stuck in the grease, so, cleaning and applying fresh grease is enough to solve the problem, provided the symptom wasn't left too long unattended. Cheap bearings and good ones with worn out seals are specially prone to get dirt caught inside. These kinds of bearing should be properly adjusted in reassembly. The cone should press consistently against bearing balls, but not so tight as to cause seizure, and the retaining nut should be tightly torqued against the cone to prevent self tightening/loosening of the assembly. Take into account that when adjusting the retaining nut, the cone will get a bit tighter against the bearing, due to the existing slack in bolt-nut threads. The most difficult (IMHO) type of bearing es the sealed one, as it usually is press-fit into its receptacle and almost for sure it need fairly specialized tools for removal/installation. However, this kind of bearing is usually much better made and from higher quality materials, so they last much longer and need less maintenance (if any). The same symptoms reveal a faulty bearing: grinding, ticking or clicking noises, notched or stepped rotation, jerk, or loose feel. As the "sealed" usually means no maintenance can be performed, replacing the bearing is normally the best/only solution. Sealed bearings are common in high end hubs, bottom bracket cartridges, integrated headsets and pivot points of some rear suspension designs.