Say you're paying 10 million a year tax. All you have to do, is have four children ............... and you now pay basically no tax!! (You only pay the modest baseline $1m a year.) For the profoundly rich who pay 100s of millions a year in tax, it would be insane to not have four children: every single truly rich person would have four children: it would be absolutely ridiculous to not do so. As mentioned above - especially - death taxes are the truly hated thing amongst the rich. Consider tycoons with a wealth measured in the billions. When they die, basically the government takes most of it. By simply having four children, they get to keep ALL of their money (ie, the inheritors get it all, the government gets nothing). The above system would certainly and absolutely ensure that everyone who pays more than, say, about $2m a year in tax, would, almost certainly have four children - it would be crazy not to. 

In that case the only answer to your question here is: A whacky "one time zone" world would would signal to the reader a very strong, overbearing, somewhat ridiculous centralized government... (Note that, simply, China currently does this: it's an overbearing, "centralized government" move - a holdover from their overbearing, "centralized government" days!) So for example, in the movie Brazil, or perhaps the classic book 1984, it would be a plot point if the nutcase world government in question, established "one time zone worldwide!" (for "planetary unity and order!") 

But, as Shalveny states in their answer, generally names/titles are derived from the power source and the method in learning/developing. At the end of the day, it is your world and you get final say, but generally speaking it's commonly broken down along four main lines in popular fiction: Divine magic: i.e. magic either imbued as a direct result of appeal to a divine being (prayers, wardings etc) and used by religious bodies and agents (clerics, priests, magisters, acolytes etc) Arcane magic: magic that is not associated with any particular god or diety. Most commonly used by magicians/wizards/sorcerers etc and often depends on the strength of the wielder. Elemental/Natural Magic: Magic that is natural in source, often describe as maintaining the balance of life and guarding the natural world. Often straddling the border between Divine and Arcane. Users are most often depicted as Druids/shaman Ritual magic: Power is drawn through the completion of rituals - sigil, ceremonies, relics. Takes time to complete, and can often involve a sacrifice of some description. Shamans, cultists etc are often portrayed performing ritual magic, generally speaking doesn't necessarily require innate magical abilities and is very often used by the antagonists/big bads. 

What you are describing sounds more like territorial clashes/border raiding than war. War has a purpose - annihilation, conquest, resources, whatever it may be, it's a concentrated military endeavour undertaken for a specific purpose. It's an all or nothing thing, and usually a successful war is a short war, with clearly defined objectives, as they are rather taxing on resources (manpower, materiel etc) - and any successful campaign relies on maintain or increasing your resources while denying them to your opponent. Instead of war between the two nations, have you considered the idea of disputed territories - a kind of borderland area between the two nations. Or perhaps have factions within each nation constantly at war - think medieval England and Scotland - most often the skirmishes would be between clans/houses raiding each other. Trade continues between the two nations themselves, but there's constant fighting between some factions. Otherwise, your only other realistic course is, as others have mentioned, some kind of black market/smuggling operations. Or, alternatively, an enterprising third nation acts as a middle-man/distribution centre and makes a tidy profit in the meantime. 

a handful of rebels would scoff at the idea as one of the ridiculous notions instituted by the Empire; most would just go along running the concentration camps. In any totalitarian society the majority just mindlessly go along and do what they're told. 

Locomotion could be more efficient? Particularly at high speed. Hence, saving food. Obviously if you run/march more efficiently, you need less caloric intake each day. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that when moving at high speed a Foxtail would need less food each day. The general point (as far as we know) of a tail on things like leopards, dogs, is some sort of counterbalance system while moving along at high speed. (Check out awesome videos about this in regard to leopards.) It's possible that, quite simply, Usain Bolt would be faster over 100 with a tail. And that for conventional joggers, you'd use less energy - maybe much less - over everyday 5ks and 10ks. Certainly, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert this. (Note that, indeed, human or any animal biomechanics is a fascinating field. Particularly with robotics coming along trying to equal it. The two human gaits of walking, running, are astoundingly efficient. There are some really fascinating results - for example, as any nutritionist / sports medicine person will tell you, when humans run, interestingly they use the same amount of energy per kilometer - it doesn't matter if you run fast or slow; energy use during walking gait is totally different again and interesting in other ways.) Again, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert that adding a tail makes, in particular running, maybe all locomotion, a little more efficient - so you need less food per day! To put it another way, it's a commonplace thing in scifi that adding a monkey-tail makes it "easier to climb around in trees or zero gravity". Similarly, you could say adding a "balance tail" (think of those leopards) makes locomotion a bit more efficient - needs less energy, can go simply faster at top speed. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that, particularly when moving, a Foxtail would need less food each day. More efficient locomotion == less calories needed each day == less food needed each day. Maybe it helps your story! 

Given the technological constraints of 1910's-1950's, and that war would have evolved from a set of decisive battles on a single field (ala Azincourt) to a series of fronts (ala WW I +), the easiest way is simple: Spin. Run a massive PR campaign. The hero is selected and sent to an unspecified 'front line' location (unspecified for Operational Security reasons, of course). Given the spread out nature of the war, the Hero is always "over there", and the population would be relying on news reports, press releases and propaganda to give them their information - so give it to them: 

I can't recall reading your other answers, so please forgive if this has been covered elsewhere, but there are a couple of possibilities, the first that spring to my mind are how each is 'cast'. 1) Direct Divine intervention requires some form of request/prayer (i.e. "[insert name of god], in thy name [please do xxxx]") 2) There is a direct visual effect (i.e. a golden halo/glow appearing around the caster, the gods/spirits symbol appearing briefly) 3) Divine intervention/spells are only available to the truly faithful or devout, and may need some form of holy symbol to use as a focus (i.e. crucifix etc) 4) Magic requires the use of spell components and incantations. Material items that are used as to cast the spell but are consumed in the process (I think this used to be a requirement in D&D - too many years since I played it), whereas Divine magic doesn't. 5) Possibly, the divine intervention can only occur if the 'caster' is possessed by the God/Spirit that could leave a visually noticeable imprint on the caster, literally becoming a vessel of the divine will - eyes glowing, tattoos appearing that kind of thing. 

Regarding point 1, of course - obviously - you might need staggeringly big rockets and other astounding engineering difficulties. (You may well need fusion! or anti-matter! engines to make huge amounts of electricity - whatever. You would surely need some sort of astounding laser technology to blast out of the way any micro-particles in front of you - etc etc.) Once again, thanks Einstein - any speed at all, whatsoever, is identical to no speed at all. There is absolutely no difference between speed and no speed. (Note that indeed our planet (indeed, our galactic group) is whipping along at an astounding speed; when we take off to the moon we just "add speed" - the "original" (staggering) speed of the planet means absolutely nothing.) Speed and no-speed are the same. In contrast - point 2 - traveling at light speed (or higher) is utterly and totally different, requiring utterly new base mathematical concepts, totally and completely unknown to us. 

The only thing that would matter is the moment of inertia tensor. (Which physicists and engineers often just call the "moment" usually.) $URL$ There's no other consideration, at all: since there is no air resistance. (It's surprising nobody else has pointed this out.) Note the excellent example animated-gif of four rolling objects on that wikipedia page. Depending on your desired strategic approach, your engineers would create objects with different moments of inertia. (Each would have different advantages - consider an ice skater pulling in her arms during a spin.) In space nobody can hear you scream, there is no surface effect physics, no viscosity physics (aerodynamics, etc) - but there is your moment tensor. Which changes everything and is the "whole" design. 

Fallout 4 has an organization similar to what you are asking about. The Railway Faction, in game, is an underground organisation that protects and relocates escaped synths - they communicate the dead drops and signs, operate in cells and basically run interference for synths escaping from the Institute. If you want an actual transition though, from thugs and petty criminals to thugs and criminals with ideals, then there are a number of ways it could be achieved. The first is to make the change over time, slowly, so that it soon becomes accepted. Rules and regulations are put in place on who can and can't be targeted, and transgressions are dealt with severely. A change of leadership is also commonplace in heading towards a new direction. Another, is to create a secret society within the secret society, so that a select few (say the upper echelons) are aware of the true purpose and utilize the existing structures to get the end result. 

As Gary Walker pointed out, the prevalence of high quality 'counterfeiting donut machines' world wide means that it is nigh impossible to ensure that you are the only one making them. What needs to happen, then, is the addition to the donut of a singular ingredient that isn't readily available anywhere else. What this is, I donut know. I'm not a pastry chef. Whether this is some kind of special sprinkle, or even some kind of microdot ($URL$ it doesn't matter. Whatever system is designed to prevent donut counterfeiting is going to have a lot of holes in it, and leave a bad taste in the governments mouth.