Scientists declare breaking news, warn the town criers! The scientists start spreading the news about the test, and its possible religious implications - some in horror, some in denial, and some - because their beloved god asked it of them. The ordinary people look to their religious leadership for a response, for acceptance or rejection of this test and its implications. The top ranks, and the most devout and influential - are silent. The political leadership as well. All the top ranks of the people most likely to decry the implications are silent, and some even go so far as to deny your god, or reject him publicly! Your common people are shocked and appalled! What the hex-and-a-quarter is this! It seems to them like even, or especially, the most religious people have had their faith shaken or even broken by this test. Laymen look to their priests, priests look to their leaders, communities look to their local faithful, and they make no effort to encourage or support faith in your god, or even talk about the reasons why not (which looks like personal crisis from the outside). Individuals might have laughed of the test, or failed to believe its implications, or just not cared - but this apparent crumbling of the most steadfast, of those they look up to and who inspire them, will shake their own faith, and fast. 

No, I doubt very much precognition will ever make structured learning obsolete. In your example, there are a couple problems - one is that your precognitive will not understand the process just because she sees herself doing it in the future (even perfectly). So, she can twist the knobs and push the buttons, but will have no way of knowing why that produces the result it did, or how to change the process when she got or wanted to get different results. One example is, watching and copying a click-by-click walk-through of, say, how to call person X (on this phone) will let the seer...call person X. On that phone. Not let them call person Y, or Z. Not send a text message to person X. Not receive a call from person X (or Y or Z). Or receive a text message from them. They can't check their voicemail, or return calls, or input contacts. They can't even repeat the same action, a call to person X, with a different brand of phone (buttons in wrong places, or different operating system, etc) She can eventually learn all these things, by blindly memorizing the sequence of each action and slowly piecing together patterns with logic and extrapolation - which is a slow and inefficient way of learning anything, as compared to learning the reasons underlying the actions that need to be taken, and how and why the parts work together to get the result. Its a lot easier to learn to read a map than to memorize and extrapolate from looking out the window from the passenger seat - and it is too easy to not even try, and let the gps navigate for you, until even a drive you've made weekly for years is impossible without the gps telling you what to do. The other problem is that precognition is...nonstandard. For example, how easy is it to turn on and off, how difficult is it to show exactly what the precognitive is looking for, how much information can be taken in via precognition, how easy is it to remember it... So your precognitive would have to be a perfect precognitive, they would have to be able to specifically and reliably call forth the exact sequence of events needed to make the "whatever" work, whenever they needed it to work, they must always call up successes - or else they would perfectly reproduce future failures, they would have to learn it somehow for it to be in their future. They must be getting the information at the right rate to successfully copy it, and the right information to boot - that is, if they call up a vision of a future when they are comfortable enough to speed through the process, or when they use shortcuts that they haven't set up yet (example: pre-programmed contacts), or even use a different method (example: a future device or different app or even an update they don't have yet) they may not be able to successfully follow along and make it work with what they have in front of them. So to make structured learning obsolete - not just not unnecessary for a specific character, but obsolete... you need perfect control over your precognition, you need everyone ever to be precognitive, and with perfect control over that precognition, and able to learn the information (perfectly) via the methods the precognition can provide (visual images if "visions", extrapolating from specific to general, using logic to work out the gaps between what's shown and what's needed) So, yeah, I wouldn't call being able to mimic a string of actions from the future "operating" the machine, I would consider it the person getting walked through the (specific) use - even if the person walking them through it is themselves from the future. And you have a bigger problem... seeing and mimicking a specific series of actions may be enough to, say, use a smartphone - it is nowhere near enough to make one. Not enough to design, or manufacture, or assemble one. Or program it, or design apps for it, or troubleshoot when things go wrong, or fix it when someone messed up at any previous step, or any number of other things. For those kinds of things, you need to understand what it is, how it works, and what it does. Even a vision of the (future) blueprint is useless unless you know what all the markings are, to be able to faithfully reproduce them ("Oh, you needed a value here? I thought it was a smudge!" or else "and what does that abbreviation stand for?") Or maybe person X has a correction or alternative to person Y's vision-ed blueprint, but the vision didn't show corrections, so should it be altered or not? You need to know how to read the blueprint, and which materials to use and how to get them, and how to put it into production, who to talk to, and a host of other things. In short, you need knowledge. You need to learn things, and teach them. You need people who can work together. You need people to have ideas, develop them, do the underlying research (scientific study results via precognition? ah, NO). And really, the best way to get these things is by some kind of structured learning. Classes, groupwork, projects, innovation, methods of doing things - it might, perhaps, be different from they way education is structured now, just like memorizing is much less important in education now than it was historically because of the easy access to facts via the internet - but it will be structured somehow, because that is the easiest way to make this education standardized, to make sure all the basics are covered, and that people will have the skills they need. Bonus question - without that there is a genuine question of who runs the world? I mean, if people are just repeating what their visions they will do, if they don't need to learn anything... who regulates that world? Who determines allocation of resources? Who decides what the visions teach them - some people are better at some tasks, or have different abilities, so who decides who goes to which jobs (and which jobs are prioritized), who regulates the industries or the markets, or checks for environmental and safety hazards, or makes long-term decisions... who fails, for heaven's sake, when they have to know they will - but what world is this of no one tries? Are you picturing a silent world, where everyone is running on some hive-mind - or actually a pre-planned future-vision-dictated-world, but there's no practical difference, is there - everyone just knows where they need to be, what they need to do, because precognition told them so? where people just walk into jobs they never trained for (or even applied for, because the visions say who will succeed therefore who bothers to apply) and start working, repeating sequences of actions that they don't understand towards ends they don't recognize? Do people act out whole sequences of unalterable, meaningless events, or do they just skip it because everyone already knows, because everyone can just precognition the events and conversations and the results? Meetings where everyone has already precognition-ed the information, mouthing apologies when everyone already precognition-ed the explanation? Yeah, the only way precognition replaces (structured) learning is by replacing cognition. You don't need to learn, if you don't need to think - just obey the visions. Obey. Obey 

1) pay for research and assembly of a collection of historical human racial and cultural prejudices. As a piece of non-relevant but potentially interesting history, and/or for the purposes of "enlightening people" on how badly social prejudices "used to be" (to shine light on current social injustice, of course). 2) Through some "error", have the collection added to the body of information that comes pre-installed on every robot (which should include things like language, basic information on the world (and stuff they'll need for their jobs), and so on. 3) Since the information "wasn't supposed" to be added, it has failed to be clearly marked as fictional, as nonfactual, as historical, before getting uploaded. Your robots have no reason to not believe them, or at least think about them, and potentially take away some...interesting... attitudes from this selection. 4) offer free memory bank upgrades, to include these extra definitions in every pre-existing robot you can reach. Tuck the information away in some dark corner, for the robots to "discover" and quietly think about, in their own time (with, perhaps, a subtle gag order on not speaking about it?) ... 5) Profit!!! 

A bola-launcher, modified, should do the trick. Since you're looking for the "whip-slap" effect, you need a projectile that is long, thin, flexible, and hits sideways. Obviously a whip is the first connection, but that's still at close range. The possibility I thought of for a longer range weapon, that has the same kind of strike, is the bola. A bola consists of rope with heavy weight on the ends. It is swung and thrown, and it hits the target with the rope, letting momentum wrap the weights around the target to tangle. Obviously, since this is a weapon, the momentum behinds the weights striking can do a good deal of damage - not ideal for our purposes, and the reason the concept needs some tweaking. So, the bola needs weights on the ends to make it easier to launch, otherwise there's no way for a light rope to get enough momentum. A towel would probably weigh less, generally, than a bola - but this is indeed counteracted by the weight of the added water. A towel would also have more mass in the middle, less on the ends. This would not be great for the spin-throw that a freehand bola uses, since the weight differential helps build up momentum, but since we are using a bola launcher anyway, that is less important. I think we will still need weights on the ends, for launching and stabilizing the throw, but they can be smaller. With more weight in the middle of the towel and less on the ends, and greater air resistance to the volume and mass of a towel compared to rope, this "towela" is probably nudges itself out of the dangerous-weapon range and back into the merely painful category. I'm sort of picturing a longish, narrow towel with each weight connected to both corners on the narrow ends, for the little parachuting imagery it gives me. On to the bola launcher. A bola launcher, from what I see, uses two parallel (and identical) mechanisms that grip the weights and launch simultaneously when the trigger is pulled. The mechanism could be similar to a (double launching) crossbow, or as complex as any mechanical launcher or firearm. 

You can maybe use defined units that are perhaps uncommon enough or variable enough to suggest value, so that trade can be based on valuing against that thing, without needing it present to act as currency. So, knowing ten bolts of fabric versus three sacks of flour against that working but past breeding age horse, might make it easier to value this loaf of bread versus that carrying bag against each other. It isn't a static measurement, either, since the value of a horse isn't set - the standard might be based on a number of factors, including age, health, and breed, so even horses would require individual valuation and haggling (and so not be "standard currency"). Or you might pick something like spices, whose entire value is in being used (and which grow staler over time) - and so won't be hoarded for currency, especially since value differs between spices, and even between batches of the same spice (based on freshness, fragrance, and potency). Alternatively, you can value different things as "units" or "standards" used to measure goods against each other, and the lack of a common standard will prevent it from being currency - say foodstuffs are generally valued in terms their relative value to bread, while cloth items are generally valued in relation to maybe blankets - so bargaining eggs versus an apple would have both working out value in terms of bread, while eggs versus a skirt would be looking at matching those frames of reference (how many loaves per blanket, then backtracking from there). Since, these items will not be standard. Each loaf or blanket will still be of variable worth depending on its construction, provenance, and desirability - (I'd pay that for X's loaf, not Y's, and Z's blankets are always worth more...) so still not a standard currency since not any loaf will do. Or, you could use time as a standard measurement - since obviously, a few hours of the town''s best seamstress is going to be worth more than a casual stitcher's, and no match at all for a few hours pulling weeds - but in general the effort put into something (or its scarcity, hours put into finding it) will let things be valued against each other in a very general sense, with plenty of wiggle-room for individual valuation of that effort left to prevent it from becoming a standard currency. You will probably want a bit of extra wiggle room, in terms of allowing favors or debts, or delayed payment, to routinely make up part or whole of the bargains being made. That gives a great deal more flexibility for trading and making the community work as a whole, when individual wants and needs don't match up at the exact right place and time. You should also be aware that most bargains will be mixed trades (a bit of this and a bit of that, and also a favor for a consideration, will be much more common than one thing for one thing). You might want to look at gift economies, which are community oriented and work by expecting people to be generous to those in their communities, with the expectation that those they help will be generous right back (and work by favors and debts more than straight out bargains). You might also consider how even a "standard" unit of value or currency finds value in a trading style that deals in haggling, like most barter economies would, I assume. Even if a thing has general value (ie, everyone wants it), it isn't the same thing as being a standard unit of exchange since everyone, everyone, is still going to haggle over the price of it - and so exchanges between two things are likely to be individualized and variable, even if they are both measured against a standard valuable thing, they will be measured as standard examples of that thing (and both sides arguing for their particular virtues and the other's flaws, so it isn't a simple case of mathematics).