Unstated premise: Obviously, this all hinges on the idea that dogs can be used to detect a drop in blood sugar levels in the first place. I found this question from 2015 about dogs detecting hypoglycemia here on skeptics.SE, as well as the JDST study I quoted above. From what I can gather in the short amount of searching I've done, it seems that the idea isn't absurd, but we don't have enough research to say very much with confidence, and the accuracy/reliability of these DADs is not very high. The JDST study seems to conclude it's feasible, but very prone to problems. The two positive excerpts from the conclusions are: 

My own [10-minutes of] research on this topic: I've only spent the rest of my lunch break looking into this, but I couldn't find much on Google to support that claim. I found this FAQ on dogs4diabetics, which provides a possible anecdotal reason (emphasis mine): 

The statement that "a 2-inch beam [of microwaves] can be sent from a satellite, point to point, to a receiving dish on earth" is false. The limit here is diffraction across the transmitter. Being able to resolve 2 inches from orbit for visible light would require mirror bigger than the Hubble space telescope. Doing the same for microwaves would need a dish hundreds of times bigger because of the longer wavelength. Full technical details are in $URL$ This is about receiving rather than transmitting, but the maths is the same in either direction. See the end for some figures for a typical real-world system, which can manage a beam width of 1.8 degrees. At a range of 200km that would be a circle around 6km in diameter. And of course that is just the "-3dB point", which means the signal is only half as strong there. 

My own research As I looked into this, I found that most of this modern media coverage revolves around a "Lawyer-turned-Ornithologist" named Bob Gosford, whose primary emphasis seems to be on collecting corroborating anecdotal stories and first hand observations about this behavior. This ABC News Article from March 2016 quotes Gosford as he explains that he has been trying to corroborate Aboriginal observations about this for a long time, and that he was about to set off to join a research team to observe these birds. A 2016 blog post by Kim Moynahan, prompted by the circulation of these articles in 2016, frames Gosford's objective as an attempt to find more anecdotes about this phenomena, with a lesser emphasis on collecting actual evidence. Conversely, I see that Gosford has been writing blog articles about this, going back to at least 2011, which appear to go into a little more detail. Moynahan's blog post links to some of Gosford's writing, which appears to be a good starting point: 

There is only one paper referenced in the article. That paper describes an increase in cannabinoid receptors in the gut tissue of people suffering from celiac disease, and suggests that reducing the activity of those receptors might help. This is one small piece of a huge biochemical jigsaw puzzle. The scientists did not experiment with cannabinoids on the biopsies that they took, and do not suggest that this might be worth trying. In short, this research has nothing to do with whether cannabis can treat (never mind "cure") celiac disease. The rest of the links in the article are to 

This page from the University of Oxford vaccine knowledge project says that flu vaccine contains traces of antibiotics and formaldehyde. They don't define "trace" but it usually means something well below the level that might have any effect, and probably so low that it can't be measured accurately. This is likely to be something left over from the manufacturing process. At a guess, its because the virus used to make the vaccine needs to be cultured in live cells, and those cells are in a solution of antibiotics to prevent bacterial growth. So the original claim is technically true, but presented in a misleading way. It implies that you will receive a significant dose of antibiotic along with the vaccine. This is false. 

More substantially, I also found this 2016 study from the Journal of Diabetes Science and Technology which looks at the accuracy of diabetic alert dogs. I mention this study, because the methods include observing a dog alerting up to 10 minutes before a hypoglycemic event detected by a Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) device (presumably the "electronic monitors" that the claim in question is referring to). From the Methods section of the study (emphasis mine): 

Gosford also moderates Facebook and Yahoo groups about Ethnoornithology. Most importantly, the reason that this is back in the news in 2018, is because on December 20, 2017, Gosford tweeted a link to the abstract of a paper he (and others) published in the Journal of Ethnobiology: Intentional Fire-Spreading by “Firehawk” Raptors in Northern Australia,” Bonta et al. Journal of Ethnobiology, 37(4). This is presumably the result of the research that he mentioned in the 2016 interview. I don't have access to the actual paper, but the abstract makes it sound more like a collection of anecdotes than rigorous science. Some excerpts from the abstract: 

The plain meaning is false: there was taxation before 1913. However if you want to play games with words then you can define "earnings" as "income after all expenses and taxes other than income tax". The parenthetical bit at the bottom invites the reader to take the broader interpretation, but allows the writer to retreat to the more technical definition if challenged. "1913" probably refers to the passage of the 16th amendment, which allowed Congress to levy taxes directly on people rather than apportioning them by states or according to population. There was a brief period when income tax was levied before that, but it was judged unconstitutional (hence the amendment). But that does not mean that there were no taxes before 1913. Up until then most federal revenue was obtained from tariffs on imports. There were also state taxes, including state income taxes. See DavePhD's answer below for details. 

Articles have been popping up with headlines like the Daily Mail's "Birds of prey are starting fires DELIBERATELY: Kites and Falcons are 'intentionally dropping smouldering twigs' to smoke out mice and insects in Australia". The claim is that some Australian birds of prey - specifically Black Kites and Brown Falcons - are picking up bits of burning brush, and dropping them in other areas in order to drive prey out into the open. There have been anecdotes about this from Australian firefighters, rangers, and Aboriginals for decades, and has supposedly been incorporated into some Aboriginal lore long before that. However, I've only found notable news articles about this going back to 2016, such as this Techly article from Feb 2016. It appears that the articles are primarily describing anecdotal reports, as excerpts from this 2018 LiveScience article show: 

A Google search for "Institutionalization of children" turns up a lot of results on this topic. One of the top results is this from the University of Pittsburgh, which summarizes current knowledge with a number of further references. The details vary with when and where the orphanage is, but at the very least a child is likely to be deprived of real parental love and affection, which will make it hard to form relationships in later life. They will also lack support and encouragement in school, and generally are thrown on their own resources much more than children in a family. Once they are old enough to leave the orphanage they are likely to be expected to jump straight into an adult life for which they have little preparation and no safety net if they screw up (find a job, rent a room, go shopping, cook for yourself, get a bank account, manage money ...) At the worst end of course there are lots of cases of institutional neglect, abuse and exploitation. 

I don't have a strong enough understanding of the study to know how to interpret the results, but the primary outcome states (again, emphasis mine): 

I'm not sure if that should be interpreted as "sometimes a DAD can detect a hypoglycemic event 10 minutes before a CGM". The study also states that there is a known lag with CGMs detecting a hypoglycemic event, and perhaps this is the "15 minutes earlier" that the claim is referring to? IE: "there is a known 15 minute lag for CGMs, but DADs are instant. Therefore, DADs can detect hypoglycemia 15 minutes before a CGM". 

The claim: I caught a segment about Diabetes Alert Dogs on of a TV show called The Doctors in my office's lunch room, and saw the following claim, which is repeated in an article on their website about the episode: 

Some years ago I remember reading an account of Aldous Huxley lecturing on the Bates Method. I think it was a book by a well-known skeptic (maybe Gardner or Sagan?) but I don't remember exactly. According to this account (from my memory) he was well known to need strong glasses. But he came on stage without glasses and started reading from his notes. This was an amazing demonstration of the truth of what he was saying. But the half way through he faltered, and started peering closely at his notes. It dawned on the audience that up until that point he had been reciting, not reading, and the Bates Method hadn't worked for him after all. Does anyone know more about this story?