Clearly it depends on who said it. When I said it (and I did), it meant that I wanted people to get the work done. If that meant they needed to stay a bit late, then that's what they should do. If that meant they could go home early and still get the work done, that was fine with me. You want to cut out at mid-day to go bowling? Fine. You want to leave early on a Friday? Fine. You want to come in late to get your kids off to school? No problem. You arrange your day. Just arrange to get the work done. I worked hard to make sure that my team wasn't overloaded. They typically worked 40 hours or a bit less. Whenever I came to them and asked if they could put in a little extra, they knew that it wasn't permanent and that I wouldn't ask unless the conditions required it. Some on my teams often worked more - because they were "in the zone" and wanted to keep working. Others on my team often worked less. Some worked faster, while others worked at a slower pace. As long as the work got done I was okay with either situation. I typically solicited input from each individual as we prepared our estimates, so there were no surprises as to what was expected on each side. If my team was bored or looking for work or leaving very early every day, then that was a signal to me that I wasn't giving them enough work to do. Sometimes that was out of my control. But it usually meant that I wasn't doing a great job of scheduling or handing out assignments. Similarly, if my team was working late every day or looking overworked, that was a signal to me that I was doing something wrong. Occasionally, that too was out of my control. But more often I wasn't pushing back on upper management hard enough, or I was doing something else wrong. Personally, I liked to work hard. And I tended to hire folks who liked to work hard. But I always had some on my team who didn't like to work hard. If the team is large enough, that's usually fine - a good mix of talents and aspirations is healthy. So while I can tell you what I meant by "care more about results than hours", only you can know what they meant when you heard it. 

The correct way is to speak in person with your current boss if at all possible, and tell her/him that you are resigning. You also need to indicate your last day. You don't need to go into a lot of details in this. From your prior posts, it doesn't sound like your resignation would be completely unexpected anyway. Your boss will then alert whoever else needs to know about your departure (HR, his boss, etc), and eventually tell you whatever else needs to be done before your last day. Some companies want a resignation letter or email that they can keep on file, some don't. Sometimes you will have an exit interview with HR, fill out some paperwork, perform some knowledge transfer with others, whip up some additional documentation, etc. Your boss (and potentially HR) will guide you in all of that. In spite of your bad experiences, now is not the time to be less than professional. If you still haven't run into your CEO (or others that you would like to know you are leaving), you could send out a "Goodbye" email on your last day. Something along the lines of "As many of you know, today is my last day... I learned a lot here... I enjoyed working with you... I wish you all good luck and much success." When I send such an email, I always include my personal contact information, so that people can continue to get in touch with me. You may not want to do that with everyone, since it appears you didn't get along with all of them, but perhaps there are one or two. 

Not hearing for 3-4 weeks is a bad sign. But it would be very reasonable to send an email indicating that you haven't heard from them, are still interested in the position, and wanted to make sure they had your correct contact information. It's not rude at all. Send it now. (As @HLGEM correctly points out, follow-up is good, stalking is not. So send one or at most two emails. If you still get no response, then let it go.) 

I don't see why HR would want to scare candidates away from applying. That would make no sense. I see no "trick" here. 

There are services that many companies use to categorize jobs and titles. Culpepper and Associates, and Radford are two names in that space. They provide research and polling information regarding compensation, duties, and job titles. If you are friendly with an HR rep, they could help. Or a university placement office might well have access too. There's no "authoritative resource" but these are two commonly used resources. 

You can request anything. But it isn't common for competitors to help each other get better. And before you go sharing your own company's information with your competition, you had better make sure you have management's written approval. In my company, you'd be fired on the spot if you did that without prior approval. And I would never hire someone who shared his company secrets without approval. Being known as someone who shares his company's work products can be a career-limiting move. That said, some companies share industry knowledge with each other - in seminars, in industry forums, etc. Ask around your company first. Get permission first. Then, and only then, proceed carefully. 

Probably not. We all have activities that we'd rather not do, but which will help the department/company. We usually don't get additional compensation, just because we'd rather not do them. While you might consider it "wasting your time", the company might view it as "using your particular skills to help out in an important process". Instead of asking for additional compensation, just remember this extra work when your review time comes. It adds a nice layer to your accomplishments - one that may put you ahead of other Developers at your company. Adding value to the company tends to be good for your career over time. 

There's no magic time range. It's less about the amount of time, and more about the pattern of behavior. Few companies want to hire people who won't be around for the long haul (The exceptions might be minimum wage jobs, or jobs that hire temporary or transient workers. I suspect even they would like to hire people who could be expected to stay around for a few years, if they could find them.) When I hire someone, I put a lot of time, effort, and money into finding them, paying them, training them, and integrating them into our workplace. Then only way that works out for my company, is if that person sticks around. I value a stable work team a lot. Your friend is showing that she can be expected to leave after 2 months. There's no way I would hire someone like that. But if your friend had been in 3 jobs for 1 year each, I'd still be extremely unlikely to hire her (particularly, if the reason she left each job was because she "couldn't stand it there"). Her work pattern would show that she would leave after 1 year - that's not what I'm looking for. The pattern your friend has established shows that either she doesn't know what she wants in a job, doesn't know how to find a job that offers what she wants, or simply doesn't care to be at a job for any length of time. For many employers, that is a bad sign. If she were my friend, I'd advise her to think long and hard about the kind of job that would satisfy her for a long time. And I'd help her learn how to interview better, so that she could determine if the company will meet her needs before she accepts a position. Having her grit her teeth in a job she hates just to make it to 1 year, probably isn't going to change her behavior/hiring pattern, and thus probably won't help much.