As denesp said, you're looking at a graph with no output gap. A positive output gap usually does lead to employment being higher than the natural rate (=unemployment is lower than the natural rate). Reading these lecture notes might help: $URL$ 

This does depend on whether you're looking to do applied econometric work, in which case statistics is definitely the way to go or something theoretical, in which case a good understanding in the maths you listed will go a long way. Of course it's always better if you understand both - since you're doing a master's in math, you should already be quite fluent with the math required, so I'd go with econometrics. There's a growing amount of literature available, but if you have time to spare, I'd give the topics in Nafziger's "Economic Development" a glance: $URL$ 

In short: Yes and due to comparative advantage. The level of GDP growth gained with opening trade does vary by country and time. I'd suggest Wacziarg & Welch (2008). Trade Liberalization and Growth: New Evidence, World Bank Economic Review, vol. 22(2) for a relatively new study on the subject. 

How well do you know what you mean with "currency increases"? The term Dutch disease describes an event where a single sector's boom (your example, finding oil) causes the said sector to grow and other sectors to decline as revenues increase in one sector. The booming sector causes the value of the currency (for example, the Dutch guilder) to appreciate (grow in value) compared to other currencies. This makes exports from non-booming sectors more expensive for other countries and therefore the booming of one sector causes a negative competitive effect on the other sectors. So the effect is: 

Your question is quite broad, but here are a couple of (open) book sites you might get started with: $URL$ $URL$ When you're familiar with the basics, you might ask the question again with a more specific topic you'd like to study. Expertise on economics (or pretty much any academic subject) is gained through years of studying and thought. It's, at least to me, a fascinating way of thinking about the world. 

This might be a trivial case, but what if the utility from one of the goods is negative? That would result in utility being gained by throwing away the good, but it would also eliminate any trading. 

Absolutely not, linear curves are a simplification made for (many) basic economics courses. When considering the basic mechanisms of Supply and Demand (supply rises when the price rises, demand drops when the price rises, etc.) there is no need to use more complicated curves, but as soon as you introduce elements like optimization, it is in many cases necessary to use non-linear functions. In real life we don't generally observe curves as such, but rather different quantities sold with different prices. We can estimate curves based on this kind of data, but to me that's more of an econometric exercise. 

In short: yes, it very well might be and this has been argued by some (see, for example: $URL$ The use of Debt/GDP is the current international norm, but Debt/Tax revenue might very well be a better, more concise option. Using Debt/GDP might be because it has been common to compare countries to each other with GDP or GDP/capita and having GDP as a factor relates the debt to these measures. It can also be argued that in the end the whole population of a country is responsible for paying their country's debts, so in an extreme situation it's not just the government's income which might be used to pay off debts. 

In theory there should be a direct positive correlation (especially in countries where house prices are a part of the index which is used to define rental rates), but in reality there is a lot of variation in the results for this question depending on the country, possible effects of different laws, the business cycle, whether new housing is being built or not, etc. For Italy, Manganelli, Morano and Tajan (2014) in "House prices and rents. The Italian experience" study response functions and conclude: 2) Rents depend on real-estate prices, the short-term interest rate and the differences between actual and expected GDP with a one year delayed reaction. On the other hand, Ambrose, Eichholtz and Lindenthal (2013) in House Prices and Fundamentals: 355 years of evidence, Journal of Money, Credit and Banking find that when housing prices stray from equilibrium growth, rental rates do not react the same way even if it takes decades for the prices to return to steady growth. For a recent study on U.S. data (model built to match trends from 1960-2013), I'd check Gelain and Lansing (2014): House prices, expectations, and time-varying fundamentals, Journal of Empirical Finance 

I'm not quite sure what you're asking here. Trade in goods and services is not included in the financial account which consists of (as per BPM6) direct investments, portfolio investments, derivatives, other investments and reserve assets. 

You might not find a page explaining (in an easy manner) how quarterly GDP is calculated because it is done by several different means in different countries and the calculation/estimation methods can get confusing. If you want to know how a certain country generates a quarterly GDP figure, you should check the country's official economic statistics page - the descriptions of the statistic usually list at least something about the collection process. Usually quarterly GDP is done with a smaller sample and has some estimations done (often based on last year's data). Annual GDP is usually the more accurate measure with a larger sample and more revision time between collection of data and publishing it. 

I have not heard of such a study and I have a feeling studying how a daily news item would affect an annual measurement value would be a pretty futile experiment. However, there are some studies on how announcements from central banks or other financial authorities might affect expectations in the short run. My collaegue actually did her licensiate thesis on how ECB board announcements affected the growth path of euro inflation. A pretty recent article would be Moessner, R.: "Effects of ECB balance sheet policy announcements on inflation expectations." in Applied Economics Letters and that might be a good place to start looking.