The moment they furloughed you you should have started looking, the big hint from your boss was to tell you I can't save your job. Always answer this question honestly. In your specific case you will not have to hide the fact you are looking from your employer. They expect that you have been looking since the first furlough notice went out. Every company realizes that a significant number of people look while they are still working. So the question really means "for your current employer only, why are you looking?". They will typically also ask if they can contact your current employer. You should tell them yes. People answer this no when they haven't told their employer they are leaving, or they are afraid a a bad review. I would interpret that the message from your boss, is that they won't give you a bad review, or that they never give a bad review. 

Standards can be used to establish a floor and/or a ceiling. Specifying the exact graphic file to be used minimizes the space on the mail server, because it makes sure that the graphic file size is not humongous. It also limits the use of inappropriate graphics, or animated gifs (unless that is what they want you to use) Specifying minimum content means that external and internal customers can contact you even when they can't click on you email address. This is great for emails that end up being printed, or heavily forwarded/replied emails. Font and spacing rules make sure that the signature doesn't take up too much space, or is unreadable. Which can be important when many emails are read on phones and tablets. The development of standards usually happens when there is a perceived issue that needs to be resolved, and the non-standardization of email signatures from a part of the company are deemed to be a part of the problem. 

Keep in mind that some people will scan the cards into a database. The simpler the construct the better. Strange colors and graphics frustrate the OCR software. If you only have cell phone, put it on the card. Don't put contact info that will be useless after graduation. So no college email address, or college phone number. 

I was going to ask questions in the comment section such as "What country are you working in? Are the weekend hours in addition to the 40 hours a week you spend developing code? Are you compensated for those hours? If the support hours take place during regular business hours are you also expected to code during that same time? On the weekend are you at home or in the office?" but those focused on how you might want to preserve your job. Therefore I decided to focus on your question 

You need to set a timeline. Set out to provide a certain number of hours training for the new person. Once that has been achieved then start the search for a new position. It must remain secret so as not to tip your hand. You need to make the goal a solid benchmark (100 hours of training, or after showing them how to do x number of job functions). Don't make the goal something more squishy such as having the new person be able to be able to demonstrate they can do most of the job functions. If it is hard to measure, you may let your willingness to be fair make it impossible to leave. Once that benchmark has been achieved start the search for a acceptable position. Only quit after returning a signed written offer. You have time on your side to make a good choice. 

The contract will specify the jurisdiction where disputes will be settled. You will want them to be local to you, they will want it to be local to them. If those desires are in conflict and if an agreement can't be reached, there will not be a contract. If this isn't addressed in the contract then don't sign it. 

For me this has never been a true statement. I have continued to apply for jobs up to the starting date because there was always a small chance that the job will disappear. The fact you are waiting on the drug and background check means the job isn't 100% guaranteed. But even if there were no contingencies the delay when you have zero income from a job should be reason enough to keep looking. In your case the unemployment office may require you to keep applying for jobs. This is generally one of the requirements to receive benefits. You might find something else that starts sooner, or can fill the gap. 

There is nothing besides company policy that requires a blank check. They need 4 pieces of information: 

We have to assume that there was no contract between you and the recruiter, especially one where you would pay their fee if they found you a position that met certain criteria. If there is a contract between you and the recruiter you may have to give a reason why you are not accepting a position that meets the conditions set forth in the contract. They want to know why because the contract may stipulate payment for negotiating the offer. If there is no contract between you and the recruiter then they work either directly or indirectly for the company that was interested in hiring you. The company and the recruiter would like to know why you are turning them down, so they can craft offers or negotiations in the future that will result in more completed acquisitions. Without that contract you have to go no further than a polite rejection. It can be via email or by phone. But details are not required. They may ask but you don't have to tell. 

Lets assume that the new guy has more upside potential. If you fire him, then the old guy leaves again, you will now have zero employees. You can tell the old guy that if the new guy doesn't work out, then you will consider rehiring him in the future. 

Just tell them the minimum amount of required information. You are new, only in your second week. Ask a coworker, or HR, or look in the employee manual to see how you request leave for a few hours. Some companies require forms be submitted, others are much more informal. Some will allow you to shift your work hours during the week to make up the time. If there is a form fill it out. For reason say: appointment. Most companies need very little info. They only want to know the date/time, and is it sick or vacation. If they are one of companies that want all the details. Tell them you have a repairman coming to your house/apartment. 

You can always ask. In fact sometime they are happy to be able to stop paying you early. They can bring in somebody on the bench sooner. If they don't jump at the offer be prepared to offer them something: 

How you correct your resume/CV depends on how it was submitted. In many companies the website where you apply for jobs do allow you to change the resume or cover letter after you apply. Now it doesn't mean that they haven't already read it, but there is no harm uploading the corrected version. It is likely that when a person reads the resume to prepare for the interview they will download a fresh copy of the resume. 

There is a risk in using the fancy and colorful CV. Nobody will see it in the form you have worked so hard to perfect. In fact you might assume that they will see it in a mangled format. The software used to process your grad school application, just like the ones used to process job applications, will be used to pull relevant information from the document. Sometimes they expect specific file types, other times they only want a text file. You risk that the version used by the committee will be missing the color and formatting that you were so interested in. Decades ago people were interested picking the perfect color and thickness of paper to best represent them, to be able to standout without standing out too much. Now all these documents are in electronic form, and the choice of paper is up to the committee that prints it; if they even print it. Beyond this application for grad school keep in mind that many times the CV or resume you submit will not be under your control. Frequently the company you work for will demand a specific order and format. Other times the customer of your company will be defining the format. 

I understand your frustration. You want to have enough data to make an informed decision. But you are taking a big risk. Unless you are far above the other candidates in terms of requirements and the company has switched from interview mode to trying to convince you to accept their offer, your requests will probably make them decide that it isn't worth making an offer to you. Faced with a candidate that wants me to find expose code, and wants to interview current and former employees; compared to 9 others that aren't asking for these things - I would focus on the 9. No matter where in the process your application is, I believe the risk is that your application will not make the cut to the next step. As long as the company has more qualified candidates than open positions they can decide to be quick to eliminate applications. As an employee I am not sure that I would want to be interviewed by a candidate, unless it was part of the process for all candidates. And as part of that process I would be evaluating candidates..