The official story is that the inscription is taken from Jefferson’s Notes on the State of Virginia, with the last two sentences being from a letter to George Washington. A manuscript. The quote isn't some black-and-white assertion against slavery. Thomas Jefferson had complex and evolving relationships with slaves. He owned lots of them (inherited some 135 of them), had a romantic relationship with one of them after his wife died (including kids), waived various fees, and was the key politician who banned importation of new slaves and then slavery itself in numerous states. It's just wrong to assume that a politician in the late 18th century should have behaved and acted like a radical social justice warrior in the 21st century. There is no contradiction between Jefferson's life and the inscription and Jefferson was an amazing politician and president who has improved the U.S. society dramatically. 

Ancient Romans used the word Aethiops/Aethiopem which was derived from Greek Αἰθίοψ ‎(Aithíops). But the other answer isn't right when it says that the word Aithiops had no meaning except for the land of "Ethiopia". Instead, the word is a combination created from αἴθω ‎(aíthō, “burn”) + ὤψ ‎(ṓps, “face”). So the Greco-Roman word for the blacks was basically a "burned face". The name of "Ethiopia" was derived from "burned face". In the Greco-Roman world, "Ethiopia" was believed to include the whole non-Roman Africa. It was the universal word for that vaguely known part of the world. The idea that old nations didn't recognize races is absolutely preposterous from a historical viewpoint. On the contrary, it's just the last 30 years when it became fashionable for some people to deny races and their importance. This denial has absolutely no precedent in any historical epoch. The original meaning of Aethiops was purely racial. This is demonstrated by dozens of proverbs and important texts. For example, the Bible's Jeremiah 13:23 

There would have been problems with people from the Titanic trying to climb on to the iceberg that resulting in the ship sinking. To begin with, ice is slippery and from the picture you linked to, the iceberg looked like it had steep sides. Getting onto a steep sided slippery iceberg would be very difficult to do. Staying on the cold, wet, slippery sides of the iceberg would also be very difficult. The water was very cold and anyone who was in the water would quickly succumb to hypothermia. Being cold and wet would make the task even more difficult. If anyone succeeded in getting onto the iceberg they would succumb to hypothermia because both the ice and the air were cold; even if their clothes were dry. There would be no way to get onto the iceberg with getting at least partially wet. Another issue with icebergs is no-one knows how stable individual icebergs are. If the iceberg fell apart after people might have got onto it would they then find themselves in the cold ocean? 

The question implicitly hides a misconception, namely the opinion that to succeed and establish policies, one needs a lot of "support", majorities in opinion polls, majorities in the Parliament, friendship of the media, and similar things. That's not how Otto von Bismarck did things. He used to have some connections to the old feudal order but was gradually losing their support. He was generally disliked by the public. He had to deal with hostility with Denmark, Austria, and France. He had no army backing him, no political party, and he controlled no seats in the Parliament. But he has defeated all these powers – the old order, public, working class, France, Italy, Denmark, and others – and prevailed. He was truly the first big skillful politician in the modern sense, one who knows how to switch between alliances and betray previous allies, and that's why he was also able to found the bureaucratic government of the modern type (which didn't depend on any previously recognized "power" or "class") – with all the aspects such as the welfare state and healthcare (that's how he bought a sufficient fraction of the working class and suppressed the influence of social democracy etc.) and many other things. 

The BBC, Encyclopedia Britannica & Wikipedia state that the British Empire finally ended when the British returned Hong Kong to Chinese control in 1997. The setting of the Sun began shortly after World War II and the empire was eventually replaced by the Commonwealth of Nations which was formally constituted by the London Declaration in 1949. 

Firstly, denying the peasantry the right to hunt was an exercise of power. Secondly, for some kings, hunting was a form of entertainment/activity. The more game for the king the better his chances of a successful hunt. Inviting other nobles to accompany a king on a hunt was a means of keeping the nobles content, thus securing the king's power base. Being a king or noble was more about power and ensuring a better quality of life for the royal household and the nobility. A better quality of life, at the time, meant having more meat to eat, which hunting could supplement. 

The Hebrew Bible is among the early texts mentioning Susa (under the Hebrew name of Shushan which is the same world as a lily) but there exist somewhat older, Sumarian documents that mention Susa, e.g. Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta where Susa is quoted as a place obedient to Inanna, a goddess of love. This text is from the 21st century BC but similar Sumerian texts going back to the 25st century BC may exist. The Sumerian civilization probably existed 4,000 BC and could have used the "same" words. They began to write around 3,000 BC. Susa comes from the name of the local deity, Inshushinak. Conveniently, this word "works" in English. God Inshushinak was "in Shusha". Most sources logically say that the relationship is the other way around: Inshushunak "means" the lord of Susa. The Sumerian language – the most ancient known written language – was a language isolate which makes conclusions about the relationship of their words to words in other languages particularly problematic. (Can the beginning "in" of the deity's name be identified with "in" in English, for example?) It is hard to claim that its words are related to words such as "six" if linguists don't even agree to which modern languages Sumerian was closer. It's easy to get carried away and propose relationships most of which are almost certainly coincidental. For example, šuša could be claimed to be related to the Czech word "šuškat" (whispher) or "šiška" (conifer cone) or "sušák" (dryer) or "sušit" (dry) or "sušenka" (a dry cookie) or even "šůsovat" (slang for fast direct Alpine skiing) but is there any reason to think that the similarity is more than a coincidence? Most of such short combinations of sounds are being used in every language. The Sumerian word has affected lots of names in the Elamite culture. The Elamite language was another language isolate, however. 

If you mean titanium minerals (rutile and ilmenite), which are the source of 90 percent of the world's titanium, Russia is not in the top eight producers in the world. Data for 2011 reveal those countries to be Australia (19.4% of world production), South Africa (17.3%), Canada (10.4%), India (8.6%), Mozambique (7.7%), China (7.5%), Vietnam (7.3%) and Ukraine (5.3%). If you mean engineered titanium items, Russia is still a major source of parts for aircraft. In 2013 Boeing bought aircraft ribs from Russia 

Being the primary nesting site of a number of endangered species, such as, the Hatutu Marquesan warbler (Acrocephalus mendanae postremus) and the Marquesas ground dove (Gallicolumba rubescens), Hatutu was declared a nature reserve in 1992. It is also one of the most important nesting grounds for the blue-footed booby (Sula nebouxii). 

To some, religion is very import. In an era when opportunities for women were significantly less than those for men, women often had to marry to ensure their own survival. Women had much less freedoms than they do now. Mixed religious marriages were not well tolerated. For the sake of harmony, social cohesion and survival it was easier to adopt the religion of the person one was marrying. If the local men were converting to orthodoxy, then that's what the women did. 

That's the modern translation despite the fact that the context makes it very clear that by definition, "Aethiops" was someone defined by having a dark skin. For thousands of years, "whitening the Aethiops" was considered the #1 idiom for "doing an impossible thing". One can't whiten a black because blacks are defined by their not being white. 

You can't expect any stable shape of the distribution throughout the Bronze Age. Just look at the distribution of age in the recent 110 years: 

Trade unions have a certain influence over the economy and politics in each country and because they're organized in international organizations, their influence has a geopolitical dimension, too. After 1945, the Soviets and the communists had a lot of political capital due to the role of the USSR role in defeating Nazism. The Soviet Union was basically capable of replacing the (non-communist) International Federation of Trade Unions (which existed in 1919-1945 and had headquarters in Amsterdam) by the (pro-communist) World Federation of Trade Unions (whose headquarters were in Prague; after the fall of communism, the importance of this entity declined when communism ended and as a result, in 2006, the headquarters were moved from Prague to Athens). The Soviets and their sympathizers were able to promote their alternative views about the Marshall Plan and other things. This was dangerous from the American perspective. The U.S. and British trade unions would generally oppose the Soviet-led international organizations but the continental West European trade unions were somewhere in the middle. France was the ultimate "swing state" and CGC and Force Ouvriere were the French non-communist trade unions who opposed the Soviet line in the international organizations (the French CGT was a pro-communist example). That's why they got some funding from the U.S. At the end, in 1949, the (non-communist) International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (led mostly by the Americans and the British) separated from the Prague-based pro-communist international umbrella organization. However, the labor movement in Europe became so polarized that the entities were largely considered appendices of their political sponsors and the unions' importance decreased as a result.