So, what can we conclude? Well, it depends on what kind of atmosphere you want. If you're ok with Titan (recall: its mass is 1.8 Earth moon's, ~2% of Earth) you can get 98% Nitrogen and some methane. Not breathable, but you could live with sealed scuba-like-gear if it were warm enough, not the bulky Moon-space suits of the Apollo missions. Surface gravity would be similar to the moon (more mass but less dense). You'd have lakes of gasoline-like compounds on the surface. Tides would be similar to what you see now, while the moon would be larger in the planet's sky due to its atmosphere. Of course, this might be hard to explain in terms of formation and how it is maintained, since bringing Titan to Earth-orbit would make it 10 times warmer and would probably results in full atmospheric loss in about 10 million years, but weirder things have happened. If you want an Earth-like atmosphere with water and all that, stable over the billions of years, you may need a molten core for magnetosphere, high enough gravity, etc. which means you probably need something about 0.4 $M_{⊕}$ or larger, so a moon larger than Mars. At that point, it's not really a moon, but a double planet. That comes with its own headaches. With mass that high, the two worlds would quickly become tidally locked, which is to say rotate in synchrony, and always show the same face to the other. (Your 'moon' would only ever be visible from half the planet, no tides at all and possibly very long days). 

Not an expert on blackbody radiation, so you might get a more competent answer on (Astro)Physics, but conceptually if you have a matrioshka system, where each layer captures and uses the radiation of the more inward layer, you can bring the blackbody radiation level down to an arbitrarily low level >= CMB. The only "disguise" issue would be that brown dwarfs are generally capped around $80 M_J$ (Jupiter Masses), while red dwarfs are generally at $[0.1-0.5] M_S =[100-500]M_J$. There might be a small overlap at the lowest of the low red dwarfs. But generally, your apparent stellar radii might mismatch, and the orbits of any remaining planets would be anomalous, upon closer inspection. 

In SpartaNova, there is a flat base income tax rate of 70%. For each year of military service that a (potential) citizen performs, his or her future tax rate is decreased by 10% if the service occurs during peace time and by 15% during wartime if in a non-combat role, and 25% during wartime if in active front-line combat, down to a minimum tax rate of 20%. There is a special exception for special service fighters (i.e. seal teams, and other dangerous jobs like bomb disposal teams), nuclear submariners, air force pilots and higher-level intelligence workers all of which receive an additional cut of up to 5% per year of service, down to a minimum of 10%. Service is voluntary and standard expected service is 2 years, but a serviceman can elect to serve longer if he or she so desires and is not otherwise blacklisted from the service for some reason. Veterans (a la Heinlein's Starship troopers) also receive the full right to vote (non-veteran residents only vote in local elections). There is no "family" tax rate, and the income of each spouse is taxed according to her service or lack thereof, and dependents lose their tax-dependent shield at age 17, when full 70% income tax (or military service) kicks in. It follows that most rich people would be strongly incentivized to send their children to serve in the military to diminish their future tax burden. Poor people would have the same incentive, true, but the rich would have a disproportionate amount to gain from diminishing their flat rate. Would a society where the sons and daughters of the richest all serve (if able) be significantly different from ours? For instance, would the nation be much more careful about declaring war or engaging in what we euphemistically call "kinetic operations"? Do more important implications of this come to mind? Yes, I am aware it would likely be an even more unequal society, but I have never mentioned what the taxes are being spent on, or what the inheritance tax rate is, so perhaps we should remain agnostic on that a little longer. 

City vs Nation Since this is implemented at the national level, it seems to me that whatever happens in the nation at large will also happen at the lower level. This might vary if the city has a high concentration of high-end (say tech) jobs (you would not see much change), or if contrarily, it's a big slum with unpleasant jobs (most people would stop working and those that stay would want a lot more money). This is actually going to happen Realistically, I think some sort of basic guaranteed income is unavoidably in the future of western societies, since it's more efficient for most people than having a massive administrative bureaucracy to handle welfare. So I'd expect to see this before mid-century around the world. Fewer jobs, better paid Now, the obvious direct implications will be economic: A lot of things will become more expensive, and a lot of things will become (more) automated. In reality, I'd expect a basic guaranteed income to be implemented in response to high and persistent unemployment, especially youth unemployment, so the job displacement might predate the law. (Parasitic) Leisure Class Now, presumably many people would choose to spend all their lives online playing games, watching pornography, replying to questions on stack-exchange, partying or doing haven-knows-what, so the pool of available labor will likely decrease somewhat. Now these were presumably unmotivated and rather marginal workers to begin with (since more ambitious people would not be satisfied with a basic income), but there would be an economic loss at first. A vast class of people would just consume and never produce anything besides waste. Many might travel to other cities just for seasonal activities (carnivals, oktoberfests, mardi gras, etc) or other festivals. We'll come back to the sociological implications of this later. The Body Economic Presumably, as jobs become scarcer, and literally unnecessary for survival, those who still are able and choose to have a job would presumably gain some non-financial reward from being employed, in terms of peer prestige (at least among those who also have jobs). By contrast, members of the leisurely class might instead respond by considering these workers "idiots", "squares" or "dorks." YOLO, man, and all that. More risk-taking Moving to a new city, starting over, taking career risks would all be more common, since there is a safety net in place. So I'd expect greater entrepreneurialism and more labor mobility. Addicts and mentally ill problem Another important consideration to keep in mind is the behavior of addicts and the mentally ill. Simply providing an addict or a mentally ill person with money 'for rent and food' does not mean the money will be spent for rent and food. So you might still have homeless and hungry people. Sociological implications Marx famously noted that man is a working animal. By this (to explain it anachronistically) he meant that having a sense of doing useful work is an essential part of a human's Maslowian self-fulfillment. By providing a basic income you resolve the issue of alienation of labor (at least in part), but you potentially deny an avenue of self-fulfillment. Contrary to the rosy views of today, not everyone can be an artist or a craftsman (most people are lousy artists and have two left hands as far as craftsmanship is concerned), since those activities require an audience, which will still be a scarce resource. So how will people find self-fulfillment? Hard to say, but I'd guess in addictive virtual worlds and through volunteering. 

Ok, I'll play, but I will also list a few reasons why this would be a wildly unlikely scenario at the end. 

Still, your biggest threat will not be the elements but humans. The great Pyramid of Giza once had a shining facade of white stone and a gold pyramidion, that made it a splendid sight from tens of miles away. All of this was looted, and all we can see today is the inner structure. Looters will be by far your biggest concern, and unless you want to keep gamma-ray robots in orbit to blast away the blasphemers, there's little you can do about that... 

Ok, let's talk mass requirements, at a conservative 840 tons / sq. km, the structure required to bring us up to Kardashev I would weigh about 1E13 kg, less than the mass of Mars' Phobos, easily achievable using Asteroid belt materials (ignoring ancillary structures for energy storage, transmission, repair, etc, -- you can quadruple my estimate if you want, and then triple it again if you want to assume 30% efficiency, which still leaves you within an order of magnitude of the first estimate anyway). For a full Dyson sphere you'd need at least 5.5E21 kg of mass, which puts you around the combined mass of the asteroid belt. Throw in a few hundred massive Oort objects if you need to. So doable without dismantling planets. We might need to to some transmutation of materials, but with so much free power, shouldn't be a major issue. 

The main discussed effect is in a disk-disk context and has to do with changes in the angular momentum of the star-transferred mass that does not fall into the capturing star, and its impact on planetary formation. If you're interested in the topic, the entire paper is definitely worth a read, as is the bibliography (esp Pfalzner). Speculation about the abilities of a Type II Civ is not a clear-cut case of hard-science, although we can definitely impose lower and upper bounds on their ability to modify a stellar environment based on their relative energy budget. A Type I civilization has a low budget of ($10^{15}$ watts), while a typical type II could spend $10^{26}$ watts, whereas a Type III culture at its peak would command the power of a hundred billion suns -- upwards of $10^{37}$ watts. The best discussion on this remains the Freitas book Xenology. From the perspective of a mature Type II civ, stars are merely piles of valuable resources that have unfortunately caught fire and sunk into the fabric of spacetime. Protoplanetary disks have 2 advantages: a distinct lack of deep gravity wells and the fact that they are not on fire. Again, this is speculative, but given that their energy budgets place overcoming the binding energy of planetisimals easily within their reach, they would look to a low-gravity protoplanetary disk in a way similar to how a 6-year old would look to Halloween: lots of delicious candy just lying around for the plucking. 

Source: Xenology: An Introduction to the Scientific Study of Extraterrestrial Life, Intelligence, and Civilization, 1975, R. Freitas 5e20 Joules are about 1.5e13 watts. A mature type I Kardashev (so by the chart above humanity cca 2300) could get 1e17 watts, so output of 3e24 Joules. Even for a type I, relativistic interstellar travel is difficult. A type II, about 900 years at 3% growth rates after Type I is reached, have 10e26 watts to play with, or 3e33 J, so launching a small ship at relativistic speeds would take no more than a few seconds' worth of the civilization's power output, similar to a Saturn V launch for 20th century mankind. That does still leave a few major difficulties. 1. Energy density of fuel. 2. Deceleration. 3. Shielding. (1) Can be alleviated somewhat by beaming power to the ship. (2) Remains open, and I have no idea how to get enough reaction mass to decelerate on board. Perhaps a payload consisting of a miniaturized AI with self-replicating machinery (a few grams), or a Bussard Ramjet could work as well. (3) A lot of ablation mass will be needed since each dust particle in the way will strike my ship like a shaped charge. Perhaps a powerful laser to clear the path? As to where I'd go, I would probably go to the nearest Earth-like world, see what or who is there. On the other hand, I'm not sure I would want to lose all those Earth centuries it would take... PS: I know it's generally bad form to give an answer to your own question, and all this might hinge on some miscalculation, but I got too excited about the effective FTL drive!