Check if the network dns suffix on that network is the same of the value storage in the registry key . If not it wont be marked as Domain. Check your DNS suffix. If the suffix is the same of the value, the computer will try to contact the domain controller using LDAP. If this is success you will have a Domain profile. To check this install the telnet client and run: Check if the port UDP 389 is open between the server and the DC. 

You can acomplish that changint the path using MMC, adding the snaping Local Users and Groups, and changing the profile of the Path. After that if you get the Temporary Profile error you can fix it starting the computer with an account with addministrative rights. Open the registry (regedit.exe). HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\ProfileList Delete the key with the SID of the USER. (This key will generated again after the user starts for the first time) If you dont know the SID of the user of you are running you can get it starting a command prompt with that user (run as works) and running whoami /user 

This solve the problem. The procedure above is exactly to fix a Direct Access scenario failing, but it should works to solve this problem in every case. Keep in mind that if you are not using Direct Access you can avoid some steps like the 9. 

There migh be an error in the communication from this new switch to the Domain Controller. The icon of public or domain network is managed by the Network Location Awareness (NLA) service. To detect if you are in your domain the NLA service do this two things: 

Why do you want this? Windows doesn't allow to have dots in the computer name. No matter if you are in a domain or on a workgroup. The thing is that where you are in a domain your computer full name is something like: computername.yourdomain.com. Your full, but the computer name continus being computername. This longer name is known as FQDN (Full qualified domain name) or absolute name and is use to specified the computer location in the tree hierarchy of the Domain Name System (DNS). When you are in a workgroup unlike domains DNS does not work for internal resolution, thats why you don't see a FQDN. But have in mind that a PC never has dots in his name. Regards. 

Yes. You can do it using the command Rasdial. Thought i recommend you to configure the VPN using a Group Policy. You can see the procedure here: Configure a Virtual Private Network Connection Item 

These are the differences: - As you said, join the machine to the domain. - Cannot run Windows XP mode - You cannot make backups to a network. - Unlike Windows XP you wont can map network drives on Windows 7 home editions. - As @Multiverse said in this answer you can not connet to the computer by RDP. Microsoft has a comparision page of the Windows 7 Editions. Outlook can connect to the exachange without hassles. Windows 7 home edition can connect to a WSUS, but keep in mind that how it's not a domain you will ned to manually modifiy the Windows Update registry keys to make it to connect to the WSUS Server. 

¿Why could be this happening? I dont think is the Antivirus software neither superfecth because I enable it only to fetch the boot files. 

Your script is failing because the variable doesn't contain the DNS Name. And you are sending it to the . You should send to the . With this code it will work: 

A NIC dedicated to Virtual Machines. A NIC dedicated for management, that means for be use to the host. A NIC dedicated for iSCSI. A NIC dedicated for heart beat. This is the internal traffic of the cluster. If you are planing to use Live Migraton you should dedicated a NIC for that. 

You can do it using the Windows Server 2008 R2 resource monitor. Run perfmom.exe and select Open Resource Monitor, go to the tab called Disk, and check the section called Disk Activity. There you can order by Read and Write bytes per second and one of the colums of that table is the file which are being accessed. Regards. 

Configure Direct Acess using the command prompt. You can enable the IPv6 transitions technoliges (6to4 and IPHTTPS) using netsh. You also have to configure the clients and IPSec. In Windows Server 2012 you can configure Direct Access without Teredo, only with IPHTTPS, so you dont need public IPs anymore. 

In your script you can copy the thing that you want to run to the local machine disk and after run it delete it. Use robocopy.exe \UNC-Path LocalDestionation to copy the file, run it and after that delete it. Remenber that you always have envitoment variables like %Temp% to use. For your case running using Sysinternals PSExec you can try make a bat that runs every bat line started with PSExec. You can use enviroment variables in the bat using the SET command for things like the username. Alternative I recommend you to test this free software that let you run remote commands very easy with a simple GUI: PQD Deploy. 

I created this script based on yours, it do what you need: interate over the members of a group. Do what you want with the object in the loop. 

Windows 7 have a Microsoft Support Diagnostic Tool (msdt.exe). With this Microsoft support can get data from PCs and send back to their servers. This tool is also used by the troubleshooting tools of Windows to find problems and fix them if they exist. ¿How can i create my own troubleshooter that use MSDT? I know it is possible because i saw sometime a MSDT who fix an in-house software. The fix had the extension DIAGCAB. Thank you. 

To connect using Hyper-V manager from a workgroup machine to an Hyper-v domain member server you also need allow anonymous DCOM remote access. There is a tool from Microsoft that configues automatically all the necessary things for you: Hyper-V Remote Management Configuration Utility. If this not work i would recommend you to check the Windows Credential Manager of the client machine looking for bad entries. If you are not sure, delete all of them. And finally, off course could be a really RPC error, the RPC error could be failing in your server. For be sure that it is not the issue connect to the server using MMC with other Snap-in as example Local Users and Groups.