Make them extremely religious. They are directly created by a God, so they are in touch with divinity. They are keepers of the righteous belief and the return of the God is directly linked to the "spark of belief". Then you can introduce a "satanic" group that they battle, or if other intelligent species exist (like normal people) they can fight the decadent inferior competitors. Or the "humans" rebel and do not help them maintain the belief in the God and they need to fight to crush the rebellions. You created a very interesting introduction with a direct manifestation of divinity. Why not use it to motivate them? That way you can link the very creation of new ones to their need to fight now (they need to keep the religious belief in their God so he will return and make more). The future reward justifies the sacrifices now. 

I do not see how life would survive the explosion, but depending on how spread the pieces are, a civilization could colonize the remains after they cool down. Problem is that if you take a planet like earth, and destroy it, none of the resulting pieces would be big enough to sustain an atmosphere and life. You could have a very big initial planet (like near the maximum theoretical for a rocky planet) that gets destroyed but the civilization present there goes somewhere else in that star's system and they come back later, when the pieces get together. But it would be millions of years at least in between the event and the return and the parts would resemble a planet and its satellites. Theoretically you could have some binary planets resulting from the initial ones destruction and each may have a few moons, so you could have a complex system, but it would still not be just rocks moving around in an orbit. Also to note that while binary planets are theoretically possible, from what I know there is no such system observed to date. But you are talking about planet sized destructive capacities, so maybe the targeted civilization would also in turn have some planet powerful gravitational changing devices? If so, of course they would still not survive on the planet during the attack, but they might be able to speed up the planet reshaping process, if enough would survive on spaceships, colonies on other planets in the system etc. Gravitationally push the former planets mass together again, or lets say it is spread too much, but they can make pockets of matter compress and such create something like what i wrote before, a binary system with some moons. Bring water from asteroids, remake the atmosphere by taking from other planets in the system etc. 

Whenever you want money from your account, you have to bring in the receipt with the current balance from the last time you accessed it, in exchange for a new receipt. To commit a fraud, you'll have to forge the receipt, which is heavily punished in any (pre-)modern state. If you loose it, you have to wait until messages have been requested and come in from all dependencies about your last transaction. 

Simple: One bar magnet on the cargo, fixed, one in the floor, that can rotate freely. Without power, the two align north to south, south to north, and hold the cargo in place. There is a motor connected to the floor magnet with a clutch that is closed by a small electromagnet. The motor can turn the floor magnet until the net force is zero. There is still a large torque on the magnet then, so in a power failure it will snap back immediately. During loading, the floor magnets are monitored by a feedback loop that always turns them into the "neutral" position with respect to any passing cargo magnet fixture. The magnet on the cargo can move vertically slightly and is kept fixed in the "away" position by a small spring. That way a power failure during loading is less dangerous for the workers feet, and you don't get large torques on the cargo. 

No, impossible. Firstly, the internal friction would let it collapse, because the parts at different altitude have to rotate at different speeds. Secondly, the surface tension would disintegrate the ring into droplets, which would coalesce into a smaller number of (liquid) moons. Those moons can't grow very much, however, because of the Roche limit. So they would probably split again from time to time, until they have lost so much angular momentum due to the tidal forces that they crash into the planet atmosphere. (And yes, ionic liquids have a vanishingly low gas pressure, and would be liquid in space, as long as they stay in the sun and warm enough. See my answer on How to flood the entire lunar surfaces? Also ionic liquids are totally unnatural.) 

I do not know exactly what kind of story you want to build, but as others said, the chance of success is so small that it cannot seriously be taken into account. If you want a more credible story I would suggest that you modify it to something like: 

Do you actually need it to be very deep underwater? If you just want it to be hard to find, you can place it in remote shallow water (well, not really shallow, but something like 100 meters deep). Somewhere near Greenland, or Antarctica would work, if you want to place it firm on the bottom. It's not like there are millions of scuba divers in these places. It might be better not to complicate the story with unnecessarily fantastical elements. Also take into consideration that you are underwater, so you need an earthquake inactive area if you build on the seabed. 

Genghis Khan's tomb has not been found. He requested that, so they made a deep hole, placed him in then put back the ground, didn't put any sign and story says that they went with their horses in every direction, trampled earth both while going to the dig site and after finishing the burial going away. And did that so randomly that after time passed it was impossible to trace them back. If you want to keep something hidden, don't put signs saying "don't open this", put it somewhere no one can find it. It is generally a Hollywood go to stupid plot this thing of "warnings from the ancients". When people want to hide something or keep it away, they do just that, they don't make it easy to find and then write "don't look inside". So my question is: is it so important for your plot to have them write something there and so perpetuate a stupid stereotype or you can concentrate your story on the actual building of the tomb and on its secrecy? Because if you don't concentrate on writing useless stuff, you can make it simple by creating a stone prison and then bringing mud and dirt and planting trees and so creating a "natural" looking hill. Like the Chinese did with their pyramids, but in your case it would be an intentionally forgotten, never spoken about place. And the release of this ancient evil can be done by accident (your present time civilization can dig a tunnel there for a highway or whatever). 

Definitely YES, for two reasons: Firstly because all their genetic parents will be rather on the clever side, as was already noted in the other answers. Not clear if the effect will be large. Secondly because those kids will grow up in a world without war, hunger, and poverty, much less drugs, and well educated parents, good own education, and proper health care. All kids have a good chance to live up to their potentials. 

No, or at least unlikely. There is no evolutionary advantage in having blue, green or grey eyes. Pale skin, yes, in the north, but eye and hair colour are only a secondary effect of that. If your islanders are really human, it's improbable. No melanin production in the eye would be the result of a genetic defect. That would usually only proliferate thoughout a whole population if it had some secondary advantage, for example resistance to an endemic infection, even if it was otherwise completely harmless. A dominant genetic variation occuring spontaneously is something rather rare, i believe. 

Easily, but not for long. The water in a desert lake fed from the sea would be supersaturated with salt, and the inflowing salt would precipitate all the time, slowly filling up the depression. Unless the channel from the sea widens too quickly, in which case you get something like the mediterranean sea. 

No chance. As soon as they are in orbit, a few US/Russian/Chinese/British/French/? missiles with nuclear warheads induce a Kessler syndrome, and that will be the end of it. $URL$ To make this a bit more clear: Debris orbiting earth occasionally hits other debris, thereby increasing the number of particles. Over time, the smaller particles are decelerated in the upper atmosphere, and burn up as meteors, or are blown away by the solar wind. If the number of debris particles gets too high, however, there is a runaway effect. The original effect predicted by Kessler would not be nearly as bad as to pose a real threat, but here the space junk is not aluminium and plastic from old telecom satellites, but megatons of steel from that invasion army & navy. Those WWII spacedonks are either very lightly armoured, and get killed by the first hit on their ship, or heavyily armoured, and maneuver very slowly, and get hit so often they still die. Every ship has a lot of fuel, explodes, and increases the junk density ever more. I guess you wouldn't even have to shoot at them. In thousands (millions?!?) of ships, a few inevitable accidents with following explosion would start Kesslers cascade. 

I don't know about anything else, but you would need genetic engineers to modify the humans that land there. Radius twice the size of earth would mean a mass tens of times bigger then Earths (I am to lazy to calculate now), and a gravitational acceleration significantly bigger than Earths. Also, the atmosphere would be very thick, people could not breathe that air. Actually I think that at this mass, the planet would be to heavy to be considered a rocky planet, and it would be a gas giant (a little on at that). As such, the humans could not survive there. But if it would not be a gas giant, if they would first go to the moon, set up there, build up a larger colony and then they would genetically alter themselves they could go on the planet next. So for this genetic manipulation you would need genetic engineers. And there is another problem. Normally you would send a ship with a lot of resources first if you go a short distance like to Mars, then a colony ship with only what is needed for traveling safely. This because you can wait to see that the first ship got there safe, the load was not damaged and the people have the equipment. If it fails you just send another ship with equipment. That way you don't risk the lives of the people with some extra heavy ship in one round. This is what happens with the ISS now, we don't send extra heavy rockets with all that the astronauts would need for the entire period with them, there is a stash there and it is constantly replenished by unmanned missions (which are safer in term of potential human loss). This makes your scenario more improbable, as the ship would not carry enough equipment. You would send such a complete ship only if it goes a long distance (to another system). 

I'd say you could easily scale the large sailing ships of 1900 by a factor two (-> 220m long or so), giving a factor eight in tonnage (-> 40 000 tons). Modern materials and technology keep the crew size in the same region, 40-50 people. Going away from full-rigged to schooner rigs or multi-mast sloop is possible with modern fabric and keeps crewsize further down. Speed of practically any kind of ship scales with the square root of lenght, so you'll get around 14 knots average, unless you have a route with just very little wind. Modern weather forcasts will help here, too. Port maneuvers are helped by an electric bow thruster powered from a towboat (pusher) that runs on batteries charged on land. Towage was a huge problem at the time, when slighly adverse wind conditions at the port could allow tugboat owners to extort the profit of the whole voyage. Definitely something you want to organise. 

(Magnetic cooling is used in cryotechnology. Not useable here, even theoretically imo.) No, impossible. The edge of the photosphere has a density similar to where meteors appear in earth's atmosphere. Atmospheric friction alone will burn up your spacecraft. Flying into the cromosphere is similarly impossible, simply because the shadow behind your sunscreen is too small to place enough radiators in it. Enough power for a heat pump would be available, but the sun has an angular diameter of nearly 180°. You can't hide from it. In the corona, three solar radii away from the surface, it might perhaps work. Theoretically, with a lot of technology that is totally undeveloped today. It's over a million degrees hot, but the density is very low. Don't get caught in an eruption. 

A ship that would not have a very important component with a lot of redundancy that would awake crew to save it is not plausible. It is just bad planning. Of course you could have automatic ships, but then you would not scout the possible systems with colony ships, you would have drone ships that report info back and the first contact would be with something like that and not a colony ship. A story where humans manage to do in a limited time something that the creators of that ship could not do is not believable if the intended audience is over 10-15 years old and is interested in tech. 

The ship had a critical failure somewhere in the solar system. A vast majority of the on board population was lost to this. The minimum crew is awaken by the ship, they initiate contact with humanity as they need help (manpower and resources). They are generally peaceful but the ship is capable of significant defense. This because if they are not peaceful we are easy pray and if they cant defend at all then they are easy pray and on both cases no standoff for intrigue can be made. You can have a plot conflict between humans who want to help them and cooperate and humans who just want to capture the ship, kill them and take the technology. Sub-plot intrigues can be made with the timing of discovering certain elements, like how many are left, how good the defense is, how opened they are to communication etc. Evolve the story into something where the ship is rebuild, some sort of technological transfer is made, humans join them, maybe in an extended and rebuilt ship that would properly sustain both populations. you can have a sequel with the voyage to the other world and stuff like that. 

Evolution does not work like you imagine. On average, all women get pregnant, wether they're good-looking or not (by whatever standard). And unless we change the usual human long-term relationship standard to a shimpanzee-style "the boss gets all the girls", also many males of the species get to be fathers. It'd take a long time for that to have a distinct, measureable effect. Powerful evolutionary pressure occurs when a change of some characteristic results in a better survival rate of the offspring. On a small island, smaller people run a smaller risk of starving, without the drawback of being easy prey, because there are likely no large predators. 

There is a launch window from Earth to Mars every 800 days or so if you want to do conventional ballistic tajectories. If the orbits of the two planets were even closer, that would make the two planets more similar in habitability, and it could easily take five years or longer for the inner planet to make one orbit more than the outer. Of course the orbits can't be too close or they become instable. I haven't seen the calculations how long the average orbital period in the habitable zone of lighter or heavier stars would be, but probably different from our 365 days. Other possibility: A multi star system, where the differences are simply huge and you need swingbys with larger planets in both subsystems to make the tranfer oeconomically feasible.