Legally, the FBI and the CIA have similar but separate roles. The FBI operates internally performing counter-terrorism and counter-intelligence (as well as investigating federal crimes in general). The CIA operates primarily outside the country (think extraordinary rendition) performing similar intel/co-intel and counterterrorism duties. There are all sorts of ways there could be interfering agendas between the two organizations: 

The first thing to do is figure out what sort of analogues we are looking for in an underground terrain. From there we can discuss how different environmental factors might interact to create that terrain 

Yes, neutrality in war is a valid strategy if there is enough of a disparity of resources between your superpower and the less civilized warring nations. Based upon the scenario you've given us, it sounds like we're at the start of the Scientific revolution. Your Superpower probably has not only an advantage in native resources, but also an influx of wealth and a resulting knowledge gap. Such a society would progress far more rapidly than its neighbors, quickly becoming a fearsome presence much like the major empires (Hittite, Assyrian, and Egyptian) of the Bronze Age. In the real world, Europe was so broken up historically with tribal/royal warfare that no one maintained a monopoly on resources or knowledge long enough to exploit it effectively. Perhaps the best correlate, both geographically and technologically, would be the Ottoman Empire, which was at the height of it's power at the start of the 17th century. Without a Russia on it's northern border or the religio-cultural strife caused by the class distinctions between Christians and Muslims, the empire might well have retained it's full power into the 19th and 20th centuries. If you've got resource poor North and South separated by a Mediterranean, your resource rich Superpower would want to supply both sides with raw goods to fuel their own economy. Then, when the war dies down, they flex their muscle against the weak winner and expand their territory. The institutions of learning in your progressive Ottoman empire can't be mirrored in your surrounding medieval societies which are basically struggling for everyday sustenance and border squabbles. Since most people in the warring lands would be illiterate (as historically they were), your advanced empire wouldn't need to worry as much about knowledge leaking across the border - not enough people would have the resources, background, and technical skill to replicate their more advanced technology, especially if there was a linguistic barrier on top of everything else. The political ramifications? As an important crossroads between north and south, They would be courted for favor by everyone. If there's a threat, it's probably from the more stable Western nations banding together to challenge supremacy of your Superpower, since they share similar advantages for trade and war as the single nation, and it might be easier to play one minor nation against the other rather than dealing with a monolithic superpower. Ultimately, though, I think your "middle" nation is doomed to fail from the Superpower mopping up after the civil war and the opposing western nations seeking to expand their holdings. The resulting collapse of the middle nation would result in an east-vs-west clash, as your border countries expand toward your superpower and the "inner" western nations (who can't expand into the middle kingdom) will diplomatically plead the superpower into conflict with their neighbors so they can expand themselves. The result of this evolution in conflict is outside the scope of what you're asking, though. 

I imagine such an interface would feel like an extra limb or two - say, an extra pair of hands. Or eyes. Or a whole new body, depending on how far you want to go. The only real problem I see here, is where exactly these "limbs" will be "attached" to your physical body, especially without feeling like they'd bump into things around you. My guess here is going along a "fourth dimension" or something. (Which is what the whole internet thing is already, anyway.) As for feedback from these extra "limbs", it'll be like moving your arms about with your eyes closed; you can still feel how the different joints are stretched out, and this will tell you where your hands are without you having to look. And this is before you get the skin's feedback as you start bumping into things. Similar with these implants. The most sensible (to me) option, is to have them feel like arms/hands/fingers with a set number of joints, and so moving those joints would trigger events; kinda like moving your fingers across a keyboard. Get some proper practice with this, and only then do you assign which events go with each "keypress". One advantage of this, is you can "key" and "mouse" indefinitely with these extra "limbs" without suffering (physical) fatigue or carpal tunnel or anything, while fiddling with that drawing/song/whatever. Not that this would exclude composing by "thought-to-MIDI" or anything; tapping directly into the thought process sounds like a nice, quick way of writing/composing/etc, while the extra "limbs" deal with commands like "dial this number". These are two options, and it'll be possible to have both. 

Building a ramp OVER the wall was used by the Romans. They would use local captives to minimize the chance of the beseiged city fighting back. Then there's the offensive reverse moat, used historically by an Assyrian father-son pair of kings when beseiging large cities. They dug a large (20 ft deep) trench entirely surrounding the city that was too deep to jump into and too wide to cross. Starved them into submission. You also forgot poisoning the water supply and choking them out by judging the winds and setting fire so the smoke blows over the castle. 

One proposal I haven't seen for dealing with your "boil the brain" idea (I calculated an answer to the energy requirements for that spell in a different question) is that magic is based predominantly on will and animus. Thus, it is far harder to effect an already living entity (which has its own magic like life force) than it is to create a magical effect upon an inanimate object. To extend this point, your will to burn me is directly countered by my will to NOT explode in a fireball. That contest of wills, like locked lightsabers, is usually not resolved by "pushing through" but by disengaging and looking for a new opening. Thus, a magical sneak attack from an unexpected angle (dropping a boulder) is more likely to be effective than a direct attack. Similarly, the mere existence of an army defending a castle from intruders crafts a blockade against teleporting into that fortress. Another issue to solve teleportation is to make it intrinsically risky and "wibbly-wobbly." Sure you could march an army through a portal, but without a friendly mage with a corresponding portal and beacon on the other side it would be VERY risky and you might get trapped inside the pocket dimension. And who says teleportation is instantaneous? Maybe it's just the equivalent of "flattening out" the mountains and valleys. You'd be marching the same functional distance but on flat land, making transport of goods easier but not necessarily faster. Regarding the issue of WILLFUL teleportation trade, then you've basically created a society with a large economic surplus due to safer trade and faster communication. So? We've got courier services now and the internet. It will make diplomacy interesting, since you might "fake" an alliance to gain access to their network of portals... or turn on your allies in the middle of the night with said portals... 

Being aliens, these creatures would indeed be more "insect-like" than "actual insects", (presumably with lungs, a cardiovascular system, etc) but that could still leave them with "growing pains" from the exoskeletons. Thing is, the species here on Earth that use exoskeletons (like crabs/lobsters/etc), tend to have to shed them regularly as they grow, leaving them vulnerable until the new one has been properly grown. Which would be why insects have this stage where they grow their one and only skeleton, which they then keep using until they die. Hence the three stages (egg, larva, pupa) before going into full adulthood. Our alien friends could be expected to have a somewhat different road to adulthood. Like the queen giving birth to live larvae to bypass the egg stage. Being large enough to be intelligent (even sentient), they may also have a way to school their young in the new ways of a world that changes too fast for (natural) evolution to keep pace. That way the new adults would have more than just instincts telling them what to do (and how to do it). 

However, one question that people seem to miss, is what causes such a species to develop tools in the first place? (Even if we don't necessarily witness this particular stage, it'll still be useful to consider when building the species) I'm obviously thinking artificial tools, like knives, hammers, etc. It's one thing to have natural appendages, but picking up a tool for the very first time ever, takes some imagination. Especially when you then also start to make them yourself. And of course, having appendages (like hands) capable of actually handling the tools, would not go amiss.