There is ongoing work in the field of epistemic logic, or more generally formal epistemology, to see if we can discover formal relationships that describe reasoning. This might be understood as an attempt to recover the broader meaning of logic that we abandoned in the 19th century. Corollary: Gilbert Harman has been arguing since the 1980s that logic and reasoning are different things and that philosophers err in running the two together. His arguments can be found in Change in View: Principles of Reasoning (1986). One of his contentions is that the term 'inference' belongs properly in the realm of reasoning, not logic. Inferring is what people do and is not a logical relation. As such, he proposes that we stop using the expression 'rule of inference' to describe logical rules such as modus ponens but refer to these as rules of implication. 

Since you say you are just starting to learn logic, it is likely that you are being taught about the conditionals known as material implications. These are usually the first conditionals that you are taught when studying logic, though there are many others. Material implication only works well when used with simple propositions and leads to apparently paradoxical examples when stretched to fit less simple ones. If the conditional in your example is interpreted as a material implication, it is "if Jackie is not hungry then Jackie eats sweets". The negation of a material implication is the antecedent conjoined with the negation of the consequent, so its negation would be "Jackie is not hungry and Jackie does not eat sweets". The answer you have been given: "Jackie ate sweets though she was not hungry" is not correct. If we were doing some slightly more advanced logic, we might observe that "Jackie eats sweets, if she is not hungry" is better represented as a quantified sentence, along the lines of "on all occasions when Jackie is not hungry she eats sweets". The negation of this might be "sometimes Jackie is not hungry and does not eat sweets". 

I think a good way to approach this is to say that different logics have different natural semantics. It is commonplace, for example, to say that intuitionistic logic can be interpreted as the logic of provability or verifiability (this is the BHK interpretation). So, when an intuitionist writes a proposition A we understand this to mean A is provable, and when he writes A or B this is understood to mean A is provable or B is provable. This gives rise to a logic that differs from classical, and so an argument can be classically valid but intuitionistically invalid. The two needn't conflict provided we keep the semantics separate. Classical logic is about truths and falsehoods, while intuitionism is about provability. Similarly, relevance logic can be understood as having the natural semantics of information passing. At least one form of dialethic logic can be understood as having the natural semantics of falsifiability. A deontic logic would have the natural semantics of obligation. Linear logic has the natural semantics of resource bounded interactions (among other things). Bayesian confirmation theory can be understood as a kind of logic of partial belief. This is written from a point of view that classical logic is indeed the 'correct' logic of truths. There are real, substantive disputes between advocates of some logics, e.g. Michael Dummett with intuitionism, Stephen Read with relevance logic and Graham Priest with dialethic logic, in which they are claiming that their logics are the logics of truth and falsehood and that classical logic is not. Defenders of classical logic maintain that classical logic is about truths and these other logics are about something else. You refer to the principle of explosion: that a contradiction entails all propositions in classical logic. This is unproblematic provided we remember that we are talking about truths. We must be careful not to shift the semantics to that of belief: having inconsistent beliefs does not entitle me to infer all beliefs. We cannot "discover" a contradiction in the real world because a contradiction is a proposition not a thing. If we use classical logic, then on discovery of some conflicting observations we would look for some way to distinguish them - some additional variable that we had overlooked. Another way to think of this is that as a matter of method, a scientist who performs an experiment twice and gets different results does not conclude that some contradiction is true, but assumes there is some unknown variable that needs to be identified and controlled. This assumption is in effect a form of realism. As to what persuades us that classical logic is a good logic to use, a response in the spirit of Quine would be to say that classical logic justifies itself because of the contribution it makes to our scientific understanding of the world. If it didn't work we would discard it and try something else. Indeed there have been empirically motivated suggestions for other logics, such as quantum logic. Another line of reasoning might be to claim that classical logic corresponds to the concept of computability via the Curry-Howard correspondence. Various other approaches to the epistemology of logic exist. Your last sentence about how we can talk about logic without presupposing it in effect asks, what is the logic of our meta-language? In practice this is often classical, though it is not impossible that we could use some other logic in our meta-language. Again, if it didn't work well, we would look for another. 

For a start, it is worth noting that the word 'logic' is used in different ways. Up until about the middle of the 19th century philosophers treated logic as being concerned with the laws of thought. These laws were considered to be universal and normative and served to distinguish good reasoning from bad. With the development of boolean algebra, predicate logic and non-euclidean geometry in the latter part of the 19th century, our understanding of logic underwent a step change. Logicians stopped thinking of logic as being about stating things that are incontrovertibly true and then deducing other true things from them, but of being about relationships between thoughts or propositions, without reference to whether they are actually true or not. Boolean algebra, for example, treats a propositional symbol P as a variable that might have the value true or false. We do not assert P to be true, or to be false, we merely proceed to exhibit relationships between propositions on the basis that they might be one or the other. Euclid's approach to geometry is to state axioms and postulates that are supposedly incontrovertibly true and then deduce true theorems from them, but mathematicians discovered that we can assume different postulates (in particular, replacing the parallel postulate) and come up with other geometries, many of which have useful properties. This development led to the idea that logic was concerned with the relationships of consequence between propositions, not with whether they are actually true. It is also not concerned with whether proceeding from the premises to the conclusion of some argument constitutes good reasoning, or whether it is justified. It is not about thinking at all, but about relationships between the propositions themselves. Logic progresses as we try to discover formal structures in these relationships that permit proofs and computations. This is the modern sense of 'logic' that you will be taught if you take a logic class or pick up a logic textbook. The term is much narrower in scope than it used to be. Much of what used to be called logic we would now classify as epistemology. That said, 'logic' is sometimes still used in the broader, older sense, particularly in ordinary English usage, and by people who like to blog about logic on the Internet but who have never actually studied the subject. Worse still, Mr Spock must be blamed for promoting the use of the word 'logical' as a very broad term roughly on a par with 'rational'. Reasoning, by contrast, is what goes on in the minds of rational agents. It is not a relationship between propositions but an activity of forming new beliefs on the basis of existing beliefs and suppositions. Some of the main differences are: