They don't really mind the answer, they want you to imagine working there. As you answer those questions, the more you will identify working in this environement. So, yes, answer you avaibility, there is nothing dishonnest about it, but don't be fooled about the intent. 

Praise him once in a while in front of peers. Ask him alternative opinions on different solution for other project. Give him a small project in which he would have control over the technical part but need to deliver to the business part (he'll come ask for business questions, and won't have time for technical questions). Instead of giving technical solutions, ask him to come with a list of solutions for the problem he is having. Then let him choose the best one. 

She has to think (and believe!) that HR and her boss are not here to help her (ultimatly). They are here to help the company. Some will see helping you as helping the company (the good guys) and some... Less. With this in mind, our dear Jane might reconsider her position and the overall situation. What is the reason of the inaction of management? They could be multiple: from inexperience/incompetence to willingly letting things go. It is a complexe situation, but in case of experience manager/HR, I will try to extrapolate the few information you gave us to make sense of the situation. Let's say, the first team member quitting because of bullying didn't mention it to HR. and let's say the second one (with medication), didn't make too much fuzz about it and quit 'shortly' after HR got the information of the bullying. As far as they were concerned, the problem was localized to 2 people and one of them quit: problem solved. Then Jane enters the dance and talk to her boss & HR about the problem. An experience manager will not act too hastly because he must be sure of the facts he has (maybe Jane had some professional/personal issue with the guy and she is starting a war?) ; And most of all, he should considere the impact of his actions. Maybe her bully has a key role in the company and it's hard to replace him? Then, he will need time to find somebody else for the transition, he cannot risk one part of his team to fall apart even if one of his employee is suffering. Also, maybe he only received mild warning from Jane, and doesn't realize the distress it's causing her. In any case, I would not advice going over the boss (if you think you had a bad time with your bully, try with a boss that is recentfull of a bad evaluation). I would ponder the situation, re-assert the problem with my boss. Maybe by asking to move to different project in which there will be less interaction with the bully? This will send a strong message: you like this company, you want to stay, but you cannot work with him, period. If the response is not what she expects, she might need to start looking for something outside. 

It doesn't matter what you earned before. Pay is not about fairness to the employer, or somehow universal. Pay is how much a company needs to pay you to get and retain your services. If you find a new job after 2 years, great. During the hiring process you will negotiate salary with the new employer; if they don't offer enough, you won't take up their offer. It is unimportant what your salary is before, unless that is your entire personal rationale for changing jobs. The new job could be further away, have longer hours, be less flexible, and you will negotiate on the basis of what you will accept. There is no way to convince an employer to pay you more because of a salary you once got but have since quit. That doesn't matter to them. What matters is how much they need to offer you for you to accept. 

I find the PERT estimation useful for software development tasks. Summarising: a = time if you fly through it, no delays, no problems b = time you think it will realistically take given known delays and known problems c = worst possible scenario, everything gets delayed, your other bosses give you extra work, and you find a flaw in your implementation at 80% through your plan Estimated time = (a + 4b + c) / 6 Variability = (c - a) / 6 Say you think a task would take a day in ideal conditions, and normally you'd get there in the next 2 days because of meetings, but there are a few stages that could cause problems and then it would be 9 days. Then your estimate is (1 + 4x2 + 9) / 6 = 3 days, variability is 1.3 days, so you would say "I expect to get it done in 3 days, but it could easily take 4.5 days." This way, they have an idea of when to expect it (for delivery to customers, you want to estimate the time to delivery in calendar days, including the effects of meetings, holidays and so on), and an idea of what a conservative estimate might look like. If there is a big variable, like 'it might break component X, so then I'd have to modify and rebuild that component, which would be an extra week', then flag that up in the response - 'I expect it to be done in 3 days, but it tests the limits of component X, so there could be an additional week there'. This is one of the hardest bits of working in small businesses with multiple competing demands on your time. So grasp it with both hands and don't shy away from giving estimates. The sooner you get a handle on it, the better things will be. If quizzed in person, don't be afraid to say "I can't give you an estimate that would be any use off-hand, let me send you something by the end of the day". Good luck. 

Prepare your performance review in a positive light. Take everything she told you and even if you would disagree with her, try to bring back a positive experience since then. 

I think you are overlooking something. You think they are asking you this because they will make a better offer, etc. I don't think so. Asking questions like this is a way to put you in the shoes of the guy accepting the offer (before even seeing it, it's brilliant!). 

It is not clear if you have signed the offer letter. In the case of having nothing signed, it seems risky to have resigned your position, but ok. As pointed out by Masked Man, the first new company could very well withdraw their offer [In the case of a signed offer letter, it might depend on the law of the country; maybe a small fee might be asked]. Now there is a confirmation email. It depends greatly on what you wrote. Let's say you wrote something like: 

Talk to HR. If the employee is making claims about their disability impeding their capacity to do the job, it is worth bringing an HR representative into play. Your friend is not in a position to judge whether the excuses are valid or not, and making a call either way could be a mistake. An initial chat with HR should clarify matters, and if they agree with the apparent opinion that the employee's excuses are not valid, then he should bring them into a 3 person chat. That way the employee is reassured that they are being fairly dealt with; if they are abusing their status then they may be more likely to misconstrue (intentionally or not) a private conversation between 2. 

Speak more slowly - give your brain a chance to come up with the right word. Use short sentences - "I have a difficulty to give a right shape of speech to my thoughts or ideas or information that I know in order to express it well." -> "I struggle to express my thoughts clearly" Expand your vocabulary - the right word can replace many: "have a difficulty" -> "struggle" Use simple words - a lot of verbosity is just using complicated words for simple things - "However the difficulty is more in case of verbal communication." -> "But it is worse when speaking". 

Obviously, don't mention what she said and that you disagree with her. Don't try to prove her wrong, show her the positives and the will to progress. It's sometimes too easy to see the problems and not the good things. Good luck! 

I would considere it an issue if the intervention of the recruiter had in any way an impact leading you to talk to this friend. Exemples: 

the influence of the company you refused (Say, you are looking in a niche market in which only 4 companies compete), the actual position you are applying for (position related with trust, public relationship, etc.) the openness of the market (imagine your market is shrinking in the next 5 years, did you shoot yourself in the foot, or is there many companies you can apply for?) 

following the contact with the recruiter, you contact a friend you know to meet about the position: you should go with the recruiter. You were supposed to meet this friend before hand for other reasons. But since you get the information of an opportunity, you bring on the topic to your friend: you should go with the recruiter. You were suppose to meet this friend before hand for other reasons. Then you received the offer from the recruiter; but you don't mention it to your friend: He brings the topic on: it's a grey aera, could go either way. 

You have already taken the biggest step, seeking to improve by reviewing what you write. It will improve. Often non-native English speakers know the vocabulary but not the emphasis, so native speakers can struggle to understand - if that is you, use emphasis and vary your tone to show which words are important in your sentence. Speaking clearly and succinctly is a difficult skill to master, so expecting to have the best version in your first draft is a tall order. 

Work with your employer to construct a more resilient structure. As an example, you could have an assistant position in your team for someone who will be able to step in when you are unwell; assuming you are still able to talk to them about the current status of a project, to explain details etc, then handover is still very possible. In any team there will be people looking to step up the ladder, so there should be willing candidates for such a role. They may become competition for you, but there is no silver bullet here. In an ideal world I would suggest becoming a 2-person company with someone else, and being taken on together by an employer. That way you could train them to be able to step in, and come to some arrangement on pay and training with them privately. Unusual arrangements like this, however, are usually hard to sell to employers. By approaching your employer to seek to address the issue constructively, you should be able to come to a workable arrangement. If you do not, then events may decide things for you. 

If you focus the conversation to the next sale instead of the previous (litigious) sale, the discussion will be more open and you may get your way without making an ennemy in the process. Best case scenario, the situation is clarified and you get your monney back. Worst case scenario, you don't sell this item in the future and try to stay away from this manager's path. In general, as a new member of the community, it's better to ask questions than make affirmations. 

Try to apply with consultancy companies. If there is some issues (diplomatic, security related, etc.) you should be able to get an answer from them. If there is a possibility for you to work in Europe, they will gladly obliged. Now, if you can never get far in the interview process with those companies, it's unlikely you will manage with sending CVs around. 

You are a new employee, it can be very risky to go around pointing finger. It seems the company has a policy of rewarding their employees for selling particular items. If it is the case and you qualified for this bonus, I would advice to take the low road and talk candidly to your manager. 

Yes, they are different An online coding test is intended to let the recruiters screen out bad applicants or to rank applicants so they can consider the 'best' ones. It is essentially pass/fail, because you're not able to explain what you're doing to the recruiter. An in-person test is much more interactive; you can explain why you are doing something, or ask for a detail you need but don't have, or ask for clarification of the task or question. In person they are hoping to see your approach, your thought process, rather than just whether you can do a puzzle or not. Don't overcomplicate things If you get a question 'replace all the %20 with space', then just use the built-in function. If they want you to code it by hand, they will say so. Anything that you can do in a simple and straightforward fashion that has not been forbidden is fine. You'd be surprised how many people who apply for coding jobs cannot write code at all. Sometimes they're just asking you a very simple question. In person, investigate the problem Online tests have to be specific about the problem they want you to solve, but in person the interviewer can just make vague requests, like 'can you write code that replaces %20 with spaces' without specifying what inputs to expect. It is worth just checking the parameters of the task; will the code need to cope with arbitrarily long strings, alternate encoding choices, empty strings, etc etc. This is a double-edged sword; you might look good for trying to establish such things before you dive in, but they might just say 'yes' to whether you need to cope with X, so don't skewer yourself with it. 

In that way, when another offer comes along, you could still decide which way to go. As long as no contract is signed, nothing is decided. Now you have given your word to a company. To refuse the position now would be detrimental to your reputation. The impact of this action will depend of 

It might not be a contractual statement, it is still your word. In the future, some reserve could be used in the same situation. 

The Impostor syndrome is quite common in Junior Developers. Sometimes, what is needed is some ego boost. Does he know you think:"He is technically very knowledgeable and skilled"? In order for talented devs to blossom, they need a safe environement and some validations. Some ideas: 

From what you are explaining, you are making the assumption he sends emails at lunch time to record the time you spend at lunch. First, it seems he didn't seems to make criticisms about it. Second, you may be fixating on this as you feel you are in a bad position (low salary, low motivation etc.) To answer the question at hand, it may well be that your boss is manipulative about those emails, but since he hasn't made pressure about your time lunch, you cannot do anything about it. Focus on more important issues (that you pointed out in your post) rather than focusing on smaller issues that you might not have notice in an healthy environement. 

Your founders do not value you very highly. It is an entirely classic setup for bosses to think they are doing you a huge favour by employing you, undervalue you and underspend on things that would make you happy. Often, that is why people start their own companies. I don't think the problem is that being cheap is affecting morale, or that you are not communicating clearly enough. They just don't think you're worth it. What they want is a set of compliant workers who are just so happy to work at such an exciting company that it doesn't matter if there's no money being spent on them. Just look at the contrast in your question; the founders boast of their extravagant lifestyle, yet expected you all to pay for a team event that they had picked. That is at best myopic, and at worst you are being screwed. Unfortunately, some people work on this level; it's dog-eat-dog, they really only care for what they can take and they will do the bare minimum to stop you all leaving. If they have investment money, they probably barely care if you aren't working so hard; if they can justify the extra expense to the investors, they can get more money. They only care if you leave because it would look bad to the investors. In this environment, where the management does not show any real care for the workers, the answer is to unionize. Unionize for some R&R? What am I thinking? I'm thinking that this is more than the culture, or the occasional trips out being funded: It is about the management taking the workforce seriously. If you do not stand up to them properly (or quit), they will continue to pay you all poorly, fail to look after you, and generally drive you as hard as they dare. What's to stop them, if they don't have compassion for you? You are incentivising them to do just that; they can keep more of the money by just pushing you all harder for less reward. Some bosses do care for their workers, and those are the companies you want to work for. The rest you have to force into behaving better by threatening to strike, leave, etc. Most are just weak and only need you to show some mettle before they will back down and treat you better. They just don't see the world your way, and can't justify spending more money on you unless you might leave, because nothing is as important as their immediate bottom line. 

It is a difficult situation but things can be done. You cannot overstep your position, so you have to convince your N+1 (your direct boss) and you need to give him the tools to convince his boss. Say, a new directive from the top to the bottom is made in place and force you to log in another webpage everyday to log your time again. You are impacted, as your fellow colleagues, but you feel this is unnecessary because this information can be found on another webpage. I would advice to gather the number of people affected by this decision (roughtly), add up the number per day/week/month/year used up. Maybe investigate quickly around with technical people to know if this information is accessible somewhere, and what would be the cost of this access. 10 000 employes x 10 seconds (time to access the page and log the number) x 52 (weeks in one year) x 5(working days per week) => 903 days used per year 903 x 5 years x 400 (average salary cost /day) = 1 805 555 $ cost to create a tool that do that automatically (multiply by 5 the number given by the technical guy): 300 000 $ Compelling number have a powerful ways with managers! Your boss will have one and a half million reason to go convince his boss.