Non-Metallic Planet Not a gas giant, but not a rocky planet, either. Rather, a planet with just light elements, like the first 3 rows of the periodic table, or so. You probably need carbon or something similarly flexible to get life at all, and iron and other trace elements are necessary for earth-based life, but it is at least plausible that exo-life could use something other than iron to carry oxygen. Or, there are only trace amounts of iron on the planet (iron is a rare-earth metal) and most of it is bound up in living things. This prevents you from making anything we would recognize as cars and trains and planes, as their sturdiest construction material would be something like wood (if you have stone, then you have Si, and if you have Si-based electronics, you probably have other heavier metals like Fe and Ni, and thus, cars). Electronics So, how do you get electronics? Most conductors we use today are metals, Cu to Fe to Au. Well, this is where it gets tricky. This planet would basically need carbon nanotube-based electronics. It turns out that you can make carbon nanotubes using very low tech (pretty much just burn any organic matter and you will get some by pure chance). But how you turn that into electronics without the benefit of metals requires a bit of creativity. On the other hand, without metals to begin with, an alien would be forced to think differently anyway. You could also use conductive polymers, or go the biological route and use doped water to make wires. Consider that we already have the most energy-efficient computers in the known solar system sitting inside our heads. History So, carbon nanotube electronics would be the cutting edge of technology on this planet, while neuro-electronics would be the default mode of computation. They would most likely have bio-computers rather than what we think of as hardware. This would also help explain the energy sources. They would lack the Si and rare earth metals necessary to make PV solar power, as well as the radionuclides for nuclear (no U, Pu, Th, etc.). They would have fossil fuels, but nothing sturdy enough to build boilers, let alone internal combustion engines or gas turbines. The best internal combustion engines you can build with light elements use the ATP cycle and power your muscles. The question then becomes not: "Why do they use animals?" but rather: "How did they get electronics?" At some point, they could likely develop counting and mathematics on their own, and could build basic mechanical computers like abaci from just wood. They may even build primitive machines like a TinkerToy computer to play tic-tac-toe using wood and animal parts (bones, etc.). But at some point, they would realize the need to build fast switches in order to make a truly general computer. This is where things get ugly... In the course of hunting, they will notice that sometimes animals move after they are dead, and they will wonder what causes this movement. Eventually, they will realize that nerves are conducting signals to muscles, and that nerves are actually wetware switches. However, they will also realize that nerves degrade very quickly once their host creature has died. So to exploit the natural wetware electronics, they will need live creatures. In the beginning, they will select animals which are a convenient size for handling, like small rodents. They will figure out how to use stimuli on one end to trigger behavior on another. For instance, they might notice that pricking the paw of a rat causes its tail to move. Or maybe if you price one paw lightly, the tail doesn't move, but if you prick both paws, it does. And now you have the crudest bio-switch (a kind of logic gate), whose energy source is almost any organic matter, but runs reliably on vegetables. You just need to chain them together by connecting the tail to needles on the paws of downstream rats, and you can build a complete ratputer to do simple calculations. Progress While this sounds terribly cruel, keep in mind that you can't build a decent-size circuit with rats, and these scientists/engineers will figure that out pretty quickly. Also, such a ratputer would be very power hungry (in the most literal way) and produce a serious waste problem. So you need to miniaturize. You then move to smaller and smaller animals, until you can work with, say, ants. Because insects already communicate with each other, you may actually be able to train them to use multiple modes of transmitting information in a computational network. You could use mechanical stimulation for precise calculations (a leg moving could tickle the antenna of a downstream ant), and pheromones for high-level signals. Also, the ants could be explicitly trained to produce certain behaviors (being fed one sugar drop makes its 4 leg wiggle, and being fed a different flavor drop makes its 5 leg wiggle). Over many generations, they may actually be able to create a breed of insect which is specialized for computation! The legs may naturally lock together, forming quasi-mechanical circuits, and the ants may become specialized for their task by increasing signal propagation rate, accuracy, and even adding new functions which would not occur in the wild. Eventually, the legs could fuse together, creating a kind of hybrid creature in which each ant brain is like a local distributed CPU, operating on a mesh of power droplets raining down from above, and releasing waste to a collector plate below. Multiple "compute boards" could be stacked into a 3D space to provide more powerful computation. And since the antennae and eyes and carapace would become redundant, these features would be bred away until the ants eventually formed nearly pure neuron networks with the minimal internal organs to support them, complete with interlocking feeding/respiration/waste plumbing so that they can be packed densely. Conclusion The limiting factor for all civilizations we know of is energy. Technology only moves forward when energy availability increases. Fire to cook food releases more nutrients for humans. Food for humans powers population levels. Fire to melt metals provides tools for building, hunting, and warfare. Fire contained in metal can be harnessed to power machines. And nuclear fires contained or uncontained can be harnessed to do planet-altering things. If you prevent energy from being harnessed, then you can't plausibly build vehicles or computers at all. So forbidding fossil fuels is both implausible and unnecessary. The only way to prevent earth-like technology is to take away the key ingredients which underlie our tools: metals like Si, Fe, Cu. These give us concrete, steel, and wires. Whatever is left can be used by biology to build alternatives. 

Not sure why folks think that all of the natural resources will be used up. I assume that after the decline of one civilization, there are still trees around to make fire? If it takes a hundred million years for a civilization to rise and fall, then it is probably even possible for coal to be regenerated in some or many areas (it can be formed in tens of millions of years[1]). But much better than finding a coal seam would be finding an ancient landfill. When an archaeologist finds a midden today, the only interesting artifacts are bones and stones. But when an archaeologist 200 million years from now finds a midden, it will have high concentrations of rare earth metals useful for advanced electronics. Surely that is a nice jump-start for any new civilization! Not only that, but lots of uranium will be mined and concentrated as well (assuming it wasn't detonated or taken off-planet in ships). Uranium and thorium have half lives in the billions of years for some isotopes[2]. And if the civilizations care at all for the future, then they will leave knowledge lying about in a durable form (explored in Niven's Footfall, where knowledge was recorded on metal plates). The advancement of civilization pretty much depends directly on the amount of useful energy the inhabitants can harness. At prehistoric levels, only human power is meaningful. With agriculture and animal husbandry, draft power from animals becomes available and makes it feasible to farm large tracts of land (rather than just subsistence gardens). With fire and metallurgy, steam power eventually becomes available, first from wood and biomass, and later from coal and fossil fuels. But solar power can also be harnessed by dams, and was long before the Industrial Revolution. Again, if knowledge is passed down in some form to each new civilization, then converting power to electricity would greatly aid the reboot of the next civilization. That's because electricity is one of the easiest ways to convert power from one form to a more useful form. One electrification has been achieved, even the absence of fossil petroleum is not a major deal-breaker. Gasoline has one of the highest energy densities of any chemical fuel (non-nuclear). But ethanol is decent, and can be manufactured from average biomass. At sufficient technology level, gasoline and kerosene can be manufactured from scratch, via thermal depolymerization (TDP)[3]. Even steel is not a problem, because in thousands of years, most of the steel on earth will rust down to iron oxide. No tectonic activity necessary. But let's say that the previous civilization managed to coat most structural steel with really effective anti-rust coatings. No problem. Just chisel off the coatings and let it rust away! But most likely, no steel will be so thoroughly coated as to resist all weathering effects. Steel at the bottom of a lake or ocean will last longer, but will be harder to get at anyway. Unless a civ goes underwater to escape land, most of the steel will probably be on land. The Mote in God's Eye series also explores the theme of cyclic civilization (a good read!). [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ [3] $URL$ 

Pre-Emptive Strike You just need to bomb his launch sites before he launches. If you have space superiority, then you just need to launch ballistic penetrators with good coverage of his most likely launch sites. I.e., throwing rocks down the gravity well. If you don't have space superiority, then you will need to use ground-launched kill vehicles as described by others. 

Facts First, there was the ear on the back of a mouse. Then, there was the trachea grown from the patient's own stem cells. Closer to the bleeding edge are grown livers and lungs. Today, we have 3D printers which can print biological tissue the way you would print a picture off your computer! Also, hydras, some jellyfish, and planariums may already be immortal! Speculation We have every reason to believe that the exponential growth in biotechnology and nanotechnology will continue for the foreseeable future. At what point that will enable human immortality, nobody can say. But there is also no intrinsic reason that living creatures have to die. Rather, death appears to be designed and programmed into them to facilitate generational adaptation (raising the question of whether immortality is actually A Good Thing(TM)). If humans do become immortal, it will almost certainly start out with organ replacement, proceed to in situ tissue regeneration, and conclude with complete disease management/eradication. Whether humans also achieve the ability to upload consciousness is orthogonal to biological immortality. 

If a true reactionless drive is possible, then you could simply posit that your space whale evolved one biologically. And if it could do that, then surely it could evolve a kind of fusion power source to power it, as well. The advantage of a reactionless drive is that you are somewhat freed from the Tsiolkovsky rocket equation, so you should be able to accelerate to very high speeds (though only slowly, given current designs). Also, you have to consider that at relativistic speeds, you really need good shielding, or you will get irradiated to death (a particular problem for biological systems). Your whale will need some kind of special carapace to protect it from cosmic rays and other hard radiation. 

I agree with the obfuscation strategy, but the best way to do this would be to include several ingredients which are folk aphrodisiacs. This will cause a tremendous amount of disinformation amongst folks who say: "See! I told you that tiger testicles work!!!" Also, it makes any chemical analysis harder, because of all the potential chemical targets to analyze. This is a form of physical steganography. Better yet, sell your potion as an additive to coffee, which already contains over 1000 compounds, all natural! It will be nearly impossible to find all the non-coffee compounds. Think "Red Bull for lovers". 

There is one commodity which can be transferred as pure information: computation. Colony worlds can participate in an intra-galactic economy by selling computation time on their local computer networks. Raw computation may not be terribly useful, but specialized computation could be extremely useful. Some colonies might specialize in bioinformatics, while others specialize in manufacturing modelling. Colonies could thus exchange valuable information as a tradable resource. For instance, a biologically diverse world might specialize in genetic manipulation, and especially how to tailor-make genetic codes for particular environments. Other worlds might employ their networks to design special plant species that thrive in their local environment, or to help them change their ecological balance in response to an accident, war, external dynamics, etc. A gas giant world might be experts in fluid dynamics and can consult in the design and manufacture of all kinds of aircraft and seacraft. 

A: Absolutely However, the main complication is minimum size. As others have implied, larger animals have a natural advantage over smaller animals, because all of their tissues are bigger, and must naturally be tougher to hold the animal together (as well as survive the normal bumps and scrapes that animals generally encounter). This is why you can't really hunt bears or elephants or buffalo with your typical 9mm street gat that you would use against hood thugs (with moderate effectiveness, no less). Contrary to AndreiROM's answer, humans cannot simply build guns that kill arbitrarily tough targets. Man-portable weapons have an effective upper bound on size and firepower. At some point, the weapon either becomes too heavy for a single person to carry, or the recoil becomes too great for a human to safely fire the weapon. For instance, one of most powerful rifles in the world today is the modern .50 caliber sniper rifle, like the Barret M82. Although the M107 is intended to be a shoulder-fired alternative, the fact of the matter is that most pictures of either rifle being operated involve the use of a bipod. This tells you that the weapon is pretty close to the edge of what should be considered "man-portable". Already, the M82 creates so much recoil that a muzzle brake is essentially required for safe operation. And yet, the muzzle brake itself increases the sound exposed to the shooter to well above safe hearing levels, requiring the use of ear protection. Lethal Ballistics Most guns today are designed to kill animals, humans, or vehicles. Humans are pretty soft targets, so we can ignore those for now. Vehicles are hard targets, but they do not have good protection of vital organs, because that would make them heavier, more expensive, and difficult to maintain. Most animals which are hunted are smaller than moose. So the guns we have today are designed to kill animals that size or smaller. What many non-hunters probably do not know is that it is easy to wound an animal without killing it. Shooting an animal from a bad angle or just grazing it has a good chance of missing vital organs. In this case, the animal has decent odds of survival, assuming it isn't tracked down and killed. Designing a lethal gun/round is trickier than it might seem. You actually don't want a bullet to just fly through your target at high speed, because if it doesn't create a large exit wound and it doesn't hit vital organs, the target has a good chance of surviving. See this excellent article on the considerations involved. Summary If the animal can get big enough, its size alone will produce a thick hide which will allow it to shrug off smaller rounds. I would hazard a guess that a brontosaurus would be pretty safe from most rounds being fired in 1850, except for lucky shots to vulnerable areas. But, supposing that you had a gun which could penetrate the hide easily, there is no guarantee that the bullet could reach vital organs or inflict sufficient damage to kill the animal. Humans are not knife-proof in the sense of having a hide so thick it can stop a blade, but the majority of knife attacks are not fatal. I agree with Nathan that if the animal has a shaped carapace which tended to deflect projectiles, then it could significantly reduce or eliminate the lethality of many rounds. Although you did not request a plausible evolutionary pathway to such a creature, it is not inconceivable to have an environment with regular ballistic hazards, from rocks being spewed by geologically active events (volcanoes, geysers, etc.) to predators that use a kind of high-speed attack to kill targets (think perhaps a hawk-like bird that uses its beak like a spear). Also, armor against bullets would generally be effective as armor against teeth, which is why creatures like the Ankylosaurus would exist in the first place.