I thought to answer and hope you will find some useful trough my answer. I also have same conditions similar to yours. I would mention some characteristics about you and you can respond if I am wrong. you are thinking so fast and continuously about metaphysics like your life after death and so on....you possess some IQ more than average person. So my friend above will lead you more stressful conditions as thinking need more and more energy. I am not aware about your family conditions but be little relaxed,gentle,save some energy and maintain harmony with nature. Your intensive curiosity will make you sick. My suggestion to you is maintain your health well and leave the stress and avoid over-thinking. Don't cross your capacity without practice. Get help from others. If you have opportunity to practice "Zen" might help you. To your question "can Buddhism help to overcome physical pain?" Yes master the fundamentals of Buddhism and stick to basics. reach the path step by step. you can't skip the steps mean you waste energy and you will lack of it. Keep away thinking of your past karma aside.you can't do anything about it. Focus on present and control over thinking,get proper medicine, get gentle approach to life, stay healthy. Never forget "Health is the great noble gain in life (Arogyama parama laba) as Budda mentioned. This is the most practical solution for our lives. hope this will help you .Thanks and Metta! 

Theravada couldn't have all the possible teachings, so it has only some of them. The teaching about the Buddha nature probably didn't seem necessary at the time of Buddha. It was rather obvious that practitioners could follow the eightfold path and come to awakening (Arahantship & Buddhahood). It was mentioned in Pali suttas, e.g. in Maha-parinibbana sutta (see the last talk of Buddha, with Subhadda the Hermit). So the need to introduce "Buddha nature" developed later. As dialog develops, it often happens that more ideas need to be articulated to help people understand well. That's why Mahayana teachings developed, and they continue to develop nowadays. For example, when I explain Dharma, I often use language, ideas and pictures which didn't exist in Buddha's times. I speak about objects compared to their photographs, and it makes easier to understand, for example, Diamond sutra, Two truths and the like. Thus the concept of Buddha nature developed with time, maybe as a pinnacle of explanation of why everything. Indeed, limited people have limited views and goals. We do something because we want something, we are attached or repulsed, and so on. But why would Buddha act? If he isn't limited, free from wishes, from attachments and repulsions? If you say Buddha acts for the sake of other beings, then please recall that beings are illusory, and suffering is illusory... It's not easy to understand: why do anything, what could be the goal, if there is no attachment, no limits... So as understanding of illusory nature of delusions developed - helping people to practise efficiently - the need to understand what is natural developed too. If you are interested to understand Buddha nature in the context of the three main philosophical schools of Mahayana, and their application to Zen practice, see: Master Chi Chern. Immaculate Self-Nature 

So I have thought to give some reasonable and rational answer to your issue. I will not push you to mystery or darkness with my answer. First of all our (human) brain include 100 billion neuron cells and trillions of electro-chemical activities called "functional brain or stream of mind" create lot of illusions and dilutions we totally failed to understand and interpret. Our mind is a the great creator of everything. When I state everything it include our mind. So this is a one whole system. I have similar(small compare to yours) paranormal experience and I have realized it as distorted brain function. Your paranormal experience is so strong. When you come to mind it create illusion of me,mine,I and lead to lots of trouble. I suggest to you engage with meditation suitable to you like Zen or any other. Try to live and stay in present. Don't try to live in past. Try to convince mind using same mind what you recall is past event and that's an illusion. conquer the mind and become a great conqueror. you have to confront a grate battle with mind and it require lots of courage.If you require further explanations please do not hesitate to communicate. hope my suggestions will help you. Thanks and metta! 

I have noticed most of the time third precept is interpreted as sexual misconduct or adultery. But third precept emphasize all the misbehavior and misconduct using all six sensual spheres. "Kamesumichchara" in here kama means involvement of all six sensual spheres. E.g in this answer; One must abstain from committing adultery or sexual misconduct. Romantic relationships that are emotionally or spiritually damaging to others, due to existing commitments of the parties involved, are a cause for stress and suffering and based on perversion of the mind. My question is how fair or correct to narrow third precept to sexual misconduct or adultery? Does over-thinking violate third precept because its a misconduct of mind due to uncontrollable and misuse mind? 

What do you mean by "Buddha nature"? I think it means: Anyone is Buddha, as soon as he stops to generate vexations. That fact can be described as: "We all are Buddha by nature, we only differ from Buddha in maintaining some mental processes". Therefore, the term "Buddha nature" is applicable to sentient beings, not to metaphysical concepts of reality like Trikaya. 

That quote from Ajita Kesakambalin is very similar to what Buddha taught, especially if we view his "no this, no that" as pointing that those things are selfless, devoid of substance. The difference is that Buddha looked in wider context, not limited by the scope of the ordinary observation. For example, if something has ended as material thing, it doesn't mean its influence ended; likewise, personal human life doesn't end in borders of the living body neither spatially nor temporally. Life of the Buddha and its influence until today all over the world is an example of that. Therefore, limits of seeing "one life" are illusory, and so Buddha spoke of other lives etc. - beyond the illusory limits of ordinary consciousness. 

The first one is the experience of "seeing the true nature". I think it can be called "liberation" because the illusory nature of delusions is revealed. They still can appear in the mental continuum, but they do not enslave in that absolute way as it was before. That experience of seeing may be impermanent, because of our deeply rooted habits. It depends. Therefore some people think it's a permanent change (sometimes it happens so), some people think it's a transitory experience that comes and goes. (Usually it is so). It is the first of Ten Bhumis of Bodhisattva. Probably it's the same as the Stream Entry. Mahayana Teachers say that though it's liberation from delusions, imprints of delusions remain (obstacles to omniscience). They are eliminated in the course of Ten Bhumis, and then there is the complete enlightenment. PS. So in general "satori" and "kensho" is awakening (in the first sense). However among Buddhist teachers, Zen in particular, there are many people without real understanding of awakening. They read some books or listen to low quality teachers and form various misconceptions. That's why in fact they use terms "satori" and "kensho" where there's no awakening at all. 

We all know that suicide has been totally refused in Buddhism as unwholesome act. suicide can be observed in human realm but why not in animal realm? 

Here is the mind catching question again. The mind and brain question. if some one analyze my suggestion as an answer is most appreciated.There are mainly two views on this issue. 

Five precepts was declared by Buddha to maintain sustainability of society and harmony with nature is the best explanation and not for gain qualifications to get rebirth in upper realms. E.g killing each other will leads to spread violence and extinction and kill other animals may leads to unbalance and harm the delicate balance of nature. stealing discourage people form farming and manufacturing, sensual misconduct leads damage the health, taking intoxicant,alcohol or drugs damage health and crate violence, lie and break trust will spread violence and damage business and financial development. So five precepts are vital,wholesome and positive moral value essential to maintain sustainability and development in both personal and society-wise. Also adhere to these will give us result here and now no need to wait until next life. See the world with intensive violence,wars,STD(specially AIDS),non chronicle deceases like diabetes,cholesterol,stress,anxiety,corruption,crimes,robberies etc.. and when five precepts are followed individually and society-wise is the proven cure for above issues in world. 

What happens when we aren't attentively listening, and then we see someone who attentively tries to listen to something? It's natural if we would begin to listen attentively too. So our behavior and states of mind influence others, and are influenced by others. Therefore, having clear and calm mind can benefit others around us. It happened that entering a room or a Dharma center where a Buddhist teacher experienced in meditation was present, I felt thick atmosphere of awareness. Like a field of energy. Likewise, sometimes I felt similar "field of energy" entering a church, or entering my room when I practiced there a lot. There are many stories how a state of mind influenced others or even influenced weather, e.g. stopped a drought. Famous Heart Sutra (except in the brief version) says: 

Thus we can say that consciousness is a result of contact. It looks like ocean waves: there is something beneath (water, an organ of perception) and something above (wind, perceived object). We can say that consciousness doesn't exist if there is no contact of organ of perception and object of perception. Usually we imagine consciousness as some space that exists independently of everything else; when things appear in that space, they become perceived. But Dharma asks us: are we sure that there is that immutable, metaphysical space called Consciousness? We only know directly that consciousness appears when there is contact of organ and object. Does consciousness really exist apart from that? If we examine that question, we can conclude that there is no actual reason to claim that consciousness exists constantly and independently; it's just our mental model. Though we can speak about the reality as Only Consciousness (and sometimes it's useful), that is just our modeling; in direct perception Consciousness doesn't really exist (as something absolute or independent). That helps to realize emptiness - no self - of all things and objects. Actually all objects are our mental models we create from fluid momentary appearances. Objects do not exist in themselves. They are only our way to associate individual sense data. Then we can make another step and say that "objects of perception" and "organs of perception" are in fact our mental models. The primary phenomena are momentary appearances. "Waves of consciousness". It's like there are waves, like electromagnetic waves, but we imagine them as ocean waves, with something beneath and something above. In fact, for direct observation something appears. And then we build some mental models on top of that - adding there dualities, like "object" and "organ", or "mind" and "matter". Consider this: looking at sea, we see waves, and we conclude that there is water beneath and wind above. Likewise, from "consciousness" we conclude there are forms and mentations of them (rupa & nama). So various explanations are possible: that from nama-rupa consciousness appears, and that from consciousness nama-rupa appear. In both cases we talk about the process of creation of mental models. Awakening and liberation from delusion means we drop thinking of mental models as real things. It's very sublime Dharma, very hard to understand without direct contemplation. 

This what I read part of heart sutta states; So, in emptiness, there is no body, no feeling, no thought, no will, no consciousness. There are no eyes, no ears, no nose, no tongue, no body, no mind. There is no seeing, no hearing, no smelling, no tasting, no touching, no imagining. There is nothing seen, nor heard, nor smelled, nor tasted, nor touched, nor imagined. apparently it is about the death of being to me.Also this description perfectly match and experience in coma or unconsciousness state of an individual. can I get proper and profound explanation for above? 

Absolute, true and mathematical time, of itself, and from its own nature flows equably without regard to anything external, and by another name is called duration: relative, apparent and common time, is some sensible and external (whether accurate or unequable) measure of duration by the means of motion, which is commonly used instead of true time ... According to Newton, absolute time exists independently of any perceiver and progresses at a consistent pace throughout the universe. Unlike relative time, Newton believed absolute time was imperceptible and could only be understood mathematically. According to Newton, humans are only capable of perceiving relative time, which is a measurement of perceivable objects in motion (like the Moon or Sun). From these movements, we infer the passage of time. After analyze above text by Isaac Newton and state; The "Absolute time" is just a concept rooted from "Anatta"(impermanence) the one of three characteristic of nature in Buddhist teaching. Anatta is everlasting process without end or start and is very helpful to eliminate the wrong view of "creation". So this is one vital explanation that Buddhism ahead of scientific theories. So if I say the fabricated absolute time concept not genuine and the declaration of "Anatta" is the fact and genuine invention,is it acceptable? 

First, the Buddha learned much from his teachers. See Ariyapariyesana Sutta: The Noble Search. Eventually he noticed that their approach didn't really reach the goal, so he discovered another approach. So we can say it's more important to develop our own meditation skills than mindlessly follow a prescribed method. However, proper methods are based on knowledge and experience. Experimenting by ourselves, without knowledge and experience, we can make very stupid mistakes. On the other hand, not all teachers are very good, so they can use not the best methods for you or they might explain them not so well. The practice can be confusing, if I don't understand properly what they teach. That's very true. It's dangerous to practise what you don't really understand, so don't do that. First try to understand well, then practice. Without good guidance and correct attitude, some meditators harmed themselves very much. Thus my answer is: definitely be attentive and let your practice be your own exploration. Only under that condition people really develop talent. On the other hand, study from others. Otherwise you hardly would go far. It's like tree and grass: exploring totally on our own, we grow at the height of grass. Exploring with the help of previous explorers, we grow at the height of tree. 

You are afraid not of enlightenment but of your thoughts. All those emotions and conditions you develop - they are because of thinking and imagination. Those thoughts do not really correspond with reality. So the most basic answer is: stop generating all those scary thoughts and unusual conditions. They look more like a sign of hypochondria rather than spiritual practice. Actually nirvana means "to cease shaking". Or "to extinguish vexations". When you stop shaking your mind, it stops to appear as existing. Imagine that you shake a bowl of water, and so you see moving plashes of reflected sunlight on the ceiling. When you stop shaking the bowl, and the water stands still, plashes disappear. There is some light in the room, but it doesn't appear as the result of the activity of the bowl. Likewise, nirvana means natural abiding, which is also non-abiding. No plashes, so no "existence", because "existence" is a concept that appears as the result of activity. In nirvana, there's no more of your activity. The body functions naturally, dissatisfaction disappeared. The body doesn't appear existing as some highlighted entity, it's just a part of natural life of the intertwined causes. It was actually the same when you "existed". You just had an illusion of some "existing self". It was always just a play of intertwined causes. So the point is: not that you lose existence in nirvana, but it becomes clear that this existence was illusory. Your births and deaths are ended, but there is neither existence nor non-existence. If you form new concepts from this explanations and start to play with them intellectually, that's probably not a correct practice. Better come to the natural state. Buddha explained nirvana not to feed people for mental games, but to explain how to cease mental stirring. What is there? Explore by your experience, not by developing more stirring! PS. See more about being "afraid of no-self" in the Dharma talk by Chan Master Simon Child, "Constructing a Sense of Self" (Chan Magazine, 2016 Winter). Free download: $URL$ 

Technically egg is a singular cell. it doesn't feel pain.So does break egg violate the first precept? Most often doctor prescribe fish oil(cod liver oil) as a medicine for rejuvenate brain cells as it contain omega -3? Doses it violate first precept? 

Find the mind! mind is the creator of every thing. even "mind" is a creation of mind. what ever you precept using mind with the help of other facilities like eye, ear, nose, skin and tongue. mind is a phenomena of nature which you can't find it's true nature. Only you can do is watch the brain scan how mind behaves and functions inside brain or monitor how neurons fire to maintain "mind stream". 

As we know people who stay in coma or unconsciousness "experience" timeless,space-less, absolute emptiness and total detachment from physical world. Even though I used the word "experience" will not suitable to describe the situation in coma or unconsciousness state. It is a condition with no happiness or sorrow, no pain,no darkness or light,no noise or sound etc....and finally we can say "unconditional state of mind." and closer to description of "Nirvana" 

Science categorize physical world in to solid,liquid,gas and energy(thermal,kinetic,nuclear,radiation etc....) when it analyze, prove that nothing more than those three state of material and energy and science has already proven the interconnection of energy and matter(in nuclear technology). Also the three state of matter is conditioned by energy.E.g when you apply heat(energy) to ice (solid) it will convert into water(liquid) and further reach steam(gas). Once we consider four great elements patavi,apo,thejo,vayo; is it an equivalent of above scientific categorization?