Really Martin's comment should be the answer, but note Wikipedia also gives: Alexander Grothendieck, 1984. "Esquisse d'un Programme", (1984 manuscript), finally published in Schneps and Lochak (1997, I), pp.5-48; English transl., ibid., pp. 243-283. and the latter reference is : Schneps, Leila; Lochak, Pierre, eds. (1997), Geometric Galois Actions I: Around Grothendieck's Esquisse D'un Programme, London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series, 242, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-59642-8 (This even has a MR number!) 

I think you need to check back into the history of homology and cohomology and the definition by Cech of the cohomology theory that bears his name. Then you will see the common root of both the numerable cover theory and of Grothendieck's definition of étale cohomology, sites, etc. 

Have a look at one of the standard texts such as Hatcher's book. Taking the singular complex of a topological space yields a simplicial set (or traditionally going one step further a chain complex). A topological homotopy yields a chain complex one between the induced maps. The difference between two homotopic chain maps will be homotopic to zero. Another way is to show that there is a cylinder on the category of chain complexes so that mimicking the topological definition of homotopy gives a notion for chain maps which then can be shown to be equivalent to the one you give. (Again this can be found in many books on abstract ideas of homotopy.) 

There is work on higher categories and rewriting theory. This considers higher categories as a way of encoding the resolutions of a theory which may itself be of a class of categories. The relevant names are Burroni, Metayer, Lafont, Malbos, Guiraud, so look them up and checkout their preprints etc. 

For related ideas, (rather than being strictly an answer), have a look at 'simplicial T-complex' as explored by some of Ronnie Brown's students is related. The nerve of a groupoid is one. I would also suggest that a strict Segal space is going to give you another related notion. The idea of $T$-complex is that it is a Kan complex with a subset of 'thin' simplices in each dimension such that any horn has a unique thin filler. These are to satisfy some axioms that I will not give here but which are at 'simplicial T-complex' in the n-Lab. Another idea to check out is that of complicial set, due to Dom Verity. I think that Eric may be correct, but that he does not give all the detail, (I just checked that $f= (f^{-1})^{-1}$, which seems to be true), so the point of my `answer' is that the generalisations of this are also important. 

Harry is wrong! Antonio CEGARRA, B. A. HEREDIA, and J. REMEDIOS: see $URL$ page 9. Fact 2.8. give the answer in a recent preprint. They know that stuff much better than I do! 

In his article on Simplicial Homotopy Theory (Advances in Math., 6, (1971), 107 –209) Curtis quotes a formula (on page 197) for the Whitehead and Samelson products in a simplicial group $G$. The formula for the Samelson product $\langle x,y\rangle$ of elements $x\in \pi_p(G)$ and $y\in \pi_q(G)$ is in terms of an ordered product of commutators of pairs of certain degenerate elements. The order of multiplication is determined by an antilex total order on the set of $(p,q)$-shuffles. I tried, and think I succeeded in filling in the details of this sketch from Curtis. I understand that the result was due to Dan Kan but that he never published it. My questions are (i) is there a published proof of this formula and if so where? (As I said I have a proof that it seems to work, but do not yet have one that it actually deserves to be called the Samelson product and that the related Whitehead product corresponds to the classical form, e.g. involving a 'universal example'.) and (ii) I have so far failed to prove that this formula gives a bilinear pairing on homotopy groups. (It is simple to prove a related formula which incorporates an action as in the Witt-Hall identities for commutators but I do not see why the action involved should be trivial as would seem to be required for the bilinearity result to hold.) Can anyone suggest a reference to a classical proof of bilinearity of the (topological) Whitehead product that is fairly categorical and hence adaptable to my simplicial setting. Most sources seem to leave it as an exercise and Whitehead's original approach although clear is very topological in nature. (Edit: I note that Adams in his Student's Guide to Algebraic Topology, stated: The Whitehead product is bilinear and anticommutative; this can be proved by diagram chasing with the universal example'. Unfortunately I have yet to find the diagram through which I have to chase, although I have tried several ones that initially seemed to give some hope of being good for the task in hand.) 

Have you looked at the relation with Whitehead torsion and simple homotopy theory? I forget the details and am no expert, but there is a lot of nice low dimensional geometric topology hidden in that theory if that is any help. Look at Milnor's paper, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc., 72 (3):(1966) 358–426. but also look at the Wikipedia articles on both types of torsion for a quick entry point to the ideas. 

A good source for this sort of reasoning is: J.-J. Meyer and W. van der Hoek, Epistemic Logic for AI and Computer Science, Number 41 in Cambridge Tracts in Theoretical Computer Science, Cambridge University Press, 1995. The question of common knowledge, and of the algorithmics of epistemic modal logics, provides a lot of good material on this sort of problem. (It is good fun to try the mathematical side of this in Popularisation activities. I used Muddy Children with various groups with a lot of laughter and appreciation of the mathematical models.) 

I am not certain if he provides the answer to your question, but Dan Isaksen's paper: Calculating limits and colimits in pro-categories, Fundamenta Mathematicae 175 (2002) 175--194. is relevant I think. The point is that the reindexing lemmas in procategories provide a powerful tool for calculating limits and colimits.