Summary Third-person, objective 'science' is excellent for studying objects and learning how to manipulate them, but terrible for helping subjects (e.g. human beings) thrive if used as the sole means. I could be wrong about this, but materialism seems to militate against there being an interior realm of existence—the mind—which is potentially infinite in complexity (given the right resources to grow). It seems to argue for something like atomism, where everything is finite in the ultimate equation and we'll end up figuring out how everything works and how to manipulate everything, which if you've ever tried to grow plants or raise children, is a pretty terrible strategy. What I've said below many apply to materialism qua materialism, but it certainly does seem to apply to current applications of materialism, during the practice of science. What is 'knowledge'? It is important to understand the shift in definition of 'knowledge', spurred by Francis Bacon. The following is from Owen Barfield's Saving the Appearances: A Study in Idolatry: 

I am therefore inclined to say that in the end, an experience machine would be unsatisfactory. It would have diminishing returns in its ability to provide happiness. For any finite period of time, it might be 'better' than people being exposed to reality, but I predict that over any sufficiently large period of time, it would be found severely wanting. Any experience machine would ultimately turn into a personal hell. 

There is nothing wrong with this statement, logically. But we greatly dislike discontinuities like this, because they make it hard if not impossible to understand the past. So we do our best to work under the assumption that no fundamental physical laws take this form. This being said, it is possible that fundamental physical constants could change slightly from one part of space to another—perhaps in a continuous fashion. This, we are more likely to be able to understand. I wonder if you're really asking: Why does reality seem to be rationally understandable? My claim is that if statistics didn't describe our actual world, that it would not likely be rationally understandable. This has hints of the anthropic principle, given that if the universe weren't rationally understandable, we wouldn't be observing that fact. So, I would suggest a reformulation that is probably too broad for Philosophy.SE: What makes a possible world comprehensible to a mind? It could turn out that only comprehensible worlds can contain minds—that you simply cannot construct a mind within an incomprehensible world. At the very least, you'd have to provide an "island of comprehensibility" where the mind would dwell—probably unsatisfactorily. Therefore, I say that statistics probably (heh) works necessarily, because you are asking. (!) 

Michael Tooley has some interesting things to say about time and causation in Time, Tense, and Causation: 

A profound empirical disproof of this antinomy between 'reason' and 'emotion' can be found in António Damásio's 1994 Descartes' Error (19,000 'citations'): 

A slightly more formal way to explain error is as following, which I recently used to reach common definition of 'belief' and related concepts. Consider the following overlapping sets:      (1) every action is predicated on a set of { A }      (2) every thought is predicated on a set of { T }      (3) every belief is basic or predicated on a set of { B }      (4) a person will report a set of beliefs { R } We can debate as to whether every element of A ∪ T ∪ B ∪ R is called a 'belief'. For example, I often say 'tentative belief' to describe some elements of A ∪ T. I would also question whether R ⊂ ( A ∪ T ∪ B ), given Schwitzgebel's work. That is, not all reported beliefs are 'actual beliefs', where I define 'actual' as precisely A ∪ T ∪ B. Note that we could have the same 'belief' in two different sets, but at differing confidence levels. Anyhow, the important aspect of the above system is that it lets us talk about error. There are two types:      (I) extroverted sense error (in T ∪ B)      (II) introverted sense error (in B ∪ R) Error of type (I) will thwart my ability to understand what others are communicating and what they are like. Error of type (II) will thwart my ability to understand what I am thinking and what I am like. Now I am ready to address your questions: 

What science shows is that different ontologies can produce extremely similar phenomenologies. And so, unless you can discern the phenomenology with sufficient precision, you simply cannot know which ontology undergirds the phenomena. And so, (1) may be permanently impossible. Evidence may never, ever give 'proof' of (2). It can, however, establish that (1) is the case. That's done all the time, and is expressed by the phrase, "The model matches the evidence quite well." 

A person's inability to accurately self-report beliefs does not mean he/she does not have beliefs, and nor does it mean that he/she cannot be well-modeled as having beliefs. Predictability does not require rationality. 

Thought of in this way, you might find your imagined 'best' future challenged by finding people who don't seem to 'fit' in it. 

No. Any activity which would drive up demand for blood diamonds will increase the money/resources which goes to those who procure them. The only moral actions would be: 

Excepting tautologies, truths are unknowable except by approximation; we must remember that science models reality, but it does not say what reality is. Models are made up of axioms & theorems. To the extent that our theorems match our observations ('the facts'), we think that our axioms are [close to] truths. P.S. The word 'reality' in this answer can be replaced with 'possible world'; what is true in a fictional world may not be true in our actual world. Assuming there is an objective reality, of course. :-) 

For more, see his On Physics and Philosophy; you might be able to make some sense out of a bit from his conclusion, pp410–411. 

What is 'real'? Does measurement induce information loss, such that we can only ever know reality partially? In the quantum realm, all [time-]evolution of a system is unitary, which means that it is linear and time-reversible. But measurement is nonlinear and time-irreversible: once you observe a discrete value, the probability distribution the system was in becomes irrelevant, and you cannot reconstruct that probability distribution with the single value that popped out. Why does QM 'break' in this way? Is there additional information dumped somewhere when a measurement happens, such that it merely appears to be nonlinear and time-irreversible? Why is there even a classical realm? Is it some function of consciousness which depends on thinking in terms of discrete values instead of probability distributions? Does/can the observer influence how the wavefunction collapses? 

At least, I see no alternative method for lowering demand. Without lowering demand, how will the pressure to produce more blood diamonds not continue to exist, replete with oppression, etc.? P.S. For those disinclined to support any use of shame, see In Defense of Shame. 

Language does not 'grow' to encompass anything new. It is fixed, unchanging as a rock. Language no longer connects to reality in any systematic way. 

One can posit that there are other ways to get water than via rain, negating 3., and thereby undermining the conclusion. You're looking for something where one "unduly restricts the possible causes of X", e.g. argument from ignorance. I'm assuming here that you grant that plants do indeed exist. 

The idea that emotions are opposed to reason is an Enlightenment dogma; see for example Stephen Toulmin's 1992 Cosmopolis: The Hidden Agenda of Modernity (2500 'citations'): 

I wrote the following for an question that was deleted (author thought he was up to secretive stuff); it was an answer to what happens when you do things in smaller and smaller time-steps, or something like that. It might be helpful to you, at least for more search terms. To add one thing, it might be helpful to look for how philosophers grappled with quantization, for that might help you zero in on people who used to think about smoothness and had to change how they thought on specifically that matter.