Modern bog shoes are special footwear made for bog walking, or bogshoeing. Bogshoeing is essentially snowshoeing through marshlands. It's popular in Finland, and Estonia where they have large bogs that comprise over 20% of the country's area. Traversing these bogs is difficult or impossible without using bog-shoes, which are similar in appearance to snowshoes. Bog shoes make otherwise inaccessible wetlands accessible by foot, the shoes prevent the hiker from sinking into the bog, and from causing potential damage to the environment. They have been used for many years for crossing bogs, and are now becoming a draw for tourists to visit large marshlands. 

I could come up with other reasons not to wear so many clothes that it makes you sweat; like body odour, excessive laundry, pit-stains, swass... There's also the hassle of trying to go to the bathroom when you're seven layers thick (especially if one of the layers is a pair of bib pants). If you're out running for exercise, there's nothing wrong with sweating, as long as you have a warm place to rehydrate after your run, but if you sweat while you're exposed to the great outdoors, then you're asking for trouble. 

What is recommended after finishing a sport climb--lowering off from the anchors or rappelling ? Rappelling preserves the hardware better, but is usually thought to be more dangerous since you take yourself off-belay. I'm assuming the answer changes depending on the hardware at the top: 

Moving up a 1 cm wide campus board one hand at a time is on par with the intensity of V4/V5 boulder moves, approximately. So unless you're very comfortable bouldering in this range, it's not suggested because you will probably injure yourself. If you are past this phase, then campusing is a very good training tool for increasing strength and power in a very focused manner, compared to just climbing random routes at a gym. I don't agree with the previous answer that it's just for people who climb better than 7c (5.12d/V9-ish)--you can definitely incorporate it into your workout long before then with moderation. Unlike climbing routes at a gym, which have lots of different styles, campusing allows you to very quantitatively monitor your progress. One week you can only hang on a rung for 2 seconds; next week you're up to 5 seconds--that is well-defined progress. It's also more efficient compared to climbing in some respects because of its high intensity. Here are some training exercises that the campus board is good for (Note: all should be done with an open-hand grip): 

These ones aren't super easy to fill in flowing water, you need to use two hands and depending on the flow they tend to spill a lot. Easiest thing is exactly what you were doing, fill a bottle and pour it into the bag, I always carry an extra nalgene, even when I'm carrying my camelbak, it's handy to have for those small streams where you can't seem to get your bladder under the water. Personally, I prefer the Camelbak twist closure over the slide tops, even though it can be a pain to open if you tighten it too much, and it does drip a bit sometimes, they're just easier to fill. 

Say you're camping in the backcountry where there aren't any developed campsites or fire rings. What methods are there for building a camp fire that will leave absolutely no trace afterwards? 

Found an answer by Minnesota's Department of Natural Resources. For new, clear ice, 4 inches should be good for ice skating or any activity involving just a person's weight. They recommend double that thickness (8 inches) for white ice which has about half the strength. 

The main reason this occurs is that the total thermal resistance of an outfit is the sum of thermal resistances of the layers. Thus, even if you have a really thermally conductive, water-soaked layer, heat is still limited by the most thermally insulating layers. Evaporative Heat Losses The figure below shows the evaporative heat losses for different materials combinations. Because cotton retains more water, less water evaporates, resulting in lower heat losses. 

Conclusions While cotton does retain much more moisture than other synthetic materials, it does not necessarily translate into significantly larger heat losses when layered with an outer shell. Breathable and water wicking layers will remove water, but at the expense of evaporative heating losses. The comfort of not having a moist layer next to your skin is another issue to consider, though. 

I come form a coal mining town, in the mines they call the change rooms the 'dry', because mines can be very wet places and the 'dry' is where you'd dry out your clothes. Before they started putting ventilated lockers in the drys, they used to hang their clothes on hooks under baskets that they'd raise up to the ceiling with a rope and pulley system to where is was warm and all your things could dry: 

Image Credit: Freedom of the Hills The equalette is tied from 6m (20ft) of 7mm or smaller diametre accessory cord tied with a double or triple fishermans knot depending on the material of the cord. To set it up, first tie of a 25cm (10") section with overhand limiter knots near the middle of the equalette, this is going to be your self-equalizing clip in point. Where exactly you tie it may be offset from centre depending on where your anchors are relative to the direction of pull, but wherever you tie it, you're going to be left with two larger loops on either side. This is where you're left to your own creativity, using any combination of knots, tie the loops to your anchors using one or more elements per side. Using two locking carabiners is preferable for clipping your rope to the equalette, clipping one biner into each of the loops between the limiter knots. You can still use just one carabiner, as long as you put a half twist in one of the loops to make a sliding-x, but this reintroduces friction into the system. An equalette may seem complicated at first, but it addresses the shortcomings of other systems, and needn't take any more time to set up than other systems. Examples: 

Effect of Wet Conduction Much of the argument against cotton is that when it's wet, it transfers a lot of heat from your body. While this is true if all you are wearing is a single cotton layer, it doesn't seem to hold up when you are wearing an outer layer. When comparing the heat loss of cotton + impermeable outer layer with and without sweating, the authors state: 

I think even asking sometimes can be impolite. Some people just have a hard time saying 'no', even if they don't want you there. If there's a good chance they wouldn't want you in the group, don't put them in a difficult situation. Probably Don't Ask: 

Results Moisture Distribution in Layers The change in mass of each layer was measured after the experiment to determine how much moisture was absorbed. Cotton contains almost 4x the amount of water as polypropylene (a much more hydrophobic material). Also note that more of the water is contained right at the skin layer for polypropylene and polyester. The outer layer makes the biggest difference in where the moisture goes, with semi-permeable and permeable outer layers resulting in most of the water being evaporated. This tells us what we already expect, but how does that effect total heat loss? 

Our fish fillets went on the rack, then we wrapped the whole thing with tinfoil (tinfoil underneath too), shiny side in. We used maple boughs for our smoker wood by sticking the ends into our camp fire to get them hot and burning, and after they had some nice hot cherries glowing on the end of them we blew the flames out and stuck them in the bottom of our smoker, right under the rack. It was a process of constantly replenishing the smoking boughs, we'd have a bunch in the fire, and swap them out for the old ones in the smoker every couple minutes. The result was amazing. The fish had that maple smoked flavour, but was also cooked from the heat of the boughs. 

Project Remote was started by a scientifically-minded couple to quantitatively determine the most remote locations in each of the 50 states mainly using the distance to the nearest road or town and whether cel phone coverage is available. They've cataloged quite a few states already east of the Mississippi, which you can check out here: Project Remote. The caveat is that the exact coordinates are kept secret to protect the area's remoteness, although the general location is specified. Here is a map of what they found. Each documented state (light green) has a pretty extensive report of the area, along with distance to nearest road, cel phone coverage, and accessibility issues: 

A lot of runners use calf and leg compression sleeves, as these are supposed to improve blood flow. It would seem a logical extension to use compression sleeves on your forearms during climbing, especially on pumpy routes. Are there anecdotal or actual studies on the effectiveness of forearm compression sleeves for climbing? 

A long time ago, a seasoned hunter and bushman who has been through more pairs of hiking boots than I will ever own in my lifetime offered me a valuable piece of advice in regards to hiking boots: 

The answer to this question will vary on your level of foot strength and the terrain. Human beings did pretty well for thousands of years without supportive footwear, but when they started walking on hard stone and climbing rocky mountains they quickly discovered their feet weren't suited for it. You'll notice that most large mammals that live at high elevation have hooves. Most people entering the minimalist barefoot shoe niche grew up wearing sneakers that provided some level of support for your arch/ankle/etc., which has the byproduct of under-developing the stabilizer muscles in your feet as you grow and mature. The result is very sore feet after using the minimalist shoes for long periods of time; the risk is causing a muskuloskeletal disorder from straining these muscles by using them excessively before they have the opportunity to properly develop. It's not unhealthy to wear minimalist footwear, but on what terrain your wear them could be bad for your body in the long run. Human beings were never meant to walk or run exclusively on hard pavement or sidewalks. Nor were we designed to clamber around on sharp rocks at high elevations. Homo Sapiens are a low-elevation tropical animals, You'll notice the vast majority of the world's population is still in Southern Asia, which is very tropical. We had to adapt technology like clothes and footwear in order to thrive in other environments. If you're running on soft ground and you have the foot strength, then there are plenty of arguments in favour of minimalist shoes being better for you than other shoes, because it brings your posture and gait back to what nature intended it to be. If you're hiking in the mountains on uneven rocky terrain, especially while carrying a heavy bag, then you'd be better off wearing a supportive hiking boot, emulating a sturdy hoof of a high-altitude ungulate. 

Experimental Summary Here is a rough summary of their experimental setup so you can understand the applicability and limitations to real-life scenarios. 

Here is an article that quantifies the heat loss effects of cotton, polyester and polypropylene: Rossi et al., Dry and Wet Heat Transfer Through Clothing Dependent on the Clothing Properties Under Cold Conditions, International Journal of Occupational Safety and Ergonomics (JOSE) 2008, Vol. 14, No. 1, 69–76. 

Montana: 18.0 miles from nearest road, no cel coverage Idaho: 17.6 miles from nearest road, no cel coverage Florida: 17.0 miles from nearest road, no cel coverage Minnesota: 14.3 miles from nearest road, no cel coverage 

Heat Loss of Permeable vs Impermeable Outer Layers The following figure shows heat loss results for different outer layers while keeping the inner layer polypropylene. Notably, total heat loss is lower for an impermeable outer layer compared to a permeable one. The reason is that evaporation of water is higher (see the previous figure), which removes energy from the body. Despite an impermeable layer having higher liquid water content, total heat loss is lower due to less moisture evaporation. 

Like Rory said in his answer, you're likely going to have to 4x4 to the end of the road to find a good vehicle-free area to hike in. That's what Bear Grylls did on his adventure in Iceland: Man vs. Wild, Season 7 Episode 3 - Iceland: "Fire and Ice" 

There are a lot of different styles of edge protectors and edge rollers, but you can typically find them or order them at rescue supply stores. A slightly more affordable option is a rope pad: 

If it's below freezing, then you don't need to do much more to it apart from take it off of the animal. The Inuit in Northern Canada wear raw caribou hides, and keep them in the freezer over the summer months. So if you're in need of a warm coat to stave off the cold. You can just put it on raw and it'll suffice. To make it soft, you'll need to scrape off all the fat and other tissues, then chew it. In a true survival situation, you can wear a bloody stinking hide and it will be plenty adequate to keep you warm, and keep you alive.