"There's no point believing in things that exist" - Terry Pratchett. Belief has always come first. Humans believe in all kinds of things that don't exist, then they act as if they did exist. We seem to be hard-wired to paint agency onto the world where none exists, a tendency that has led to all manner of superstitions and religions. A lonely shepherd searching for a lost lamb stumbles and falls down a slope, and winds up landing right next to the lamb he was seeking; this can't be just a coincidence, he thinks, and remembers the spot as special. Belief has begun. He starts going there first when he's lost a sheep, and becasue there's a convenient water source there, he keeps finding them. Other shepherds do the same. Before long, the cult of the Sheep God has started. A silent monster stalks the darkness outside the village. People who leave the circle of safety in the night do not return. The local wise man blames the town drunk, who is driven out into the darkness. The leopard has learned that it can get an easy meal from the human village, and the wise man has learned he can get rid of troublemakers. The cult of the Leopard God has started. The followers of a rabble-rousing mystic are bereft, wondering what to do after their leader has been executed. They comfort one another telling stories about the wonderful things he did, and was going to do. They make excuses - he has transcended the mortal plane! The Living Force needed him to return! He's not really dead, because he cannot be killed! He was struck down, and has become more powerful than you can possibly imagine! And the Cult of the Force Ghost enters a new phase. The novel Small Gods, by Terry Pratchett, goes into a lot of detail about the growth of gods from belief. It describes 'gods' as being the tiny, unheard spirits of tiny things, like the place where two ant trails cross, or the micro-climate beneath two leaves, which are always craving human belief. With human belief, they gain power, and as they gain power they grow to become true gods. It's a fascinating metaphor for the development of religion in our world. 

For reasons that are too complicated to explain right now, I'm currently living on the edges of a late Bronze Age/early Iron Age set of civilisations, and I need to make a long overland journey. The world is currently in a pangaea-esque supercontinent; Civilisation, such as there is and what there is of it, is concentrated into clumps here and there, often around rivers, mines, lakes, etc. Starting from a Western European type culture, I need to travel from the west coast to the east, a journey of around four thousand miles or so, with one adult, two children, and a dog. I'll be 'village hopping', hiking or boating from one patch of civilisation to the next, and I'll need to cross various physical barriers like forests, low mountains, probably the odd desert or two... What should I pack for my journey? Assume that I'm carrying a few valuables for trade so I can resupply at villages every few weeks, so I don't need to carry food for the whole trip all at once. What tools and weapons would I have with me? What medical supplies would I have access to? How much could the children carry? And perhaps the most important question, how would I make fire? I don't have flint and steel, because steel hasn't been invented; would I use a fire bow, or carry an ember with me? 

No Money, as we understand it, is essentially worthless, and it should be worthless. It serves as a medium for exchange, where a given amount of money is agreed to have a certain value, but the tokens exchanged are more or less valueless. There are good reasons for this. Bullets-as-currency would be a form of commodity money, a relatively primitive form of exchange which is essentially formalised barter. Every time you shoot a bullet, you're upsetting the local economy - you're draining value from the economy and deflating the currency. A decent-sized zombie outbreak could upset the economy of the whole village - all of a sudden the farmer who sold his potatoes yesterday for twenty bullets can afford to buy the whole lot back again and still have bullets to spare! Bullets as currency are volatile, in a way that gold is not. Bullets as currency would be relatively easy to fake - if I'm charging you one hundred NATO rounds for a sack of potatoes, I can't quickly check all 100 rounds to ensure that all the bullets are lead, all the casings are proper brass, all of them are filled with powder, etc, so you can pass of ten good rounds and ninety duds. I can quickly weigh five gold pieces and make sure they weigh what I expect them to. Bullets are too complex to be good currency. Gresham's Law is in full force in a commodity currency, especially with something like bullets. This holds that in a financial system with both good (pure) money and bad (debased) money, the good money will disappear from circulation. Why? Well, after you fooled me with those duds, I'm going to want to get rid of the duds and hold onto the good ones, so I'll hurry out and buy some wandering trader's pretty daughter with as many duds as I can manage. Thus the number of good bullets in circulation will steadily drop, and the number of duds will increase, until everyone's just trading duds. Different calibers would also make the currency that works in one place totally worthless in another. If I use a 9mm to keep the rabid were-weasels off my mushrooms, then I'll happily give you a sack of fungus in exchange for fifty silver 9mm rounds. My neighbour, who's tormented by vampire elephants, isn't going to put any value on those rounds; he'll only sell you a bag of apples in exchange for ten blessed nitro express rounds. Now, a lot of this could be bypassed if your rising civilisation standardised what type of bullet could be used for currency, what caliber, material, etc - but if you're doing that, why not just go with a disc of gold instead? Gold is really an ideal substance for a basic currency. It's easily identified, not that easy to fake, it holds its value indefinitely, and it has essentially no practical use, so the amount in circulation will stay the same. You buy a sack of mushrooms from me for five gold coins; I turn around and buy the merchant's daughter with those same gold coins; the merchant happily buys your useless nitro express rounds for five gold coins (while I was explaining this, the vampire elephants got to old Fred. Terrible shame). Now everyone's got something they value, and the money has even ended up back where it started, leaving everyone richer! Bullets could still be used as a medium of exchange If you happen to have one hundred NATO rounds, and I know that the merchant has a rifle that can use them, I might well trade you the mushrooms for the bullets, provided you can prove that they're all good (and provided you can check the sack first), and then I'd swap the bullets for the daughter later on; but that's not money, that's barter. Currency or money implies some universal standard, which 'bullets' as a group do not have. 

Don't tell them that's what you're doing I know Mr. Deity values free will, but one of the best ways to ensure a free choice is to appear to remove all consequence. It's easy to make a clear choice based on your ideals if you don't think you're going to have to live with the consequences. As an omnipotent and super-wise god-like being, I assume Mr. Deity has the ability to run around 4.5 billion simulations at the same time, so it should visit us all in our dreams. Dreams are pretty crazy, and we're conditioned to accept all kinds of weirdness in a dream state. Mr. Deity therefore goes to each of us in an apparent dream, and presents us with our choices. At this stage, he can beam any knowledge we need to make an informed judgement directly into our minds, and we'll accept it - we all know those crazy dreams where you know things you can't possibly know, after all - and let us run through scenarios representing our options. He does this several times, until he reaches a consensus with as few outliers as possible, and then grants us that consensus. If he wants to be blatant, then everyone on earth will be given the same dream on the same night. If he wants to be subtle, he'll pick out a few million each night to have the dream. If he wants to be really subtle, he can also ensure that we remain asleep after the dream has ended, so that we won't even remember the dream. 

Windbreaks, and wind turbines. Per the US Department of Energy, a good windbreak can reduce windspeed for a distance of around 30 x the windbreak's height. A 30-metre high windbreak would be needed to protect 1 km of space. That's a decent height to build, but it's not impossible. Construction methods will vary depending on conditions and available materials. It could be as simple as an earthen bank - you could make it even more efficient by digging soil from the field you want to protect, reducing its height, and using that to build your windbreak. If you're worried about erosion, flood waters, etc, you would build around a central core of steel pilings driven into the soil, surrounded with gravel and/or concrete, then pile the soil around that. You would then line the windward side of your bank with wind turbines for power generation. Exactly how the turbines would affect the wind flow is not currently clear - it's an area of active research - but in 25 years, and with a lab as effective as this colony, we can be reasonably sure the engineeers would be able to place them efficiently. And, nitpick - the engineers are a corps, not a core. It's pronounced the same, but has a very different meaning. 

I'm designing a sentient, aquatic creature, and trying to decide how many eyes it should have. This creatures biological strategy is one of redundancy - it has multiple mouths, multiple tentacles, multiple...well, lots of multiples of lots of things. I was thinking of giving it multiple relatively primitive eye-patches scattered across its 'head', but I also want it to have something close to human-level vision. I'm afraid I don't quite follow the quality differences between compound eyes vs complex eyes, so: Is it plausible for a creature with many small eyes to have vision as good as a human? If not, how good would each individual eye have to be to roughly match human sight?