The phrase "seeing things as they are" is rather uninformative for the untrained mind or when expressed without at the same time giving proper meditational instructions on how to actually see the true nature of things. Seeing phenomena as they are means to see the Three Marks of Existence, i.e. the Impermanence, Unsatisfactoriness and Uncontrollability of all conditioned phenomena. This can be seen by correctly practicing insight meditation. When sadness is present it is watched with an objective and non-inferential approach meaning that one does not grasp at or cling to the sadness. Instead one just observes it until it ceases on its own accord. By doing so one trains the mind to not react. The untrained mind reacts by liking or disliking phenomena. That is how it has been working for a long time. You could say that it is the habitual state for the untrained mind. In insight meditation we train the mind to not do that anymore. Sadness is just a phenomena. It arises on its own accord and ceases when its causes has been exhausted. But if aversion towards that sadness arises then we are dealing with an unwholesome state of mind. Aversion is one of the three unwholesome roots. Actions done by body, speech or mind, that are based in the unwholesome roots, can only lead to unwholesome future resultants. Said in another way - if one reacts with aversion towards the sadness one is setting oneself up for future suffering. That is made very clear by the Buddha in AN 4:232 - Four Kinds of Kamma: 

If i may kindly correct the beginning sentence of your question, i.e. "In Buddhism, we believe in rebirth and karma." We actually try to verify these things for ourselves by studying reality through insight meditation, thereby gaining insights into how reality functions. We practice to gain experiental knowledge instead of believing things to be in a certain way. Through insight meditation one will come to see that phenomena arise dependent on causes and conditions. One sees that phenomena can spawn new phenomena. Looking for a first cause is problematic. Why is that? A first cause breaks causality. One can then ask "What caused the first cause? Or What caused the cause that caused the first cause? And so on ad infinitum". This question of origin also belongs to The Four Imponderables, namely the 4th one "Speculation about [the origin, etc., of] the cosmos is an imponderable that is not to be speculated about". The Buddha explained that is it not conducive to ones practice to think about these things. That is because one cannot understand it unless one is a Buddha. If one is not a Buddha thinking about them will only leave the mind agitated and distressed which will not be beneficial for ones practice. 

My advice would be to change your sitting posture from a soft surface onto a firm surface. When sitting you want to: 

Replacing the hindrance with its opposite, e.g. replacing hatred/ill-will with thoughts of loving-kindness. Contemplating the arisen hindrance as vile and ignoble, since it has entered the mind without permission or any control. Shifting attention away from the hindrance. Shifting attention onto the hindrance and thoroughly contemplating it by investigating its causes and conditions for arising together with its characteristics. Removing the hindrance with force, just as a strong man would pin a weaker man to the ground. 

It might mean that when staying in the present moment and not letting the mind straying into past or future even for one moment, Wisdom (natural understanding) will arise. 

These hindrances can become a barrier for the development of meditation. For example if one has a tendency to have ill-will towards beings, objects or situations this ill-will can give further rise to anger, resentment or hatred in the mind which agitaes and distorts the mind so that it cannot see clearly or concentrate without wavering. In order to develop strong concentration we have to do away with wavering of the mind. The antidote for ill-will is loving-kindness. One should then practice Metta meditation. You can learn more about Metta meditation here. So you see it depends on the being how long it will take to develop e.g. a strong concentration. There are different factors we can mention e.g. practice of the dhamma in this life and past lives, how much time is available for practice, how intense the hindrances are in that being and many other factors. The best way to develop the concentration you are asking for is to begin practicing yourself and then see for yourself how long it will take. You are actually the only person that can answer it. A Buddha can also answer the question though but then you have to find one to ask. Lanka 

1 Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma, Ch. 5: "Compendium of the Process-Freed", p. 201, by Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi 2 The Debate of King Melinda, Ch. 2: "Rebirth", p. 47, by Ven. Bhikkhu Pesala 

Several factors must be fulfilled in order to break the 1st precept. The five factors of the first precept are: 

I do recommend reading the whole blogpost. Its well written and i think it will provide the answers you are looking for. Lanka 

Based on that i would think examples of questions could be: Can one learn to fly? Can one read others minds? Can one travel in time? Can one become invinsible? Can one perform magic tricks? Can one see through walls? Can one transform into another physical form? If you are interested in this "The Visuddhimagga" has a section called "THE SUPERNORMAL POWERS" on p. 369-400. In here you will find the benefits of concentration and the kinds of Supernormal Powers. Here is an example of a power: 

Meditation practice in the morning is actually a great time to develop the mind due to the lack of sense stimuli. When we go out in the world the bombardement of sense stimuli begins. If one is dull in the morning one can splash cold water onto the face or do walking meditation in a brisk tempo immediately followed by sitting meditation. One can also make a strong mental resolution to practice or practice sitting meditation with eyes open for a while. There are different ways to arouse the energy faculty. Most important thing is to balance the faculties, i.e. to balance Concentration (Sam캐dhi) with Energy (Viriya) and Wisdom (Pa침침캐) with Faith (Saddha). For information on how to overcome the Hindrances I would recommend the book "The Five Mental Hindrances and Their Conquest" by Nyanaponika Thera. 

The insight meditational way to deal with e.g. increased salivation, uncomfortable sensations in the body would be to take them as an object, note them and let them go. If for example increased salivation is happening, take the feeling of the saliva touching the inner mouth parts and note that a couple of times and then let it go. If an intention to swallow arises, note that intention. That is the "nama" part of reality. The saliva arising is the "rupa" part. Rupa arises and nama knows it. Nama knows rupa. Rupa does not know nama. You will come to see the physical and mental aspect of reality. The two streams. You will come to see the characteristics of conventional reality, i.e. impermanence, unsatisfactoriness and uncontrollability of conditioned phenomena. If you need further help feel free to contact me. Email is on profile page. 

By doing insight meditation one will come to realize the 3 signs of existence, i.e. anicca, dukkha and anatta and thereby seeing for oneself that the conditioned reality is made up of mental and physical phenomena that arises and ceases all the time. There is no "owner" of these phenomena. There is "noone" in control. This short quote is from Mahasi Sayadaw regarding anatta: 

Great and important question. There isnt really anything different by being mindful while one is studying. Its not like the method or technique changes if one is studying or if one is e.g. doing the dishes. One is mindful of the 5 aggregates of clinging which are; material form, feelings, perception, mental formations and consciousness. They take place all the time and are present in everything we do. When one is reading there is the awareness of the first aggregate of material form that is the eye-sense-base and its corresponding external object which is light and visible forms. There is also the feeling arising when contact happens i.e. when the mind contacts the object. Also there is perception and consciousness which work in tandem to cognize an object. And there is mental formations present i.e. the volition to see, to advert the mind to the object. This is the same when one is studying. One can be aware of the reading, knowing that now reading is taking place. If one is studying in a chair or sofa one can be aware of the posture one uses. When one is turning the pages in a book one can be aware of the movement and note "turning, turning" or "moving, moving". Of course one has to always sent the mind out to the object in order to be in the present moment. The important thing here is the noting/reminding as these phenomena arises, are present and when they cease. Its important to catch them and observe them thereby guarding the sense doors. Here is a quote from the book "Fundamentals Of Insight Meditation", chapter: The Right Method, p. 7-12: 

And here is a short quote from Ven. K. Sri Dhammanandas book "What Buddhists Believe", chapter 5: "Basic Doctrines", p. 152. 

I would like to answer your question with a quote on the Buddha. The quote is from the book "What Buddhists Believe" by Ven. K. Sri Dhammananda, p. 32-33: 

Vitakka and Vicara is practiced in the same way as in all other forms of Samatha meditation. Vitakka means to apply the Mind to the object and Vicara means to continually keep the Mind on the object. Vitakka is like striking a bell once. Vicara is like striking a bell continually with a little pause between strikes so that the bell sounds will have a balanced and continuous flow. Hope this helps. If you have any questions to the post feel free to ask. 

Mind can exist without the physical body, i.e. Nama can exist without Rupa. Mind is not dependent on a physical body, whereas the physical body is fully dependent on Mind and cannot exist without it. The physical body cannot do anything before an intention arises in the Mind. Some beings in other realms are "mind-only". They have no physical body and therefore no locality, hence they cannot be located in space. Since they have no physical body and therefore no ear-faculty, they are not able to hear Dhamma teachings. These beings can be found in the Immaterial Realm (Arupa Loka).