If you feel any form of discomfort when you start running, then it is a good idea to extend your warm up a bit to properly warm the affected joints or muscles. Exactly which type of warm up you should use, depends on many different factors, and the easiest way is simply to google for warm up before running. As a rule of thumb use dynamic rather than static exercises! EDIT: This article pretty much sums up my opinion on dynamic vs static stretches in warm-up... I usually use a couple of minutes to exercise all my joints to make sure they are all properly lubricated before I start. That often match the time it takes before my watch have found the current location... For races, interval training and other high intensity runs, it is a completely different story... Then I usually make sure all the core muscles are properly warmed up as well - e.g. by jogging slowly for 20 minutes... 

I'm an avid runner and like so many other runners, I like to get a measurement or number for my current fitness. I use the measurements for two purposes: to see how the different types of exercises affects the fitness and to see how much I can challenge myself for a specific race. But how exactly can I measure fitness? For the last 4 years, I have used SportTracks and in particular the Training Load plugin to calculate CTL, ATL and Training Stress Balance and have used these numbers as a measurement for my current fitness. Historically, these numbers comes from work by Dr. Coggan and others (as described in this article by Hunter Allen) for use by cyclists and was later adapted for use by runners. Originally, CTL and ATL was based on a power meter (TSS - Training Stress Score), but for runners the concept of TRIMP (TRaining IMPulse) was used instead as it is rather difficult to directly measure the power used by a runner. As TRIMP is based on a simple accumulation of your heart-rate over the course of the run, it makes good sense as an alternative to TSS. But... I curious, and I wonder whether there are other similar (well-founded) numbers that can be used to calculate your fitness? I forgot: One such number is rTSS (running TSS) by Dr. Steve Macgregor, but it seems to be nearly impossibly to use for your daily runs as it requires many subjective numbers... 

where the record-time is the best recorded time for the specified distance, gender and age. So as an example assume you are a 48 years old male running half-marathon at 1:42:12 (me). Then you need to know the record time for the WAVA 2006 tables: 1:06:23. And you age grade is then 

[Warning: Not really an answer to the question, but never the less an alternative...] I, for one, have given my office chair away! Or rather... I have replaced it with an exercise ball. 

I too have asthma, though I don't think mine is quite as servere as yours. My asthma is primary provoked by cold weather so it is (only) a real problem during the Winter - during the Summer, I can normally live well without any sorts of medication. (I also occasionally get an asthma attach for no apparent reason, so I expect that I'm allergic to something as well - unfortunately I don't know what it is yet) I use two different sorts of inhalers - see the details below. One I use regularly morning and evening and the another on demand and when I do sports. When using my inhalers correctly I can participate in cardio sports like everybody else. I usually run 40-50 km/week and commute to and from work 150 km/week. I run 3-4 marathons a year as well as 15-20 half-marathons. As long as I'm careful with the inhalers, I have no problems at all. I would recommend you contact a specialist in asthmatic diseases. I have yet to find an ordinary doctor that knows enough to handle the complex cases correct. The special interest group for asthmatic diseases in Denmark states that well-treated asthma should not limit your life and sport activities... By the way, did you know that an estimated 25% of all elite athletes are affected by asthma? Please note that some sorts of asthma medications will require a TUE (Therapeutic Use Exemptions) 

I usually have 8-900 km in pair of shoes... After 100 km I measure the sole depth and when it is 10-20 % less - usually 3-4 mm after 8-900 km - I start looking for new shoes... Very unscientific... but it works for me :-) EDIT: By the way: Basically I use a normal ruler. I put in inside the shoe and measure the hight to the next shelf in my bookcase... Easy :-) I do this every 100 km or so. 

I have had the exact same problem for the last year or so, but I have gotten around the problem by tying my shoes in a slight different manner (see below). From the various expects I consulted when I encounted the problem, I understand, that it usually is one of two problems for my age-group (47): a stress fracture in the foot or a inflammation of the ligaments that "runs" over the top of the foot. You usually develop both with too much training (no surprise there) and you also best cure the problems with plenty of rest (hopefully no surprise there either). For the inflammation you might also want to use some sort of Ibuprofen based product as that can help with the inflammation... I have a slightly different problem, as it is the small "tendon sacks" on the top of my right foot that are extremely sore. It seems to be permanent, but with small adjustments in my footwear, I rarely have any discomfort - but don't step on my foot, please. You can find other possible explanations in this pretty good article. I now tie my two running shoes differently. The left shoe - where I (currently) don't experience any problems - is tied as usual, whereas on the right shoes I jump two sets of eyelets over the point on the foot where it hurts. This is illustrated with video and all in the following article from Runners World. EDIT I have added a picture from my own shoes from today... 

Based on my own experiences, I can only say that the shock wave therapy did help on the pain in my feet from PF, but not enough to help me start running again. The later took 9 months and a very slow start-up after that. Now - two years later - I run 40+ km/week and participate in all the half-marathons I can find the time for... I still tape my feet (the usual T pattern around the heel) for the longer runs (15+ km), though I'm not sure if it is needed anymore (though I have no intension to test this). 

Last Sunday on the weekly LSR, I got to talk with a follow runner that was about to run his first Marathon in 2 months time. The subject was how to find the correct Marathon pace, and it turned out that most of us on the group had wildly different rules as to how to find the correct or optimum pace. We came up with the following list of methods and I wonder if any of you have anything specific to say about them. (Yes, I do know that is not a proper Q&A, but I have no ideas where else to ask the question...) Assume that you have run a half-marathon at 1:45:00 (=4:57 min/km)... 

Note that I usually apply a little bit of pressure on the ruler to make sure my custom made insole in properly positioned. Also I don't measure anything the first 100 km to allow the shoe to "settle in" first.. 

Nowadays, most training plans for Marathons, includes both lots of LSR and later a fair bit of speed work. The common idea is to first build up your ability to run long distances on fat and later add speed. As the first part will inevitably slow you pace a bit over time, the later part is needed to get the speed back into the run. E.g. 

Stick with whatever routines you have used to for your LSR/long-distance training! You know it works. "If it ain't broke..." It is a very, very common mistake to overdo all the preparations for the first marathon... usually with less-than-optimal results. I did that as well for my first marathon: Eating a lot more pasta than usual (almost the double than normal ration for a 28-30 km LSR), almost no meat or protein the last day (I usually just eat whatever is for dinner), getting up very early to eat the breakfast 4 hours before the race (I usually eat a light meal 2 hours before the start of LSR), etc... The end result was that I felt stressed and very nervous before the start of the race: normally I would know pretty well how my body will react to the long distance - but not here as I effectively was in untried waters. And the result was as expected. So just stick to your usual routines for a LSR! There are no need for alcohol, big steaks, fat ice-cream or late movies, but other than that it is business as usual. This way it is so much easier to enjoy the race :-) And good luck.. 

Although the methods are rather different (at least as I seem them), they tend to give almost the same results: either 3:38:00 (=5:10 min/km) or 3:50:00 (=5:27 min/km). I have no doubts that the later speed will give a more comfortable and sure run with little risk of injury whereas the former will probably give some sore legs for the next week. How would you rate these methods? Should we tell our fellow runner to go for the fast pace (he is young and confident of himself) or the slower pace? 

As long as your not sore from the exercises from the previous day or days or feel any sort of fatigue, then I really think you should just go ahead. When you move from run/walk to just running and longer distances, then you should begin to take restitution more serious by looking at the training effect or a similar metric. Or just follow one of the many training plans as they are usually quite balanced in terms of effect and restitution. 

I travel a fair bit and always want to run in the places I visit, so I have the same problem. I usually try the following: 

I sit on the ball about half of the day and stand the rest of the day. The advantage of the ball as a chair compared with an ordinary office chair, is basically that you have to use the all the smaller muscles in the back to keep the balance... which is very good for your back and in my case help eliminate the pain I used to have in my lower back... I even bring the ball for nearly all the meetings we have - well, except for those with customers and the top management :-) EDIT: Another good thing about an exercise ball is that you can use it as... an exercise ball. From time to time when my back hurts whether I standing or sitting on the ball, I use the ball to bend my back "backwards". I simply lie with my back on the ball and hands and feel in the ground for 4-5 minutes... then I'm usually good again... As for the original question... I don't want to stand up all day or sit down all day. The 50-50 mix is perfect for me.