I want to learn to bleed my new disc brakes. While there is a wealth of knowledge on the topic, it is difficult to tell the difference between pedantic explanations and sloppy work. In the official Avid bleeding instruction video a meticulous procedure is explained, of course using their proprietary kit. Shimano disc brake bleeding seems much simplified, and the kit is different (simpler). Questions: 

This is the ideal case, of course. Use the front brake, but modulate it. When in the above-mentioned conditions just have in mind that the above results could happen from too much pressure on the front brake (basically if stopping only with the front brake). The practical advice: at rough terrain, consider shifting the breaking balance a little to the back wheel (for example 60% front 40% back). 

Please not that this answer applies to SunTour XCR 2013 and earlier. With the constant advances of the XCR series (rebound, tapered steer tube etc.) it is entirely possible those forks no longer use plastic bushings, thus the question and all answers becoming irrelevant. 

I have used this technique in emergencies while hiking, but never thought of deliberately using it day-to-day. When the weather unexpectedly turns foul (and this is before I had the money to buy quality waterproof hiking shoes), my feet would soak. So I would takeout a thick plastic bag from the backpack. 

Mineral oil is much less toxic than DOT, does not absorb water, has higher boiling point. Bleeding Shimano brakes is almost as easy as unscrewing the caliper bolt and pouring oil into the lever system. On the other hand, for Avid-s one needs to observe strict vacuum. Why would so many companies bother with an American-specific oil and vacuum-reliant system? Mineral Oil Shimano Magura Tektro Gatorbrake DOT Hayes Avid Formula Hope 

There are two strong reasons to change your chain immediately: Firstly, chains are supposed to be replaced regularly. Professional mechanics have a tool to measure chain wear (or can say by eye), but the rule of thumb for someone who replaces their chain on their own, is about once per year. In other words - bicycle chains are in no way recommended to be used until failure (because this wears off the much more expensive drivetrain components). The second point (you really shouldn't be needing a second reason) is that if the chain broke, then probably the whole chain is damaged (e.g. due insufficient lubrication) and will soon break again. 

My point is that the tire is quite "flat", with large knobs on the edges, unlike most MTB tires, which are round. The tires feel quite unstable on any hard surface when cornering. What is the design reason behind making an MTB tire non-round? 

In this video the guy has clearly blocked his rear brake, as we can see the rear wheel is not rolling, but sliding. In this particular context, what has been his intent? Could have he done it for stopping, control/steering, look-cool-move? 

Of course, though it depends what you call "bulk quantity". I am going to assume home user fixing several bikes per year at most. For larger quantities, you might consider asking for special discounted offers for bulk purchases, First of all, there are kits with all necessary parts to replace all of a bike's cables. This one goes for under $12 with free world-wide shipping. 

I got the BR-M445L + BL-M505L a month ago. I am new to hydraulic disc brakes, so I can't tell if there is any problem with air in the system or other problems. Asked a mechanic and he said the brake is fine, though. I am unsure how to describe the problem. The lever feels awkward. The pivot point of the lever is too far forward (compared to Avid Elixir and other levers with the oil cylinder along the hose direction). I feel as if the lever is just too far from my fingers to comfortably squeeze. And I can't reduce the reach from the adjustment screw, because it then hits against my glove. The problem is bad enough when using 2 fingers, but is terrible when using only one finger - the lever hits my middle finder and the travel is insufficient to actuate the brake. Is there something fundamentally wrong with this lever design, at least for some cyclists. Or some trick that is a must-do (I installed the already bled system myself)? My brake: 

In the last year, 3 of my friends got their bikes stolen by leaving them "just for a minute" in front of a shop "while watching them through the window". Nevertheless, sometimes I do the same. Maybe I didn't plan to bring a lock, and need to jump really quick to somewhere. Maybe there is a security guard nearby, or a bank camera. Maybe I am just too lazy to to dig the lock out of the bottom of my backpack, and have exact change to grab a beer. Maybe there is nowhere to lock to in a 100m radius. My question is how to increase security in these dangerous situations. A friend shared with me, that he shifts into the lowest gear - that way if someone tries to ride away the bike, it will take him quite some time. On the other hand, something that I do, is lean my backpack against the bike or even strap them together. IMO this makes riding off with the bike a little more difficult, while risking my backpack along with the bike. 

Further, if there is another turn very near, the exit line of the first turn directly affects the attack line of the second turn. What are the strategies to deal with a double turn? 

If you visit your local bike shops, there is a slim chance to fund a replacement. On the other hand, the most reliable and time-efficient solution is to replace the whole axle. In my region, the options are an Weldette unit for about 7.5 EUR or a M-Wave axle for about 2.5 EUR. Do ask around. 

unscrew the static pad a tiny bit and check if this fixes it if not, dramatically unscrew it and check if not, unscrew the cable tension adjuster dramatically out and make sure the noise is fixed if not, we are no sure the brake is not the problem if 1. worked, we are done; else recalibrate the system, knowing that the disk has a slight dent in the indicated direction 

Consider a 3 meter wide track, the incline is 30 degrees, the terrain is dirt road with some sand, rocks, maybe mud. An at least 90 degree turn is approaching, and you have clear visibility of the whole turn. How do you choose consciously (and with practice subconsciously) your path through the turn, in order to minimize loss of speed? What factors affect the decision and in what way? 

I have learned that the first couple of letters on a stamped Shimano part mean the part type e.g. FD - front derailleur, and the first digit indicates the series e.g. 

I tried both techniques proposed here, but to no avail (I might have damaged the BB with the hammering). The LBS had the tool for the job - experience. The guys put the wrench in a vice, calculated the direction to unscrew carefully, then put the frame on and just unscrewed the damn thing. The frame was providing large leverage. 

The title might be wrong, I am not familiar with the terminology here. I just got a BR-M445L front hydraulic brake. Installed it - this stuff is MUCH easier to install than a cable disc brake. Now my problem is that in order to apply maximum braking force, the lever has to be pulled all the way to the handlebars. I discovered the reach adjustment screw on the lever. With this screw, I moved the "at rest" position of the lever further from the handlebars. Thus, the situation is somewhat better now. However, what I would want to do, is leave the lever not too far from the handlebar, and remove the "free travel" - the part of the lever's path, during which the pads do not contact the disc at all. In other words, I would like to have 2-3 cm of travel of the lever, instead of 5-6. There are a couple of screws on the calliper, but I am scared to touch them, before knowing what I am doing. One is on the entrance of the hose, similar to a cable brake adjustment screw. The other is at the base of a small opening, covered with a cap.