Any chance of surprise would totally be lost as the German's had spies in Spain and Gibraltar who would have noticed the thousands of ships sailing through the straits. Deception was a major component of the Normandy landings, and there would have been no chance for deception sending the ships from Britain to S. France. Also the Allies would not have been able to put as many troops on the ground. The main bases in Britain held the million troops that were on the beach in Normandy by the end of July. Take Sicily as a counter example, we were only able to get around 150,000 troops there in the same time. This was approximately the same amount of troops that later landed in S. France. This was the operational limit in that theature. There was just not the infrastructure required to increase this limit. The supplies, the bases, and most importantly the ships weren't in the Mediterranean and any movement of that amount of material to the staging zones would have most definitely been noticed by German spies. Also consider air power, it was much easier for the Allies to cover landings right next to our bases in the UK. It would have been much more difficult if the landings were in S. France. also as jamesqf pointed out, the exact reasons the defenses were light were because they were being pulled up to N. France to deal with Overlord. Specifically the 2nd SS Das Reich and the 1st SS Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler were pulled from S. France to Normandy. sources: troop numbers from Wikipedia (so take from it what you will) sources for troop movements: $URL$ 

From a German perspective I also think it is unfair to paint Chamberlain as a pacifist who would avoid war at all costs and was unsuitable for the job. He declared war together with France on September 3th, two days after the invasion. If people are unhappy with the "Phony War", I would like to ask what exactly do they imagine what England and France could have done. The border between France and Germany was heavily fortified. So Germany has a very good defendable and prepared choke point with a fully equipped modern army. For people who did not experience war it should be pointed out that most people remembered one of the worst wars 20 years earlier who killed many of their family and friends in the horror of trench warfare and were therefore for a good reason not eager to another war. Moving heavy mobile units or massive infantry was considered impossible in the Ardennes. (which was the reason that Germany's attack was so successful). Moving through Belgium or the Netherlands to attack Germany would violate their neutrality as long as both countries do not agree. This would in return paint a big red target on their chest which a neighbor who defeated the stronger Poland in weeks. Using force would not only make the Allies the aggressor, it would make the "The Rape of Belgium" propaganda of the Allies in WWI ridiculous. The Soviet Union also invaded Poland and shared it with Germany. So the obvious partnership excluded a very advantageous two front war and it also allowed Germany to be supplied with goods. Blockading the North Sea is much now less effective. All points on the western front were also valid for Germany, as France had also strong fortifications and invading the Low Lands again would offer opportunities for France and England to countermoves. So I do not think replacing Chamberlain with Churchill would have any immediate effect and therefore Chamberlain could not be blamed for the inactivity. 

To make the answer short not very well. Their treatment under the ranchos was pretty much the same as their treatment under the Missions. The articles mentioned they were paid in goods and alcohol, though some may have been paid in cash or script, I guess it would depend on the Ranchero. "A California rancho might employ as few as twenty or as many as several hundred Indian workers... Most of the former Mission Indians were taken over by the rancheros and continued work without interruption for their new masters. The important difference between the work at the rancho and at the mission was on the rancho the communal relationship was lacking: the profits of the Indian labor were appropriated almost entirely by the ranchero." - Indians of California: The Changing Image, James Rawls "The Indians did the most menial labor on ranchos and were often little more than slaves, paid in scanty clothing and alcohol. Some rancheros (rancho owners) treated Indians well but most did not." - $URL$ "After secularization, the economy of California was entirely based on the Mexican ranchos, which employed a system of peonage imported from Mexico. It was a particularly harsh form of feudalism, without the veneer of a righteous mission of Christian conversion and bordering on slavery. Indians living close to Mexican occupation found that their natural environment had been so far degraded that their only survival option was laboring in the ranchos. But their wages were carefully maintained at survival's minimum, only, and there was no prospect of bettering themselves. They were often paid much of their wage in alcohol, at week's end, which kept them immobilized until they had to return at the week's beginning." - $URL$ "By the time the last secularization decrees had been issued, California had begun to assume a feudal aspect. By the end of 1845, all the Southern California Missions had been sold or their properties leased, and extensive ranchos, with vast herds of cattle and horses, operated by thousands of Indian retainers, had replaced the Mission establishments." - $URL$ 

Your question is legitimate and in fact the unique state of West-Berlin had much influence what would happen in the Future. 

A short preamble for the reason of the question: During the existence of the German Democratic Republic the population had not only the right to vote, they had the obligation to vote - a composed list of candidates. The approval to the list was very easy, you only needed to throw in an unmarked vote. The citizens were proud to show their decision so they demonstratively ignored the polling booths. It should be said that usage of the polling booths was completely voluntarily, there were absolutely no repercussions to expect during the election. To show disapproval, you only needed to add your concerns to the vote which were duly noted. So even during the protests 1989, one year before the end of the GDR, the leading party claimed 98,85 % "yes" votes with a voter turnout of 98,78 %. Those people saying that they checked the votes and found massive discrepancies, well, don't you trust the leading party ?! It seems that.."authoritative regimes" have a massive problem with their self image that they put out those ridiculous numbers. My experience is that if in a multi-party system a party gets over 50%, it's champagner time and if they would get over 66%, the party leaders would sell their soul and their grandmothers as give-away. Which leads to the question: To get a realistic picture what approval rates are possible for democratic votes with a great number of voters, what is the highest ever win achieved in a democratic decision ? Goal: Elections are preferred, but I am interested in every important decision. Voter condition: At least 20% of the population in a given area (state/country), at least 500 000 people. Vote conditions: 

If I remember correctly, when it was first claimed (to legitimize the Hundred year war), France neighbor were quite happy with the fact, the Holy Roman Empire sided with the "legitimate" king of France (at first, his son famously fought at Crécy). Years later, Charles V of Hapsburg, sided with François I to make the English crown abdicate the french claim because heresy and stuff like that(he was unsuccessful, and despised François I, he just hated the Tudor king much more, but that is another story.). Austria, Poland/Lithuania and the Ottoman Empire didn't really care, but do note that the Ottoman Empire was an ally of the French crown during Louis XIV's reign, they might have dismissed the validity of the English claim while allied. 

So, the French Provisional Government existed only for two years, you might be referring to "Free France" led by Charles De Gaulle. They mainly fought in north Africa and were quite capable but matched against a legend of his time, Rommel. After Operation Torch (wikipedia link) this government got a large chunk of territory and manpower. Thus, able to help the allies more effectively. They helped the U.K. in liberating german/italian holdings in Africa and in Middle-East, but they weren't that good. During the Italian Campaign (Wikipedia link) they fared much better and were actually praised by their general (an U.S. one, and others wikipedia link). During the liberation of France, they did really well in helping and securing cities, they ultimately were the one to liberate Paris (partially because they feared it would be destroyed, they attacked without reinforcements before the Allied sent help. Source on the first link I provided) " and by the end of the war in Europe, they were 1,300,000 strong – the fourth-largest Allied army in Europe ". They weren't "feared" by the Germans, especially because the army was mainly made of north-africans (and the nazi ideology stated those people were clearly inferior.), but they often had people behind them, after all they were trying to liberate their country, one can guess it was somehow easy to gather support. The British and Americans seemed to ponder their tactical value quite high (pincer attacks were more feasible etc etc) but for martial feats, it all depended on the situation. Some times (Italian conquest, liberation of France) they were useful and helped a lot, other times (Syria, East African) much less so. (De Gaulle thought much more people would rise to help, the soldiers garrisoned there didn't do as he expected etc etc) On the other hand, French officials in Free France thought highly of it's army, that was able to fight back and wash a bit of the shame that was losing the mainland. Vichy France badmouthed them in order to prevent uprising and appease the other Axis powers (that really didn't want to see an uprising when they were busy elsewhere.). Lastly, on the Eastern Front, they received multiple awards from the Soviets, even Stalin granted them a special name. EDIT : I misunderstood what you were looking for, so I'll talk a bit more about what happened after the Liberation. The French Army (which already became quite important before the Liberation) became well supplied (thanks to America), well marshaled and well equipped. General Leclerc used a bit of that new army to fulfill his oath (Wikipedia Link) and liberate Strasbourg. They did quite well there and were swift. Soon after that, a counter-attack happened! Only France and the U.S. are attacked, ferocious blows are dealt but ultimately the French army simply protected Strasbourg while the main battle has been done by the U.S. army. (Wikipedia Link). Then, the invasion of Germany continued. The French army did quite well in the south, but once again, they weren't fighting the most important battles. So they weren't a laughingstock anymore for the germans, they were simply another nuisance. It seems they were useful in preventing allies to be hit back, but I do not find any more distinction on the western front. (Wiki Link) Hope that helps more! 

Now imagine if a Hippie meets a Texas US Trooper. It did not help that most media at that time were right-wing and strictly in favor of police and conservative politicians. So the whole thing was a time bomb which finally exploded when the Persian Shah visited West-Berlin and one innocent person, Benno Ohnesorg, was murdered by the policeman Kurras during the demonstrations. The following protests challenged the old policy in the public opinion and triggered finally a discussion about the handling of WWII and the Holocaust in the public. It also triggered the birth of the RAF (Red Army Faction). 

Simple. While the earth moves around the year, the sun seemingly moves around between the Tropic of Cancer (north) and the Tropic of the Capricorn (south). In the north this is begin of summer and the sun reaches the highest point. The first city where the deep well exists is the city of Syene (now Assuan) which is almost exactly on the Tropic of Cancer, so at almost exactly on June, 21th the sun is almost exactly vertical and the well is lit. Knowing this, Erastothenes only needed to measure the angle of the sun in Alexandria during June, 21th and knowing that Syene is vertical gets the difference easily. He only need to know the distance between Alexandria and Syene (which must be measured), multiply it with 360 degrees / difference and get the Earth diameter. Quite genial. ADDITION: It was asked if it was not necessary to have both cities on the same meridian to get the correct result. While in fact not being on the same meridian does induce an error, this error is neglible because the zenith point of the sun moves with 397 m/s at Alexandria (423 m/s at Syene) in west-east direction. This is supersonic; so even a bigger west-east offset is covered in a short time and an alignment is not needed. While not necessary, it is quite easy to get the exact geographical north-south direction. Put a straight stick vertical into the earth and draw a circle around it so that the shadow will cross it early and late. Mark the exact points where the shadow touches the circle. Now draw two circles around the points so that the circles intersect. The two intersection points are forming a line which is exactly north-south ! If you do that with stars and a level wall, this will even outperform GPS in precision. 

Based on what I know about the period, for me it's more a case of why would other countries help a weakened England? England at that time was strong, but not the strongest fish in the pond. So why would one help a small fish to swallow bigger ones? Spain was already in decline, the Holy Roman Empire was fading, France took advantage of all of those to enlarge itself and became (again) a great power in Western Europe. All of those countries were able to help England, but why would they ? France had been England's opponent for too long, Spain could somehow claim some parts of England (very shaky claims but eh.), HRE had basically no reason to help or not to help. The Hanseatic League COULD have helped England, but the Parliament may have had better connections than the king with them. The Northern countries may have been able to help, but once again I do not recall any alliance at that time... The real one that could have helped was Portugal tho, its economy was flourishing, they were England's ally (and still are, but then...) and if I recall correctly were also tied to English's monarchs. They might have not send money because of religious thoughts, I'm pretty sure most Christians didn't have right to borrow money or loan it, except to some banks (Thinking of Florentine's bank and the Hapsburg's one, can't find its name...) 

I am sorry, but as a German I must dismiss your precondition that "the Germans" hoped for a separate peace. To the best of my knowledge the Germans were in general not aware of that idea because it sounds ridiculous. Hitler had the ideological view of Lebensraum in the East, the submission of the Slavs and the enemy image of Bolshevism. There were several attempts by Stalin himself (1941), Japan (1942) and Italy (since 1942) to have a peace agreement with the SU. Hitler never wavered in his decision to continue the attack for purely ideological reasons (Visions of Victory: The Hopes of Eight World War II Leaders - Gerhard L. Weinberg). Hitler on the other hand offered peace several times to England. Churchill not only declined, he insisted on his partners that they would not budge to any attempts of Hitler to settle an armistice. His hatred of Hitler was so great that after the attack of the Soviet Union, he famously stated: "If Hitler invaded Hell, I would at least make a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons". And Churchill did not like communism at all. The Germans were aware of this and they knew as long as Churchill was Premier, a separate peace was never an option. That was the situation. And for your information, the direct involvement of the US would not have been necessary. After 1941 the Britons gained the upper hand on the sea, after 1943 the Soviets gained the upper hand on land. After the defeat was foreseeable, Germans were stunned and aghast. They had lost the first World War (there was also the idea that Germany could negotiate a Siegfrieden, a positive outcome of the war with the Western Allies. Have a guess what really happened and how likely a "separate peace" was in this light) and suffered under the reparations. Now they have risen again, were getting more and more powerful and then they lose everything. The heavy bombardment of cities (Hamburg and Dresden) with the severe civilian casualties gave the Germans the impression that destruction of Germany was imminent (see Morgenthau plan). The overwhelming thought of the Germans in this period was "What will happen to us ?", not clutching straws with a hope of a "separate peace". Himmler tried to save his own neck by trying to get an alliance against the Soviets, nothing more. ADDITION: I think we have the case that people tries to judge events from an Allied view and assign importance to things which are from a German viewpoint not important at all. The same applies for Germans thinking "X happened, so the Britons/Americans must have planned this" while in fact the Americans/Britons had completely other ideas. The England negotiations were serious attempts of the Nazi Regime. All knew that after France's defeat and a mollified SU there was only one power left (The US was already raising eyebrows, but was still very inactive) which could threaten Nazi Germany. The naval blockade was a serious threat (very bad memories in WW I; Western and Middle Europe have scarce natural resources) and the impending war with the SU had another very good reason besides ideological grounds: With the vast natural resources of the SU a blockade against Nazi Germany would have been useless. So intense attempts were made (The Heß case itself was controversial in Germany; Hitler threw convincingly a fit and a (forbidden) joke was "Brown budgie flewn away. Please return to Reich chancellor's office."). But this happened all before the invasion of the SU and the huge advantage that a peace with GB offered meant that the Germans really believed that further negotiations were fruitless. The question if peace with Churchill was possible definitely ended after Canaris asked 1943 what the conditions were if the Germans get rid of Hitler (which was really a new bargain). Churchill's reply "Unconditional surrender"...well, what do you answer ? If you take a deep look at all the others mentioned (Jodl, Dönitz and the SS officers) you will notice how late those alleged hopes of "separate peace" occur. From a German perspective you go for peace if you still have bargaining power which Germany did not have anymore after mid-1944. The Battle of the Bulge was pure desperation. So, those offers were in fact begging for mercy when you know it's over, but the officer's code of behavior forbids to show weakness. And what should one think of the House of Brandenburg miracle from a German perspective ? Sorry, but I and likely other Germans see it as unimportant, it is whistling in the dark when you already know it is over. On beginning of April when the story takes place the situation was completely hopeless: The Allied force crossed the Rhine and moved fast to the East, the Soviets had encircled Berlin and outnumbered German forces heavily, the cities were rubble and resistance completely broken. Think: Would a man seriously considering a wonder shoot himself in the mouth ?