Phrase A: "all things are possible", contains the possibility of failure as an outcome. The term "all things" implies universality of application. Phrase B: "all things are not possible" would either acknowledge a set of thing (or a singular thing) is impossible, or the universality that no things are possible, depending on how you emphasize the term "all". However, the term "possible" is limited to only account for the potential of things. If we consider that "possible" does not necessarily imply that it must, should or does occur, then the two statements do not require mutual exclusivity. If A, then B is true until B is confirmed. The reciprocal statement would contain a false premise. 

To Jefferson and the other founding fathers, these rights cannot be artificial or granted by the government, because it is the responsibility of the government to protect these rights, else it shall suffer the pains of revolt. 

To a Machiavellian, the benefit is implicit, because there is a moral obligation as a leader to provide structure and security for the masses - i.e. it is the right and role of the strong to rule the weak. And strength is demonstrated by the reach of control exercised by the ruler. Alternatively Thomas Hobbes, John Locke and Thomas Jefferson would argue that the sovereign protects the weak, so that we can all co-habitat, transcend the "state-of-nature" and allow for the collective efforts of all to flourish. The state-of-nature is identified as "might equals right", because in the state-of-nature everything exists in the "commons" and ownership is only exemplified through direct control. In order to lay claim to anything requires a constant defense. However, to form the foundation of society, a sovereign is created through the concession of a portion each individual's power (unencumbered freedom) into a single entity that then represents the collective might of the community. This collective concession creates equality amongst its members. The strong and the weak are nominalized into citizens, unified by the understanding that the collective output of a society exceeds the sum of its individual parts. 

As an addendum to the answer I contributed, I would argue that since human rights are artificial, they must be strictly confined to the sovereignty of those who agree to them. The inexorable rights described in the US constitution are limited to those with in US borders and US citizens abroad who are still protected by the US government. There are several international accords and agreements that would be applied to the those participating nations, but to extend them further becomes a suspect endeavour. To expand into my own opinion, the correct way to protect those rights universally would be to extend invitations to all people to join your culture and reap the protections that it awards them. As with other issues of sovereignty, it is not correct to dictate to those people who have not consented to your laws (either explicitly or tacitly). As I state in my other answer, the natural distaste for the suffering of others is intrinsic to the nature of humanity, but it cannot be justification to assert one's moral, political, religious or other perspective on those who do not ascribe to it. There is an equivalence in interference, regardless of justification, that cannot be parsed between right and wrong. 

I don't interpret Marx as reducing the importance of the individual. His focus is certainly on the collection of individuals, but as such it is formed by individuals uniting. In his understanding, many (or likely a majority of) individuals are being exploited. This results from historical precedence in how societies have formed, the heritage of power, and the inequitable access to both capital and the "means of production". He argues that these factors create an exclusivity that enables the exploitive class, "the Bourgeoisie", to utilize their position to accrue and concentrate wealth for themselves, and within their own class *1. However, Marx points out that the process of production that generates wealth could not be accomplished without the labor power of the excluded class, "the Proletariat". Since the Bourgeoisie require the labor power of the Proletariat, it seems uneven that the Bourgeoisie should reap a significantly inequitable amount of the rewards of the production. This concept of equity is derived from a mathematical approach of quantifying labor and value, pointing to less labor being done by the Bourgeoisie and, conversely, less value being rewarded to the Proletariat. This inequity is felt by each individual of the Proletariat class, when they are struggling to survive due to a lack of wealth and access to basic needs (food, shelter, clothing - arguable health, satisfaction, recreation, etc.). Without power, capital, or the means to produce without the Bourgeoisie (initial capital - money - needed to purchase tools, materials, etc.), the Proletariat is beholden to the Capitalist system and has little leverage to change the system. This is exacerbated by the fact that the access to capital is not historically a result of effort, but instead has been received through entitlement and heritage *2. However, the leverage is gained through the collective unity of the Proletariats. By banning together, they control an integral part of the Capitalist equation for free, i.e. the Labor Power. This labor power is created from the efforts of each individual, and has no external cost that would require initial wealth for any individual to acquire it for themselves. Each individual controls their own labor power, but it is only as valuable as the marketplace determines. If you withhold your labor power in negotiation of a higher value, but someone else is willing to offer it for a lower value, your negotiation will be weakened. For Marx, the only way to "raise all ships" in the labor power marketplace is to unite the laborers to prevent undercutting in this way. That is why when he refers to the collective, it is not in the general sense of everyone as a single entity, but is actually the shared needs of many individuals and raising the value of each individual to a more equitable exchange of labor for value. 

I think what is key to this question is "how to apply utilitarianism?". While it is implemented as a normative philosophy that can be used to guide an individual's actions, it has a much wider focus in its evaluation of the outcomes of the action. The Utilitarian would not be limited to only the specific points you include in your assessment, but would consider all other people effected by your decision. The other terrorists, the other hostages, their families, and the community in general. Therefore, they would criticize your analysis for being too myopic. You will need to ask those same questions and interrogate the entire system, which may outweigh the happiness maximized for you by your actions. I would wonder what a Utilitarian would say about public executions and the purpose they served for the greater society 

John Searle has an interesting thought experiment called the "Chinese Room", which he briefly discusses in the link provided above. Despite being a materialist, he makes the argument that simply making a machine that takes input and creates outputs that would mimic our thought process doesn't reach the level of understanding that is required to describe it as a mind. So, to your question the potential for person in any form is an ability to think and also understand. Others, like Harry Frankfurt and Bennett Helm, focus on emotionality and choice as the key aspect in the attainment of personhood. Returning to the question of the sheep brain compared to the human brain, Helm argues that the ability have second-order desires and second-order volitions are the threshold that separates an animal mind from personhood. 

In addressing your question of evolutionary basis, Jefferson would likely point to concepts first conceived by Thomas Hobbes and John Locke, focusing on the paradigm shift from a "state of nature" to a "common public authority" (the formation of society). It is by this transition that we move beyond the process of natural selection that is so important when considering the evolutionary process. Just as human kind eliminated other significant factors that drive evolution (access to food and other essential resources, vulnerability to predation, etc.), the formation of society only further removes us from the natural processes that beholden humanity to a natural evolutionary process. 

Oppositely, the experiment you suggest of rolling an actual dice is not a determination of the general probability but an analysis on the "fairness" of the specific dice tested - whether it is balanced properly to give equal odds to all outcomes. It is possible that the dice may be flawed, where something is affecting the outcome to skew the results - for instance, one side is sticky or weighs more, leading that side more likely to land faced down. I am sure the Mathematics.SE can provide a better explanation of how to design this experiment. There are guidelines in statistics on how to determine the parameters of what would be considered a legitimate sample size. The larger the sample size and the more controls established in the experiment to eliminate other variables, the smaller the degree of statistical error, and therefore the better you can determine if the dice is fair or flawed. 

To the point you are trying to prove to your family, while it is smart to point to the probability of winning in general, it is more significant to compare the probability that you will win, versus the probability the house will win. For instance, let's consider the following game: 

I would point to historical precedent to advocate that there is a waxing and waning for even the most successful rhetoric. Oppositely, there is a longevity of truth that demonstrates its value. Therefore, the current role of philosophers, as well as many other fields of study, is to preserve references to truthful ideas and maintain the commitment to truth in their endeavours. 

A Libertarian may say that Capitalism's end goal is to provide personal economic growth through production and sale in the market. This in turn provides a wealth of goods from which all the masses can acquire from the market. However, to a Marxist, Capitalism also has a conflict induced purpose focused on allowing Capitalists to maintain power and control in society. This is not necessarily true, however is historically true to a significant degree. If we say that the first phase of modern Capitalism emerged with the onset of the industrial age. That is, up until this time, production was directly related to labor, and therefore labor was a relatively fixed term. Thus, as industrial production outpaced human capabilities, labor then became an abstraction separate from the physical production of a product. To produce at this new rate, one had to first invest in the machinery - termed "the Means of Production". This initial investment linked access to capital, which is unevenly distributed in society, to Capitalism. Those people who controlled the Means of Production were termed Capitalists or "the Bourgeoise" Marx argues that, separate from the Bourgeoise, there is a second class that forms - "The Proletariat". It is comprised of the people who offer their labor in the market place in exchange for receive an income. Marx's argument continues to describe how the two groups are structured at odds with each other, but that is not necessary material for this question, unless you agree with his position, and include maintaining class division as another end goal of Capitalism as institutionalized by the Bourgeoisie. 

In actuality (in a fair game), no previous result has any influence on following results. That is why the statistical odds are consistent, regardless of previous outcomes. Each chance is exclusive. 

The casino will try to entice you to bet by offering you a high payout; e.g. "if you win, you will get 6 times the amount you bet". However, because you are much less likely to win, they will more often collect your bet, than they will payout to you. Furthermore, if you do win, and they entice you to continue to play with the money you've won, they are more likely to retrieve your winnings in the end. 

P1 cannot be true if P2 is true, and therefore there is no valid conclusion to be drawn. Fallacy of Generalization The accuser is implying you are generally a dirty person. The general implication does not directly follow out of the explicit accusation in a particular instance. The logical argument you are assuming is... 

In my own experience, where Philosophy was the keystone of my undergraduate study, engaging in philosophical discussion and interrogating different philosophical position had three practical implications: 1: Critical thinking Dealing with complex philosophical content is a great crucible to develop important critical thinking skills, and to challenge many concepts that are often taken for granted or never investigated at all. The challenge of forming positions on the surety of possessing true knowledge under the knife of a well versed epistemologist, can be both infuriating but also humbling. Taking the painstaking efforts to develop proper dialectical arguments and interrogating them for fallacious thoughts and contradictions, is a practice I did not encounter in my other fields of study. 2: Wholism of perspective Many concepts that we study in other subjects - particularly the liberal sciences - are steeped in philosophy. Prior to the 20th century, philosophy was a core subject of higher education. As such it is important to understand it as the contextual sources that informed the later studies. Additionally, philosophy can help focus on delving into the underlying purpose and rationale that I found is glossed over in a lot of subject matter. Where many subjects look at concepts as historical anecdotes, philosophy invites the questions like "why?". This greater breadth adds content and articulation to subjective assertions. I experienced an example of this when I began studying business in college: 

I disagree with Pè de Leão. As I read it, I believe both statements are directly aligned with each other. Einstein is arguing that pursuing science solely for practical purposes will lead to "false notion". The false notions that he is referring to is the neglect that science is a pursuit of understanding, not just formulas for practical application. And that this pursuit of understanding is grounded in the same motivations and premises as religion. Einstein refers to this motivation as experiencing cosmic religious feeling. He is also alluding to the fact that Newton, for example was very devoted to religion, though unconventionally. Despite his contributions to modern physics, he also wrote prolifically on the application of the bible through literal interpretation, as well as other religiously grounded works. His work was always first and foremost grounded in this sense of divinity and order - though not convention.