I have a lot of experience with addiction, both personal and professionally. In my job, I am in contact with many drug and alcohol addiction treatment workers. And I've been thinking about recommending integrating buddhist ideas and, perhaps more importantly, buddhist practice in drug and alcohol treatment programs. I think that introducing buddhism, both on a philosophical level and as practice could be a great help for a lot of addicts. This has to be done properly, with competent teachers and it has to be voluntary. Compare buddhism to AA/NA ideology (just a few examples): AA/NA etc: externalized power... Buddhism: internalized power AA/NA etc: dogmatic... Buddhism: non dogmatic AA/NA etc: "you can get sober, but you won't get rid of the disease"... Buddhism: "you can be free/get rid of the disease of suffering" Does anybody heard of addiction treatment facilities trying to incorporate buddhism in their treatment? 

When we ask someone "why do you do that?", we are asking for her/his reasons. It someone asks me "why do you play tennis?" and I say "I like to stay fit and I like to have fun. Tennis is good exercise and good fun, therefore I play tennis", I am giving my reasons. (It doesn't matter if having fun actually is a form of suffering. My reasons are still my reasons.) In light of Buddhist philosophy, would it be right to say that my reasons are the causes of my behavior? Is there any general agreement across tenet systems? Or is it one answer for Vaibhashika, one for Sautrantika, one for Chittamatra and one for Madhyamika? 

First of all, the Buddha didn't die from eating pork at least in the Theravada point of view. In fact, his last meal was sukara maddava, translated to English dug by pigs, a mushroom which still grows in India. Also, vegetarianism is not considered morally superior to eating meat in Theravada. The general guideline followed with regards to eating meat by both monastics and laity is, 

I haven't really come across such a remark in the suttas in Theravada. If the book doesn't refer to any sutta in the canon the monk is probably writing down his own opinion. On the contrary, in the Mangala sutta Buddha praised learnedness when answering a question by one of the devas regarding what brings the highest blessing to a person, 

Once an offering is made to the Buddha, it becomes the property of the Buddha, the person who offers it no longer has the ownership. However, Buddha is no longer present to consume them, so the place must be cleaned before things become messy. In Theravada, the common practice is according to the Dakkhinavibhanga sutta commentary. However, I wasn't able to find an English translation of it in internet. So I'm giving the translation as I can. It mentions, 

My teacher says that the Buddha said there are four ways to practice Shamata; sitting, walking, standing and lying down. Which one of these produces best are the most effective in you experience? I also practice Qi Gong every day. Is it an idea to combine (simple) Qi Gong with Shamata? Does anyone have any experience? 

I have questions about the Bodhisattva ideal, based on the 37 practices of the Bodhisattva. I’m also curious about how this practice is for one with the aspiration of becoming an Arhat. The general Bodhisattva ideal seems to be that you are supposed to have compassion and take everything upon you no matter what happens. But isn’t this sometimes going to make things worse – for everyone - the perpetrator included? And I wonder if you people have any reflections on how this is for someone with the aspiration to become an Arhat? Is s/he equally supposed to have compassion and take everything upon him/her self – no matter what happens? What are the differences and similarities here between the two? Some background In “the 37 practices of the Bodhisattva” there are some passages about how a Bodhisattva reacts to different situations. Some situations described are quite extreme, and too much for someone on my level! But many of them are such that I try to practice them, and here is an example (verse 15): 

I don't have statistics for you but I do want to point a few things out to give you hope against the dire (skillful means) predictions of a Dharma Ending Age: 

On the physics side of things, yes, the vibrations do resonate with a frequency necessary to make the connection. I am also a NMRK practitioner and the way that I see it: 

Yes, it is possible. Why don't you post your deeper questions here just as you did now? Reddit is also a fantastic place filled with even more intelligentsia and you can get answers very quickly. To answer your other doubts: If you have an interest in learning the Path and can generate detachment, then you will easily adopt into this simple but important school. The most important process in Theravada is going through the Stages of Insight (see "Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha). This Stages of Insight process happens automatically when practicing awareness meditation (vipassana) correctly. One must retreat: make an extensive amount of time to practice and pay clear attention to mind (strong Five Faculties on the Four Foundations) all day and night, with moderate sleep and food. Even though most of us are not actually Enlightened, walking the path to it is just as simple as this. Being clearly, effortlessly aware of present reality. (read: high level of 5 Spiritual Faculties) The "advanced questions" are all about Right View and understanding the component structures better and learning to let go of attachments (this might involve reading non-Buddhist things). Although I do not recommend it for beginners, the retreat can be done without any retreat instructor. One may use a retreat manual. In many cases, a retreat manual is better than a bad retreat place where people just talk all day and share their problems/life-content. Some Taoist wisdom here: conserve your jing (semen): be celibate. At your age, it is easy to calm your mind but the jing essence (life force) is already low. If one elder manages to reach the higher stages and then loses the sila of celibacy (due to increased sexual desire), then one can die due to one's higher energetic state. Conserve jing. (Buddha says the same thing but smartly does not go into the energetics of it because people will focus on that too much.) 

It's also said that Ananda wasn't able to invite Buddha to prolong his life during the last days of his life because he was possessed by Mara during that time. During the first council monks accused Ananda for not doing that and he defended himself by giving this excuse. 

what is the counterpart sign (nimitta) in this method and how does the practitioner identify whether he's reached a Jhana level? 

In Saṅgītisutta three types of persons in the world are mentioned: sekkha (learner), asekkha (adept) and nevasekkha nāsekkha (ordinary person or puthujjana) 

There are numerous studies on people having this type of experience, and I remember Ven. Yuttadhammo once said he also experienced this when he was young. I think interpretations like astral body projection do not quite adhere with Buddhism. Are there possible explanations on this from the Buddhist perspective with regards to Five Aggregates? 

Well, Buddhism is not simply a doctrine or belief system that needs to be defended through clinging to its knowledge or the view. The wisdom mentioned here that is acquired through reading, thinking or studying has to be experienced through Vipassana meditation. Unless it is experienced through this way, this knowledge will become just another view among many other views in this world subject to decay and misinterpretations. There's a seven step purification process in Vipassana where you begin simply from practicing virtue, give up all the wrong views midway and finally end in wisdom. You go through the entire process similar to using seven relay chariots until you arrive at the destination where each chariot is used only to achieve its designated purpose and then you abandon it without clinging to it; this is explained nicely in Ratha-vinitha sutta. 

Doctrinally based illusion/delusion/ignorance. This one is based on something one has learned. F.ex. one might believe that God is the creator of the universe and that one has an irreducible ever lasting soul that is either going to heaven or hell. Or – more common, at least in the Western secularized societies – one might believe in science and assume that science is objectively right and think that if something cannot be measured scientifically it simply do not exist (an example here might be some behaviorists claim that consciousness is a superfluous concept and emotions are behavior). The other form is "automatically" arising illusion/delusion/ignorance. This is not based on something you have heard or learned or indoctrination, but rather based on our karma. An example might be the feeling and belief that I have a core self, something that is holding all experience together, the “stuff that makes me me.” The belief that external reality is independent and self-existent, not imputed by mind, is another example. 

But for people studying the Dhamma for its real purpose, that is the cessation of suffering, Buddha's advice is to question him or an experienced monk when there's doubt. 

The person who develops the first 6 parts in the tenfold training achieves appana samadhi (7. absorption). In the pali version of the book this is mentioned as appanāto. The aim of the three suttas, 8. higher consciousness, 9. coolness, and 10. skill in the enlightenment factors, have as their purpose the linking of energy with concentration. Nimitta sutta should be studied to understand on balancing the high consciousness (Jhana). 

I think the question is on the four iddhipada, the four mental factors of achieving a goal: chanda (intention), citta (thoughts), viriya (effort), wimansa (investigation). According to this section in wikipedia, there's a collection of discourses on this topic in Saṃyutta Nikāya called Iddhipāda Saṃyutta. 

Under six major wrong doings (Abhithanani) in Buddhism, (i. matricide, ii. patricide, iii. the murder of arahants (the Consummate Ones), iv. the shedding of the Buddha's blood, v. causing schism in the Sangha, and vi. pernicious false beliefs (niyata micca ditthi)), 

A lot of people are recommending Vipassana but this is incorrect. Samatha (calm-abiding) is the appropriate one. Why? Because you need to bring yourself to this present moment, centering on your breath. Then, only when you make an intention to remember these things will you remember them. Read Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha for more information regarding this tip. There is an explanation on there on a single page... 

Craving is not good because it is more than an unconscious attachment--it is an uncontrollable addiction... and it is an extreme form of attachment. Attachment can be good. Having an attachment to Dharma can be good, having an attachment to truth, good words, etc. leads to unconscious inclination towards factors of the Way. The Buddha did declare that we must have a strong attachment to Dharma and then eventually must abandon it. But he never said we need craving for anything. Attachment to everything including the idea of attachment itself is eliminated as one dissolves into complete enlightenment. Even the idea of eliminating this attachment-to-attachment. It might seem like just playing with words. At the ultimate state there is no such thing as attachment, no nothing and no not-nothing. It is something to meditate on when doing vipassana to be free from mind-objects and the idea of freedom form it in itself. 

Are there any Buddhist philosophies that put special emphasis on the first level of dependent arising as perhaps even more suptle than the second? About the third level. Is this mainly a Mahayana/Madhyamka idea? I'm not asking if it's a good or bad/ right or wrong idea. (It seems to me that some of the discussions here are from such different perspective according to what tenet system the writer writes from) But is there a very generally accepted answer to this? 

This is a situation I come upon very often at work. We have had some big problems with calumny, people saying bad things about each other. I find it quite difficult to see someone doing this as “a spiritual teacher”. But, more disturbingly, I think it might be counterproductive. If a person keeps saying bad things about the others, and we all look upon that person as “a spiritual teacher”, how is the situation going to get better? Violence is another example. If a woman is about to be raped, is she not going to fight back? Is she supposed to take the misdeed upon herself? How is not fighting back going to make the situation better? Isn't this just going to produce more rapists? I’m thinking here about verse 13: 

Yes! This is the whole aim of the Arhat's path! This is the goal of the 3rd training! Instead of the word "destroy" it is better to think of it as "transform" because that is what it actually is. (Read Heart Sutra to understand this concept. Keep it in mind. Read Diamond Sutra Explained after.) The hindrances are basic energy that once you transform to its positive form--even if you do it temporarily--will give you tremendous energy in all its positive forms! Anyway, that was the answer to your question. But may i ask... How is this done? The three trainings. 1st training, morality, does a very temporary, repressive hold on the hindrances and afflictions. This is why success in the 2nd training is pivotal. Once jhana is attained, each of the 5 factors of jhana temporarily but completely quells the 5 hindrances! This releases a tremendous amount of mental and physical energy and one feels truly oneself finally. Fun Exercise: Make a table and think for yourself which concentration factor attacks which hindrance?? This is crucial because the 3rd training, the training of wisdom, requires that tremendous energy and focus from jhana. The goal of (Theraveda) Buddhism is success in this "last" training because it brings permanent resolution of the 5 Hindrances. Nonetheless, may I repeat, one will not succeed in this "permanent resolution of the 5 hindrances" unless one succeeds in a temporary cure of the 5 Hindrances (through mastering at least 1st jhana). What are the medicine for each respective hindrance? Each respective factor of the 5 Faculties. How does one train them? Through facility in jhana, the 2nd training. Note: Some argue that jhana is not necessary, the "dry insight" people, that this is going directly against the original suttas which speak of the benefits of jhana repeatedly ad nauseum. Note 2: In Mahayana Buddhism, we go one step further and achieve Buddhahood by going beyond the afflictions and hindrances. In Mahayana Buddhism, once the goal of mastering the hindrances is achieved (3rd training), we go back to the 1st training (morality) and save all beings before entering into Perfect Nirvana. This is true Buddahood. 

Maybe those things aren't worth speaking or thinking about? Indeed, these aren't worth talking about because knowledge about them doesn't bring an end to suffering which is the main issue that Buddhism tries to address. Hence, Buddha encourages to discover yourself rather than the vast universe. 

Of course others have responsibility to rectify the wrong views. There were several individuals spreading wrongly grasped views on Dhamma even during Buddha's time like Arittha, Sati and Sunakkhattha. Buddha's and other monks' reactions on such situations are detailed in Alagaddupama sutta and Mahatanhasankhaya Sutta. Buddha explains the plight of such people, as if grasping a snake from it's coils in the water snake simile in Alagaddupama sutta. 

In Aṅguttara Nikāya, Chakka Nipāta there are two discourses that helps the development of contemplation on death. 

However, the English translation doesn't mention that the Buddha wore a cloth wrapped to a dead body instead it just mentions worn-out hempen rag-robes. In the pali version it says the robe was paṃsukūlāni (rags discarded on the ground). The Buddha has obtained it from the dead body of a servant named Punna lying in the cemetery (this part is in the commentary). He wore this robe until he exchanged it with Maha Kassapa.