Keep those three things in mind, and make sure you're working out at the proper intensity level, and you will see the changes you are looking for. 

It really depends on what you are looking for. As xiaohouzi79 said, if you're happy with your current arm growth doing other exercises, that's perfectly fine. However, if you're looking for additional definition (not growth) you will most likely at least have to have one good time in your lifting cycle focusing on your arms. I would recommend that you make sure you are working both sides of your arms (biceps and triceps) through your other exercises. The worst thing would be to have one side grow faster/bigger than the other. Not only does this look weird, it can cause injuries later on. 

The general idea behind the rule of "don't sit after working out" (and I am not a medical expert - I don't know how valid this is) is that if you go from an intense workout to just sitting and not moving at all, blood will start to pool in the lower areas of your body. This will later cause muscle pain and extra stress to the body. In my mind, this at least makes some sense. Just as you should not go from lifting weights to stopping and going home, you should also cool down from an intense cardio workout. Not only will you prevent injury, but you will continue to reap the benefits of the workout for awhile longer. (Stretching after lifting, walking after running, etc.) 

From my personal experience, you can do all the exercises you want, if you do not eliminate the base cause, it won't help. I was experiencing RSI problems while doing lots and varied exercises, including forearm specific. For me this meant investing in a few things: 

Keeping in mind that this experience is from an UNEXPERIENCED runner, let me just say that running barefoot is one of the best things I did for myself :) 

Indeed the question is quite general.. but I'll try to answer with general problems as well. Muscle imbalance can be a problem if you train incorrectly. For example, if you focus a lot on push-type movements (pecs, triceps, front delts), as would be specific in a striking sport, but don't work pull-type movements as well (back, biceps, rear delts), this will create a strength imbalance. Also similar is training the abs very hard if the lower back is ignored, that can also lead to some serious problems. I think not training your core well enough can be a problem as well. As you get stronger, bigger and faster you want to make sure that your body can keep up. 

The reason I workout the same muscle group is to enable my muscles to react more aggressively. By this I mean - usually we rest our muscle groups after one workout. But by continuing with the same muscle group the next day you shock your muscles in to pushing more out of them, albeit a slightly less intense workout you will gain twice as much as they are fatigued from yesterdays workout but not in full swing of the recovery mode. Have you ever felt the DOMS (delayed onset muscle soreness) worse on the 2nd day? after the workout not the 1st? This is because on the day after workout the muscles are not quite in full swing of recovering...by day 2 they are in full swing and will ache the most. In Summary I would recommend a similar workout as I do. Having a slightly less intense 2nd day if working out the same muscle group. BUT do not attempt to workout the same muscle group if your DOMS is extremely painful. This is a clear sign that your body is in full recovery and you will only damage your muscles and gain less than you started with. Since you are a seasoned trainer I feel you will have no issues with doubling your muscle group training to maximise the results! Good Luck! 

I agree with md5sum. You need more complex carbs and fats in there and possibly some more protein as well. The reason why it probably all burns out quickly is because it's all very "sugary". 

A lot of development will come from just working with progressively bigger weights, but if you really want something specific, check this list out. 

IMO, with alcohol, the extra calories are really not the main thing to worry about. There are a lot of other changes going on in the body. Here's a good place to start. Are you ok having a drink every now and then? Sure, I don't see a problem with that. But a spirit every night might not be what you need on a diet (or even off a diet). Especially on a "strict" diet, your body is already being pushed hard by the caloric deficit; I would do my best to help it out, not strain it even more. 

I would recommend good cardio along with the other recommendations that have been made. I find that, after sitting all day (as I too am a developer) my body responds very well to getting blood flowing through it and getting my heart rate up. Not only does it help clear my mind, but it gives me the endurance for sitting those long hours throughout my work week. Stretching is also important to reduce injury from repetitive motion. You can do many of those right at your desk for arms/hands/fingers. Perform other stretching in the gym for your back, neck, and legs. 

A big part of choosing a weight loss regiment is choosing something you are going to continue doing. Zumba appeals to a lot of people because it has a dance aspect, which makes it fun for them. (There is a stigma associated with working out in a "boring old gym.") If you are going to continue to do Zumba over other workout routines, then definitely stick with it. As to how effective it is, that really depends on the length and intensity of your workout. There is a lot of movement to it, and if you are actually working hard (and sweating), then you are burning off calories. That means, assuming you watch your diet as well, you will lose weight and achieve muscle tone. I would suggest that you do a combination of activities (helps mix it up, too). 

These things take time, don't worry about it. If you are consistent you will see results, but plan to evaluate at least every few months, not weeks. If you have difficulty maintaining your motivation, join a class, that really helps a lot. You don't want to give up on holding that position when the person next to you is still doing it (even though they are probably thinking the same about you). Also, even if you fail to hold it for the given time, don't just give up. Let's say you have to do 30 seconds and collapse after 10. No problem, relax for a few seconds and then go at it again. You will fail in five. Relax, try again. Keep pushing yourself until the proper time expires. Of course this goes for resistance exercises. Don't try to push yourself on stretches too much, that's a guaranteed way to injure yourself. You should feel tolerable discomfort, not agonizing pain. But really...the class will help. Also some exercises seem simple, but there's a subtle catch to them where the instructor can help you a lot. 

I would completely advise against going further than 90 degrees as this will put extreme strain on the knees and although you may not feel it at the time, over time you will slowly wear down the joints which will lead to issues in the future. Evidence wise - well i think if you search on the internet you will find arguments for both sides - some saying it is a myth and others swearing by it wearing the joints down... so really the best answer is your won opinion of how it feels for you. The gain for going further than 90degrees is little and if you wanted to push your hamstrings or other muscle groups there are plenty of alternative exercises available to achieve this. 

For you to obtain your fat loss goal is simple. You do not need to alter your diet too much since from what you have quoted it seems like you have quite a decent diet that is not overloading on the wrong food. What you need to do is ensure you do a minimum of 40minutes of cardiovascular activity a day. BUT the cardio you do must elevate your heart rate above a certain amount for the exercise to actually make a difference. This will depend on your age. If you are say 20-25years old then you should aim to elevate your heart rate to about 170-190bpm throughout the exercise period. After a workout make sure you re-fill yourself with nutrients and some complex carbs so you are not running on no energy. In Summary, a 20minute bike ride will not be sufficient exercise to guarantee loss of fat. It may be good for maintaining your current condition but will not help you burn the fat you want. If you can increase this to 40Mintues of intense cardio then I am sure you will start to see some results. SOURCE: Personal experience and training other people to get the most out of their workouts. 

I'm not sure how you would research this :) You would have to have a group train, for example, only pecs (and no lats) for a long enough time to observe this phenomenon; the duration is problematic, not to mention convincing someone to do it. Then I feel it's also not really 100% ethical since as a researcher in the field you would probably be aware that intentionally creating a strength imbalance increases the risk of injury. As far as less scientific evidence, I've seen a lot of talk about this problem of having much stronger pecs than lats for example, so I feel that this invalidates the theory, since it describes a completely opposite situation (that of unwanted strength imbalance) as being very prevalent. I am presenting this as anecdotal, but I am fairly certain that there is some medical and scientific work to support this. Finally, I think that what applies at their level (Arnold etc.) is not necessarily applicable for the general population. When you are Arnold's size (I'm of course thinking of him during the years in which he was competing), there are probably tons of little details like this that you can observe, because you've already grown so much and are now trying to push your body even more. Finally, I feel like this doesn't really answer your question and I'm sorry for that, but I guess that what I am trying to say it that I'm not sure if it can be answered :) I hope at the very least that my answer can be a good start for more discussion.