If you have holes coming up all over the place on two tubes and then bad tubes is a likely cause. Stop patching the tube and put in some new tubes. If the new tubes pop then look for the cause. Always match up the hole to the tire / rim and see if you can find a cause. You could have a case of bad tubes installed by the manufacturer. Best use of a patch is to just get you home. A patch is not as strong as a tube and will not last as long. The glue will dry out. For $6 it is worth a new tube as failed patch is a flat tire. I have a beater bike that I only use in the neighborhood. I use only patch tubes on that bike. I save up tubes and just patch 4 at a time. I will use a patched tube if I don't have a new. Another trick is if the hole is too big to patch then save the valve core and cap. 

In this chart looking at 700X25c going from about 174 to 128 for a difference of 46 lbs. That is more than the bike weighs. Running a bicycle 20 psi under pressure is significant. Now those two optimal points do not necessarily have the same rolling resistance. The lighter rider would probably have an advantage - but lets call it even in this. Clearly a 200 lb rider at maximum pressure is going to have more rolling resistance than 100 lb rider at minimum pressure. And touring tires and kids tires are is going to have a different weight range associated with the psi range. Some links Rolling Resistance 

It is cross threaded But if only one pedal come off then that is not the case Not cross threaded and everything is fine But you are just not lining it up correctly It can be hard to get even good threads to align some times Threads are damaged If it worked its way out then when it was barely in there was a lot of stress 

What is your budget? Don't split between two cheap lights. I would start with a good (like $80+ USD) bar light before spending money on a helmet light. The nicer lights even have a broad low beam and more focused high beam with multiple power settings. Then you can add a nice helmet light. It is good for riding trails as you can direct the light. Bar light is still good for staying on what is in front of the tire. For city riding I do not use the head light much. Riding up and relaxed it points to far forward. Riding down in drops and fast it is pointing too close. And I notice the extra weight. Riding country roads where you don't have lights for reference the headlight is very nice. 

Bikes don't have enough speed / surface area to hydroplane. A slick does as good as tread in the rain. 

If you look at the full resolution it is clear. BS is center to center (head to seat) along the (sloped) top tube. Since the seat tube is slanted that is a shorter distance. Geomemtry C2C Cathetus and hypotenuse apply to a right (90 degree) triangle. There is not a 90 degree triangle on the BS. 

Not much to go on. Disc brakes for wet. 2x set up if you are going to use is on the road. You probably want clincher wheels. Aluminum frame. Not technically a CX but a bike like this $URL$ 

Because wind resistance is proportional to velocity squared it takes more power to go from 30 to 32 than from 15 to 17. So you get more bang from your pedal power at lower speeds. If it is a relatively short downhill and you have considerable speed you are typically better off coasting and then pedal when you get to a flat or flatter section. You are better off exerting yourself on the lower speed ascent. Then recover on the downhill. It might be 2 minute recovery or 20 minute recovery. If you notice racers typically go all out on the ascent. If you went up the hill at 8 mph and down the hill at 13 mph compared to a constant 10 mph you would have about 5% more wind resistance. 

I would not give up on that bike. Stuff that is definitely bad you can most likely replace: wheels, fork, headset, handle bars, crank, seat post and seat. Stuff that would be hard to find is OK. Fenders and chain guard are fine. To me it is worth seeing how bad that frame is. At the crank it looks pretty good. Pull the rear wheel and check the dropout - if bad give up. Pull the seat and fork and see if it is rusted from the inside. If you have rust from the inside then give up. If inside looks OK then hit the worst rust with 600 sand paper. If you can sand to bare metal by hand in a few minutes then you only have surface rust. Yes you may have more than just surface rust here but it would only take an hour to find out. If you could restore THAT bike that would be cool. Based on a comment to your own answer you trying a restore. When (if) it comes paint time consider a car paint shop where they have a real paint booth and professional paint. They will tell you if you got all the rust. If you leave any rust it will eventually bubble through the paint. It is hard to paint like pro (with a booth). Be flexible on the color and live with a color that is going on a car. A custom color is expensive as they have to buy the paint and mix it. 

That is an inexpensive light that runs on 2 AA batteries. And has a narrow beam. Rather than focus on getting something just a "little" brighter if you want to stay cheap just buy a second AA light and use both. Or get a second of the same. Or step up to more expensive rechargeable lithium ion light. It will be brighter. Focus on reviews. 

Touch up - keep water off parts that rust There are spray on cleaners for spot cleaning the frame. Or just use small sponge for spot cleaning the frame. Then rinse with a very low water pressure and keep water off all exposed (non painted) metal. Full Clean Only performed on a sunny day Start with spray on degreaser let it sit the 5-10 minutes and hose it off Came back with detergent and clean the entire bike Rinse again Use a tooth brush and degreaser to detail degrease Rinse again Detergent clean the entire bike again Rinse again Dry the bike Check the bike over mechanically Me this is when I do maintenance as I have a clean bike with minimal grease If you are going to replace chain ring or cassette do it now If you are going to replace chain ring or cassette then do a full cleaning Apply chain cleaner Ride the bike to help spin off water Let it bake in sun for at least 1/2 hour If it is disc then need to turn the wheel 1/4 turn a couple times Me I use this hour to clean the next bike Wax the frame Lube the chain Hit pedals, derailleur, and other exposed metal parts with a small shot of WD40 Don't hit disc or wheel with WD40 If the disc is not bone dry then leave it in the sun longer 

I had asked Batman or Trengot to post an answer but they had not. I tightened the cassette and it was better but not perfect. So I put a new chain on it and not better. Next new cables and it did need new cables but it was not perfect. Finally I noticed the cassette was loose again. I pull out the torque wrench and torqued it to spec - 45Nm. I was just not torquing it down enough. Now it is perfect. 

Note they misspelled laboratory. More than 1 brand was OK with only testing "1000 miles and 5000+ actuations". Does not mean they expect it to fail on 1001 miles and 5000++. If it passes there is no evidence it will fail at 1001 miles. I think that number more reflects the BSO market than SureStop. That is a believable number for BSO (to me). SureStop is using it on their mid range bicycle so clearly they expect it to have a lifespan more than 1000 miles or they would fail in that market. Another market is rental which is a high mileage market. Not saying it will take a lot of miles but clearly it would not be in their best interest to design for 1000 miles. Even if a BSO is good with 1000 it seems like it would be their best interest to test at a higher number. If wear out a brake pad would fail the "quality life span" then that would explain 1000. The lab may have historical data that they do see failures on low end bikes in that period. Most likely scenario is marketing is looking at the low end market and determined that most of those bikes are not used more than "1000 miles and 5000+ actuations". How cheap can we get and hit that mark. 

If the chain is attached then the likely problem is hub / free wheel is not engaging. Some times it is as simple as cleaning and lubing. Most free wheel are not serviceable. 

Out of shape kind of favors single speed. You don't have the output for bigger gears. You could just just set the SS up with a lower fixed gear. Like a 32 tooth front and 20 tooth rear. I commute on a SS in a flat city with no regrets. In that one gear a SS is efficient. A SS is easier and cheaper to maintain. A SS is cheaper. If you only want to spend $400 then SS. If you are going to spend $800+ then you are going to find a decent quality multi speed. Once you graduate into longer road rides then you will want a multi speed. But you can get multi speed and just use a couple gears. Just don't get a cheap (BSO) multi speed. I also have both a SS and MS mountain bikes. For me SS is just plain fun. It is you and the pedal. I have several bikes and this SS I got used for $400 is still one of my favorites. If I have a non biking friend that wants to go for a ride I put them on this bike (with a bigger seat). 

If the freehub will take 9 or 10 then why would you not go 10? Why would you upgrade to 9 when you can as easily upgrade to 10? Cassette Spacers 2013