The reason we can expect Tantric texts to talk about sex in detail is because they were secret initiatory texts specifically discussing transgressive acts (like eating vomit or feces). Generally the Tantras warn us not to use them as sex manuals, at the risk of death, etc. (source: Kiss of the Yogini and like every book about this) 

This could be coincidental if there was a widespread acceptance of the figures of "215 million" and "108 countries", but in fact, Open Doors is the only group making such massive claims. The Open Doors Australia website does not explain who runs the group or how they arrived at their figure. However, they have a UK branch, which also claims a figure of over "200 million persecuted" and goes into a small amount of detail. It appears they list 50 countries where Christians live in unfriendly societies, and possibly just add up rough estimates of the numbers of Christians in those countries, including India and China. Open Doors UK is a member of the World Evangelical Alliance and describes itself as "an international ministry serving persecuted Christians and churches worldwide." Another recent answer on Skeptics.SE describes it as a biased source which is a far outlier from other attempts at quantifying violence against Christians. Furthermore, as you can see from the quotation above, the claim that "4 out of 5 persecuted people identify as Christians" is a severe misreading of the Christianity Today article, and also kind of nonsensical because "persecution" is such a vague word. I did not find concrete proof that Viktor Orbán is simply misreading the exaggerated claims made in Christianity Today, but given how much of an outlier these statistics are, it seems fairly conclusive that this was a misstatement on his part. 

In 2017, the New York Times printed the following editorial from Eduard Dolinsky, former executive director of the United Jewish Community of Ukraine: 

In conclusion, in 1907 the Great Powers did not consider the Arabs a political force and had no reason to do so, making this quote far more likely to be a forgery or misquote. 

This was originally an aphorism by a Protestant missionary named Amy Carmichael, who penned it while bedridden in India in the 1930s and 40s. 

And he really was forced to do the same thing in South Korea. You can see a few videos of this online. The TV show that this appeared on was known for pressing its actors to human limits. The NPR announcer judges this as cruel and inhumane treatment, and goes after the program's director, virtually accusing him of torture. I am skeptical of NPR's take and wrote a blog post about it. 

Update, October 2017 An advance article was released to the journal Sociology of Religion entitled, "Attitudes toward Abortion among the Muslim Minority and Non-Muslim Majority in Cross-National Perspective: Can Religiosity Explain the Differences?" This article uses the EURISLAM religiosity data that was never uploaded to the EURISLAM website. It contains the following statistic: 10% of non-Muslims in Belgium, France, Germany, Britain, and Switzerland consider themselves to be "practitioners," as opposed to 50% of Muslims. This data comes from before the refugee crisis. As I discussed in my answer to Is “No Religion” world's fastest growing religion?, in the 1960s there was a general belief that populations would lose their religion as they became "civilized" or "post-industrial", but after the 1980s this hypothesis was widely discarded. Instead, it is recognized that some groups secularize and others do not. To give a common-sense example, some liberal Christian populations in America became more secular after the 1960s, but others became more fundamentalist. Sociological research indicates that Muslims in Europe do not secularize in the manner attributed to liberal American Christians in the 1960s. 

Where does the Anon News claim come from? The National Geographic article it quotes focuses on the secularization of Western Europe, Australia and North America. This is a well-known demographic trend that has been tracked and analyzed since the late 1960s. Some researchers at that time expected that the entire world would secularize, so the data collection in other regions of the world had to be accordingly careful. The result disproved the universality of the thesis (same source): 

The reattribution to Socrates seems to date to around 2003, originally circulated via email. (edit) As ChrisW's answer and comments to it attest, this teaching is also found in the Indian Manusmriti: 

Because this doesn't have an actual answer yet... The other answer, which describes this claim as the opposite of the truth, was true before 1945. In the post-1945 liberal democracy, nobody in Japan is forcibly required to bow to anyone. This would violate Article 21 of the Japanese Constitution. In 2003, the Japanese government passed a law requiring teachers to stand for the national anthem, as sitting down implies disrespect to the state. This in itself has engendered years of mass protest in the Osaka region especially. I can't imagine what would happen if people were legally required to bow. The current Emperor is known for touring around the country. He visits many places and talks with many different people, and gets there by taking ordinary streets. I myself have accidentally crossed paths with his car twice. It would be quite a hassle if people were formally require to bow to him as he passed, let alone legally required. The claim that everyone is required to bow to the Emperor besides teachers is a pure myth. edit: For the purposes of illustration, here is a totally gratuitous photo: this shows an incident in 1951 where the students of Kyoto University posted a signboard outside their campus when Emperor Showa (Hirohito) came to visit, directly accusing His Majesty of murdering their peers in World War II and asking him to answer for his crimes. The children (or adopted orphans) of some students also participated in the protest. This is totally legal under the postwar constitution. 

The quote is from a real 60 Minutes interview, and refers to a real incident in Soros' life, but no reliable source holds that this makes him complicit in collaborating with the Nazis. When that was claimed in a newspaper, the newspaper found fault with its own reporting and issued a retraction. Media Matters, reporting on the retraction, quotes Soros' biography: 

Samuel Honig, friend of "Stella," who survived the war unpunished Although this shows that the claim that "there were Jewish perpetrators" is correct as stated, the question of whether Jews made up any substantial percentage of the perpetrators is extremely open. The author of this study cites Gunnar S. Paulsson's Secret City: The Hidden Jews of Warsaw, 1940-1945 (2003), which offers a dissenting view. 

The books do describe a top-down command from Mao Zedong that non-Communists must be put through a "re-education" process, but this order was enacted in very different ways throughout China at the time, mostly with no success. It was in Korean POW camps that it found the greatest success of perhaps a half-dozen permanent converts. Why was that? According to these sources, the Korean War POWs faced a perfect storm which made conversion to the other side especially appealing: 

The scientific evidence shows that what the American press called "brainwashing" was merely "coercive persuasion," persuasion techniques backed with the promise of reward and the threat of punishment. It did not turn people into zombies or robots. Many of the defectors, including Clarence Adams, eventually renounced Communism and returned to the US (see Skeptoid podcast), and more violent persuasion techniques elsewhere in China produced effects more similar to torture. I did not look into the Japanese situation in depth but it appears to have been similar to Korea: soldiers expecting continued pain and death were treated well instead, and asked mainly to give a fair hearing to the perspective of their Chinese caretakers. Japanese soldiers had been taught that the Chinese they killed were barbaric devils, so the permanent change of heart that ensued is not too surprising. In conclusion, "brainwashing" is not too far from "Stockholm syndrome," and both are simply mildly effective ways to make captives pay attention to their captors. 

So, while there is by no means a firm explanation for this, unexplained loud noises have existed for many centuries, and the atmosphere is known to be a large, anomalous, and complex thing that produces strange sights and noises. 

It is unclear how much US funding went to the Azov Battalion before this, but they were a beneficiary. Azov was among the groups officially trained by the US and NATO in 2015. 

"Nutritional and Dietary Interventions for Autism Spectrum Disorder: A Systematic Review" Pediatrics 5/2017 

In other words, maybe this is the sort of pattern you see when you shut your eyes. Neither of these papers appears to have much methodological grounding. Basically every theory of Paleolithic art production, including global matriarchy and shamanic use of hallucinogens, is considered by the authors. An additional paper, which proposes a more stringent concept of artistic production and a more rationally limited of possible motifs, suggests that Neolithic artists were aware of rotational symmetry: "Symmetry analysis of Neolithic painted pottery from the Republic of Macedonia" Archeologia e Calcolatori 21 (2010). This implies the production not only of swastikas (not shown in that particular data set) but also of many other kinds of geometric motif. I conclude that swastikas have been drawn for over 11,000 years, but it seems really unlikely that they have been recognized as a specific, meaningful symbol for over 11,000 years. 

Regardless of what the video shows, the U.S. admitted this happened at least once and called it a mistake: 

Combine this with the facts that the happiness of a relationship is pretty difficult to quantify, and that the FDA would have no reason or mandate to pry into the personal lives of factory employees, and I think it runs against common sense that a statistic like this actually exists. 

Furthermore, Santa and Christmas were already well-known in Japan due to foreign literature like Dickens, and the persistent and futile efforts of missionaries to convert the locals. Christmas was a national holiday from 1927-1947 since it happened to coincide with the death of Emperor Taisho in 1926. The idea that by the postwar period, when this supposedly happened, there were still designers in Japan unfamiliar with Santa seems terribly unlikely. Here's Japanese Santa doing his job in 1916: 

Grabbing the following conclusions from Jared C. Hood, "The Decalogue and the Egyptian Book of the Dead", Australian Journal of Jewish Studies, Vol. 23 (2009). 

In other words, the motifs of 10,000 BCE are also found on modern Slavic clothing...! Well, compare the motif on Joseph Campbell's bird figurine to more modern examples, and decide for yourself. But note the lack of evidence that the swastika was used in pre-1940s Europe apart from its occasional inclusion in larger geometric patterns. This paper is cited in another apparently reliable paper, "The transition to farming and the 'revolution' of symbols in the Balkans. From ornament to entoptic and external symbolic storage", Documenta Praehistorica 31 (2004) 

I have done much research into Jewish settlement in imperial Japan but I have never once seen the claim that Jews seriously proposed a link of pan-Asian brotherhood. It is true that some of the Japanese who rescued them believed in some kind of pan-ethnic brotherhood, such as Norihiro Yasue (my article outlining his ideology is on academia.edu), but this was not the explicit reason given for rescuing Jews. The actual reason for the policy was humanitarian need and the duty to grant asylum to political refugees. In the early 1930s, it seems, some Japanese officials wanted to create a Jewish colony in Manchuria to attract their money, but that ended up having little influence on the status quo that emerged when World War II and the Holocaust actually began. Most of the visas to get to Japan were written by Chiune Sugihara and you can read about his motivations for yourself. As for the humorous quote, Wikipedia points out that "orientalim" is not good Yiddish and it is unlikely that he actually said this, regardless of what was actually said. 

When you try to ascertain the veracity of this "fabulous" story, things quickly become interesting. According to legend, the Cheraman Juma Mosque was built by orders of the king. However, the king never returned to Kodungallur, as he was buried in the city of Salalah in Oman, where pilgrims still visit his alleged tomb (apparently he is better known there by another name, Hazrat Syedina Tajuddin). The evidence of Indian presence in Salalah in the 7th century AD is scarce, but there is plenty of evidence that they came to Oman in large numbers starting in the 15th century, bringing their legends with them. Following the link from Wikipedia's article on the mosque, one comes to an article on yet another name for this king, Cheraman Perumal, which apparently is not properly a king's name but the title of monarchs of an ancient dynasty. And from that page one arrives at Cheraman Perumal myths. Here we start to get the real story. Some people claim that Cheraman Perumal saw the splitting of the moon, converted to Islam, and went to Mecca. Others claim that he went to Mount Kailash (Tibet) or a Buddhist site. Still others claim that he was a Shaivist all along or that he converted to Christianity. Most fascinating to me is that the nascent film industry of Oman is sponsoring a film about his life as a Muslim, yet to be released. The one thing every faith community agrees on is that he was a good king, and now he has disappeared. At this point it finally became obvious to me that this "fabulous" account was, indeed, fabulous. It was a local legend reflecting very old traditions about the Chera dynasty, which, thanks to the magic of the Internet, has now become a pan-Islamic myth about a witnessed miracle. I think that closes the case, but if you want more details on this legendary character, here's a talk in English about him. The speaker describes how longing for the lost dynasty, and its finest king whose historical existence is evidenced in a few stray inscriptions, inspired the telling of Shaivist legends about the king roughly 200 years later. These romantic legends may have inspired many different faith communities to come up with their own stories. 

In fact, I cannot find any evidence that we even know their word for aloe. I think this book's claim is based on a 1930 "translation" of the Papyrus Ebers by Cyril P. Byran, but that work seems to be considered highly suspect; it's a "'rendition into English of German and other translations of the Egyptian original,' is fragmentary, and is full of satiric editorial comment." John F. Nunn's seminal work Ancient Egyptian Medicine does not contain an entry for aloe in his table of herbs with "considerable agreement for the meaning of the Egyptian word," nor does it show up in E.A. Wallis Budge's dictionary of hieroglyphics. "Aloe" does not show up in the translation of the Edwin Smith surgical papyrus, and as above, its use in an early English translation of the Ebers papyrus was spurious. 

In plain language, Muslim women don't go to mosque, so "attendance" is not a proper measure of their religiosity. Hence the EU had to start a separate survey called EURISLAM (dead link) to employ some "alternative indicators". However, the authors of this survey were hesitant to report their results publicly, as they explain in a paywalled article: 

As I expected, the source of this claim is the standard modern history of the Inquisition, The Spanish Inquisition by Henry Kamen (fourth edition, 2014). Chapter 9 gives us the details: 

The data for this claim comes from a 2015 study by the Pew Research Center, one of the leading groups analyzing religious demographics. However, the claim being made is in direct contradiction to the study's subtitle: 

Well, yes and no. The earliest biographies of St. Patrick do relate how he defeated druids and magicians, sometimes in supernatural warfare. The Vita tripartita Sancti Patricii has several stories like the following: 

This book is based on a 1998 episode of the PBS series American Experience. None of these three secondary sources cited a primary source, but the core of the anecdote does seem a little more plausible now. 

Ghazzālī lived from 1058 to 1111 AD. His critique of religionists' blind devotion to Aristotelian metaphysics would emerge in France over a century later (the famous Condemnations of 1210 and 1277). A history of science writer and evangelical Christian, Richard P. Aulie, suggests a causal connection between the two events: 

The English language article refers to Korean War cases, but there is also a famous case from World War II: the Japanese soldiers who formed the Association of Returnees from China have testified extensively about war crimes that they committed, but Japanese right-wingers reject all their testimony, claiming that Chinese "brainwashing" has rewritten their memories. The current scientific consensus is that there is no such thing as "brainwashing", but science, of course, is subject to change based on evidence, and this would be a major case study. My specific question is: did the Chinese during 1940-1955 employ a special technique that caused soldiers to view their own countries as evil and defect to the Chinese side?