In other words, while it is expected that a criminal will violate the law, the reverse is not necessarily true: a person who violates the law is not necessarily a criminal. Assuming the second proposition as always true is thus a fallacy. In this case it could be: 

Fits your needs (sufficient completeness) Is the simplest you can think of (minimal number of parts => Occam's Razor) Gives you a correct (accurate, sufficiently precise) calculation/prediction according to experiment. Hopefully will not get you in some contradiction or dead ends (consistency with itself and the rest of your knowledge). 

This is a paradox (solvable, but rather undecidable at this stage), but not an aporia (logical impossibility). I would consider your model as incomplete: there is no definition of the object "wish". In particular what is the scope of the effects it can have? May a wish (effect) influence back the source (genie) or not? If yes, what are the rules and limitations? In mathematics, this comes under the heading of "feedback". In order to decide on an answer to this question, you would have to define the feedback function and see what happens to your system. It might stabilize to a definite answer (which is preferable), flip-flop to two or more answers, become wildly chaotic, go to infinity, etc.. The simplest way to solve the issue is, of course, to forbid feedback: a wish is invalid if it concerns the genie in any way, shape, or form, as well as someone else's wishes. But that would also remove the challenge in your question. The answer of gnasher 729 is not that off the mark, even though it is formulated, as it were, as a reductio ad absurdum: his implicit assumption being that the genie is omnipotent: hence not only the wish cannot affect him, but he can break it (a value of humor is that is shows absurdity). His is an acceptable axiom, though perhaps not what you intended either. But since you invented the problem, is up to you (not the genie) to give a more substance to your problem, so that it becomes decidable. 

A.S. analytic and systemic definitions I mainly used from here, but there might be more general or specific meanings I am not aware of that is not covered in that link (Definition: A "chunk" is a structural concept. It is in some way like a logical atom but also generalise to system entities where a concept is due to integration of many parts into the whole hence cannot be segmented. What makes "chunk" different from "non chunks" is that regardless of what scale where it is irreducible, its interaction with other concepts can be described, that is, "chunks" and their interactions can be described using relations akin to drawing a mind map or flow chart or any kind of structural reasoning approaches. "Non chunks" are non structural. They cannot be described in terms of relations. The best we know about them is they give some outcome when they interact with something, but we cannot describe how the outcome arises and there is in general no correlation between the possible outcomes A good way to decide whether something is a "non chunk" is whether you can make power point slides based on it and the presentation ends up looking structural. Non chunk's generally indescribable property makes this practically impossible because there is nothing you can consider as an anchor to the subject Another way to think about "non chunks" is that their non structural nature often preclude them to have a word description. A dictionary entry of a "non chunk" probably either have vague words, or maybe just a picture with no words as its definition Some "non chunk" examples include (romantic) love and the indescribable captivating feature of Mona Lisa as mentioned in Cort Ammon's answer, as well that exhaustive list near the end of the question) This question had been a long curiosity to me, given that for nearly all disciplines of knowledge I have came across such as natural science, social science, arts, culture, commerce can all be learnt and understood by expressing the key ideas in a "chunky" way, and my mind is so geared towards analytic thinking (that one of my friend said I probably have modeled continental philosophy in an analytic way by expressing the concepts as a function that depends on many parameters to take account of context), that I am having trouble learning how to think non analytically Take for example in chemistry, you have a chemical reaction 2H2+O2->2H2O Here you can understood this in terms of "chunks" like: 

that the ethical problem that woman has to solve takes precedence, in her eyes, over the law of society. Or, on an emotional or pain level, necessities of survival do not suffer contradiction. Or it could be many other motives, which one may or may not consider as legitimate. 

This preoccupation of fair laws is indeed inscribed in the Preamble of the Universal declaration of human rights: 

As you see, it's a tough choice, where you are going to lose either the inviolability of the principle of conservation of energy, or the inviolability of deep-rooted intuitions and most philosophical traditions. All is not lost. Mathematicians and physicists can live with singularities, knowing that they are bound (at the risk of oversimplifying: without being afraid that airplanes will fall from the sky and GPS will stop working). For the rest of society, the notions of incompleteness and singularities are not palatable (hence the initial skepticism about black holes). As Richard Feynman used to say: "I don't feel frightened by not knowing things". Which is why we might get some advances from that side, rather than from other disciplines where doctrines are more radicated. As you realize the debate is not only philosophical or (anti-)religious, it is also highly political since free will and freedom of thought (in a social and political sense) are closely connected. According to the position 1 and 2, the imperative of defending freedom of speech, research, etc. might be interpreted in very different ways. With 2, it is necessary, with 1 it is contingent and conventionally accepted as merely functional. 

In writing a story, you have a narrative, characters, settings, which in turn depends in a complex way to the culture, the background of the writer, the intentions. History, Archaeology, Paleontology etc. also have similar "chunky" elements such as the excavated object, the chemical analysis, the history, folklore etc. And in physics, we have highly nonlocal and highly holistic "chunks" such as a quantum entangled system, and physics phenomenon can be checked with experiments, which are also chunky because it is step by step There's also religion, philosophy itself, language, politics (though messy because you need to take account of bias) etc. that also are quite "chunky" (skipped else the post will become too long) And finally, in recent years, there has been a growing trend of companies from different disciplines collaborating together, thus you have "chunks" of knowledge in each disciplines all interacting and mixing with each other as new ideas are generated =========================================================== So just with the example, one can see the success in the combined multidiscipline approach that make use of concepts like systemics, reduction, induction, holism, deduction, emergentism, top down, bottom up approaches in educating and learning But then, all of the above have one thing in common: They are all algorithmic ways to deal with "chunks", thus they are technically analytic, right? But we have concepts like: (romantic) love, life (as in living), daily chores, emotions, intuitions/gut feelings, leap of faith, etc. and most importantly, Experience (and qulia) that are not chunky because not only we cannot describe or derive them fully into or from some simpler "chunks" (so it fails the analytic approach), even if we treat them as irreducible system level entities, we still have no way, not even a statistical pattern in how the outcomes when they interact with other concepts are governed (thus systemics also failed to satisfactory describe them), thus they seemed to be nonlocal or something more general at all scales My question is then: 

The "handshake" ("are you there?"): it ensures (for telecom devices) that the other device is still reachable through the line, and in a conversation or speech, that your audience is still paying attention. So the real question, is: "Do I still have a communication?". In the extreme, whatever one asks is irrelevant; a sentence ("d'you see what I mean?"), a simple word ("yeah?") or even a question mark ("?") would suffice. The maieutic question: the purpose of the question is to make the audience think about something (relatively obvious), so they indirectly come to a realization ("aha!"). 

Any reflection on the moral character of an action would have to take the environment into consideration, particularly the dominant norms. This principle should also remain valid if one does not regard them as absolutes, or even in the case one disagreed with their legitimacy (freedom of thought). Hence you might want to divide the question into two distinct situations according to the environment: the state of nature and the state of society (a concept that traces back at least to Hobbes, but see also the Social Contract by Rousseau). This dichotomy might be useful. In the state of nature1 where there is no police and no justice (and supposing that could really exist, since some state could still claim jurisdiction on the location) the decision would be in principle strictly personal, by definition; in other words down to the individual's own sense of ethics (or more likely, and at a lower level, survival instinct). This would, consciously or inconsciously involve weighing chances of survival when selecting courses of action; or in the extreme it would boil down to killing with one the various techniques animals use in nature (pursuit, ambush, face-to-face duel, poisoning, stealing food, etc.). In the state of society the functions of police and judicial have been delegated to the state. According to the social contract, it is not up to an individual to make that type of adjudication. So a citizen who reasons like this would be in breach of the social contract and would undermine the rule of law. In a state of society, this "thin line" you are contemplating is the laws of the land, specifically the criminal code, which explicitly forbids this kind of behaviour. On top of this, this runs against the dominant moral codes of most human societies, which consider killing bad per se. Indeed, acting by pre-emptively killing someone would qualify as assassination, which carries among the highest penalties in criminal codes. Since those law codes are consciously written by people who carefully ponder a "scale of represession" (or whatever it would be called), this is an indication of the extent to which such a behaviour is considered a dangerous transgression for a society. Going back to a similar situation in a state of nature, let us remember that an individual would also probably want to go back to "civilization" which (still and regardless of the specific conditions) enforces its dominant set of values. If the behaviour of the individual had violated those rules, the individual would also have to live later with it privately, or else need to justify themselves to their fellows; including (because of the practice of territorial claims, or even extraterritoriality) in front of courts. And then the "thin line" would be back to the only admitted exception, i.e. self-defense. Perhaps with some allowances due to mitigating circumstances (due to the harshness of the conditions), as well as the presumption of innocence. 

Ideas: What I want or intended to express Elements: Color, texture, configurations etc. Materials: Metal, acrylic, Styrofoam Method: Printing, painting, machining etc. Choice of site: Parks, shopping centre tc. Interpretations: How the meaning of the artwork is dependent on the time, audience, culture etc. it is presented 

In movies, a frequently mentioned idea is that "Nothing lasts forever" .There's also a Chinese saying 變幻是永恆 Having thought too much into treating concepts as something similar to "building blocks", I end up having the following reasoning that contradicts itself: 

There is a logical fallacy Change cannot be considered as a quality It is possible to unchange something The definition of change as "Things change when it no longer possess the nature or qualities it originally had" is worng or misused or incomplete etc. 

Parties involved: E.g. leaders, the employees, the production line etc. Factors such as profit, resources, economics, culture, work atmosphere etc. 

What you are dealing with is an evolution of the meaning of words. Kant, in his essay on Perpetual Peace, refers to the Roman republic and rule mob, which he assimilated to tyranny. To him, that was the definition of democracy. Today, that would be called ochlocracy. In his First Definitive Article, Kant gives the three cumulative criteria for what he considers republican: 

I will give an answer from an applied sciences or engineering viewpoint: it depends on what exactly you are trying to achieve. Are you trying to simply group them together? In that case, the possibility expressed in your "hypotheses" have already been experimented with (and a mathematician could likely provide a rigorous demonstration), so they would rather count as facts. The function of a hypothesis is to provide a statement that you are going to test. If you say: 

You can also see Feynman's introductory lectures, particularly this excerpt on the Nature of Scientific Thinking (1961). 

Chemical elements,e.g. H, O and their properties (atomic no. ,electronics etc.) Interactions, e.g. electrostatic attractions, orbitals, energies etc. 

Superorganisms such as slime molds (which is an aggregate of amoeba moving collectively) and ant colonies. They had to be treated as one entity at such level but otherwise its interaction with the surroundings can still be treated as if they are individual objects The ecosystem and human impacts on it, how it is "chunky" in that it is linked to things like pest, antibiotic resistance, changes in the microbiome Emergent phenomenon like dissipative systems in biological system that are not in thermodynamic equilibrium 

In complex systems, while you have large graphs showing the network of two the systems joined together, you can still characterise it in a chunky way like 

================================================== Elaboration (because I have no idea how to simplify it into sentence form...): Things change when it no longer possess the nature or qualities it originally had. For example "an apple falling from the tree" is an example of change, because at least one of its qualities, its position, is no longer fixed in at least one reference frame. Therefore anything that differs from what it originally is has changed So when a quality x of a given thing started to deviate, say to x1, it has changed Put it another way, it has acquired the quality "changed" Since this quality cannot be removed by any means (you cannot "unchange" something because restoring it to what it is originally should be, is just x1 becoming x, thus still "changed". Even if time travel where overwriting history is possible, then the quality still goes from x1 back to x in the perspective to the person who read the time travelling story) so it does sounds like, once the quality "changed" is acquired, it will last for indefinite period of time, and because of the stuff mentioned above, "changed" cannot change ================================================ However since 3 contradicts 1, I suspect it is because of one or more of the following: 

As a complement to Mr. Kennedy's answer (leading question), I would point out that simply calling this a "question" might contain a second, implicit, fallacy; unless one is aware of the real reason why the question is being asked. The usual assumption, is that one asks a question in order to acquire new information. There is a theory of information (Shannon) that takes into account the probability of each distinct answer. Here you have one answer, with a probability of 1. So as a heuristic tool, this question does not foot the bill. Traditionally, asking a question to which one already knows the answer is called rhetorical question. So the question about this question might be: "why are you asking me a question to which you already know the answer?". There might be a number of reasons, all of which come under the heading of "I want you to state what I already know". Offhand, I can think of two: