Also note weight, including rotational weight, only affect acceleration (and maybe climbing a teeny bit), not how much work it takes to maintain cruising speed. Rolling resistance and wind resistance affect what your top speed is. So if your can keep up with your colleagues cruising speed but not acceleration, focus on weight. Otherise focus on aerodynamics and rolling resistance. 

I had one of these. With the exception of the narrow brush (which can be bought seperately), whos curved, toothed end is wonderful for cleaning gunk out of cassettes, I found the tool a waste of money. I wound up throwing mine away. If you're seeing a lot of grime, your problem is almost certainly not the conditions in your area, although this can exacerbate the problem. Rather, you probably leaving too much oil on your chain/drivetrain. The following will work better than the Park cleaner, save you money, and reduce your environmental impact. Equipment needed 

For those of you that want to commute on a nice bike in bad neighborhoods, let me give you a few tricks that have served me well. 

We could argue about whether the should applies to giving a signal -- it certainly would if it was in the first sentence of that bullet point, or a bullet point in its own right, but we dont need to: in the context of the highway code, context must means a legal requirement, while should means if you don't and there's an accident you're likely to get at least some blame. So no, you're not obliged to. In fact, in one of these cases (moving away from the kerb) I tend not signal -- because I wait for a big gap, then as the vehicle at the front of the gap passes me, I accelerate hard, with both hands on the bars for control and changing up through the gears. Signalling after it's passed wastes some of the gap, and theres often no room to signal while it's passing (signalling before it passes would only confuse its driver). However if there might possibly be traffic about, it's a really good idea, especially signalling right, as that means you're about to move into the path of faster vehicles. If you're right handed this may take some practice. So practice somewhere quiet; you'll soon get the hang of it. Try riding left handed with your right hand near the bars, for example. Until you can confidently signal right there may be cases where the only way to go right safely is to stop and cross like a pedestrian. Never ever assume that drivers react to you looking round. Hardly any will notice, and they may take their eyes of the road to see what you're looking at. Even with helmet lights that clearly indicate me turning my head (red rear, amber sides) I've often been overtaken while getting ready for a right signal. Drivers don't understand cyclists' speed. You're going so slowly from their point of view that you'd have to be down to walking pace for them to notice. Moving out into the lane can help. But you need a good couple of hundred metres gap and visibility even at 30 mph -- I'd signal then too. A comment on my answer to a related question confirmed that a slowing down signal is very rare. So don't worry about that one. 

Regular maintenance I do this once a week, or daily when riding in inclement weather. That's pretty frequent, but the more frequently you do it, the quicker and easier it goes. You can experiment with frequency depending on your riding conditions, but you should find this is all the drivetrain maintenance you need until you chain wears out, with the gunk-cleaning being a special case. 

If you ride a lot in wet weather, you'll need to do this more frequently. Frequency, not quantity of oil is key in this situation. The most common mistake people make is over oiling their chains. The excess oil accumulates dirt and gets gunky making cleaning a hastle. Every single time you oil your chain, wipe it with a rag like this. Do this frequently enough and you'll always have a nice clean drive train. If your chain oil always comes of black (blacker than whatever lubricant your using which is rarely black), just do this process frequently until things start looking nice. 

Fits you Is comfortable (not quite the same thing as 1 but close) Doesn't break the bank. This is quite personal but the very cheapest new bikes often fail on the other points, so second hand can be better. I learnt to ride on something that cost £50 new, but was never really confident until I spent quite a bit more on a bike that fitted much better. Second hand also wins on depreciation if you find that it's not right for you. Is a pleasure to ride. This last point is tricky but tends to rule out rear suspension (unless you're riding plenty of rough stuff) and skinny tyres (unless you're riding nice roads all the time) as both will feel like hard work in the wrong conditions. A range of gears is important if you live somewhere hilly, and nice to have even on the flat. 

It's been said that you're the limit, rather than the bike, so this is about how to safely approach that limit. Purely as a point of comparison for what the manufacturer might exist a typical cyclist to do, on my not dissimilar hybrid (but v brakes) I've done over 60km/h down a hill I know well. 50+ is more common. Road bikes will be faster but fundamentally aren't all that different. Although I've got 70km/h out of my tourer, I wouldn't at that spot even if traffic and the speed limit weren't an issue. I have had to stop suddenly from that sort of speed down hill (e.g. a minor bump causing my lock to fall out of its bracket) and the stopping distance is huge. So build up to it gradually to: 

Replace all quick release fixtures with tooled fixtures. This is generally a small investment. Take a black marker to all component markings, making all those Deore XT's look at first glance like no-name-brand cheapo components. Either give your bike a crappy paint job -- spray paint some garish, noticeable color. Dont' bother making it beautiful, but make sure any brand markings or indication of quality of bike disappear. An easy alternative here is to wrap the frame in packing tape, which will make your bike look like a beater, but preserve the original finish if you ever want to resell it. Use a good lock, but it should look old and beat up, not like you take your bike too seriously. 

I also strongly recommend a chain-checker -- a simple little tool for checking chain wear, but you can always just run by your shop periodically to have them check it, if that's convenient. Cleaning a gunky drivetrain I say drivetrain, because it's usually not just your chain that's gunky, the casset, chainrings, and especially derailleur typically get really gunky too. If you're keeping your chainring lightly oiled (defined below) you won't have to do this too often -- after a really muddy ride for example 

Your double shift (when you change chain rings) would have to be perfect. You'd have no power until you'd shifted both front and rear. This would be especially bad changing down for a hill. The front derailleur would have a very hard job to do. I'm not sure current designs could be extrapolated to something that could handle a 20+ tooth difference and a range of 30+. For that matter the difference in chain length between the extremes would be interesting for the rear derailleur. 

L. Dutch's answer explains some of the design decisions. As for why you and I should change our pads when the grooves run out, you really don't want to run down to bare metal on the pads. So when you know your pads are quite worn but not down to bare metal is a good time to replace them. If you've ever cut open an old pad (quite easy if it's perished) you're likely to find that the metal sticks further into the rubber than it looks. 

In my experience, which is sadly rather high, bike thieves tend to look for shiny, and easy targets of opportunity. Camouflaging your bike as a beater will cause most to simply scan right over it. Incidentally, the following happened to my roommate in Paris, with a brand new $3K mountain bike: He pulled up to a fixture of some sort, leaned his bike against the fixture, and started fishing around in his bag for a lock. Whilst doing so, a thief road up on a beater bike, sprung off said beater, sprung on roommates fancy pride and joy, and road off while my roommate looked on in shock and horror. Probably wouldn't have happened if his bike looked like a beater. A further tip is to look for a good locking place -- somewhere with nice bikes on parade, in view of gendarmarie, or in view of many cyclists (where a thief might suppose you are among said cyclists) are good choices, as is underneath a security camera, such as those typically found in car parks. Finally, workplaces often have a sheltered area where you can lock your bike in relative safety. Last but not least, you can leave the QR for your bike seat, and take the seat with you when you are leaving the bike for an extended time. This tends to be quite discouraging as it both makes your bike look like an abandoned beater, and makes riding off on your bike uncomfortable. 

If you're just getting into day-to-day riding on road/bike paths/flattish dirt tracks then what matters is that the bike: 

You could try heating up a screwdriver and pushing that into the screw, then (after everything has had a chance to cool down) using it to turn the screw out. Start gently and increase the heat until it works. 

Finally if it doesn't get better within a day or so this time, or keeps coming back, you may need to get it checked out 

I would say it depends - here in the UK the air pumps at petrol stations all have pressure gauges of some sort, but many aren't suitable. The digital ones where you select the pressure to which you want your tyre inflated often max out at 60psi* but that's not the problem - the problem is that they inflate for a bit then let a bit out to test and correct. And they assume a car tyre. So to get a car tyre from say 30psi to 34, they might hit 46 and then let some out. To get a bike tyre from say 55psi to 60 they will put enough air in to make a car tyre inflate by a few psi - meaning your bike tyre will get rather too hard. I don't fancy measuring the peak pressure they'll do. That's why they say not to use them for bikes. The older sort with a proper pressure gauge also generally have a trigger that you can press lightly, and should be OK. I'm assuming you're sorted for valve compatibility here. *not even high enough for my van, resulting in some hard work with my track pump to finish the job. 

clipless pedals : buck for buck experience tells me this is your biggest win. It makes a big difference in power transfer. frame stiffness: while bike weight (unless your talking >1kg) isn't going to make much difference, a stiff frame which allows for efficient power transfer will. Changing your bike doesn't seem to be an option for you, but adjusting your seating position and height so you get most effective oomph from your pedalling is worth trying. Aerodynamics makes a big difference for a strong headwind, or at higher speeds. So drop bars, a longer stem, or possibly bar ends could help you out here. Rolling resistance can be a big factor too, and this is a cheap one to improve -- get kevlar bead, high pressure tires with a slick surface (if your current tires have a degree of knobbyness to them, you'll notice a big difference here). Light tires make a much bigger difference than frame weight because of rotational momentum. 

Let me contradict some of the other answers here. Weight is not going to make a lot of difference to your speed or endurance, so just ignore it. If you don't believe me, try the following experiment: Pack a 500g weight (about a pound) somewhere that you can comforetably carry it (e.g. in a backpack, or around your waist). Go on a few rides and measure your speed. The compare your speed without the weight. You'll have to do a few experiments to get good experimental data. The fact is your body weight fluctuates from day to day more than you're likely to be able to shave off your bike. (remember F=ma applies to whole thing you're moving -- including your body weight, backpack, water, etc.) On the other, ride geometry, aerodynamics, and power-efficiency can make a huge difference. Here are some important factors: 

As you can see the standard QR height adjustment is unaffected, and the saddle rails are typical. I've found out a bit more - apparently there's quite a bit of extra weight (looks like it, plenty of steel in there) and older versions had a tendency to work loose around the hinge. 

As you've noted this is a very personal variable so you'll need to experiment. When doing so, don't ignore any aches and pains, rest them or get them seen to as you see fit. With a ride to the start that's too short to be a warmup on its own you could try adding some dynamic stretching during the hanging around stage to keep on warming up. If you can't ride to the start, a few miles and some stretching when you get there might be the solution. Especially if it's something specific, a sports physio is well worth consulting. You may actually need to help (strengthen or warm up) your supporting muscles more than the main engines, or have an old injury troubling you. Think about whether there's a particular part that feels worse, next time you're riding like this, and seek advice if so. 30 miles seems like a lot so it's well worth looking for a solution.