Frantz Fanon is the philosopher I associate most with this topic. In his Black Skin, White Masks and The Wretched of the Earth, he examines topics of cultural tension and assimilation. He's perhaps most famous for his description of the psychological process of distancing oneself from negative traits by projecting them onto another group. Thus, "we are not ugly, stupid, lazy, greedy, violent, perverse," it is [the blacks, the Jews, the gays, etc.] who have all those traits. The end result is that people become unable to take action against the bad things of the world except by attacking those different from them, who they suppose to be the sole carriers and sustainers of all such traits. It's worth noting, as well, that there seems to be no group so homogenous that it cannot subdivide into an in-group and an out-group --in fact the worst conflicts often arise between peoples who are actually closely related by culture and/or blood. No one, ultimately, is safe in an environment intolerant of diversity. We can, however, also hypothesize the converse, that embracing diversity makes us less likely to disassociate from our own negative traits, and that in turn makes us better able to actually respond to those in a positive and effective manner. (This last point is not actually found in Fanon --to a certain extent he was a prisoner of his own syndrome, in as much as he perceived violence as the appropriate way to engage with oppressors). 

Technically speaking a fallacy is an invalid argument. In practice, what we would expect to see is two people starting from shared premises, and reaching contradictory conclusions, because (at least one) has made a logical error, or fallacy. But in this case, there are no shared premises. This is actually Mr. Black's biggest strategic error. It happens quite often in real life and leads to fruitless and frustrating debates. What Mr. Black should have done is to start from premises that he knows Mr. Pink already accepts --authorities he cites, values he holds, beliefs he espouses, epigraphs he parrots --and to show EITHER that Mr. Pink's own premises are intrinsically self-contradictory, or that Mr. Pink's own premises themselves support the conclusion Mr. Black desires. As it stands, Mr Black is demonstrating only that accepting his own premises lead to his own conclusion, to which Mr. Pink quite reasonably responds "why, how lovely for you." In point of fact, Mr. Black and Mr. Pink are symmetrically wedded to their own points of view, and unwilling to even consider the merits of the worldview of their opponents. They both assume their own monopoly on wisdom. The better and more effective debater is the one who starts from her opponent's starting place, not from the one who takes her own rightness as a given. It sounds like Mr. Pink has offered Mr. Black a wealth of material to work with. Taking that material seriously is not only the right logical strategy, it is also more likely to make Mr. Pink willing to engage with Mr. Black at a purely interpersonal level. 

It seems to me that playing yourself and being yourself are two very different things. Even in real life we often portray some version of our selves that are neither wholly distinguishable from the selves we really are, nor wholly capable of being identified with those true selves. Clearly this requires a conception of identity that might be characterized as unconventional, but there's ample precedent for it in the philosophical tradition. For example, a Platonist might consider all of us to be portraying illusive characters in light of the Platonic belief that we are all poor copies of a more ideal reality. From this point of view, Wil Wheaton playing "himself" on television is not so very different from him "playing" himself at a fan convention, or from what any other public figure does to develop a public persona distinguishable from his or her private self. 

This is all about the difference between natural language and formal language. In formal language, a term cannot be used unless it's well-defined according to the standards of the language. In natural language, on the other hand, well-defined terms are the exception rather than the rule. The Sorites paradox forces us to us to recognize that a term like "pile," which we use commonly and usefully, may seem to be well-defined but is not --in other words that there is no single, universal decision procedure attached to the term "pile" as commonly defined. Your solution proposes to substitute the natural language term with a new, well-defined term (a term with a decision procedure). Although this solves the problem by fiat, it has no bearing on the original dilemma. However, this is not entirely a bad thing, since modern logic was created by substituting fuzzy natural language concepts with new, well-defined ones. 

Arguably, if you want to be truly Socratic, you don't debate towards any given goal, you simply ask questions that guide your interlocutee towards greater clarity and understanding of their own ideas and beliefs. 

As a theist, I sometimes find atheistic perspectives on God and religion to be interesting and even illuminating. Many atheists have thought very deeply and seriously about the subject. (I was going to cite my favorite example, Sartre's description of the God he didn't believe in as the union of Existence and Essence, but I just learned --via Google-- that Sartre was actually responding to Aquinas.) So from a theistic perspective, I would certainly say atheistic theology can have value (although of course, from that perspective, all of it is guilty of "missing the point"). For an atheist, on the other hand, I assume the value would be in learning to understand why so many people believe, and perhaps gaining the ability to argue against those beliefs. As far as problems from the world of theology that can be emancipated from religion: There are a vast number of scientific, philosophical and artistic concepts that originated with a religious viewpoint and were later secularized --perhaps too many to mention. Even the early "humanists" of the Renaissance were animated by their religious beliefs, the "secular" version came only later. The same is true of existentialism --Kierkegaard and Dostoevsky preceded Nietzsche and Sartre. 

I'm not familiar with Strauss, but the passage seems clear: He is claiming that there is some fundamental political possibility (presumably to be clearly delineated in the remainder of the book) which represents a true alternative (to the political choices that he has presumably already discussed). He is further claiming that this political possibility is neither ephemeral, meaning temporary, nor accidental, meaning just the result of chance events without significance. The overall suggestion is that many things that seem like political alternatives are temporary and based on chance political alignments, but that in contrast he will be presenting something that does represent a real, stable and significant alternative.