The two hands are (assumed to be) examples of 'external things', hence of an external world in which they exist. The shape of the argument is : (1) Here are two hands. (2) If hands exist, then there is an external world. (3) So there is an external world. There does appear to be (no, I'll say there is) a problem here. It can be spelt out as follows : (1) already assumes the truth of (3). (1) lends no credibility to (3) since if (3) were not true, (1) would be false. Moore may have some epistemic justification for asserting (1) but no more justification than he has for asserting (3). So (1) makes (3) no more, or less, credible than if (3) were asserted on its own. REFERENCES G.E. Moore, 'Proof of an External World', Philosophical Papers (London: George Allen & Unwin, 1959), 126-48. Annalisa Coliva, 'The Paradox of Moore's Proof of an External World', The Philosophical Quarterly (1950-), Vol. 58, No. 231 (Apr., 2008), 234-243 James Pryor, 'What's Wrong with Moore's Argument?', Philosophical Issues, Vol. 14, Epistemology (2004), 349-378. 

It depends how much goes into the emergent properties as regards the kind of causal power (if any) they possess. I'm going to take part of an argument from J. Kim. It doesn't represent his full view but the premises are relevant, I think, to what you are asking. 

'Abortion is not wrong, because women have a right to control their bodies.' This is an 'argument', from a logical viewpoint, because it deduces a conclusion, 'Abortion is not wrong', from a premise, 'Women have a right to control their bodies.' In a deductively valid argument the premise warrants or guarantees the conclusion; the conclusion cannot be false if the premise is true. Actually more than one premise is required; and as you have framed the argument a premise is missing. You need : i. Women have a right to control their bodies. ii. Abortion (the availability of abortion) embodies the right of women to control their bodies. iii. Abortion is not wrong. This argument is valid. iii. cannot be false if i. and ii. are true. Whether they are true a matter of moral dispute. (Get clear on the distinction between the truth of premises/ conclusion and the validity of an argument. Neither yields the other. The distinction between truth and validity is widely explained online.) 

3 Moral judgements, such as S ought to do A, apply only if the agent who is the object of them has contracted into a group every member of which intends to adhere to some schedule, plan, or set of principles, intending to do this on the understanding that the others similarly intend. 1 and 2 do not entail 3. ▻ HARMAN IS NOT A PRACTICAL MORAL SKEPTIC There is a third and final problem. Unless I am much mistaken, Harman believes that under the contractual conditions he describes, it really is the case that 'A ought to do S'. Whatever this is, it is not practical moral skepticism - or moral subjectivism. 

What of presumptive inference in which an answer, X, to a problem, Y, is provisionally agreed and argument continues until a refutation of X, or other compelling reasons not to accept X, is found. This is not unlike one method of argument in the Platonic Socratic dialogues, which concern the arts as much as anything else. This does not look like abductive reasoning. What of argument by analogy - loose analogy as so often in the arts ? This again is not abductive ? 

[If we change the sense of 'chatters' to mean something that birds or monkeys do - utter quick series of short sounds - the above examples can be reworked with this altered sense.] 

'Mr. Black denies all claims that cannot be proved by evidence.' It's easy to rug-pull Mr Black if he makes this claim, as a previous answer shows. But he has no need to make this claim. It is unnecessary. All Mr Black need do, and would do in real life I should guess, is to argue against Mr Pink that by the standards of evidence they both use outside the New Age Religious views dispute, the New Age Religious views fail the test of plausibility. If Mr Pink replies that his New Age Religious views are exempt from the usual standards of evidence, it's fair to ask him to justify this claim. After all it's a belief - about the exemption from the usual evidential standards of a particular set of his beliefs, his New Age Religious views - and is itself subject to the standards of evidence they both use outside the dispute. 

Moral dilemmas are always a good source of fiction or exercise of the moral imagination. You might get some ideas by adopting and adapting any of these storylines : $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

I should say, not, for these reasons. In the Kantian scheme, things-in themselves are ultimately real. Phenomena by contrast, are distinct from them and derive from our engagement, under the fixed and inherent conditions of human cognition, with these ultimate realities. This makes things-in-themselves unknowable, and there is no way in which we could coherently state how the derivation works. This is because we could only formulate any possible derivation in terms of the categories. Categories are valid only of phenomena. To go back to your question. If, according to Kant, phenomena (X) derive from our engagement with things-in-themselves (Y) then the two can never be identical since nothing can be one and the same thing as its derivate : X ≠ Y. That's the textual Kant, but can we be more flexible ? Could a thing-in-itself and a phenomenon be identical in the sense, not of being the same thing, but of being exactly similar ? Since Kant says but can't know that the categories are valid only of phenomena, it is logically possible for a thing-in-itself to have all the properties - corresponding to the categories - of a phenomenon. I am unable to extend my answer to 'all of the transcendental philosophers'. These may be within the compass of other members of PSE. 

Ethical theories typically run on moral principles : Kant's 'Always treat humanity, whether in your own person or in that of another, as an end and never merely as a means', say, or classical utilitarianism's 'Promote the greatest happiness of the greatest number'. Marx subscribed to moral principles : the formula for socialist justice is 'to each according to their work' and for communist justice, 'from each according to their ability, to each according to their needs'. Ethical particularism, associated especially with the work of Jonathan Dancy, denies that moral judgements or moral reasoning need make any reference to moral principles whether these are conceived as (a) exceptionless rules or (b) default principles (considerations that apply, all else equal, or rules of thumb as one might say). It is against moral principles in sense (a) that ethical particularism is distinctively set. One of the keystones of Dancy's position - taking Dancy as representative - is that we cannot properly subscribe in our moral judgements or moral reasoning to a moral consideration that automatically has force or has the same force in different situations. There is a stress on and recognition of the unique in Dancy's work. Take a consideration such as that one can cause pleasure. In one situation, causing pleasure may be a morally relevant and reason-giving consideration : it is good to give pleasure to A. In another situation, causing pleasure may be a morally relevant but repellent consideration : it is not good to give B pleasure by handing over an animal for B to delight in torturing. In yet another situation, such as that of whether to tell the truth, any pleasure involved may be totally irrelevant. In sum, moral judgements and moral reasoning do not have to be, and in cannot adequately be, based on moral principles, exceptionless rules such as those defined by Kant or classical utilitarianism, or by Marx, or anyone else. Very difficult issues are involved here; and Dancy's views have evolved. But I have sketched ethical particularism to illustrate an ethical theory that does not depend on moral principles. Dancy's views can be found in J. Dancy, 'Ethics Without Principles', Oxford, 2004. If you have any problems with this answer, just post a comment and I'll do my best to reply. 

Source : Joseph K. Davis, 'IMAGE, SYMBOL, AND ARCHETYPE: DEFINITIONS AND USES', Interpretations, Vol. 16, No. 1 (FALL 1985), pp. 28-29. ['Sensuously apprehensible' just means perceptible by or through the senses.] 

I'm not sure this isn't a case of science purloining, if I may gently and chafflingly put it so, the use of a word which in Classical Greek just means 'little' and has been used in non-scientific contexts since at least the Late Middle Ages, as in 'microcosm' - the world of human nature as distinct from nature as a whole. You cite, quite properly, the precise, quantifable meaning of 'microgram' but not all scientific uses of 'micro' are anywhere near so exact : 'microbiology', 'microchip', 'microclimate', 'microscope'. But all this aside, I see and endorse your point. A 'micro-brewery' is just a small brewery : but 'small brewery', unlike 'micro-brewery', sounds boring and uncool. 

1 Is your suggestion that either of these sentences might replace Mill's own final sentence or is it that it should be added to the chapter ? 2 I should have thought that, if a new sentence were needed, it would be something along the lines of : 'I argue on utilitarian grounds for the fullest extent of individual liberty against the coercive power of public opinion within the sole limits of not causing harm to others, the two principal spheres of application of my argument being liberty of thought and discussion and liberty of action.' 3 Such a sentence would thrust us forwards into the main body of the argument whereas your two candidate sentences, with neither of which I disagree, only reflect back on the chapter and draw morals - lessons - from it. 

There are two contexts in which this question can be posed : (1) in your own case and (2) in the case of an agent without experience. 'Unknown' can mean 'unknown that it is' or 'known what it is'. I take it that both senses are implied. 1 If 'a priori' means 'prior to or independent of experience', then (I think) you cannot properly ask the question concerning yourself since you already have experience, and specifically experience of coming to know objects previously unknown in your experience. Inductively, but not a priori, this gives you good grounds for supposing that if you have encountered previously unknown objects in the past then you will also encounter them in future. 2 In the case of someone who has no experience of knowing any objects, I don't see how this person could have any idea of the probability or otherwise of there being unknown objects since no known object has been encountered. 'Unknown object' contrasts with 'known object' but ex hypothesi for this person there are no known objects to contrast with. 3 I think there is a general problem with a priori probability if we take a priori in anything like its standard sense (as above). Probability - likelihood - is probability on the evidence or given certain data : P (A|B) - the probability of event A, given event B. But a priori, no events are or can be given or any relevant experience. So much is contained in the very idea of the a priori. So while it is interesting to speculate on the probability of there being unknown events, I don't think the a priori is the standpoint from which to approach the question. 

There are multiple criteria for what makes a good philosophy - a good philosophical system, book, article and the rest. POWER OF STIMULATION AND SUGGESTIVENESS I'll take John Locke, the 17th-century philosopher, here. One thing Locke produced was a theory or account of personal identity in An Essay concerning Human Understanding, 1690, Book II, chapter xxvii (Of Identity and. Diversity). This argues for an essentially psychological, continuity of consciousness and memory criterion of personal identity. The argument is not tight; and as Locke left it, it is subject to criticisms powerfully put by Butler and Reid. Yet the theory has proved immensely influential in the sense that to many philosphers even today there seems something deeply right about a psychological theory, and something deeply wrong about a purely physical theory. Debate is no longer conducted in the terms framed by Locke; but his theory launched personal identity theory in a direction in which many are still inclined to pursue it. POWER OF SYNTHESIS One of the many greatnesses of Plato's Republic (Politeia) is its connectedness of treatment of a wide range of philosophical inquiries. In the confines of one book there is ethics, politics, aesthetics, epistemology, metaphysics, theory of education, the philosophy of religion, the philosophy of mind. And Plato's is no facile linking of these inquiries : the book (defective a little bit in organisation - Bk X contains criticisms of art that should have been fitted in elsewhere) works through its various inquiries in a way that is not just consistent (for the most part) but interlocks them coherently. For example, one can understand Plato's strictures on art from the nature of his metaphysics, or his criticism of democracy (as the politics of ignorance) from his epistemology. Of course, there are creaks and strains but the connected treatment of so much material enables you to see philosophy if not quite whole then at least not reduced to disparate, self-contained inquiries - a tendency to which contemporary philosophy is inclined. POWER OF CRITICISM Here I'd take Quine as my point of departure, my illustrative example. In his essay, 'Two Dogmas of Empiricism' (1951) Quine exposed to sustained criticism a distinction that had by that time established deep roots in philosophy : the analytic/ synthetic disinction, the distinction between statements true by virtue of meaning ('All bachelors are unmarried men') and statements true by virtue of how the world is ('US public postboxes are dark blue'). Quine mounted a sustained assault on the idea of 'meaning' and 'synonymy' on which the notion of analyticity rested. Quine made problematic something that had become an orthodoxy. POWER OF PARADOX Berkeley is my case study for this one. The Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous (1713) are full of ingenious arguments to show that all that exist are minds or spirits and their ideas. To most of us, this appears the height of paradox. Yet the deftness and ingenuity of Berkeley's wave upon wave of argument, and the real difficulty of fixing where and what his logical errors are (all right, 'if any') lends his work a permanent interest and makes him an important philosopher to this day. POWER OF REVIVAL The ontological argument, closely associated with St Anselm, which (loosely put) aims to prove the existence of a perfect being from the mere concept of a perfect being, has an impressive power of (apparent) recovery from the dire onslaughts directed against it, not least by Kant. I do not support the argument but every so often a new version is produced that shifts its exact form and leads to further debate. If this argument is dead, it certainly won't lie down. POWER TO TRANSFORM THE BASIS OF A BRANCH OF PHILOSOPHY Philosophers have concerned themselves with mathematics from the times at least of Pythagoras and Plato. Gottlob Frege (1848-1925) created a radically new mathematical logic with significant philosophical implications. Frege proposed new logical form analyses for propositions, offered a powerful account of quantification, and set out a rigorous concept of mathematical proof. This not only transformed the philosophy of mathematics but stimulated developments in, and transformed, the philosophy of language. POWER OF PERMANENT (OR LONG-TERM) RELEVANCE John Stuart Mill's On Liberty (1859) which defends the liberty of thought and expression and of action on condition (essentially) that there is no 'harm to others' finds its way into political argument, at least on one side of politics, into the present. POWER TO REMEDY NEGLECT My representative philosopher here is Mary Wollstonecraft (1759-97) whose Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792) enlarged the circle of ethics and politics. This work, not alone but decisively cracked the gender-blindness of traditional Western philosophy, its androcentricity, and the assumption of the due subordination of women to the higher rationality of men. It only made a start but it made a crucial start. (Plato's highly qualified recognition of the equality of women - as philosopher-rulers along with men in the Republic - deserved honourable mention but does not cut deep into the ethical and political status of women.) LIST, NOT COMPLETE ENUMERATION This is a list, not a complete enumeration of the criteria of good philosophy. I think it is a separate question, and one not to be attempted here, which philosophers fulful which criteria to what degree.