If you go to this website you will see a list of theravada monasteries in The Netherlands. If you press one of them there is more information such as email, website and also google maps to easier find their location. 

I'm not sure its possible to do nothing once one has entered into the stream. Either way the Once-returner still needs to practice in order to remove the 5 higher fetters thereby attaining to Arahantship. A Once-returner will be reborn one more time into the Sense-sphere Realm which contains; the Hell realm, Pretas, Animal Kingdom, Asuras, Human Realm and Deva Realm (heavenly realm). As the 3 lower fetters has been destroyed a Once-returner can only be reborn in either the Human or Heavenly Realm. 

This community wiki post is about gathering lists that serve as a quick-overview of the different Dhammas in Buddhism. We are looking for dhamma-lists from all traditions. If you have found a list and want to post it please follow the same formating style. 

Developing tolerance for anything means that there is change, transformation, conditionality and causation present. Nibbana is unchanging, unconditioned and uncaused so developing tolerance would not be possible. Tolerance is a phenomena that belongs to conditioned reality. 

Conditioned (samsaric) phenomena are subject to birth and death. It is their very nature to arise and pass away. Samsaric phenomena are compounded and conditioned. They have causes and effects and function as causes for other effects and vice versa. Conditioned phenomena are in a constant flux. There is no stability or permanence. There is no solidity to be found anywhere. Break up and decay is bound to happen. Actually, there is only the present moment. It arises and passes away. One can verify that for oneself, by practicing insight meditation and thereby experience how mental and physical phenomena arise and pass away incessantly. There is birth and death every moment. A sound, a smell, a feeling, a sight, a taste, a mental formation (e.g. the notion/concept of a body or a Self) arises and passes away constantly. 

Dont be too hard on yourself. Give yourself a break sometimes and some pads on the shoulder for wanting to deal with these things. You could just push it aside and fill your life with noise but instead you contemplate this and you try to practice daily mindfulness. That is great and that is what the Buddha taught us to do. So keep that in mind everyday that you are making an effort here. Its valueable. Not only to you but also for everyone who comes in contact with you. When feelings of guilt, inferiority or other negative feelings arise just note them and observe them. If you observe them from they arise until the point where they cease you will see that they are impermanent. What is impermanent is also suffering since one cannot rely on it. Also you will see that you have absolutely no control over the feelings. Its not like you can say: bad feeling, go away. That will not work. All the aggregates are subject to the 3 signs of existence, namely anicca, dukkha, anatta, meaning impermanence, unsatisfactoriness and not-self. They are uncontrollable and ungovernable. When you guard yourself with mindfulness and thereby being able to see e.g. feelings and mental formations arise and cease you will see that they do so on their own accord. Because they are conditioned phenomena build upon other causes which again is build by other causes etc., they will exist as long as the causes sustaining them is present. Lets take the example with guilt. When guilt arises, note it, observe it and watch it until it goes away. See that you have no control over it. When there arises an object to the sense door, there will be contact and when there is contact there arises feeling. That feeling can be pleasant, unpleasant and neutral. When guilt arises, there can arise aversion towards that feeling. If that happens then switch to the new object which is the aversion and note it as "disliking". You can stop the process at that point or before that point if you are mindful about it. If you are not mindful or loose mindfulness for some reason the next step can be a bodily reaction to the guilt-based aversion. It might be heat in the body, increased respiration or other unpleasant bodily reactions. If that happens then swith to that new object e.g. heat in the body and not it as "heat, heat or warm, warm". The point is that feelings, mental formations and the other aggregates are not subject to our control. By seeing that in insight meditation one begins to gradually let go of the aggregates and when that happens its results in more freedom and equanimity. One sees that one does not have to react to e.g. feelings and thoughts. They arise and they cease and thats it. Dont interfere with them. They will go away again. If you interfere with them you will blow them up in size. Its like putting fuel on a fire. If you dont react to them and just note them there will be no fuel for the fire and it will cease to exist. Ven. Yuttadhammo has made a video on youtube which i unfortunately dont remember the name of now. I will post the link if i find the name. In the video Ven. Yuttadhammo makes a simile of feelings and talk about how they can be viewed as a piece of burning wood taking from a camp fire. When one takes the piece of burning wood and puts it on the ground away from the fire, then it will burn for a while and then go out. No problem there. But if one takes the piece of burning wood and holds it in ones hand one will get burned. So if you "take" the feeling of guilt and interfere with it you will get burned. But if you dont interact with it and just note it then you will not get "harmed". Hope this might be of some help to you. Lanka 

I would recommend watching the video; "Ask A Monk: Pornography and Masturbation (and Addiction in General)" by Ven. Yuttadhammo. He gives an in-depth and detailed teaching on exactly this topic both from a theoretical perspective and a practical insight meditational perspective. A step-by-step guide on how to deal with these defilements is provided in the video. 

Question is in the title. What are these daily recollections and how can they be used in ones practice? 

The answer lies in the mind, i.e. to what degree has the mind been cultivated and purified. The more cultivated and purified a mind is, the lesser the chance is that one will continue to make unwholesome deeds or increase suffering for oneself. Ones mind is simply more inclined towards Nibbana. If we look at the untrained mind or the novice mind, then that mind is not cultivated or developed, meaning that the defilements are much more present here. Wisdom is absent or present in a much lesser degree, than in the trained mind. An untrained mind is more likely to dwell in e.g. anger, sadness, happiness and other emotions, thereby enforcing them, like in the snowball-effect. The untrained mind will also in a larger degree identify with and take ownership of phenomena, thinking that there is a self or an experiencing entity, thereby creating further suffering for oneself. The trained and cultivated mind has attained a lot more wisdom, making it capable of seeing reality as it is, without superimposing qualities onto it. The trained mind will not run after pleasant objects and away from unpleasant objects. It has seen the true nature of conditioned existence, i.e. the 3 marks of existence. So if an individual with a cultivated and purified mind commits an unwholesome deed, then that individual will realize it much faster and be able to "damage-control" by reciting the precepts, use the unwholesome phenomena that has arisen e.g. mental formations or feelings to cultivate insight, go and commit wholesome deeds, increase the work on the paramitas and other options. In other words, the individual with a trained mind is much more capable of dealing with mistakes and turn them into insights. Also this person has a greater storage of wholesome kamma that will neutralize or lessen the effects of the unwholesome kamma that has been created. This is different for the individual with the untrained or novice mind, since that person does not yet have the right tools to deal with the effects of unwholesome deeds. His faculties are not yet matured and he might be more liable to dwell, identify, take ownership, react and run away from these effects, thereby increasing the suffering (going to hell) for himself. Lastly, I want to point out that only a fully enlightened Buddha can understand the workings of kamma. So there might be many more reasons for this difference between an experienced and an inexperienced individual, that non-Buddhas cannot yet understand. Hope this helps. If you have any questions to what i wrote, let me know. 

Regarding the augmentation of your practice, the burmese method is complete in itself. Wanting to augment the practice, should again be noted as "wanting, wanting". Mixing methods is called "Eclecticism" and its not recommended. Try to stay with one method of practice and if that does not work out, then choose another method of practice. Mixing methods will not give good results since methods are often not designed to be mixed. This will result in one having a halfway house and not a final vehicle. If you have any questions to what I wrote, let me know. May you have a fruitful practice. 

Separation from the flow, meaning that when the mind has wandered off into past or future one disconnects from ultimate reality and instead ventures into conceptual reality. What joy, fear or anger feels like, means to know the quality of that object when it arises, as it exists and when it disintegrates. To thoroughly contemplate the objects qualities and distinctive marks. 

Here is a quote from "The Majjhima Nikaya 43 - Mahavedalla Sutta: The Greater Series of Questions and Answers" that explains the term "Vital Formations": 

Wether or not sensual indulgence can be regarded as misconduct we have to examine it from the perspective of the Noble Eightfold Path. In here we have the Concentration Group in which there is a factor called "Right Mindfulness". Right mindfulness means to keep the mind in the present and not let it stray off into the past or future or into processes of ideation. Right mindfulness when practiced correctly allows for what we call "bare attention". This level of attention is free from any extrapolations, thinkings, imaginings, judgings, ideations and other methods of conceptual proliferation that the mind can make use of. Right mindfulness lets the mind be with the object as it is. Objectivity and non-interference is present. The object is apprehended exactly as it is and one will be able to see it's true nature. When one does not practice right mindfulness the mind will only for a brief moment apprehend the true nature of the object whereafter it begins a cognitive process of mental fabrication in order to try to grasp the object. The mind will take the "raw material" of the object and thereafter bring forth subjective concepts and ideas about the object. The mind then weaves together all these different concepts into more complex structures. These are embellishments fabricated by the mind and does not belong to the object. It's the mind superimposing qualities onto the object. This process of fabrication is fueled by the underlying latent defilements. The end result is an object which is now covered with a thick layer of mind-generated ideas and qualities. The original object is now hidden in a dense layer of subjective artwork that hides it true nature. Because the object is not viewed as it is but instead from a point of view controlled by the latent defilements the conduct has now turned into misconduct. It is not considered right conduct if the mind has strayed off into the past of future or begins to superimpose qualities onto the object. One then begins to identify with object and thinking that "I am seeing" or "I am thinking". This kind of belief is called personality-belief (Sakkayaditthi). "Sakkaya" means the group of materiality (rupa) and mentality (nama) and how they exist. "Ditthi" means a wrong view of belief, i.e. believing in a Self regarding Nama/Rupa. Right conduct is to guard the mind and guard the sense doors so that the defilements are not running the show. 

In a way they seem to contradict each other since they are each others opposites. How is that? Metta-Bhavana belongs to the practice of Samatha meditation. In samatha meditation one is only dealing with concepts in the sammuti-sacca, i.e. Conventional Reality. So its okay to wish good well being for oneself and other beings since we are here dealing with such concepts. The anatta-doctrine deals with paramattha-sacca, i.e. Ultimate Reality. Here we have the 3 signs of existence and Anatta is one them. So here there exists no concepts such as I, Me, Self etc. in Ultimate Reality. When viewed from the perspective of Conventional vs. Ultimate Reality then the difference becomes more clear. Another way to look at it is to see what the meditation object of the 2 methods are. In Metta-Bhavana we have a concept as meditation object. In Insight-Meditation we have reality as meditation object. Hope this be of some help. Lanka 

I can only answer first part of your question, i.e. if a meditator returns to access concentration between Jhana-states. You are correct in that understanding. Here is a quote from the book "Practicing The Jhanas" by Tina Rasmussen and Stephen Snyder, which describes access concentration and that between entering the different Jhana-states the meditator returns to access concentration. Highlights in the quote are made by me: 

I attended a Goenka retreat a while back. In this tradition, Goenka taught "Adhiṭṭhāna meditation", which is a meditation where one makes the resolution to not move for the duration of the meditation session. On the retreat the duration were set to 1 hour. If not moving at all is too difficult, one can choose to only move e.g. 3 times. The result of this is a strengthening of ones determination on the Path. 

Now, I have not gone into the antidotes for dealing with anger, such as Metta-meditation, since that would make this answer too long. Just know that anger is one of the 5 hindrances, that blocks one from progressing in meditation. Read about the hindrances and learn how to deal with them. Metta-meditation is mentioned by Ven. Yuttadhammo in one of the above videos. May you have a fruitful practice my friend. Let me know, if you have any questions to what I wrote. 

It's important to know that one does not have to answer all questions that are brought to one. There are examples of the Buddha not answering questions when he knew that the answer would not be understandable or beneficial for the questioner. For example when Queen Mallika were reborn in Hell for 7 days. In these 7 days her husband, King Pasenadi asked the Buddha about where his wife has been reborned. The King had great attachment to his wife. The Buddha did not want to trouble him by telling him she was now in Hell so he gave great dhamma discourses for seven days so that the King would only remember his question when he came home. After being in the hell realms Queen Mallika were reborn in the Heavenly Realms. On the seventh day when the King asked the Buddha again the Buddha answered that his wife has been reborn in the heavenly realms. One can ask oneself before answering questions if the answer is beneficial or detrimental to the questioner and oneself. Also we have the Right Speech faculty of the Noble Eightfold Path to guide us. No lying, harsh speech, slanderous speech or idle chatter is to be made. So one has a set of guidelines to act on basis of. One also has to think about one's own practice. By taking one's time and effort to answer a question will that then hinder ones own practice? There are no definite answer to these questions. It's an evalution in the present moment what one should do. By being mindful of reality in the present moment one will know what to do and how to act. We have the 7 Factors of Enlightenment which should be cultivated in ones practice. The first factor is Mindfulness. This factor comes first because mindfulness is what clears the cognitive ground. Mindfulness allows the mind to experience reality as it is here and now without any extrapolations, likings, dislikings, interpretations or projections. When the ground is cleared one can then act accordingly to the situation (wether or not to answer a question or how to answer a question).