Since this site is dedicated to physical fitness, the biggest repeat risk factors would be those related to severe exertion, heatstroke, or genetic muscle diseases. You can't do much about genetic issues, but you may still be able to exercise without rhabdomyolysis if you pay more attention to fatigue. The biggest defenses you will have against rhabdo (shortened form of the word) will be: 

It's important to understand who Starting Strength is addressed to: beginners. A beginner is at the one time stage in their training career where they can make improvements just about every time they step in the gym. It's a wonderful time. Eventually, as the weights get heavier, the stress from training becomes so much that it takes you a week to recover and adapt. That's when you've hit intermediate stages, and you need to look for a program that supports weekly growth. The most common lift to struggle with first is the overhead press (AKA standing military press, or simply the press). It's using the weakest muscles most of us have, but it's an absolutely great exercise to help build a strong shoulder girdle and prevent rotator cuff injuries on bench press. According to the SS book, you simply repeat the weight next time. If you stall three times, then you deload 10%. Things to look at when you hit the wall: 

It's not uncommon to develop joint pain that is inflammation related during weightlifting, however inflammation doesn't go away if you keep doing the same things. There's some possibilities as to what's causing the inflammation in the order of likelihood: 

Short answer is "yes". When you are avoiding carbs temporarily to lose weight (an effective means of doing so) you are also avoiding certain foods that have the vitamins/minerals your body needs. For example: 

Begin with explosive pull-ups, try remaining at the top position where the bar is touching your collarbone. Try it both with the pronated and supinated grips(in other words with the pull-up and chin-up grips). Hold it for a good amount of 5 seconds then release and do another repetition using momentum to get there. Repeat this for 4-6 reps per set. 3 sets. Once holding this top position for over 10 seconds gets easy start focusing onto negatives. Basically where you release the position but in a very controlled manner up to your chin. Then pull yourself explosively(from this position or from the starting pull-up position), using momentum, to the top position again and release slowly. Repeat this for 6 repetitions per set. After #2 gets easy, add some ankle or other type of weight to your body for the negatives. If you have rubberbands attach them to the bar and "step" into them so they can help you for a slow and controlled pull-up. Try decreasing the assistance of the bands once you reach 10 reps. If you don't have any bands use a chair. Move it further and further away as you are gaining more and more strength. 

Yes that is true. I will give you an idea of how you can understand this matter better. When talking about fitness I always like to give an example that is referring to the human body and a regular car. Think of how much fuel your car is going to consume when you are driving with a slow speed and once you are driving a lot faster. Well it's kind of debatable because it really depends on the gear that you are on whilst driving. So let's say the consumption could be very similar. However the human body can't switch between different gears and thus the faster that you run the more stressful it will feel on your body(higher blood circulation rate, higher breathing rate, higher heart rate, etc). Thus the body will need more energy in order to keep going. In order to provide additional energy it will burn more calories. Now it really depends on how you have structured your workout regimen and your diet plan. If you did them well the calories will come mainly from fat. Also here's another idea that I want to give you. Some years ago I was experimenting with running and I maximized my results as it follows - Because you can't sprint all the time you can try sprinting for 2 minute(let's say your maximum period of time is 3 minutes). Then jog for another 2 until your breathing stabilizes, then try sprinting for another 2 minutes and jog for another 2. Why do I suggest this method? Think about the car example again. A car will always consume more fuel in the city then it will on the highway. Because in the city the car will have to stop and start again and again(because of traffic jams, traffic lights, etc). Thus that will be very stressful and cause more fuel consumption. If you combine sprinting with jogging you will recreate the same type of stress on your body making it burn more calories in order to keep up. You should consider that this might feel stressful on your heart as well so in case you are overweight or have heart problems you might want to avoid this. 

All that said, you will have some variance in muscle size due to the fact that they are living tissue, and the fact that there is always a margin of error in measurement. I've noticed that my calves and thighs can vary fairly widely (.5 inch) from week to week. I'm mostly interested in strength, so for me this is simply anecdotal. 

The full answer is beyond my scope of understanding; however, there is only one time in a trainer's life where they can build muscle and lose fat at the same time. That's when they are a beginner and are currently obese. Based off of information from Dr. Kilgore in "Practical Programming for Strength Training" we have a couple variables for building muscle: 

Medhi's basic program is good for building strength, but he markets it like an infomercial. He promises everything to everyone, so either he knows better and is purposefully writing click bait or he doesn't know better and doesn't want to learn. This is my biggest problem with the StrongLifts site. I got my start using StrongLifts, so I know that it works and what it's limitations are. If you are going to use barbell exercises to train cardiovascularly, then you need to change your approach. StrongLifts won't be the right tool, particularly if you need long rest times to recover enough to do the next set. 

What I've Found Works As far as session to session training, I have 4 primary movements and the accessory work that supports them. I can do each of them once a week and still be OK. Since I compete in power lifting, I have an off-season where I'm just increasing my base strength. In the months leading up to a competition I'll do a peaking program. The structure of the two is very different. Since my base building bears a lot of similarities with bodybuilding, I'll speak to that. 

In the past month I have started to incorporate Tabata-style HIIT into my training which is done 3 times per week; both leg days and 1 rest day. I opted to reduce the volume sets on leg day to compensate for the extra strain. I will be returning to the gym, after a holiday, in mid-September which is when I'm looking to start a new program. I'd like to see this through for 7/8 months in the run up to a wedding at the beginning of May 2016. In terms of goals I am looking for size and strength - I am happy with the slow and steady weight progression of 5/3/1 and I am mostly happy with my current achievements but I can't help thinking that I can be doing more with my time to yield bigger changes. So, I've got the time frame and the drive, now I need the program. As for one which would be suitable it would be great if it could work with the following:- 

23 year old male, 84kg, 20% B.F. Currently training for size and strength. I've linked my proposed training and rest day meal plans here. All the weights I worked out myself and inputted everything into MyFitnessPal (MFP) to yield the pie charts at the bottom. For lack of a better work I am a bit 'worried' about my macros; I think I'm straying a bit from the 50% carb, 25% fat and 25% protein ratio. Saying this, I'm not entirely sure how accurate MFP actually is/how truly representative it is - my diet consists of a lot of 'good' fats and the only sources of saturated fats I can pick out are from the milk and butter and I'm loading up on fruit and veg on both days. So from a no-numbers standpoint, how does my diet look? I don't think I should be massively anal about the numbers because different sources quote different numbers so I have no idea which to take as gospel. In terms of improvements, I've been advised to try and up my protein intake to 2g/kg of bodyweight and trim down on the carbs on rest days but I'm struggling a bit as to which foods I should add/replace - any recommendations? 

At some point, in order to keep progressing in cutting fat you will have to reduce your Calorie intake further. Also note, how you track body fat may be part of the problem. One example is the bioimpedance scale which is an approximation built on an approximation which is not only inaccurate it is even worse when used for tracking change over time (by +/- 8%). You might have lost fat and the bio impedance scale registers no change. Part of the problem is how the scale takes its measurements and ignores subcutaneous fat. Tape measures and simple weight measurements give a better overall picture of progress. It doesn't hurt to have some low intensity steady state (LISS) cardio work in your routine. Not only is there benefit with burning a few more calories, it also can help you recover from your exercise a little quicker and sleep better by lowering your resting heart rate. Sleep is very important in any weight loss or muscle building endeavor. 

Finish up your work with a recovery walk. Straight ketogenic diet The only way I know of to preserve muscle mass with a severely restricted caloric deficit is a ketogenic diet. Please only consider this if your body fat is 30% or more. Drink lots of water, and make sure you get the required amount of protein to build muscle--it will be required just to maintain the muscle you have. The only thing you can really safely do at this level of diet is endurance work and recovery walks. The biggest risk with a ketogenic diet (no carbs, or below 100g of carbs per day) has to do with catabolizing your muscle. To preserve muscle while exercising you want 1g of protein per pound lean body mass. A bit more wouldn't hurt, but definitely no less. Additionally, you need to keep your body using the aerobic energy system to burn fat but not increase the demand for quick energy. With glycogenolysis and and phosphogen systems, your body needs carbs (or glycogen) to burn. In it's absence your body will attempt to convert protein to a suitable replacement. While the body is smart enough to use dietary protein before it's own musculature, demands for quick energy with intense exercise will quickly outpace your body's ability to use dietary protein. 

So I was looking for an answer myself. I was thinking about athletes who do a lot of body weight exercises for their sport and remembered about ballet dancers. I am providing 2 photos to illustrate their lower body physique: 

Your problem is the lack of strength at the very top part of the pull-up. It is normal for most people don't go that high on their chin/pull-ups anyways. I will give you several exercises to follow in order to develop enough strength for what you want. 

I agree with Baarn. The reason your butt grows is probably because that is where your body is likely to store fat. It's different for every person. Even if you think you don't eat much it might be a lot for the energy you are using during the day. I will tell you a story - I have a friend who doesn't go out much and, like you, spends a lot of time sitting. At one point he asked to lose some weight so we spoke about a diet. However a normal diet didn't work for him, it turned out he had to cut DRASTICALLY on carbs in order to start losing weight. Which was unhealthy. Thus what you should aim for is increase your physical activity - if you don't want to exercise then simply walk. Walk for at least 30 minutes everyday. The more - the better. Look at the situation this way - when you eat you consume calories. When you perform during the day you burn calories. If you burn less than you consume whatever calories are left will be stored as fat in your body(your butt in your case). So you can control and limit the amount of calories you consume but you should also increase the amount of calories you burn. 

To be fair, it would be very difficult. The challenge is to keep protein up, but not overshoot your overall calorie requirements. Many vegetarian bodybuilders are pesca-vegetarian (eat fish) or ova-vegetarian (eat eggs), neither of which qualify for a vegan diet. You want your macros to be somewhere around these numbers: 

That said, you may need to try a process called deloading. Essentially, cutting back 10% on the weight so you can get your full set in. Then progressively load by adding 5lbs back on each bench press session. As the theory goes, you should be able to get past the plateau that way. In short, it's taking longer for your muscles to recover than the typical 48 hours or however much rest you normally give them. Eventually you'll get to the point where even deloading won't get you past a plateau. With the StrongLifts program you compensate by going from 5x5 (5 sets/5 reps) to 3x5 on that lift. The threshold for that is when you deload twice and it doesn't help you improve. From there you go to 1x5, and eventually transition to another routine when you've maxed out that program. I think the takeaway is that eventually you have to reduce load to increase weight on the bar. 

The 1 days and the 4 days should be pretty spread apart. However, if you actually hit a 1 day, the most productive thing you can do is take the day off and get some rest. If you absolutely must train, do something very light weight to get your blood moving. Perhaps just make it a light cardio day and go home. On a 2 day, just back off the assistance work a bit to help you recover. On a 3 day just train per normal. You can really push yourself on a 4 day, but expect a couple 2 days after that.