Assume an ordinary adult consumes 2000kcals/day and this yields almost 100W power consumption. If a direct proportion is assumed for body height and power consumption, then your 165-foot-animal consumes ~30 times more power than a human (Again assuming it is not faster, not hotter or it does not exhale fire like a dragon etc.) then 3kW power is required. Analogous to two working typical hair dryers. 

If four working retroreflectors which are placed on the Moon during Apollo Program would be destroyed, then unfortunately some on-going projects such as measuring Earth-Moon distance, orbit and the attitude of the Moon and several scientific experiments would also be destroyed. 

If we completely ignore the concept 'money' and focus on the mines or raw materials: One of the the primary property of a material making it valuable is it's rareness. But to be able to become a currency and to be used instead of exchanging goods or services, a medium rareness level, I think, is better. (with always very high durableness level) Let's define: Low rareness level: Choosing stone chips as currency is not going to be a good idea as everybody can find tons of them easily. Medium rareness level: Gold is hard to mine but not so hard. One can find gold almost everywhere today and it is not difficult to imagine a world using gold as the only currency. High rareness level: Meteorite for example, is very rare but using it as currency is not possible because it is really rare. Now, if we come to the point of the question; in today's world a Moon rack can not be a currency because it is incredibly rare. Only Apollo astronauts and the unmanned Soviet Luna spacecrafts brought some. However if we have shuttles going to the Moon and bring some racks every day, all day, and assuming the Moon rack is easily be distinguishable from an ordinary rack it can be used as a currency. If we go one step further, if a several hundreds of thousands of people moves to the Moon, then Moon rock can not be a currency for the residents of the Moon, of course, while it can still be used in the Earth as currency. This time, Earth rack may be used as a currency among these very first citizens of the Moon!(This is not a good idea because carrying money is easier then carrying stones but we are assuming a moneyless civilization. (Just for analogy)) Then there will be exchange rates. x units of Moon Rock = y units of Earth Rock. x and y are determined according to the total number/weight of the Moon and Earth Rocks in the other celestial body. Similarly, assuming spaceships can easily and frequently carry materials between planets or moons; a material reaching a medium rareness level in one planet and originated from another planet can be used as the currency. And there will be exchange rates. Or any material, regardless of its origin, can be used as the intergalactic currency if it can reach medium rareness level in all planets. 

Oh boy, that gives me a nasty idea... Who says it's the ground below them which they farm? So, these creatures live mainly off "huge irregular windfalls" that basically happen when for some reason there's a lot of dead biomass coming down from the surface... What if they found a way to engineer those "windfalls"? The article you link to mentions algae blooms as the cause of the windfalls they observed. Well, algae bloom when they get more nutrients than normal, mainly phosphates. So if your Crabites somehow find a way to propel large amounts of phosphates towards the surface, they could do some pretty productive farming! Maybe this is something that occasionally happens naturally in a way they can observe, understand and later influence, e.g. hot water vents creating an updraft in the middle of a phosphate deposit on the seafloor. Or, in a rather less pastoral and more terrifying vein: the Crabites could also release toxins that float up and cause a large-scale dieoff of surface life in an area... 

We actually have fossil records of biological life at least 2.7 billion old, possibly 3.4 billion. And if something as fragile as bacteria leaves traces over that timespan, it's rather unrealistic to believe that a civilzation wouldn't, even if all obvious traces would be wiped out after a few dozen millenia. However, it's a game of numbers. It takes a lot of coincidences for something to be preserved that long, and then to be found. So the more artifacts a civilization produces (should depend mainly on area/time covered and population density) and the more people are looking, the more likely it is that something will be found. 

Looking into fleshing out my world story. One of the things I had in mind was an infrequent but consistent shipment of supplies to a planet from Earth. For simplicities sake, we'll use as the number of years between shipments, but this number could vary. The key is that a lot of time passes between shipments, time enough that a missed shipment could be catastrophic or at least mysterious. My world is sort of western, slightly mystic, but with hopefully realistic explanations. I think of Firefly a little bit, how they land on a planet that looks like it came from the old west, yet they also fly to massive space stations. The technology level would be similar. So my main question is what would/could cause so few visits from Earth (or any other large Entity/Government), given that Earth was not in ruins? Please let me know how I can make this question more answerable. 

Assuming a civilization has the capacity to build space vessels designed to travel from one solar system to another, what is the technological difference between traveling at 50% light speed and traveling at 100% light speed (or near)? And then, what kind of technological leap is required to go beyond light speed? The idea is not to have "hyperjumps" but that there is a constant speed most ships can go. So traveling 4 light years takes 4 years at light speed. Takes 8 years at 50% light speed. you get the idea. I am trying to decide how technologically advanced humans in my space-travel-based universe are. Would it make sense to say "We are only advanced enough to go x% of light speed"? Or is Light-speed the real barrier here? What are the limiting factors to going very fast (subluminal)? Assuming light speed is the real barrier, would anything really stop anyone going near light speed given enough fuel and distance to reach that speed? 

An intelligent race evolves on a planet with no moon or axial tilt, which is tidally locked to its star, and has a very hazy atmosphere. So there are no seasons, no day/night cycle, and the stars are not visible either. The planet has a permanently dark and a permanently bright side, which will probably cause some nasty weather, but the important thing is: there is no natual phenomenon which would force the concept of time on its inhabitants, no periodic events which are always the same and affect everyone's life. How will they organize their lives? How do they cooperate on tasks when there is no such thing as "tomorrow" or "at dawn"? How will a lack of seasonal agriculture or animal migration affect society? Even more fundamental: can human-level intelligence even develop when there is no real need for planning ahead more than a meal or two? How different will their thinking processes be? 

Hmm... To me, those two points combined spell out one thing: magical cannonballs! The cannon provides a greater range than a spellcaster, magic provides a greater effect (area, incendiary, wall-busting, etc.) than a regular cannonball. Then again, there would be little reason to use cannons over catapults in that scenario.