You should never have accepted this job, but being right out of school you can be forgiven for not knowing that. The company should have known better, so they are being stupid, cheap, and/or simply don't give a crap about your professional development. Like I said, get outta there. 

This is not how consulting works. The problem seems to be on your end, not John's. First, always know clearly who the official contact is that is authorized to have you do work. It sounds like that is John in your case. That's fine, but make sure this is completely clear to John. That should have been taken care of in whatever engagement agreement you have. You are making unreasonable assumptions about Bob or Alice reporting to John that you did something. That's not their job. Ultimately that falls on you. John does know what his employees are doing, which is that they are sometimes working with you. You can't expect him to know all the details, and in particular, how much time you spent on each task. The easiest way to ensure this is to CC John in relevant emails where Bob or Alice ask you to do something, or you explain how you've done it. If necessary, send John a message about completing each task, and how many hours it took. Ask him what level of detail he wants in these status reports, and what should trigger them. You should have also agreed previously who gets your invoices and what level of detail you need to include. It sounds like you send your invoice to John. That's fine again, but he should never be blind-sided by something on the invoice. If he is, then you screwed up, not John nor Bob nor Alice. Stop blaming John for your incompetent customer management. 

You don't. Get over it. That's not how things work. First, no sane interviewer or HR droid is going to tell you what exactly they didn't like beyond some vague you weren't the right fit generalities. Getting specific only opens the possibility of you arguing with them and wasting their time. Even worse, it could lead you to sue them. There is absolutely no upside in explaining to a candidate exactly why they didn't get the job. If you do ask, at best you'll only be labeled as someone naive, a clueless dweeb at worst. While I understand the value to you in understanding the rejection better, that doesn't change that there is no value to them, and that it's not going to happen. I did note one little clue, though: 

This is a management failure. The process was set up incorrectly and the wrong people have been assigned to the tasks. The way to fix this is to change the process and assign the right people to the right tasks. It's not clear where you fit in here. Keep in mind there are several different things called "specifications". At the highest level, there are the requirement specs. This says what the product is supposed to do, not how it's supposed to get that done. Then there is a high level architectural spec. That explains how everything will be structured. This is the block diagram level. Then there are detailed interface specs that tell individual engineers how their part has to fit together with the parts designed by others. The more junior the engineer, the more this might go into hints or outright edicts of how things will be done within the interface specs. The high level requirements spec generally comes from customer-facing people that see a need or a niche. They should then sit down with senior engineering people to hash out what is possible within what they see as the opportunity. In my preference, engineering then writes up a high level description of what the product will do, and passes that back to others until they agree that's what they'd like to have. Sometimes there is not enough overlap between what is wanted and what is possible, and the project ends there. After that, it's all up to engineering. At this point you let a senior architect think about how to attack the problem and create the brief architectural spec. After that it's quite organization-dependent on how to spec out the details. In a small team, there may not be any formal spec at this level at all. In a large team, you often let this evolve as individual engineers start designing, with senior architecture people monitoring and guiding as desing progresses. Formalizing this step into detailed specs before design is done is not a good idea in my experience. You have to expect the low levels of the design to evolve over time, as long as the architect or chief engineer continues to be envolved and looking out for the big picture. Note that the process you describe doesn't fit well anywhere above. Like I said, your process is broken. This is a management failure, and can only be addressed as such. 

Call the manager directly. Of course pick a reasonable work time in whatever timezone he is in. Personally I find it annoying when people email me to ask for a time to call. I usually think something like "Then why didn't you call in the first place, moron?". Most of the time I simply ignore such emails because I don't want this annoying process to work for the other party. If you want to talk, phone. If he doesn't answer, leave a voice message. If you want a email reply, send your request via email. 

Not having a current job is a immediate red flag when looking over prospects to hire. That is not to say there can't be good answer to this when asked, but it will be a issue that has to be answered, and the answer has to be satisfactory, for the hiring process to proceed. For example, a good answer is that your company got bought, the new owner closed the plant, and you didn't want to move 1000 miles to where your job was now available. OK, that happens and is easy enough to verify. A bad answer is your company had a 15% layoff. That means you were dead wood they took the opportunity to get rid of, not the 85% they decided to keep. Unless your whole group got disbanded, or something similar, that's a long-lasting stain on your resume. That may seem unfair to you, but it isn't. After all, you were the dead wood they didn't want to keep. That's a solid warning to other employers they might run into the same situation with you. The real problem is that while you may have a good explanation, you might not get the opportunity to present it. Think of someone low in the HR hierarchy that just got 100 resumes dumped on them and told to weed it down to a 10 or less. They probably don't really understand the position to be filled, and don't understand how to interpret details for that type of a position on a resume. They are looking for any excuse at all to toss one more resume in the circular bin to just get thru this task. Tossing the losers who don't currently have a job is a simple expedient. Sure, that may not be the best for the company, and yes it's unfair, but it is exactly what happens all too often. Therefore if you're currently unemployed, explain in the cover letter exactly why you are no longer at the previous job. Of course this needs to be brief, no more than two sentences. One-paragraph cover letters will generaly get read. Anything more than that, and the low level HR lacky will think screw this to himself and your case will never be made. Again though, it's always better to look for the next job while still having the current job. 

I wouldn't do it, particularly on the first day. It gives the impression you're barging in like a bull in a china shop, and that you're a kiss-ass. You have no idea what kind of politics you might be stepping in, who this might alienate or cause to resent you. Bad idea. After you've been there for a few days at least, you've learned some of the customs and habits and culture of the place, seen what other do, etc, and you still feel bringing donuts in for everyone is appropriate, then OK. However, I caution that it's unlikely to be viewed positively when the lowest guy in the hierarchy brings donuts for everyone else. Given no other information, my first reaction as a more senior co-worker would be being slightly insulted that you think so little of us that you expect buying us off with donuts to actually buy you any favors. Of course I'd never tell you this, I'd just quietly think less of you and maybe laugh at you a little with others behind your back. When you're the intern, act like the intern. It's somebody higher up's job to do little surprise favors for the staff on occasion. By doing it yourself, you are essentially pretending to be more than you are. I really don't see any upside here.