Here is one such cyclone atlas for the North Indian Ocean basin - Indian Ocean Cyclone Atlas and while I am not sure about the cyclone tracks for the pre satellite era cyclones the site is comprehensive and covers all cyclones in the Indian Ocean up to the current period. After you register yourself here - Registration then you can view the cyclone tracks. Here is a sample of cyclone tracks between 2012 and 2016 

I am learning about the several modes of radar that are used to study structure of thunder storms and mesoscale systems. There are three modes of radar scans as documented here - Weather Radar Systems I have only used the Plan Position Indicator(PPI) mode to track thunder storms. Could somebody who has used the Range Height Indicator(RHI) mode as a meteorologist or using it as part of their research work put up a sample RHI mode scan for a thunderstorm(can be supercell) explain the following 

I am going to take a guess and say these are Frost crystals. There are few conditions that need to be present in order for these to develop 1) Light wind 2) Relatively high humidity(some water vapor source perhaps nearby) 3) Depending on your elevation - was this somewhere near a mountain basin ? As opposed to snow crystals frost crystals form more near the surface You can read this article Frost crystal and if the answers are in the affirmative then you know these are the conditions that caused these crystals to form. 

You can think of this amplitude term as being part of the wavelet term such that your definition of the wavelet is: "the necessary filter/operator to convert true reflectivity into the arbitrarily scaled seismic data". This scalar depends on the data itself and therefore must be obtained empirically. In fact, it is very likely that the scalar is frequency dependent. Your best bet to obtain the full wavelet, including its scalar, is by using a well where your reflectivity is known and applying the method of White and Simm (2003) or any other similar method. Anyway, doing any sort of deconvolution or inversion with the wrong wavelet scalar will leak all error from this into the solution. You are pretty much asking: "What is the necessary (for example) acoustic impedance such that when I do this faulty forward modeling, I get the measured seismic data?". 

Think of it as a creme brulee. We live on the little hard crust on the top. And there just happens to be a little bit of water on that crust that covers the less-elevated parts. Now, a little more technical, the crust that makes up the continents and the crust that is under the deep oceans are actually compositionally different. This is because the magma that solidifies to form each of these crusts travels, by partially melting its way up, through different materials and different thicknesses. The consequence of this is that the crust making up the continents is less dense than that making up the bottom of the oceans. 

I'm expanding upon a couple of the answers because none of them used the term "buoyancy" explicitly. Also, don't use the term "mineral oil", just call it oil or petroleum. Mineral oil is a distillation by-product of petroleum and is not found in subsurface reservoirs. Let's consider a simple example of a thick reservoir quality sandstone with constant lithology throughout the whole reservoir. Then there are two forces acting on fluids in the sandstone pore space in an undisturbed reservoir. The pore space is the space between the rock grains in the sandstone. By undisturbed, I mean a reservoir which has not been drilled. The two forces are the buoyancy pressure and the capillary force. The buoyancy pressure is due to the difference of specific gravities between fluids in the pore space. The specific gravity is a unit-less proxy for density. More formally, the specific gravity is simply the ratio of the density of the substance to the density of water at 4 degrees Celsius. The capillary pressure is due to fluids becoming trapped in narrow pore throats, and because of this pressure there is always an irreducible water saturation in the reservoir. Put simply, even in the gas or oil zone, water always occupies some fraction of the pore space. In other words, for most rocks water is sticky and oil is not. As a result, a bit of water is left behind even when the rock is full of oil or gas. This is the " irreducible water saturation". See these links: $URL$ $URL$ Once an exploration well has been drilled, figuring out the water and hydrocarbon saturations in the reservoir are critically important because many subsequent decisions will be based upon these numbers. In a reservoir containing gas, oil and water. The fluids will occupy the pore spaces of the formation from shallowest to deepest-- gas first, then oil and finally water. In a reservoir, one may have only gas or oil, but there is always water because water always exists as the major constituent of the pore space of underground formations unless it has been replaced by gas or oil. In addition, due to the capillary pressure, the saturation of the reservoir fluids changes inside each gas/oil/water zone with depth and proximity to the nearest fluid contact. For example, near the oil-water contact, the water saturation is highest and decreases upwards to a constant minimum as it nears the gas-oil contact. Around that point, the oil saturation is at a maximum. The oil saturation then decreases from a maximum as the gas saturation increases, however, the water saturation is still a constant and minimum value. More detail can be found here - $URL$ . I'm a geoscientist who works with petroleum engineers-- hope this helps! 

I am using NCEP Reanalysis Geopotential height data and this is at 1000 mb and downloading it from here - 1000 Mb Geopotential height values and some of these values are negative for a particular date - May 12th 2014 00Z. I am aware of geopotential height anomalies - Geopotential height anomalies and that these can be negative i.e. the average of a height surface is lower than than what it should be. But the negative values I am referring to are "raw" geopotential height values and not anomalies. When I sent them a note and asked them what that meant this is the explanation I got - "1000mb geopotential height could be negative if the contour line drawn around the surface of the earth connecting all 1000mb pressure intersected with the earth's surface. At the point where the height was negative, the 1000mb height is actually below the ground and pressure is low." Can someone explain what that means as doing a google on negative geopotential does not reveal anything meaningful ? 

Cyclones generally drift in a westerly/north westerly direction due to the Beta Drift and Beta Effect For atlantic hurricanes the forward speeds are summarized here by latitudinal range -Average forward speed of Atlantic Hurricanes and if there is recurve(turn more northerly) they can slow down or if they cross mid latitudes they may pick up speed by interacting with mid latitude troughs. For the latitude of Midge Point, Queensland you can expect forward speeds of about 17-18 kms/hr. So this cyclone is certainly slow moving. TC forward speed There are other factors influencing cyclone tracks which include steering winds, presence of high pressure systems,etc and more recent studies have studied the influence of SST on cyclone tracks Response of cyclone tracks to SST. From this peer reviewed reference Effect of forward speed on flooding modeling studies reveal that increasing forward speed decreases flooded volumes while increasing peak surge Back to Cyclone Debbie it looks like from this blog at least Cyclone Debbie Progress the forward speed of the cyclone is probably one of the reasons for the water to be present for more than one day and making sure storm surge occurs at the same time as the high tide. 

Finally, transverse isotropy is just an approximation to the much more complex nature of real rocks. If you were to add multiple sets of fractures to a rock on top of its layered nature, you will need to use a "less symmetric" model to describe it: orthorhombic, monoclinic, or triclinic. But for most practical purposes, transverse isotropy does a pretty good job. Hope this helps! 

The impedance inversion problem asks: "Recover acoustic impedance from seismic reflection waveforms". The forward modeling procedure from acoustic impedance to seismic reflection waveforms involves calculating reflection coefficients and then convolving these with a wavelet. Let's assume, for now, that you have perfect seismic resolution and therefore your wavelet is of infinite bandwidth. This means that the inversion problem becomes: "Recover the acoustic impedance from a given set of reflection coefficients". As shown by Peterson et al. (1955), for small contrasts in acoustic impedance, the reflection coefficient equation can be linearized as shown below. Linear problems are much much easier to solve computationally than non-linear. This makes the forward model calculation a simple difference, the discrete analog to a derivative. Note: this is for normal incidence but a similar analysis can be done for non-normal incidence. 

In general, the rocks deep inside a mountain (or simply super old rocks) have also undergone a lot of compression, so sedimentary rocks will be unlikely as you would have converted them into metamorphic rocks, e.g. limestones would be marble, sandstones would be quartzites (like the Tepuis), shales would be slates (or schists, etc.), etc. Similarly, metamorphic rocks that have undergone a higher degree of compressional and thermal stress (i.e. deeper in the mountain) will grow larger crystals. 

In Synoptic Climatology of Precipitation in Iran authors conclude that upper level disturbances are responsible for over fifty percent of rainfall. If it is indeed the case rainfall maxima during El Nino years are experienced in February and March in Iran then these maybe due to Western Disturbances Western Disturbances. These are basically upper level systems (500 hPa and above) and the following study describes the dynamics of winter precipitation episodes over Iran as well Numerical study of western disturbances over western Himalayas using mesoscale model Here is a recent review of Winter Western Disturbances and their multi annual variations. Multi-annual variations in winter westerly disturbance activity affecting the Himalaya. These authors confirm the same sources of moisture. 

Note from this table how much the MSLP fluctuates over a period of 12 hours for the smaller eye sizes. Also remember that a vast number of cyclones do not form eyes. Word of caution if you are trying to view this table from the operational forecaster's point of view it is very likely an individual cyclone may depart from these average values. And while these data sets have been obtained for the Northwest Pacific Ocean it is likely they hold up for other basins as well. 

The nomenclature is confusing and recent studies have shown that among mid-ocean ridge basalts (generally called MORBs) that normal mid-ocean ridge basalts (NMORB) should reflect the statistically usual composition while enhanced MORB (EMORB) and depleted MORB (DMORB) should reflect end-members of the MORB population. Gale et. al 2013 proposes the use of the term NMORB to refer to the most likely basalt composition encountered along the global ridge system distant from hotspots. The NMORB is given by the lognormal mean of the compositions of ridge segments more than 500 km away from plumes excluding back-arcs. Contrary to some literature discussion, NMORBs are NOT depleted in trace elements according to this Gale's work and so linkage between the idea of depletion and NMORBs should be broken. Gale et.al propose the term DMORB to recognize trace element depleted basalts. DMORBs would not be considered representative of the upper mantle or ocean crust nor would they be commonly found in ridge systems. Finally, EMORB would refers to incompatible trace element enriched NMORBS via a statistical definition found in Gale et. al. This statistical definition is due to the fact that current data does not allow clear spatial linkage of EMORBs to any particular form of ridge or plume system or island located near to both. A good example of an EMORB system is given by Iceland where the rate of magma production has caused volcanism to build the oceanic ridge above sea level. In this environment, the predominant basalts are also tholeiitic basalts, but there are higher concentrations of incompatible trace elements. EMORBs are enriched in incompatible trace elements such as K, Ba, La, Rb compared to NMORBs. By incompatible, one means elements that do not fit easily into the crystal structure of mineral elements in the mantle and are usually not found in upper mantle derived rocks because they are preferentially ejected into the melt. See this paper The mean composition of ocean ridge basalts - Gale - 2013 for a detailed discussion. Generally, all MORBs are tholeiitic basalts occurring in oceanic spreading centers, such as an ocean ridge away from hot spots and back-arc basins. At these spreading centers, a relatively small range of chemical compositions of basalts are erupted to form the basaltic layer of the oceanic crust. The main melting mechanism is likely decompression melting due to rising convection cells moving upward through the mantle beneath the ridges. The composition of these basalts typically ranges from olivine to quartz tholeiites. Tholeiitic magmas are sub-alkaline, meaning they contain less sodium and potassium than other basalts and can be distinguished from other basalts by the redox state of the magma from which they crystallized—- tholeiitic parent magmas are reduced whereas calc-alkaline parent magmas are oxidized. All three NMORBS, DMORBS, and EMORBS share common chemical compositions (ordered by decreasing wt%) of SiO2, Al2O3, MgO, FeO, CaO. They also share a common mineralogy of plagioclase, pyroxene and olivine. The plutonic equivalents to a tholeiitic basalt are diorite, gabbro, and anorthosite. For the next section, this is a great reference! Oceanic Island Basalts –basalts associated with islands in the ocean basins that generally occur away from plate boundaries, and are often associated with hot spots. Most oceanic islands appear to be related to ascending plumes of hot mantle which operate independent of the main convection cells that ascend beneath ocean ridges and descend at subduction zones. A wide variety of rocks occur in these islands, not all are basaltic, but all appear to be related to upper mantle melts. One may find tholeiites, alkaline basalts, Hawaiites, trachytes and rhyolites in an OIB environment which span the compositional spectrum of magnesium, iron and the alkaline elements. From a melting perspective, low pressure environments tend to produce the tholeiitic magmas and high pressures are required to derive alkali basalts. OIB mantle sources are enriched in incompatible elements and demonstrate a wider variety fractionization than MORBs. How does this occur? a recent theory for OIB sources posits that subducted lithosphere sinks to the core/mantle boundary and mixes with the mantle to produce an enriched mantle which heats and rises in narrow plumes which channel this enriched mantle melt upward producing hotspots which produce the compositional variety of OIBs observed.