There are two main types of cycle wheel, cup and cone and cartridge bearing. Cup and cone bearings are fairly easy to service yourself with some simple tools, normal and cup and cone spanners and some grease. Cartridge bearing hubs need more specialist tools, presses to install and drifts to knock the old bearings out. You can tell which sort you have by looking at the axle, if it's got a nut and a thin lock nut then it's probably cup and cone, google some pictures to see what they look like. If it is cup and cone then taking it apart (only undo 1 side btw or you'll lose the centre of the axle), cleaning the loose ball bearings you'll find under the cones, then regrease and reassemble may sort the problem; however if its actually as bad as you sugest the ball bearings may need replaced and if the races that the ball bearings sit on are pitted then the wheel may be beyond help. There are lots of videos on the web showing this process. If it's a cartridge bearing hub then your local shop might be the way to go unless you want to invest in some tools. 

Standard V brakes do not work well with STI levers, they don't pull enough cable to allow the V brake to be setup properly; you end up with the pads so close to the rim that they are always rubbing on it or needing to be adjusted and the braking can also be poor. I know of 2 options to get around this, you get a V brake Travel Adjuster or Travel Agent - essentially a pulley that increases the amount of cable that is pulled by the STI shifter or you get some 'Mini V Brakes' as these have a shorter arm and so work with the STI shifters. 

You should refer to the manual for the helmet for cleaning instructions. Usually it will say to use mild soap and water. A helmet will not be damaged by water, but don't use heat to dry it afterwards as this can destroy your helmet. Also, if the padding is removable then you might be able to get replacement pads. 

Note that the offence only applies to motor vehicles, a bicycle is not a motor vehicle, so you cannot be guilty of speeding on a bicycle. You could be charged with either Dangerous Cycling or Careless And Inconsiderate Cycling. 

Note that only reported accidents where a police officer attended the scene are included in the statistics. This Wikipedia article has some details of the methodology used to collect the statistics. The complete data set is available here. The data above is taken from the table RAS50005 - Vehicles in reported accidents by contributory factor and vehicle type, Great Britain, 2014. 

To calculate the weight of a gas you need the volume, pressure and temperature. A bike tyre is a torus (doughnut) with volume given by the formula: V=(πr^2)(2πR) where R is the radius of the wheel and r is the radius of the tyre. For a 700c25 tyre, R will be 311mm and r will be 12.5mm that gives a volume of 9.59×10^5 cubic millimetres or 0.000959 cubic metres. Pressure is 100 PSI, which is 689475 Pascals. Room temperature is about 295 Kelvin. Using the Ideal Gas Law: n = PV / RT where R is the gas constant, gives n as 0.27 moles of gas. To keep things easy, lets assume the tyres are filled with 100% nitrogen. 1 mole of nitrogen weighs 28g so the gas in the tyre weighs 7.56g. 

Another option would be Islabikes, they are a UK company but now have a US operation based in Portland. They are a specialist children's bike manufacturer with an emphasis on low weight and child specific components. 

Tracking down issues with brakes can be difficult. If the brakes are spongy feeling initialy and pumping them firms them up then you probably have air in the system. if that's the case then it will be a bad bleed or the seals or possibly the brake hose but working out which is often down to luck. If they just have no power it could be contaminated pads. If it was me then I'd do the following, give the system are realy good clean and finish off with disc brake cleaner if you have some. Next I'd re-bleed the brakes (having first pushed the pistons right back) and then fit new pads. Use the brake somewhere safe and then inspect everything to see if you can spot any leaks at the levers, hoses or calipers, take the pads back out and check for contamination with brake fluid. If you do have a leak then you'll need to replace the seals and/or hoses that have failed - this can be tricky if it the caliper seals that have gone. Getting hold of spares can also be an issue. It may be easier and cheaper in the long run to replace the brakes. Shimano Deore are relatively cheap and very efective. 

Creaks are always difficult to track down, where the sound seems to come from is often no guide to the source. What is often the cause is the rear wheel, especially if its qr. Take the wheel out, clean the dropouts and wheel axle, a smear of grease on the dropout and reassemble. 

The Highway Code (Rule 180) states that when turning right "Do not cut the corner", so it seems quite likely that doing so and nearly hitting someone would constitute careless driving. The driver could be given a fixed penalty (probably 3 points), or made to go on a driving course, or taken to court, or let off with a warning. If the driver came up with a different version of events to yours then a video recording or a reliable and credible witness would be useful. There might be other evidence, e.g. skid marks on the road. 

I found this article - Tykes and Bikes - Injuries Associated With Bicycle-Towed Child Trailers and Bicycle-Mounted Child Seats The paper estimates the numbers of trailer-related injuries and the number of child seat injuries: 

Personally, I wouldn't do it. It's a lot of pain for what is probably a very small gain. If you're looking to wring every last bit of performance out of your body it's worth trying though. 

So it's legal to use to ride one on the road in the UK. Cycle paths are a bit more complicated as some legislation refers to "bicycles" and some to "pedal cycles", so it would depend on how many wheels you've got and what type of cycle path / cycle lane / cycle track you wanted to use. If you want to use a velomobile or recumbent bike on the road between sunset and sunrise then you may have problems. To be legal you'd need 2 pedal reflectors on each pedal and these have to be clearly visible from the front and rear. The design of most velomobiles and recumbent bikes do not meet this requirement. This law is rarely (if ever) enforced, I think your main worry on this point is if you were involved in an accident then the other party might try to use your lack of reflectors to show negligence. Note - If your velomobile or recumbent bike is electrically powered then there are additional regulations that must be complied with, but I think that's beyond the scope of the question. 

If the cables are ok the next thing to check is the derailer alignment. The shop should have a tool to do this. You remove the derailer and the tool screws into the hanger. You rotate it to see if the hanger us bent. 

For disk brakes I would follow the recommendations of the manufacturer, for example Hope have section on bedding in the pads on their disk brakes here. So before riding the bike in anger they recommend riding a short distance with the pads just scuffing on the disc followed by pulsing the brakes repeatedly so as to slow down but not stop. With rim brakes I've never come across any requirement to bed these in - the materials and surfaces involved are very different. 

Think about how heavy you are compared to your bike, so when your braking most of the momentum is you! You have 3 contact points with the bike, the handlebars, the saddle and the pedals and the best one to put the forces generated when braking through is the pedals, if you put all the force through the bars then you'll go over them, if the saddle then your relying on friction between you and it (slippery when wet). If you put the forces through the pedals you get more traction and stop faster as you push the bike into the ground. So in order to do this you need to get out of the saddle and drop your heels, as soon as your heels are below the axle on the pedals your momentum will be driving you down into the bike and then driving the bike into the ground. Moving back slightly can also help, especially if going downhill but it's the heel position that's important. Dropped heels also helps when just riding along, if your off (or on) road heading downhill at any speed and hit an obstacle, if your heels are dropped you'll sink into the bike and the chances are roll over the obstruction. If your heels aren't dropped that same obstacle will send you flying! You pivot up around your ankle and it's 'game over'. 

A bit late now, but for the future it's worth knowing that it's possible to order a replacement key for most locks. You'll need the serial number which is usually on the key or might be separately in the packaging (it's not written on the lock itself for obvious reasons), so you need to make a note of that somewhere and keep it in a safe place. 

I think a more practical solution to your problem of forgetting to lock your bike would be a device (or method) to remind you to lock it. You could try a bluetooth proximity alarm tag. You pair the tag with your phone, then attach the tag to your bike. When the phone gets out of range of the tag an alarm goes off on the phone (range is typically around 10 feet). So when you park your bike and walk off, your phone will sound an alarm. This will remind you to go back to the bike and lock it. 

Short answer - there's no widely recognized hand gesture for I'm sorry. You could try the American Sign Language for sorry: 

To test a bicycle helmet you attach it to dummy head and drop it from a height onto a solid object. The acceleration experienced by the head is measured, if the acceleration is too high the helmet fails. Stringency of the impact test depends on how high you drop the helmet from and the maximum acceleration you allow for a pass. There's a comparison of the various standards here. Snell B95 uses the largest drop (2.2m) and is the most stringent on that count, although it allows acceleration of 300g. Other tests (e.g. Canada, Europe) have a lower limit on acceleration, but the drop heights for these standards are also lower. If you can find a helmet that is Snell certified and also Canadian or European certified then go with that. If not, then just Snell certified is probably the best bet. 

If the bike is upside down and the brake levers are pushed then you can force air into the system resulting in the issue you are seeing. There are a number of things you can try to restore function but if they don't work then a bleed will be necessary. With the bike the right way up repeatedly pull the brake lever, this can encourage the air back out into the reservoir where it belongs. If this doesn't work then zip tie the brake levers to the bars to pressurise the system, leave overnight and then try the first step again. After that it's time for a proper bleed to get the air out of the system. How you do this and what you need depends on the model of brake and may involve special sryinges and adapters at one extreme and a bit of tubing and a jam jar at the other. If the brakes haven't been bleed for some time, years not months, then a bleed might be a good idea anyway. 

Your comment suggests that these punctures are caused by something (thorns, nails,...?) piercing the tyre wall so the issue probably isn't with the wheel or the rim. So the question is should you change tyres to something more puncture resistant? In my opinion it's only worth changing tyres if the tyre is obviously worn out or is to light weight/low TPI for the riding you are doing and there are lots of other factors to consider: 

One last thing to consider is tubeless, you can get a conversion kit that allows you to run the wheel with no tube but with a sealant that plugs holes; this is how I run all of my bikes. It does however bring it's own problems, you can get a cut in the tyre that's too big for the sealant to cope with and access to a compressor is helpful when setting up a tubeless system. 

The human eye is more sensitive to some colours, peak sensitivity is at the yellow-green portion of the visible spectrum. So generally speaking, a yellow vest or jacket should be better than an orange one. 

References: Bikehub - Cycling and the Law, Traffic Signs Regulations and General Directions 1994, Road Vehicles Lighting Regulations 1989 A velomobile or recumbent bike is covered by the same law as regular bicycles: 

Source - Metabolic Factors Limiting Performance in Marathon Runners (While the above paper is aimed at marathon runners, I'm not aware of any reason it can't be applied to other endurance sports such as long-distance cycling.) Exercise is fuelled by a combination of fat (plasma free fatty acids plus muscle triglycerides) and carbohydrate (plasma glucose plus muscle glycogen). The proportions used vary depending on the intensity of the exercise. 

The Canine Aggression FAQs from the RSPCA has some useful general advice about aggressive dogs. If you encounter an aggressive dog while cycling it recommends the following: 

The class of bike you're looking at is called an Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycle, a brief summary of the law regulating these is available here. In the UK (and Europe): 

Lance Armstrong has announced that he will no longer fight charges brought against him by the US anti-doping agency. The USADA says it will ban him for life and strip him of his 7 Tour de France titles. Armstrong says that the USADA does not have the authority to do that. My understanding is that the International Cycling Union (UCI) is in charge of professional cycling events, including the Tour de France. So what is the relationship between the UCI and the USADA (and other anti-doping agencies)? Who has the final say over banning and disqualifying cyclists?