Because words and logic are the "formats" used by the mind, i.e., Name-Form conditioned. (Name-Form {名色} is the 4th in the 12-Nidāna), it cannot express the Ultimate Truth, that rid of Ignorance {無明} - the 1st of the 12-Nidana. Likewise a daughter cannot give birth to her father (in the same life-time). Albert E is talking about "understood" in the scope of intellectual mind, but the Ultimate is beyond intellect. 

The ultimate for Buddhist Dharma is to tame the Citta (Mind/Heart), once it's done, one is free from suffering. The 5 Precepts are not just for the lay people, but for any citizen to live an ethical life. It is the basic for any Buddhist, and the righteous. The discourses, many are addressing the monks (Bhikkus), yet the audiences, in many of the sermons, including all followers, from rulers, noblemen, citizens and different classes. (Usually it's set in certain open place, no lighting effect or stage setup necessary for the Buddha himself is illuminating, the Celestial Beings raining the flowers and jewels, filled the atmosphere with fragrance and radiance {sometimes this kind of phenomena could still be seen in some sacred mountains, the colour-tinted clouds in shape of lotus petals, rainbow-halo of the sun... etc.}, and of course no entrance fee charged ;). Apart from those human eyes can see, there are Bodhisattvas, the Nagas and their Eight Leagues of Might, the Non-human Beings... etc. And of course if you by any chance read the Sutra, the audience included you then, read as if you are in the sermon, or among the monks. While the monks are with their particular customs - the Kāṣāya, but putting on the robe doesn't necessarily make one the true monk, nor a lay people without the robe deemed unable to understand the teaching. There are many discourses delivered to the monks in daily living together with the Buddha, most are recorded in the Agama Sutras. Those teachings about what so termed "mindfulness meditation" could be learnt as much as one is able to. However, to a certain stage, the White Skeleton Meditation is to be cautioned, not only this was recorded in the Sutra certain monks took their lives when so absorbed in getting disgusted with the body, also it would weaken the body; meditation on nourishing and right way of eating to replenish is required. Yet it would be a miracle if anyone get to the depth of the White Skeleton Meditation without the right teacher or his own right understanding, thus this is really like, it wouldn't happen or if it happened the solution is also produced. Thus the Buddha let all these be written down openly, anyone has the wisdom and merit(功德), anyone is deemed to have the Great Cause across eons of Kalpas to arrive at it. One the other hand one could read the intellectual part of the Dharma. This part is so rich and splendid, over thousands of years, books, treatises, theses are littering and piled up like Himalaya. One is easily got lost but emptied the whole life never really get to the skin of it. Thus one should read right Sutras. Reading the Sutra is the most guaranteed way to receive authentic teachings, and of course the Sutra must be well written, able to transmit the Buddha's teachings, likewise, authentically. 

Footnotes: 1. From Chinese wording I think it made more sense to use also then and. Obviously putting and is violating logic. 2. It follows that the 4th statement should be treated same way. 3. Three-thousand-world has different definitions, I'm still not clear about the grouping of solar systems and galaxies how they referred to in Buddhist cosmology. My assertion is, either one galaxy one world, or one thousand galaxies one world. If it's the later, then 1,000 Milkyway-like star-clusters will be one Samyaksambuddha's teaching ground ~ huge classroom! Sources related to one 3TW presiding one Lord Buddha: Agama Sutras, Avatamsaka Sutra, Mahāprajnāpāramitāśāstra, Abhidharma-kośa, etc. 4. Sources: in the Sutras collected in one of the 12 Sutra-sections of the Chinese Canon, the Agama Section (which is equivalent to Pali Canon's Nikaya Pitaka); Diamond Sutra, Dharmagupta Vinaya (survived only in the Chinese Canon), Mahāprajnāpāramitāśāstra, etc. 

No snow lions in Pureland. Pureland is the emanation of Amitabha only those harmonious with his emanation are emanated by him, there are birds, trees, lotus, pavilions, clothes, foods, musics, dances, ponds... you may read the Pureland Three Sutras. 

It is. You probably don't know, in the philosophical sphere those such as Nietzsche and Schopenhauer were influenced by Buddhism esp. the "superman" notion. Niet. wrote Thus Spoke Zarathustra and Scho. The World as Will and Representation. They willed for this superman power indeed. In fact any master claimed to master the practice must be able to demonstrate some sort of Rddhi powers, at least able to heal some sort of illness. In the ancient monastic life an accomplished Bhikkhus always visited by patients he should be able to heal. The healing is simply by, say, laying hands on the head or any place with afflictions. I don't think you are accepting this saying neither it's my task to convince you :). An Arahat is required to demonstrate the 18 kinds of "superman power" if they achieved Arahat-hood, recorded in many places in the Sutras/Suttas. Take one example, seeing, the succeeded practitioner his eyes can do both microscopic and telescopic functions. When we are fumbling with the iPhone, those functions in the iPhone were used to be the abilities of the succeeded practitioner. Else what are those meditations and long pain sittings for? Going to a gym at least can build the body with stronger muscle. Buddhist practice is training/building the mind, so to speak. Although "superman power" should never be the goal else one fallen. 

Non-Theravada answer - Greed is unwholesome. Meat dish is more unwholesome than non-meat, simply, meat dish involved killing. Where can the meat be coming from without killing? "", a well-developed mind might be able to tell you this is not really true... at least meat is coming from once living being, right? [Hey, do you ever wonder why meat spelled as me + eat?? In Chinese it's written as 肉, a combination of two characters, 人(human/man) + 內(inside)?!]. You are right, meat consumption means more killing. A person who cultivates compassion will feel saddened when passing by the market at the butcher's stall, those meats hanging on hooks in blood red, the sharp knife cutting across the tissues... for this very realization the meat no long taste the same. How do you feel when a Bhante after chewing the chicken breast tearing the flesh from the legs, with this very same hands and mouth, gives talk to the lay-people, flipping the Sutta, quoting, 

The Buddha/Nagarjuna doesn't phase Emptiness in this way. If there are things? Ultimate nature? Cognition or to cognize is a conditioned faculty, same as the 5 Aggregates conditioned by the human body and mind as in an Ordinary (凡夫). The quoted phrase is produced by an academic mind conditioned by education with those technical terms in prescribed syntax. 

(P. S. self gibberish: I cannot understand why so many Buddhist students talking so happily about Anatta the so called not-Self/non-Self, as if Columbus discovering the new continent. It's really a horrible truth to learnt when one realizes that a present moment indeed doesn't exist at all so does a Self doesn't have an abode to take shelter... it simply can't be established! :"'C) 

Change your attitude of work, if you can't do without the job, treat it as a service to other humans. If one is more thorough with Buddhist teaching, sweeping the floor is the most noble job ;). B) Compassion is magnetic: Try to help others, this will nourish your heart. Compassion is a magnetic force, a heart full of compassion will attract blissful conditions to your life. Compass is made of a magnet, right? So you know compassion is the greatest guide to where you want your life to be. C) Accept what happened, by accepting one finds the ground to lay foot to move forward: Not sure what your Buddhist learning and the tradition you are with. Mahayana Buddhist (my learning is based on Chinese Classical Sutras thus I'm more in this field but I'm not interested in labels) accepts the notion of Karma, the exact place where you are is the totality of your past doings, including those past(s) you forgot, i.e., past lives. Therefore if someone seems bad but enjoying luxurious life without effort, it's also the totality of what he done in the past upto now. He could have done great sacrifice/deeds in the past but you just don't know. We don't know how all those equations work out and how the sum calculated, for many past(s) are forgotten. Therefore, understanding this, the notion of Karma, it's easier for one to accept whatever condition you have at this moment, and take full responsibility of it. Then you can begin to transform your situation. 

The teaching of Buddha's Anatman/無我/Anatta is the most potent medicine, yet grasping it wrongly is the most potent poison. I see so many in the communities wriggling in poisoning, esp. those who don't have the access to the original teaching but feeding on interpretation by 2nd hand toothless academic certified; still some holding onto part of the teaching exclaiming + urshering all to believe, that's the total. It's better to not start learning then learning the wrong Dharma; wrong understanding propelled wrong view: secular Buddhism? Karma? Rebirth, no self? I don't exist, I'm an aggregation pie, the feelings are not me/mine... Believing in God perhaps is better off, or buying into none of any belief/religion. Anatman can only be realized in very very high Dhyana, or sudden enlightenment endorsed by Ch'an practice. A very good disposition personnel with perfect mind may grasp a fragment in intellectual contemplating. The easiest way to examine is, ask, you realized no-Self? Can you then make yourself disappeared - since there, no-Self...? 

I don't think lesser or greater is the right saying, it needed the "gandhabba" is valid. Grandhabba is the mind without the physical body, a form in the interval between death and rebirth. Unfortunately "mind" is only loosely a substitute for "gandhabba" in English. Here the "gandhabba" can be previously a fish, a cow, or a human, any sort of life form.(!) The foetus can be a pig, a pigeon, or a human, too.(!!) In the future when scientists are creating "cow-headed fish" (I believed they do now) in the lab, the "gandhabba" has to be presented too. Think of it, why a creature must it develop from organic base, whether by cell-cloning or in vitro fertilization. Do you think by combining and mixing the finest inorganic material such as titanium in nano scale life can be generated from? (It's possible when some "gandhabba" - mind/entity can inhabit even an inorganic object but I don't think you are ready for this and too complex for now) What's going on when life comes about? Do you think at this moment science has all the answers booked? 

There are not just one, nor two, but many many buddhas in all directions of the cosmos, literally speaking. 

From how you employed words I can see that you got fine mind, so is fine sense - sensibility. From your other post you talked about trying in vain for already 6 years. I just want to tell you, 7 is usually a completion of cycle, ancient Chinese knowledge. Maybe the ancients were coming from one source, we see trail of sameness: 7 days a week, 7 colours of rainbow, 7 continents for planet earth. So think about it, maybe this is the darkest of the night, just one second before daybreak, if you give up, you give up all your efforts of your past hard works, enduring already those sufferings, but in vain. Many people, when they experienced the greatest transformation of their lives, they went through grave suffering, nothing gained without pain. Even the Buddha spent time in Naraka, due to wrong-doing, recounted in other Sutras. How can you be sured, ending life is ending suffering? If after we fell asleep, the next day we could awake, how could you know by death, there's not another birthing? If awaken the next day, the problem left there just like yesterday; with such vivid experience, is it wise to neglect the factual but to test the incomprehensible? For the clever minds, they rely much on cleverness; when cleverness failed, the intellect. Yet if exhausted all the juices of the brian can't comprehend, the heart is the final lodging. How big is the heart - citta - 心, how big is your world, a powerful heart can initiate change. Little is known that normally we are living negating from our true nature, only .1% of our capacity is functioning, due to acadamic education, social taming, false knowledge labelled science... etc. The ancients using their own set of etymology they called asking for divine intervention, or the Buddhist called seeking refuge from the Buddha/Bodhisattva. If all your intellects fail, maybe its time to seek for your heart, which is the immediate channel, connecting to the immense source that belongs to all. Avalokiteshvara is the source of compassion and refuge for anyone who facing an insurmountable obstacle, chanting his name, connecting with this source, is very simple. May you be well and soon, claiming victory.