Just salary though depending on your arrangement with your employer, there may be additional stock and/or stock options granted. Don't forget that another portion of your options will vest each year and thus become something that could be exercised which is why some companies may issue options on various schedules in some cases. Each issuance of stock and options would have its own terms dictated by the plan of that company as there can be various vesting schedules where some companies may vest 20% a year for 5 years while others may do 25% a year for 4 years as a couple of possible examples of how a company can encourage one to stay with a company for years as the options may take time to vest each year. 

Teaching English in foreign countries like Korea, China, and others would be one example. These can be 9 months or many years in some cases. Humanitarian workers that work for NGOs in third world countries would also be another example here. For example, I know of people that will be spending years living in parts of Asia or Africa as part of their long-term assignments over there that would likely include learning the culture and language in such places. Mother Theresa would be a bit extreme for an example here. 

Couldn't you try to look these people up on LinkedIn or Facebook and try to send a message? Granted this does require some care, but it would seem like it could be useful to try. Most places I've worked when someone quit would have a final e-mail sent with contact information for those wanting to stay in touch. 

Bring in solutions. This is where you have taken some time to plan out how long it would take to take some new technology that may be useful for the organization and actually have a pilot project be done. For example, if the company wanted to build a mobile application, how would this be handled from start to finish? Another idea is to consider if there are systems to be updated or replaced and make a pitch for what should be used based on various bits of research and estimated costs. This could be seen as an extension of the first idea I posted above though in this case you are the initiating things. Keep track of the details. While your manager is also likely doing this, it can be helpful to be known as the person that doesn't let things slip. There can also be something to be said for knowing what is being done now, what is to be done soon and trying to see what are the big priorities. Is it sticking to the budget? Is it handling growth? Is it fixing a bunch of broken systems that weren't formalized but now should be? There are lots of things to look here in terms of how does the business run and what are they expecting from a couple of developers. Are you customizing 3rd party software or building in-house apps? 

This depends a lot in terms of where you fit in the company overall. If you are working on the Product Development side of things then there may be features where you had the idea and presented it to the company, helped implement some new feature or fixed some bugs that helped improve customer satisfaction with the product. If you are working on the Information Systems side of things then there may be systems that were put in place to help the company run better, make some processes more efficient, or assisting someone that was having technical difficulties with an internal system. The key here is to see how did you matter at the company. 

Sometimes though I'd argue one has to be careful about exactly what is the intent there. For example, I doubt all Silicon Valley tech companies are run with the same culture though some may think that is where they have to run the company to be successful. Thus, there can be a good general idea of hope that may or may not work out, e.g. Washington DC likely has many government positions and thus one could infer various culture ideas from that for an example that may work out. As a counter point, I know a real estate investor that will change from city to city depending on the markets and likely has a similar team in each of the cities he has people so there can be anomalies to the generalization. 

For some companies you may need it though I'd argue a business degree may be just as useful if you consider what expectations of management will be. How well can you handle managing a budget of $x when you have projects that require ten times that? This is what you'd have within IT departments at times though I imagine some product development departments may have similar challenges in the sense that there are dozens of possible projects to fund but only enough funds for a few projects to be done well. How well can you know which are the ones that will give a good return? 

Short and simple as what you want to have is a regular conversation that enables you to get a view of their operations and how you could fit in there. At the same time, by offering some assistance to their problems, you could work your way into having an offer when the school year is over as if you can prove useful on this part-time basis, imagine what you could do in a permanent role. 

Make Stress Your Friend would be the TED Talk that would apply here though there are various therapies like cognitive behaviorr, dialectic behavior and others that could be useful though I could question how did you get to this point if you didn't already have some tools to handle this. 

First, what kind of position do you really want? There are a few different possible roles I could see down the road: 

Age eligibility - Would you be old enough to be able to have an internship in these countries? Some countries may have laws against child labor that may apply if you are too young, as I doubt any company would hire a 5 year old for development. Work eligibility - Would these internships be paid and if so, what work permits may be required by the company at what cost and how is this handled? If you are going to another country, this may be an issue to some degree. Do you have contacts to assist you in getting a position or should the companies be coming to you for some reason? 

Depending on the part of Canada, I could see it. For example, if you live in some small town area then there may be limited opportunities and so the concern would have merit in this case to my mind. On the other hand, if you live in a big Canadian city like Vancouver or Toronto then I'd see this as being rather small though I would take note of some places to network when you get back as the key to my mind would be more about how you'd find opportunities and go from there. I'm born and raised in Southwestern Ontario though my initial work experience after university was Seattle, Washington before coming back to live in Calgary, Alberta. Thus, I bounced around a bit but it only took me a couple of months to get a job in 2005 when I moved back to Canada. I've worked in web development software for 17 years now almost. 

Have you considered talking to his manager about his behavior and being unprofessional? While it is nice to have the intellectual win, broadcasting it regularly should be seen as childish and petty though I'd consider going through proper channels here. There could be various reactions to this as there may be harassment issues that may arise here if he continues to bully you as this could be seen that way. I would also consider making sure you have relationships with your boss and your boss' boss so that your accomplishments are properly tracked and handled. This is where your boss and the one above that are in the loop of what you are getting done and how things are playing out. 

Research Clinical CMS to see how is it generally used to prepare questions. Interview the users of the system to determine how the system will be used and what metrics are going to be useful for reporting purposes among managers of those using the system. Verify with technical staff that such reports can be built and provide a recommendation of how to build the reports. 

Be aware of the context here. If you pick terms that aren't that relevant to the job, it may backfire to answer this question that way. For example, if someone is rather emotionally sensitive, this isn't necessarily something to mention in a job interview. Rather, figure out what strengths may be useful for getting this job and use those rather than trying to give the real true honest answer here. While some people may describe me as sensitive and deep, I'm not sure that employers would see great value there in comparison to being industrious and bright. You should respond with adjectives that apply to the job as well as qualities that you will show on some level in the interview as otherwise you may come across someone that doesn't know themselves unless you can explain how while you see yourself this way, others wouldn't see you this way. 

Yes, there can be ego in management though I'd question how deep does it go and how well can one measure it. 

There are more than a few ways this can be expressed and while some may be rude, I'd probably take a couple of other approaches first. My initial thought is that someone may have misplaced their notes and wants to know if I may have discarded them, whether accidentally or intentionally. I don't see this as rude as much as asking a question that may come after trying to find them and being rather unsuccessful about it. Secondly, there could be the sarcastic vibe here where this is meant as a joke or tease in which case this is just someone wanting to see how would I handle being labeled as a "bad boy" in a sense. I could respond in kind or I could just acknowledge, "I wouldn't do that." My main thought here is to consider what kind of image do you want to present and what kinds of interactions do you want to have with your co-workers? While this may seem like a simple suggestion, I'd argue most people don't really consider this question too deeply. What kinds of characteristics do you want to show off regularly? What kinds of things should people know about you within those first few minutes of meeting you? To some degree you have to consider if you want to be a, "Just the facts, ma'am," kind of worker or do you want to be a Linchpin? Do you want people to see you as driven, ambitious and egotistical? Do you want people to see you as reserved and rarely talks? While some of this can be considered personality, some of it is character and some is what kind of role do you want to have in this workplace. Some people like to only talk when it is necessary, some people prefer to talk all day long about anything. 

If the developer attends networking events where other developers may be around and the company is looking for developers, then it may make sense to have the cards with the general company information as the team hiring may not be the same as the application developer. Granted that someone from HR or other parts of the company may go to events as a better alternative, I could imagine some companies wanting to "spread the word" and this would be a way to do that. 

Would you be prepared to back up your argument with specific sources? For example, while there are tons of possible ways to improve search rankings, which could you guarantee would work as that would likely be required for you to have a chance at winning the argument here. I'd likely consider the question of whether or not you are prepared to leave the company because of the other managers siding with someone that may well believe something that you heavily disagree. If you aren't prepared to have your job on the line, then I'd advocate staying quiet since whether you like it or not, your job could well be on the line soon in this case. 

I'd probably first ask whether or not the company has formal processes in place that would allow for this kind of accounting. If the organization is a start-up then there may well be a cowboy mentality where this kind of tracking just isn't done and thus you'd get a potentially blank stare. You do realize that "babysitting deployments" and "documentation" may well be considered technical from a management perspective though not from fellow developers, right? There are communication issues here along with being careful in your vocabulary here. 

No, it isn't too early though understand at this point you want to know what is the process for salary negotiations as you've been there for over a year and believe you are worth more now than when you started. Most places I've worked had a 3 month probation on the job and then annual reviews after that. As you are approaching what would be a combination of a year and a probation period, it isn't a bad idea to inquire as to what is the process for updating the compensation. As for the 15%, the key point is how well can you justify that kind of increase. If you believe that your skills have increased greatly, that you know the business much better, or other major productivity boosts have happened then you could probably justify this boost assuming the company has the money to handle the raise. A key point can be to consider how well do they think of your work and is it worth upping your salary to get more out of you? I can remember in my first year of working that I had a few raises though this was because of changes within the company as well as being in those dot-com boom days where I worked as a Software Design Engineer in Seattle.