I gather that your HR device provides you with instantaneous measurements only (no recording feature) since your observations seem to consist of periodic checks of your monitoring device, sanity checked via manual measurement. I agree that taken together your HR observations seem a bit odd, so would suggest a next step of obtaining a more complete data set -- namely once-per-second measurements of HR for an entire run (from warm-up to cool-down) using a chest strap (for accuracy) HR monitor, obtainable for under $100 if you don't already own one of this type. I would suggest ensuring that whatever monitor you buy uses a wireless communication standard (Bluetooth and ANT+ being the two modern protocols) that your smartphone also has built-in, so that you can cost-effectively use your smartphone as a session recording device -- this saves you the expense of buying a running/GPS watch for recording your HR. I think you'll end up learning a lot given this granular data, especially if you record several runs on different days and compare/contrast the results. 

If you were to decide to attempt a marathon given the training level you've described, there's an interesting academic article that may be helpful in estimating your likelihood of finishing without injury. The paper is by Yeung, Yeung, and Wong, "Marathon finishers and non-finishers characteristics: A preamble to success," Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness, 41(Jun 2001):170-176. The researchers surveyed 113 registered runners at a Hong Kong marathon, of whom 55 finished and 58 were unable to finish. The predictive variables that had overwhelming explanatory power (p < 0.005) as to whether or not a runner would finish were: 1) weekly training mileage -- the training distance, per week, of the average finisher was 52km (32mi) whereas for the average non-finisher, it was 9km (5mi); 2) length of the longest run accomplished during training -- 28km (17mi) for the average finisher vs. 5.4km (3.4mi) for the average DNF (did not finish); and 3) the runner's personal opinion of how much training was needed to do a marathon -- that is, how difficult did the runner think a marathon would be? The average finisher assessed 72km (44mi) per week as optimal marathon training whereas the average non-finisher thought that only 29km (18mi) per week would be sufficient. Given your question it seems that all three predictive variables (in their current state) are pointing towards a prediction of non-finishing. Your question also asked about what the risks were if you did decide to attempt the marathon at this point. The same paper includes a breakdown of the non-finishers, that is, why did the non-finishers not finish? Of the non-finishers, 43% dropped out of the race from exhaustion, 35% stopped at the 10km mark due to missing the time cut, 19% were injured, 2% were advised at a medical tent to stop, and 2% reported "other." 

You could eat almost anything (on a caloric deficit) and drop bodyfat. If you are reaching your macronutrient and micronutrient goals, that will help even more. If your abs haven’t grown enough though, you won’t see them even at lower body fat percentages. Find a “TDEE Calculator” (google), do 200-500 less calories than what your TDEE is, and you’ll drop bodyfat. If you want to build muscle, try getting 1.5-2 times your kg body weight in grams of protein AND keep your calorie deficit at 200 or less than your TDEE. 

The only way to determine progress is by having a point of reference. Doing two similar exercises, one at an earlier point in time and the other later doesn’t provide a good point of reference. However, doing the same exercise is a good point of reference. While it might not seem like a big difference, “same” and “similar” can give very different results when using them as points of reference. Therefore, the best way to determine progress is by repeating your point of reference. 

Athlean-X is a great option that can be done at home. It is ran by Jeff Cavaliere, a physical therapist and strength coach who (to his credentials) has trained professional athletes and celebrity clients. He has a YouTube channel if you'd like to get a taste of who he is as well as how he approaches fitness. $URL$ He has several programs, I'm currently doing the "beginner" program, AX-1. It's been pretty challenging, but also rewarding. Jeff knows his stuff and I get to benefit from it. Whatever you do, just find something that seems reputable. Good luck! 

First of all, it depends on how close you are to your maximum muscle potential. By that, I am referring to the maximum amount of muscle that you could potentially (naturally) carry on your frame according to your individual genetics. Refer to FFMI to roughly determine this. The closer you are to that, the less likely that simultaneous fat loss/muscle gain will be possible. $URL$ Second, if you stay in a positive nitrogen balance (usually by eating enough protein) and you eat enough calories to maintain your weight (total weight), then it is possible, but expect slower results on both fronts. If you are young and you still have plenty of muscle potential left, then you have quite a bit more wiggle room than older folks who are closer to their maximum potential, but it is very much possible. Third, is it desirable? You could eat in a slight surplus (gaining 0-0.5 lbs a week) and have an excellent lean bulk if your goal is to put on muscle. You’ll gain more muscle mass this way, but how much more? There is no scientific answer for that. It could very well be marginal at best. So while you would put on “more” muscle almost definitely, the actual percentage might be underwhelming in the face of looking at having to lose weight down the line. On the other hand, it might be a significant number. There are too many variables at play. Regardless ANY kind of bulk will definitely grant faster muscle building, the exact amount just isn’t clear. Fourth, decide what is important to you and what isn’t. Decide on the path based on that. Both paths will take a lot of time. One path gets to higher muscle mass quicker, but at the cost of additional fat. The other path comes at the cost of being more strict with yourself (finding that ideal personal balance). Whatever you choose, I wish you luck! Edit - One thing I didn’t mention that is also important to this whole thing is your body fat percentage. If your BF% is low (12 or under) you’ll probably want to simply focus on a lean bulk rather than weight maintenance through fat loss and muscle gain. From what I understand of your question, you’re probably somewhere around here. I already explained the lean bulk in the third paragraph, so there’s no need to repeat that but, but let’s talk about how it correlates to body fat. If you don’t have a lot of body fat to lose, then your (overall) weight will almost need to increase when you put on additional muscle due to the additional weight of the muscle itself. This is a good thing, but keep in mind that not everything you gain will necessarily be muscle. Typically, a man will be able to add 1-2 pounds of muscle to his frame per month under good-ideal conditions. Therefore, if you gain more than that, it’s easy to gauge what may be muscle and what may be fat. 

I think that this is a valid question for physical fitness here is why. When you're out of shape and overweight you focus on two things: You're weight and you're muscle tone. The more you eat(to a certain extent) the more your body has to work with(as far as energy for exercise, and protein for repairing muscles after exercise). Most of my experience with people trying to build muscle or get back in shape is that people go through cycles, either bulking up to build muscle or slimming down to reveal tone. I think this is a big part of looking good, do you eat lots and gain muscle mass or eat very little and slim down. My answer from personal experience is that you need to have enough energy to do your daily tasks, and to plan for physical activity. It's ok to eat less than what your body needs to maintain it's weight if you want to lose weight, but you need to consider that you'll be losing muscle mass as well when you do this. Muscle mass burns more calories while you're idle, it also makes your body have good shape and look toned. It's also ok to eat more than your body needs when you're trying to gain muscle mass. The balance is something only you can figure out. Personally I think that going though a muscle building cycle for 3-4 weeks, then a cardio/slimming cycle for 2-3 weeks is where I found my balance. Eating more small meals spread throughout the day and a larger one before and after a workout is in my opinion(and many others) the way to manage you're food intake. I strongly believe in a low carb higher protein diet, but again, some people feel differently(distance runners?). The very way the human body works lets us know that when we fast the body stores the remaining energy and weakensd the ability of the mind to think quickly, so I'm pretty against the idea of fasting. Consider that always trying to lose weight or maintain a weight may not be what makes you look good, looks aren't based on numbers, so if you only base your routine by number of carbs or meals and not improving what you see in front of you'll always be slightly disappointed in what you see. That's just what I've learned about my body from the past decade. I hope it helped you out. Also if you tell me a bit more about your exercise routine and goals I can change my answer to further help you.