If it was your main source of income and you put enough hours in it to be deemed a full time occupation I don't see whats wrong in including it to be honest. Its not an illegal activity and shows many positive traits in you,as in analytical skills mentioned, if you had the prowess and intelligence to pull this through. An explicit mention in your CV, perhaps mentioned in an "Others Section", as mentioned already, or just as your last work experience can get the employer to ask more about it and you make your case about it as intended. 

Explain the acronym whenever you need to refer to in a professional context to people for the first time. "I also created EzGal, as in EasyGalaxy ..." Also add a clarification for the name on github like easy_galaxy(EzGal). and be done with it. Apologizing beforehand assumes you re guilty about it and DOES make a mountain out of a molehill. 

Most companies request an updated resume from their employees. Some do it as part of their annual review process, others have their own schedule. The purpose of the resume is so that it can be used to bid on projects, and to be used as part of a database when looking for internal ways to fill positions. Generally when there is a significant amount of work that is done for projects or customers that must remain confidential, they also provide a way to help the employee write that section of the resume. They will also vet all the annual updates to those resumes to make sure they still don't break the rules. The goal for the company is to help the employee create a resume that is true, yet shows the extent of skills and experience. They need to do this to win future work. 

Its all about keeping matters civilized and polite so that you can co-exist and all get the best they can(you get your 2% almost all the time, they get their 98% uninterrupted). 

Consider speaking with a team member to get substituted and not-accounted for beforehand. This way you won't be bound to this obligation by any means and the company wont have booked flights and accommodation that they 'll have to change(which may not even be possible at the time) or have to scramble at the last minute to find a replacement for you to attend. EDIT: since apparently some people misunderstood this, I suggest to be tactful about this and quote personal reasons as to why you cant make it. No need to inform your co-workers of your intention to resign. 

Absolutely do not spam people whose friendship or relationship in general you value. That being said, why dont you constructively grace your company's request as well while doing so? From the sounds of it you re in a well respected, top paying company. I bet plenty of those people would actually appreciate knowing there are specific openings, you deem them a good fit for. Get informed about the openings and selectively match a few, that you know are either actively looking for work or that could be enticed by what your company has to offer. tl;dr Of course its wrong to spam people generic requests, but a timely discreet targeted and personalized message is fair play and will not only NOT be considered a nuisance but will actually be courteous of you. 

If this is used by the company to bill customers for your time, this is very dangerous. If the customer demands proof, such as from badge scans, your time card will not match. That can cause your company to have to refund money, there could also be fines. In extreme cases managers and employees can go to jail for these types of fraud. I have seen employees fired for turning in dishonest time cards even if the amount of money is small, because the risk of losing a contract can hurt many employees. Even if it is not used for billing purposes, it could be used to avoid paying shift differential, or overtime. A systematic dishonesty in time cards makes the company appear to be dishonest in other areas. 

The biggest issue for you is how you structure the rest of the resume. If you list all the other jobs except this one, they may notice the gap. If they do they will ask you about it. If the detour was all in one calendar year you may think that instead of always listing the month and year you will just list the year for all the jobs. This could lead to a problem: 

For the time being, I would propose you stay composed and attend the meeting without questions beforehand, this way you don't spread unnecessary tension or lose face by asking something that is very far from the truth. You should be mentally prepared for all possible outcomes and be prepared ahead of the meeting(paper trail checked etc) to defend yourself and your work if need be. The fact your sympathizing boss will be the one attending is positive. p.s. If you really can't contain yourself, you can politely and indirectly ask for the exact purpose/thematology of this meeting to the HR rep since, after all, they welcomed questions. This way you can clear it up or at least be hinted about the direction this may go. 

Its perfectly understandable to be in an economic position that every pound matters. In which case you should clarify up-front with the company's HR their policy on expenses made on the basis of the interview process(since they knew you were not local). Its a whole different thing however to ask for compensation after the process concluded and after those expenses were already made. 

Here is a different way of looking at the situation. The ability to have your main employment cover all your benefits (health insurance, vacation days, holiday pay...) means that you have more flexibility in the positions you take for the extra job. If you are making 100K gross in your paycheck, and the rule of thumb is $100 per hour if you had to replace all the income and benefits, then you can pick positions that will not allow you to charge $100 per hour. Instead of a software engineer, you can apply for second jobs that are more fun, and more like hobbies. You can be a bartender, tutor, make chain mail at the Renaissance fair... If you do decide to pick positions that are similar to your full time job you might have to charge the going rate of ~$100 per hour. Don't forget that you will spend time on business development, paperwork, billing, and additional tax forms. These time sinks are one reason for the rule of thumb. But the most important reason for charging closer to $100 per hour is that if you gain customers and then decide to try and make it your full time job, the old customers may not be willing to pay more per hour. They got used to paying $50 per hour. Even finding new customers when all your recommendations include the phrase "the rates are so low", will be very hard. 

Assigning more hours of your flexible work week ahead of the deadline is not only showing you re a professional employee dedicated to get to the end target but also has the up-side of you not having to work more in the end. Thats a win- win scenario in my opinion. 

First of, I find it very good to think of the future and go for a change of career when you still have the luxury of choice and its not a matter of utmost importance to support yourself financially in a dire way. That being said I would still consider if my current line of work is welcome in another firm before I did something radical, unless you really dont enjoy it either in which case; move on. About the pay issue, its perfectly normal to say you didn't enjoy your last job or want a new "challenge" as the reason you re changing and as such you recognize you may have been fairly specialized in your last line of work(and equally well compensated- do NOT mention you think your pay was overly high even for that) but seeing you consciously looking for a change(which will come with a learning period and all) and that you will accept a pay cut in the process of switching careers and having to start lower.I wouldn't insinuate necessity as the reason for this change as it may play against you during such a negotiation. 

This tells them to talk to their manager without you being in a position to judge them or lecture them. It is possible that their manager will know why the CEO stopped by. The manager might also contact the CEO or have the intern contact the CEO, depending on what they decide the next step should be. 

I have been in a similar situation and have bristled when the company calls it a team bonding/team building event and makes integral members of the team take leave without pay to attend the event. I just skip those events. If the event is held after work or on a weekend I am actually more willing to attend because then everybody is on equal footing. Keep in mind the food isn't free, it is costing you four billable hours. 

Check the HR policies to see the procedure. I still know of a few companies/contracts that have a requirement to fill out a request form in advance. They expected this for vacation, but you were allowed to fill out the forms when you returned if it was sick leave. The fact you used the term PTO (paid time off) means that it is mixture of vacation and sick. They expect that a one day event might have little or no notice. One place I worked I told them I was going to take the kids to the amusement park on the first nice day next week. Nobody had a problem with it. So first check the procedure, then check the shared calendar, then email your boss/team members. This is the same procedure you will follow when you need to miss time for a doctors appointment, or if you need to settle on a house, or some other inflexible event that will take more then a few hours. Because the OP has flexible working hours, if the PTO balance was small you could makeup some hours by working longer days during the same pay period. That can be a good way to minimize the impact of a dentist appointment, but doesn't help when the vacation is supposed to relax you. 

Thats pretty much most of the applications of programming right now though. Noone sane pays you to program just for the sake of it. There are applications in commerce/communications/banking/interacting with the public sector/IOT/advancing another science(ie biology) just to name a few, they dont hire you to be a computer scientist(usally). Now if the company that you seek hiring at, isnt in a field that you have interest in or seeks for someone for a specific programming task/technology that isnt of interest to you then by all means just go to the interview as a practice since you want some and just respectfully decline afterwards. 

It would only be appropriate to mention company b if you re given an opening to do so, ie in response to a question about previous employers, most likely in the personal interview and not the phone one, and only in the context that you ve done your research on company A and your recruiter. Asking the recruiter why they left company B would be inappropriate at all times, at least as I see it. 

When they told everybody that they had to reapply for their jobs they told everybody that they soon might be unemployed. I would expect that everybody has at least started to look at other positions. I would in fact advise everybody to look outside the organization. As an interviewer I would never even ask the question: 

The position you are applying for is for a specific grade. Your ability to move up a grade is very limited. If you want a higher grade you will probably have to apply for a different position. The supervisor for that advertised position may be the same or higher grade and they don't want to upset the system. The steps are another matter. The key is the waiting period between step increases: 

Keep in mind that many of the tools that HR uses in the hiring process require the resume to be in text file format. It is a good idea to look at any resume/CV you make after it has been pasted into a text editor. Most resumes are created with the help of either a tool or a expert. Many new graduates use an office at their university to help make their first resume. Employees losing coverage are given resume help by a company office or an outside company. The military frequently provides resume assistance to soldiers leaving the military. Even long time employees will find that their current company requires a yearly resume update so they can use their skill sets when bidding on contracts. These proposals frequently have specific and unique formatting and length requirements. Some times these modifications are done by the employee, and sometimes they are done by the team preparing the bid. Therefore almost every resume has been massaged by a tool or an "expert". If you remove the headers and any other links to the software nobody will be the wiser, and nobody will care. 

First of all, consider your options. Negotiating can only be taken so far when you re not ready to walk away. Now, going through 5 interviews seems to me they re pretty invested in the idea of having you as a team member so judging from the fact you also want to work there (salary increase and better working environment) you can make some suggestions to reach an agreeable solution without taking it too far, always with the mindset of accepting their offer in the end. For that purpose I would start off by giving their HR rep a written reasoning(likewise what you did here) why you think a senior title is deserved so they can make the counter-argument to the compensation team while also stating that such a development in accordance with all your previous talk would be of great importance for you and enough to seal t the deal. Furthermore, to my understanding, there's no talk of change in the role responsibilities, just the title so if that not works, I would try getting a clue in my contract or otherwise assurance that within a specific time frame of having in essence a senior role I would get an evaluation for the official senior title to follow.