I believe that your friend should have been more insistent, even to the point of taking the keys away and enlisting someone in senior management to help take care of the problem. Another alternative would be to speak to the restaurant management. Any restaurant that serves alcohol should have staff who are trained to deal with exactly this type of situation. This can also lessen the impact that being co-workers introduces. At the end of it all, this is a life threatening situation, as you can clearly see the actual outcome could have been much worse if the driver had hit a pedestrian or another car instead of a stop sign. That type of situation requires stronger action. 

Companies, departments and teams have inertia, just like physical moving objects. You need to change the direction of this inertia. The challenge lies in determining if they are a rolling ball or a tank. Seems like the latter to me. Do you have management buy-in? If you do, I would suggest setting up some mini-training sessions to better expose them to what Agile really is, sounds like they know the name but not the process. When they have had a chance to digest that, try to run a single project with the Agile model and let them slowly experience the difference. If you don't have buy-in, the best you can do is gently point out some of the benefits and try to work as Agile-ly as you can for your work so they can see how it can improve the process. Hopefully they will be convinced of the difference and begin adopting. This is not going to be an easy transition even if they are fully on-board, there is plenty to "un-learn" and lots to learn. Give it time and be gentle, if you make it a battle, human nature is likely to make them fight you automatically. You also need to understand that this may never work out. Not every group is adaptable and willing to change. 

As the only front-end developer, you may be the closest thing to an expert. Expertise is relative, so even if you feel you don't know that much, you may need to own the solution. Consultants are expected to be able to solve problems and this may be your opportunity to shine. Do your best with the skills and knowledge you have. Do some research about the framework and best practices for using it. If the framework is used much at all, there should be plenty of research you can do on the internet, either from the vendor, a working group or some site like StackOverflow. Make sure you document your research and how you arrived at the decisions you needed to make. Share this documentation with your technical and/or administrative supervisor so that they know what you have done and can manage the risk. If after the research, you believe there is a schedule risk, let them know now before the situation gets worse. Use the research you have done to provide a timeline you can make and leave it to them to then manage the project timelines at a higher level. 

In the working world, learning only has value when you can apply it. If you haven't/can't use it in a project at work, you could build some open source project to show that you have mastered the information and its usage. Resumes are for achievements, not potential. As @JoeStrazzere commented, you could include it in your cover letter. It is also fair game to discuss during an interview to show that you are interested in new technologies and broadening your skills. But until you demonstrate you can work with what you have learned, it will have very limited value to a potential employer. 

With so many distributed/isolated employees, I would suggest starting with some form of group messaging (e.g. Slack) to let people stay connected. This can be applied to work topics and also more informal discussions to help people feel like they are part of something. As far as activities, 1000 people may be too large a set of diverse interests to serve as a whole. Instead, maybe try a number of different events that might appeal to different groups: sports related, museums, working families,... If you want this to grow, it needs to be based on non-work interests that let them create connections. Grouping by department is somewhat arbitrary in terms of common interests. 

It is important for new employees to understand that their new manager may have just as much at risk as they do when starting in a new position at any level. 

Without more specifics about behaviors you deem praiseworthy,it's hard to give a concrete answer, but here are some thoughts: Positive Reinforcement Positive reinforcement is generally used to motivate/encourage positive changes in behavior, not to maintain the status quo. Your manager probably wants you to do more or better things to help improve the output/quality of the team. If you are just doing your job, are you meeting that goal? Perfect Performance Review I've been working for nearly 30 years, the last 10 in a leadership role. In that time I have seen many good and some great employees. I've also seen some pretty bad ones. I have never seen an employee who could not get better in some way, so I also will likely never give a perfect review. If someday I actually have an employee who deserves a perfect review, I may just retire, because my work life will be complete. Now maybe your manager needs to express these ideas in a softer fashion, but I don't see anything wrong with the ideas he is expressing. FWIW, I do praise my employees when they do something special, and it means something to them because I don't constantly praise them for "showing up". Edit (since I didn't answer your specific questions at the end) Does this situation sound salvageable? Possibly, if you are willing to work on it, see next answer. Is there anything I can do to fix this, or is this just not a good fit for me? You need to understand what behavior your boss does deem praiseworthy and either work toward that or determine that his expectation is unacceptable to you and move on. Are my expectations for at least SOME positive reinforcement completely off-base? No they aren't, but this still goes back to identifying praiseworthy results and achieving them. Your manager sets the bar, it's up to you to reach it or decide it's not worth it to you. 

I think you should be comparing the offer to market value, not your expenses. I would expect an internship to be a little below the market value for a full time entry level position. The company is going to make an offer based on their existing salary ranges and you likely won't be able to do anything about it. Without knowing your specific situation, I would say you may need to re-evaluate your expenses. Do you have a roommate? Do you live in a more expensive neighborhood/town? I am actually not surprised that an internship rate of pay is not enough for someone to live alone in a nice neighborhood, that is just the state of our current economy. Many people just getting out of school have to make adjustments to their "ideal" living arrangements to make there finances work for the first few years. FWIW, where I live, even a full time entry level job would probably not be sufficient for you to live alone. 

They may not have asked because it wouldn't make a difference. If the decision is already made, how would you feel if they asked and then told you it didn't matter what you wanted? They may have already decided that they need fewer Robotics Engineers and the most valuable place for them to use you is in IT. 

Compensation is about value, your value to the employer will lead directly to your level of compensation. This has two angles. First, any value your skill-set may bring to the table will be offset by the perceived risk of you leaving in a short time. Companies don't want to invest the expense of hiring and on-boarding someone who is going to leave in a year. That means either they won't offer you a job or they will offer less compensation in the initial offer to offset the other costs. Secondly, you can improve you compensation by improving your value. Dedicate some time to one employer. Become the best at what you do in your department, get a promotion. You don't have to leave to get better compensation and opportunities, you can also get there by hard work and a willingness to wait a little time. As a hiring manager, I don't mind seeing some job switching, sometimes things happen to employees and employers that cause a change. But there is a limit to this, and I will quickly discard resumes that show too much job hopping. I can't see many reasons why I would want to hire someone with 3 jobs in 2 years. Either they aren't good enough for the companies to want to keep them or they keep moving for their own interests, neither one of these is a good thing for me when I am hiring. 

While your manager's method of announcing the change may be unprofessional, the fact that your weren't asked can be normal and professional. Business needs and priorities change, staffing needs to be adjusted and sometimes you are the odd man out. While we would love our employees to have our happiness first and foremost in their priorities, that isn't going to happen. Business success has to come before individual happiness. 

You should always be able to have private discussion with your manager about your concerns. If your work environment doesn't support this, I would be concerned about a company culture that creates that situation. There are things you need to consider before having the meeting: 

With all due respect to your boss, I think he is wrong. This scheduling will not in any way "compromise" sprint planning. If anything, it will help give more predictable planning since it is a fixed schedule. Scrum is not intended to be a rigid process with absolute rules and formulas. It is a framework for being more efficient in your short term planning, knowing that long term plans are always in some state of flux. One of the first things my team does in sprint planning is account for missed time in the upcoming sprint. This could be due to many reasons, including vacations, holidays, training, etc. If you have a holiday (US term), then you have instantly lost 10% of the work capacity in that 2 week sprint. If you bring in the "normal" number of story points to that sprint, it's a recipe for failure. This is not exact science, but if we know we are losing X% of our normal capacity, we bring in roughly X% less story points. Your manager's Scrum training should have covered these concerns when discussing sprint planning, so maybe there is still a question of being comfortable with the Scrum process. To address this with your manager, you need to be able to explain how this could be successfully addressed during sprint planning. If you have not had Scrum training, you may want to do some research, so you can present your position well within the framework of Scrum. 

If you will only have two prior employers, you may have a hard time providing references without getting someone from the previous employer. Questions will be asked and even if the reference provider is favorable to you, some of the history may come up and you need to be prepared to discuss it. We all feel like we do a good job and if there are failures, the blame lies elsewhere. The reality is that we can't hide from our own involvement, and while we might not have been the root cause, we still could have done some things differently. Be honest with yourself about your role and be prepared to discuss it. This introspection and being able to talk about it with an interviewer will show that you learned and grew from the failure. Negative situations aren't the problem, how the negative situations are handled is the indicator of how you will perform if a similar difference of opinion were to arise at the new employer. 

We can't judge your peers' or manager's ability levels but the fact that you are willing to share your judgement is a red flag to me. Being direct and task oriented as not a bad thing. I have worked with people like that (and I have been described as the same) with no issues and I believe to some extent your co-workers need to be able to see past that as you should see past their personality differences. However, being a judgmental person and freely sharing your judgment can be a toxic influence on a team. Are you in a position where it is part of your job to judge your peers in this way? You also should not be so judgmental of your manager without knowing everything they have to deal with. The fact that you have had this situation at multiple jobs leads me to believe that this behavior is the crux of the problem. IMHO, if you can not change your tendency to be judgmental and open with those opinions, this problem will follow you wherever you go. Nobody wants to hear their co-workers complain about them being a poor worker.