Ivory soap (for North American campers)...it's the only one that actually cleans and does not leave any residue (which can hold oils) begins. I don't know what other brands of a similar product there is, but I bet you can find your own if you look for ivory soap on the Internet. 

Breathing technique is bar far the most important. Remember to keep your airways open at all times during descent and ascent, but most importantly during ascent. During normal dives you want to keep you ascent slower than the rising bubbles, while in a near continuous exhale, in deep dives you slow the ascent to half the speed of the air bubbles while exhaling. An air embolism is a SCUBA divers worst nightmare come true. 

Chances are you'll be doing a lot more tracking. Blunt tips are for very small game, intended to knock they prey out cold or cause death by blunt trauma. Hunting tips are intended to increase depth of penetration as well as doing continuous damage to the vital organs once full penetration has occurred. Hunting tips will almost always penetrate deeper than field tips in flesh, because the razor cut a cross around the puncture, this reduces the tension of the wound around the shaft. In other words, A field tip will stop faster because the flesh will be grabbing it better. Can you use field tips to hunt? Sure, but you will likely be forced to track for longer, the arrow may fall out of the wound when the animal is running through brush, and may be able to find a spot to hide and die (or heal) and you may never find it. 

Species in the forest will vary by locale. Here in the Pacific Northwest, Thimbleberry aka Salmonberry leaves are thick and soft, so they make a good wiping implement. The subtly-named How to Shit in the Woods is a good primer on this topic. One option described there is to use urine. Basically, you hold back the urine until you're done with the bowel movement, then use the pee to wash up. To clean your hands afterwards, cedar can help. Take a bite of cedar scales (leaves) straight from a tree. Chew it up & mix with saliva. Spit it out on to your hands and rub all over. 

Learning specific plants is helpful, but each person can have different food reactions, and they can change over time. So learning to taste well is a valuable skill: 

Start with a clean mouth Take a small bite Chew it in the very front of your mouth Spit it out Notice how it tastes, and how you feel. Not just in your mouth & throat, but throughout your body. Dizzy? Fuzzy vision? Weak? 

Every ski resort gives lessons, and that's how you should begin. You can rent skis, and they will help you get them on, etc. Dress in clothes you would wear to go sledding. Remember that you work hard, get wet, then sit still. Layers, of wool and acrylic will keep you warm when wet and let you adjust as needed. Cotton makes you cold when wet, so avoid that, especially on you innermost layer. If you have a waterproof outer layer, that helps. Cover as much skin as possible: hat, gloves. Ski goggles are good but you can buy one after the first class if you like skiing. Having strong legs helps. 

I think this is a question of sustainability. If you strip a bush of its flowers and/or fruit, then it loses the opportunity to reproduce this year, or ever in the case of annuals and/or patches of wild veg in which you harvest the whole plant. Basically you want to leave some behind to continue the species where you found it. In desert cultures this is even taken one step further. If you see a lone flower in the desert, carefully dig it up and relocate it to a place with others of its kind, this allows that lone flower a greater chance to reproduce. 

My mother and her husband feed hummingbirds rather religiously. They have feeders all over and in every conceivable condition you could possibly imagine. My mother refills all of her feeders on a daily basis, and the birds have learned it is her providing the food. When one of the feeders has gone empty and the others are too crowded, the hummingbirds will hover outside her kitchen window to get her attention. This is not a joke, nor an exaggeration. The birds will hover around her while she's refilling the feeders. In one case, a hummingbird failed to fly south for the winter, and they kept one feeder filled and warm to prevent freezing and they successfully helped that hummingbird overwinter in the mountain tops of North Carolina. 

I have heard of aspects of sails and keels, and it seems that taller skinnier sails and keels have this higher aspect ratio. What is it and what does it do for your sailing? 

I use that dubbing to make flies used in tiny hook sabiki rigs. Just something that will wiggle around the hook to attract plankton feeders. I use these to catch sardines, alewives, menhaden, herrings and also sometimes perch catch well on sabiki rigs. Check your local regs, because some places don't allow sabiki rigs and or limit how many hooks you may have or what fish are allowed to be caught with sabiki rigs. 

From your question, it sounds like you already have a plan to supply your body with calories. I'll further assume you will have protein and fat, not just carbohydrates. With those covered, you then need vitamins and minerals. Fiber is a good idea, too. It is possible to be healthy eating only wild animal foods (hunting / trapping) for quite some time, but you have to do it right. Eat the fat and the organs, as they are nutrient rich. (Lions eat only the organs, and leave the muscle to scavengers!) Liver is rich in Vitamin A, which is great but must be balanced with Vitamin D. Very lean meats such as rabbit will leave you nutrient-deficient (if that's all you eat), so you'll still need to fill in the gaps another way. If you learn a few edible wild plants for your area, you can round out your nutritional needs very nicely. I believe that wild plants tend to have much higher mineral and vitamin content than farmed plants. Here in Pacific Northwest, I would focus on: Miner's lettuce, so named because miners would eat it for this very reason. It's very tasty. Stinging Nettle is very nutritious. I eat it raw, but most people will steam or boil it to avoid the stingers. The stems are good for cordage - maybe a bracelet to remember your trip. Dandelion is nutritious and easy to find in many places. I love the yellow flowers, but dislike the stems immensely. Leaves are good, especially when new. Don't confuse it with catsear aka false dandelion. These plants are easy to find & eat, and give you fresh leafy greens that you can't pack with you. To learn more, you can take a wild edibles class and get an edible wild plants book for your region. 

It honestly depends on conditions and what you are trying to accomplish. If you have nice whittled shavings to start with, the make a log cabin of those, and slowly increase the size of kindling and finally logs added to the fire. If you have branches that are roughly 1 inch, then a teepee is better. Don't forget the star configuration. That 5 logs laid out radially, with a fire started in the center. As they burn you push the logs in closer to each other. It's perfect for cooking because you can control the heat, and it can maximize the lifetime of your fuel. There are lots of configurations depending on conditions like the dryness of your firewood, how big it is, is it split or solid, what are you going to use the fire for. Do you want smoke or smokeless, do you want lots of heat or do you just want light to keep animals away, etc etc etc. It's really too broad a question without knowing what you want to accomplish and under what conditions. 

Often times you can take a photo of the bird and the ID tag if you are able. With fishery tags anyway you can usually search the tag number and you'll get a list of potentials to contact. 

Adding a quiver to the bow will increase the amount of noise, and also increase the amount of interference of the flight of the arrow as it leaves the bow. It also makes your bow heavier increasing the amount of effort to aim and hold the aim. 

I would say no, because according to records, the strait is not even considered navigable except during short periods of slack tide. Does that mean a person couldn't survive? No certainly not, but I wouldn't bet my own life to try. 

"hanging out" together happens because different species eat the same food, require the same nesting areas, migrate in the same flyways, etc. Many species compete/become territorial for nesting areas, but less so for food sources. 

Crows and ravens are opportunistic foragers, meaning they eat carrion, rodents, steal eggs and nestlings, insects, etc. You will likely find them curious and very cautious (more so than typical "bird feeder visitors"). I have great success finding roadkill deer in the winter, and placing out of sight, using trail camera and/or binoculars to observe. They are very intelligent, and vocal with a wide range of calls depending on what they are communicating, in my experience, feeding behavior is not noisy. Fascinating behavior. 

unfortunately, you have limited choice. My suggestion is to hold the rabbit body in one hand, and the head in the other, quickly snapping the head up and backwards will break the spinal column and kill the rabbit quickly and painlessly. 

While looking for mushrooms mid-morning in the summer, I saw a deer perhaps 50' away, in brush maybe 5' high- it was upwind of me and couldn't smell me. It was browsing and slowly moving as it ate. Slowly, stopping frequently, and gradually approaching, I stopped and listened. I'm sure the deer was able to hear me but not see or smell. I kept my head and body crouched down, below the top of the brush, and got within 6' of the deer before the wind shifted, it looked up and saw me moving. I believe my mimicry of slowly browsing deer behavior was the key. 

Yes, you can use dynamically soaring as one variable in attempting identification, in addition to size, wing, body, beak, feet, etc. (all the usual ways of narrowing down your bird). But you can't just say "that's an albatross": the 4 families of order Procellariiformes consist of albatrosses, petrels and shearwaters, storm petrels, and diving petrels. They vary significantly in size, color pattern and shape. 

If you didn't bring rope with you on purpose, you may still have shoelaces. You could use them in a bowdrill to make a fire in an emergency (but you better know how to make and use a bowdrill well beforehand). Two plants that make good cordage here in the Pacific Northwest are Stinging Nettle and Fireweed. You can use it fresh and green, but if you properly dry it out you can get a very strong rope. Traditional rope is made by laying up. Take 2 strands and hold the ends together. Twist one a 1/2-turn one way around its own axis, and then wrap it a 1/2-turn around the other strand. Do it again with the other strand against the first. With practice you can add a 3rd strand to the mix. This is a very strong setup, as any weakness in 1 strand gets covered by the other 2. When one strand nears its end, overlap it with a new strand for a few twists. For a bigger rope, lay 3 smaller ropes up together. Repeat as needed for size & strength. 

There are many folk and wild remedies you could learn, depending on what you're carrying & where you're hiking. Some examples: Honey will protect from infection. Spider webs will stop bleeding (for small cuts). Common plantain soothes burns, scrapes, etc. Chew it up to make a salve. 

There are many different plant species, but you can say a lot about entire families, or at least about genera. A great resource for this information is Tom Elpel's Botany in a Day. Learn to recognize the most severe poisonous plans (here in WA state, USA, it's poison hemlock) and don't bother tasting them. It's probably a good idea to skip the whole carrot family. Learn to recognize a few good edibles. I like dandelion, miner's lettuce, chickweed, peppergrass, stinging nettle, and mustards.