Firstly, it's nothing to do with DNS or domain names - if you can't ping an IP then you're looking at a connectivity problem. The reason it won't resolve domain names is almost certainly because it can't speak to its DNS server. Can it ping another machine on the same subnet? How about one you know is plugged into the same switch? The fact that you can ping the default gateway says mis-configured network or Access Control List to me, though it's very hard to say. What's the exact result when you ping 8.8.8.8? Do your other servers definitely get a response to ping to the same IP's you're trying? It's possible that ICMP is blocked and that's a red herring. You could try manually browsing to a website using its IP (Ping one on your own machine to return an IP) to see what happens. 

What we want to achieve We now want to show (or notify - whatever) each java web application user within the java web application that an email which he/she wanted to send actually failed to sent. (Remember: The bounce email are currently sent back to support@example.com - not to the web application users email address - so these users have no clue their emails did not get send) The basic (and simple) idea we now have: Make exim write the of each failed message (which in the above case is 484648301.663.1401636847496.JavaMail.webapp@node1) into a local running PostgreSQL database as soon as possible we know the message delivery failed (or: as soon as possible the corresponding bounce message was generated and/or sent). If this is possible, we could easily read these "failing" s from the database within our java web application, and - voilà! - we can show users that their messages have been bounced. Simple idea, isn't it? Just for a better understanding: The mentioned (unique) s already get generated for each message within the java web application before the JavaMail API sends the message to exim - so we can be sure our java web application knows each for each message (and of course also knows which user sent out a specific message). Possible Solutions? I did some research on how this could be solved and this is with what I came up with by now (Please correct my if I am wrong - these are just my thoughts right now): Approach 1: Pipe the failed message and it's to a bash script. Such a bash script could then easily store the in the local PostgreSQL database. Is this possible and how could this be achieved? The problem I see is that as soon a message failed, no other exim router gets executed - which means I can not write a router which handles a failed message - the failed message would never reach the router. Or am I wrong? Approach 2: Another possibility I was thinking about is to not have a look at the original message which failed, but the newly generated bounce message. As far as I understand this newly bounce message is also going through all routers until one accepts it. So maybe we could write a router which checks if a message is a bounce message and then pipe it to the bash script? But how do I know that if a message is a bounce message? Does it have a special header or something else significant? (Remember: As we only use exim for outgoing emails we can be sure this would always be a bounce message "generated" by our java web application users). Approach 3: Similiar to approach 2, but instead of writing a router we could make use of the system filter, which looks after a bounce message and then executes a command / pipe... Approach 4: Would it be possible to configure or even to not be an email address but a pipe to shell script (which of course received the id and/or whole failed message)? Two more things: It seems exim can also talk directly to databases (I read this somewhere) - but I have no idea how I could make use of this for my described problem. Plus: However this is solved, I do not want to modify any configuration files which gets overriden when exim gets updated via (I do not want to re-configure exim after each update). You help is needed How would you solve this problem (saving the failed message s into the database)? Please correct me If I was wrong somewhere - I am not that deep into the exim configuration. Also, as you can see, the solutions I think about are more theoretical - it would be nice I someone could show me real world configurations and where to put this configs to make them work. Thank you very very much for any help! 

No, this is a deliberate licensing decision taken by Microsoft. If you want a domain, get Professional. Even if you found some kind of hack, it would be a breach of license. 

None of the above - you're confusing Lease Time with a DHCP client releasing the address. The client should always renew the IP address well before the lease is up, meaning that there are no problems so long as the client remains active. The only real problem with a short lease from an ISP is that you have no guarantee that you'll get the same IP back if your equipment goes down for a period of time. But this isn't a problem, because you shouldn't ever be relying on getting the same IP back as a DHCP client - regardless of lease time. 

Gmail from Google also have great integration with other POP3 servers, but also got many benefits like, addons for mozila or IE so it can work faster a great amount of space and also mobile version and others 

Is there any good solution to make Mozilla Firefox display well and work alright with SQL Reporting Serives web application, I am tired of bugs and stacks produced by IE and theri last versions. The most annoying thing is size of displayed report in Mozilla is very small and printing control is disabled, I know that is i connection with ActiveX controls that cames with reporting services but I still hoping that maybe I can set Mozilla to worrk fine. Maybe I also should ask this question on SO to try find a programmers side of story because all of report on my server is mine, So if some one has solution to make things right in code please let me know 

The easiest way would be to us an EICAR test file. Create a text file and add in the following code: 

Start again and RAID1 your 3TB disks. Performance will suffer in that you can't split between spindles, but you really do not want your VMDK's on non-RAID disks. If you do as you suggest, then your 2x 400GB disks will be fault tolerant, but the system that serves that data will not be. So you're not going to prevent any downtime - and as we all know, RAID isn't there as a substitute to backing up... 

I am trying to configure asterisk PBX behind my FreeBSD router. To allow other sip clients to call I need to forward ports to my local network asterisk machine. I did it for 5060 and 5061 ports using ipnat and configuring ipnat.rules 

How many current users can accept FreBSD, I am using it for about 30 current users, whit no any problems. Maybe pfSenes distro can offer You faster way to implement OpenVPN or PPTP VPN 

I apologize for reopening this and answering 3 years after. I have almost same issue on pf ver 2.3.2-RELEASE-p1 After hours of googling I fund this. $URL$ Sometime gateways do not want to response to ping. If your gateway working but dashboard still shows that is offline you can try to change advanced settings on gateway for Data Payload.(Define data payload to send on ICMP packets to gateway monitor IP.) 

You can't do this by using traditional Group Policies, but what you need to do is copy shortcuts (.lnk) to the appropriate directory. You could achieve this by using Group Policy Preferences, or a startup / logon script etc. If you're redirecting your start menu, then that's the location you need to copy your shortcuts into. If not, then by default the start menu locations on Server 2012 are: All Users (NB: The GPO you've configured works by disabling this location. However, I'm leaving it here for info) 

The Setup We are running exim version 4.72 on Debian Squeeze 6 (Squeeze) (LTS). Exim is used for outgoing emails only - it does not handle emails from other servers/domains - it only handles (outgoing) message from a local running java (web) application. For anonymization, lets assume the domain we use for our company email addresses, as well for the domain our java web application is running on, is called example.com. The Background We have a web application written in a java framework which allows it's users to send out emails. The address of these emails belongs to our domain: support@example.com. Technically these emails are created and get send from the java web application (we use the JavaMail API) locally to exim, which then eventually sends them out to their destination address. Incoming emails to our domain are handled by Google Apps/Gmail (We also set up SPF records, etc.) This setup is working fine without any problems so far. For completion, here is our (anonymised) : 

Once all of this is in place, you can really start to take it places with things like Quality-Of-Service, traffic monitoring and so on if you wish! The "LAN Games" request seems to be a relatively niche request, to me, and certainly not one I'd think about. They can still game normally through NAT by going out to the Internet and back - not ideal, but no different to each apartment having it's own connection which is the norm over here in the UK. On a case by case basis, though, you could add full inter-VLAN routing between apartments which want to share their network in that way. In fact, you COULD add full Inter-VLAN routing everywhere - that would fix your DHCP issues, allow QoS but is still a massive security issue in my opinion. Te one thing I've not covered here is your DHCP - presumably you have a single scope at the moment for all of your clients. If you put them onto separate networks then you'll need to manage a separate scope for each VLAN. That's really device and infrastructure dependant, so I'll leave this off for now. 

Is there any better solution than ping -t for monitor status of some VPN clients. I have set up FreeBSD router with fix public IP address for accepting incoming PPTP VPN connections. The callers are some simple routers with ADSL connections and dynamic IP address. When VPN caller get connection it got local IP adders which I can ping from my windows work station and also from FreeBSD router, IP addresses are always same for specif caller ID. Now I want to monitor what happening with callers, Are they connected, to get notification when some host is unreachable and to have log when they are connected and when they had gode, for how long they are connected and things like that. So i can debug my VPN callers and see why some one of callers losing they connections and for how long they are not attented to I can ping them. 

Okay, this is definitely in the quick and dirty school of IT Engineering but we've all done it and, actually, Excel is mega handy for this. I do agree with @Pauska that Powershell and CSV's are the way forwards, though. Anyway, the quickest and easiest way to do this (For a one off job, anyway) is to organise your excel sheet as follows: 

Folder Redirection in Group Policy is the answer to your prayers and is designed for exactly this - however, you should use full UNC paths (\\SERVER01\HomeFolders$) rather than mapped drivers. Here is the place to start reading: $URL$