The fact that there is adhamma doesn't mean that dhamma is bad, though, and it does mean you might want to carefully distinguish between dhamma and adhamma. For example, many people would consider the doctrines in the suttas to be "dhamma"; and it's expected that you need to be careful, for example from the Maha-parinibbana Sutta: 

Another important Buddhist view is that things are impermanent. Whatever they are, they come and go, they arise and cease, they change and change again. In that way, things tend to be past or future. 

I think this question might go unanswered so I'll give it a try. This answer isn't detailed, but it's how I might structure an answer. The structure is kind of historical. For more details you can google for words I quoted (for example sila). 

In other words, these are among The unanswered questions. I prefer this to assuming that every conceivable question has a good answer -- see also for example Simsapa Sutta (SN 56.31). 

There's a guided meditation on that subject here: Using Meditation to Deal with Pain, Illness & Death The author (Thanissaro Bikkhu) says that he used it to "help get me through the worst bouts of pain and disorientation" when he had malaria, suggests that it's useful to practice before it's "too late to get fully prepared", and recommends it for care-givers as well as for the patients who are in pain. It's "breath meditation" without 'so-called' Buddhist doctrine: apparently it's a speech he gave to people at an AIDS conference; so it could be useful also for people with non-Buddhist relatives or friends. It begins, 

Given this translation I don't understand why the 'further shore' are 'sense-objects' and why that further shore can only be reached by the arahats. The internal/external ayatanas are introduced e.g. in this Wikipedia article. 

Simplicity is considered virtuous. Spaciousness is the accompaniment of emptiness. But all are perceptive; objectively, neither spaciousness nor emptiness exists, because we are filled with space, or we are filled with something else. There is a dimensional zero as much as there is a dimensional one. But in the abstract sense, both are numbers, and therefore the same. Truly accomplishing yourself means that you understand that the perceptions are illusions; but the illusions are what we have to work with, and so are the only truth we have. Hope that makes sense. 

One of the teachings of my own tradition is the use of inner imagery after overcoming bias. Our inner accuracy improves once we learn to identify what is biased and what is not, and this could be called 'clairvoyance' by most, though this doesn't necessarily mean you are seeing what is there. It is also said that siddhi meditations develop human superpowers, as well. But in the case of siddhi, there is a lot of esoteric learning that has to happen first, some of which is lost to time. 

I never expected this kind of a question in here! :D But let's see if we can help out a bit. The peace you lack is because you can't accept that she disagrees. You are struggling to be right, and so is she. Perhaps some clarity would help: she's the only one who can clearly tell you her feelings on this, so she's the one you have to talk to in order to resolve this. The pain is because you are trying to have control over the situation (based on your explanation of things). And so I would recommend meditation on why you feel the need to control and dominate this decision. It's not hers; it's yours. You are the one who has to live with the consequences of making it in either case. Except that she believes it also impacts her (and she wouldn't oppose it if she thought it would turn out well). Consider her input, find out if she's willing to help you understand, and by all means listen! But if she isn't convincing to you, consider what it is that she's seeing, and try to come up with a way that it won't be an issue for her. Generally, there is no way to avoid conflict, but if you take it from a position of having her explain her reasons to you so that you can understand why she's so opposed to it, you may find a solution you're looking for and avoid further issue. 

The phrase you're asking about ("they think of the mind as a byproduct of the brain") seems to be an elaboration of the previous sentence ("The real issue is that mainstream science still does not acknowledge that there is a mental aspect to the universe"), and a bridge to the next sentence ("Any scientific research done based on that hypothesis will never lead to the understanding of the four noble truths"). I think the sentence wants to emphasise mental aspects (not physical aspects), as explained more-or-less explained in these comments (under a different answer): 

In Thundering Silence: Sutra on Knowing the Better Way to Catch a Snake by Thich Nhat Hanh, he writes, 

The Buddha's Teachings on Prosperity: At Home, At Work, In the World by Bhikkhu Basnagoda Rahula The author was born in Sri Lanka and lives in Texas. This book is written for laypeople. It's structured as several chapters. Each chapter a different topic (e.g. "choosing a marriage partner"). Within each chapter, the author selects relevant suttas (intended for laypeople), and paraphrases them to summarise the advice in them. In other words it's a summary of suttas intended for laypeople, organised by topic. It's helpful because many of the suttas in the whole Sutta Pitaka may be intended more for monks, so this book helps to answer laypeople's requests for "practical" advice ... about work and family etc. Here was an example of a summary of one chapter. 

What if you replied, something like, "I'm sorry you feel that way"? If so then your talk with your boss would be about the boss' feelings, instead of gossip about the client. Or ask, "Is he really so bad?" That would give the boss feedback that he is speaking negatively, and an opportunity to come up with a more balanced view. Or turn the conversation to the boss' opinion about the business relationship, rather than the boss' opinion about the person. If you know the client can you contradict the boss: "Oh I don't think he's so bad. He's always polite when I talk with him. He's a good customer. He pays his bills on time." or whatever? If I read through the right speech guidelines a lot of them are about being timely (not an issue in this case sine it's the boss that decided when to bring up the subject), gentle, and not malicious. 

So, your question is from outside the perspective of Buddhism, which I have to say is wonderful. From the Buddhist perspective, the word "truth" in English has multiple meanings which don't always strictly mean the objective truth of a situation without bias. For example, the Four Noble Truths are not true in the sense of "true/false" but rather in the sense of "true to the ideal"—in their case, true to the ideal of overcoming suffering. They are "truths" in that they are statements about that ideal as the Buddha taught, rather than being "false" and diverging from it. We should each measure the truth of these by experience, rather than by any absolute truth or falsehood. Trying to talk about them in this sense shows a degree of lacking knowledge, and it doesn't apply in that sense. So, no, it's not that these words are removed; it's that they don't apply in the way you want to apply them. They are faithful to the ideal teachings of the Buddha, and so cannot be claimed as false, even if they are found false by the measure of any particular person's experience. 

The ego has survival instincts hardwired into our bodies. These survival tendencies are what give rise to greed, ignorance and hatred. This is what creates suffering. To be conscious of this process is the aim of most Buddhist paths. This awareness itself is what gives rise to our capacity to choose something other than what our programming demands. Thus, "free will" as opposed to "will". Will implies that our choices are predetermined, which is true when the ego reigns. Free will is the entire point of our chasing enlightenment to begin with. This is why Buddhism exists, and why it's called "liberation" in English. 

I guess you're talking about jealousy or envy or something like that. There is another doctrine in Buddhism, i.e. the Brahma-viharas: 

Empathy (and cooperation) is a biological feature of social animals which (via evolution of the species) benefits the self (or benefits the species, or the world) by benefiting one's allies The Buddha is independent and requires no allies Therefore the Buddha need not experience empathy, nor practice it 

Is every Dhamma cause of suffering? No: as mentioned in this answer, nibanna is classified as a dhamma (and as anatta) but not a cause of suffering. The same source says, 

I am afraid everything is just an illusion, that there aren't others, just images and I'm alone. Also I think the fact that other "people" exist is axiomatic, a feature of Buddhist belief. Buddhism is meant to be a Middle Way between extremes. 

Some monks have, occasionally, protested against a government (for example, "this sermon was extremely critical of the Prime Minister"). The word "divisive" reminds me of rules against creating a "Schism in the Sangha" ... maybe the rule against "divisive" speech means, especially, speech which would divide the sangha (not the body politic). Even in the Vinaya there are rules for orderly ways to express disagreement or to assert your belief. I don't want to say that it's always correct (maybe it varies depending on the country etc.), but I also don't want to say that it's never correct! It might depend on your motive too. I have met one (lay) lady who told me that she joins the front row of street manifestations, because (she said) her being in the front row will decrease the likelihood of violent clashes between protesters and police. 

This feeling isn't unexpected. But to ask if it's expected... one of the meditative points is to overcome the need to have expectations. If we expect something to happen and it doesn't, then we're more or less causing suffering to ourselves; if we expect something to not happen and it happens, then we're causing the same kind of suffering: conflict and stress from that conflict which arises from dramatising the lack of control we have over the world. It's not unexpected for strange reactions to occur with any form of meditation. It could be that your focus has gone so deeply on one thing that you're no longer focusing on your "where" but instead are looking at your "what" and the interconnections between mind and heart. Re-check the discipline you're being taught, and manage the situation by reconfirming that you aren't making any obvious mistakes. But once you've done that, it's not necessarily a mistake; it's likely just a reaction from ahaṃkāra (ego). Over time and with practice, it should diminish. As to whether or not this is a mistake in practice, I think this classifies as "overthinking the situation". Accept that it happens, and it's a part of your experience. Eventually, you may even get into a state of non-locality, which would be excellent. While I wouldn't consider this non-locality, it certainly points to that as a possibility for future practice. But you can't make it happen; it just has to grow into that. My answer would then be: Let go of your worry. It isn't serving you well. 

A kōan is nothing more than a puzzle that seems self-contradictory or paradoxical, and yet contains a teaching of truth in it. Those who want a book about it are probably unqualified to create kōans to begin with. That being said, each sangha (whether online or not) can adopt kōans as they see fit, whether validated by a group of masters or not. Such validation serves only to give a thorough review of the proposed kōan, and doesn't pertain to whether or not it validly teaches, since the acceptable answers can vary greatly between students and even teachers. The abstract quality of a kōan to begin with makes it an uncertain thing at best, anyway. There is not any particular qualification, other than understanding what a kōan actually is, in its full and ineffable truth. Any book on the subject would necessarily have to ignore the ineffable (e.g., indefinable) part of that, and so would completely miss the point of the abstract. But if it was to teach you what you need to get to the level of abstract comprehension, that would suffice, and there are lots of those. 

In summary I think that Pascal is aware of the First Noble Truth but the rest of it is not especially Buddhist. The remedy which Pascal proposes (elsewhere in the book) is the Christian faith. 

I don't know whether this analogy works: living is like driving a car. It's supposed to be not too complicated. You have your steering wheel, your brake, your fuel, your indicators ... it's not trivial, it takes weeks to learn, but when it (the car) is working well and well-maintained, when the driving conditions aren't too extreme, most adults can learn to drive safely. Cars are complicated though and if they do go wrong then there's a lot to know. A mechanic needs to know about ignition timing, about computer diagnostic codes, parts catalogs and who knows what. Maybe lists, like the five indriya, can be viewed as part of the detailed body-of-knowledge that a specialist (e.g. a teacher) needs to diagnose and correct problems when things aren't working properly. Whereas your job as a driver (not a mechanic) is relatively simple: just operate the controls, stay out of trouble, don't hurt people. 

A Buddhist word for those rules is Dharma or Dhamma. The Buddha is praised for his Dhamma, i.e. the Buddha discovered and explained a useful set of "rules" which we use to understand the world. 

Lastly, there are many comments from monks (not, as far as I know, from the Buddha himself, but from monks) about some environment or other being pleasant: of enjoying the smell of a forest at night, and so on. 

There is an English-language translation of it here: $URL$ I don't know what current scholarship says. This paper from 1914 starts with,