i think this is a good project, but the suggestions so far do not scratch the surface, they are mostly only the typos, not the mathematical errors. I would suggest that the book is a little like the fabled works of Lefschetz, i.e. the results are insightful and almost all correct, even if some proofs are lacunary. Thus reading the book as is, may be more valuable than the reading the result of filling the holes in the arguments. Nonetheless, trying to fill those holes may be very useful to the student. Some arguments said to need elaboration or correction: poincare duality, kodaira vanishing, existence of rational curves on surfaces, Riemann singularities theorem, Clifford's theorem, Torelli's theorem..... Nonetheless, the proof of Riemann - Roch is very clear, and follows exactly the historical account of Riemann and Roch, i.e. assuming the existence of differential forms of types 1 and 2. Moreover the discussion of Jacobian varieties is extremely valuable and helpful even if a few details are missing. This is a very useful book overall, especially if combined with reading the book on curves by Arbarello, Cornalba, Griffiths and Harris. 

Geometry of Algebraic curves, by Arbarello, Cornalba, Griffiths, Harris, 2 volumes; Complex abelian varieties, by Lange and Birkenhake; M. Artin, Lectures on deformations of singularities. The basic idea common to all these suggestions is to use the foundational material from Hartshorne to investigate some more specialized topics, like curves, surfaces, abelian varieties, moduli spaces, singularities, or some more general techniques like intersection theory with applications to general Riemann Roch theorems, and vanishing theorems with applications to classification questions, plus arithmetic and analytic questions. edit: In answer to a request in a comment below, this is an attempt to give some guidance to reading ACGH, Geometry of Algebraic Curves. I apologize if this bumps it back to the top. A main theme in ACGH is to give, for a curve C, a model for the abel map C^d-->>W(d) in Pic^d(C), which is a resolution of singularities of the Brill Noether variety W(d), in terms of the natural “kernel resolution” of the locus of singular matrices in the space of all matrices of a given size. One is especially interested in the case d = g-1, where g = genus(C). I.e. in the space say of square nxn matrices, one has the discriminant locus D of singular ones, defined by the determinant. This locus is to be a local model for the theta divisor W(g-1) of the Jacobian of C = Pic^(g-1)(C). It has a natural resolution in the product space P^(n-1) x Mat(nxn), consisting of the set of those pairs R = {([v],M) where v is in the kernel of M}. The second projection map R-->D is to be a local model for the abel map C^(g-1)-->W(g-1) resolving the theta divisor. To set this up locally, choose a line bundle L0 in Pic^(g-1)(C), and a general divisor E of degree equal to h^0(L0), so that the map H^0(L0)-->H^0(L0(E)) is an isomorphism. Then H^1(L0(E)) = 0 and the map H^0(L0(E))-->H^0(L0(E)|E) in the exact sequence 0-->H^0(L0)-->H^0(L0(E))-->H^0(L0(E)|E)-->H^1(L0)-->0 is the zero map. For line bundles L near L0, we map L to an nxn matrix, with n = h^0(L(E)) = h^0(L0(E)), for the corresponding restriction map r(L): H^0(L(E))-->H^0(L(E)|E). This maps a neighborhood of L in Pic^(g-1)(C) to matrix space, sending L0 to the zero matrix, and sending a nbhd of L0 in W(g-1) to a nbhd of zero in the discriminant locus D. Via this map, the abel resolution C^(g-1)-->>W(g-1) is locally the pullback of the natural kernel resolution R-->>D of the discriminant, in particular the fibers of the abel map are the linear series |L|, i.e. the projectivized kernel P(H^0(L)) of the map r(L). To make all this work, one must study rank loci for matrices, as well as methods of representing the family of linear maps H^0(L(E))-->H^0(L(E)|E), for L in an open set of Pic^(g-1)(C). This takes a lot of heavy foundational machinery in acgh, chapters 2 and 4, constructing Poincare’ bundles and so on. But this is where they are going. See pp.83-4, 176-7. Chapter VI has some nice geometry, and chaps V, VII state nice results. 

It is worth noting that there is a lot of historical precedent for teaching it as a limit, which occurs already in Euclid. I.e. Euclid characterizes the tangent to a circle as the unique line such that between it and any other line through the same point, one can interpose a secant (Prop. 16, Book III). (Strictly, he says equivalently that one cannot interpose another line between the tangent and the circle itself, i.e. every other line through the point is a secant.) Thus the tangent is the limit of those secants. Thus I believe one can easily say that the limiting point of view is the original one of Euclid. From this point of view, the idea of limit is the one used so fruitfully by the Greeks, and the contribution of the mathematicians of later times is to make that notion more precise. On the other hand, if you want to avoid the conceptual difficulty students have with limits, you can follow Descartes instead, at least for derivatives of polynomials, and characterize the tangent line as the unique line such that subtracting its equation from the original function gives a polynomial with a double root at the given point. This leads to motivating the Zariski cotangent space, as M/M^2. Both points of view also have a nice dynamic interpretation as realizing the tangent as the unique line intersecting the curve doubly at the point, understood as the limit of the two secant intersections,and measured by the presence of a double root. But if you want a defense of limits, I suggest Euclid Prop. 16, Book III as ample precedent. If you want a defense of making students practice using the limit definition, I propose that as noted above, this is the only way to get them to appreciate the fundamental theorem of calculus. That theorem cannot be appreciated by memorizing rules for derivatives, One must understand the definition and apply it to an abstractly defined area function. I suggest that one reason many students do not understand why the fundamental theorem of calculus is true, is that (again as noted above) they have not grasped either what an abstractly defined function is, nor what a derivative truly means. So if you want them to understand the relation between the derivative and the integral, then I agree with others that they need to know what a function is and derivative is. The reasoning here is that once someone understands something, he can use it in more settings than could possibly be covered by any set of rules. Another practical benefit of testing the use of the h-->0 definition to obtain derivatives of simple functions, is that it forces practice in algebra, trig identities, and exponentials, skills which most of my students are almost completely lacking. However, I recommend you teach it any way that makes sense to you. after all you understand it, so whatever you say based on that understanding will be useful. Make up your mind what seems important to you, and go for it! 

When I was 27 I was a lugger in a meat market. I got my PhD at 35, and spent the next 33 years on the faculty at UGA. To be honest, getting a PhD was hard and not especially lucrative, and certainly not everyone in my graduate class has earned a living doing math at the college level. But I would not have wanted to do anything else. I have met many brilliant and generous people and been privileged to discuss math with them all these years. If you pursue your goal but don't find a suitable college teaching job, and you like discussing math with interested kids, I suggest looking at private high schools. Some of my most rewarding teaching occurred when I volunteered one year at a good local high school. 

I myself would place Kodaira's vanishing theorem high on such a list, at least to algebraic geometers. 

RRT There is a big difference in difficulty between the compact Riemann surface case and the projective curve case, for reasons already mentioned. Namely a projective curve comes equipped with a large supply of meromorphic functions, but the proof that they exist for a compact Riemann surface is a major step. I suggest you decide what your goal is. E.g., do you want to make clear why the theorem is true, without giving all steps of verification, or do you want to show how some of the trivial steps are derived easily using modern sheaf techniques, or perhaps give complete derivations of some significant parts of the statement? if you use sheaf theory, it is trivial to show that chi(D)-chi(O) = deg(D) for any divisor D, where chi is the holomorphic Euler characteristic: chi(D) = h^0(D)-h^1(D). To get full RRT from this one needs to compute chi(O) = 1-g, where g is the topological genus, and then to prove duality, that h^1(D) = h^0(K-D), where K is the canonical divisor. In 4 pages of the notes on my web page, I take an argument from Bill Fulton to do one of these for plane curves, namely that chi(O) = 1-g, with some hand waving over the computation of topological Euler characteristics by deformation. see pages 38-42: $URL$ If you just want to show why the result is true with some arguments omitted, I feel nothing beats Riemann’s own exposition. Riemann himself proved the theorem in clear natural stages: 1st the theorem in the special case of the canonical divisor, i.e. he proved that there are exactly g independent holomorphic differential forms on a compact Riemann surface of genus g. Then he proved that for each point p, there is one meromorphic differential with a double pole at p and zero residue, equivalently he proved the RRT for divisors of form D+2p, i.e. that h^0(D+2p) = g+1, so that in addition to the g holomorphic forms there is one with a double pole at p, (and necessarily zero residue). (Riemann also allows himself the simplification of assuming all points of the divisor considered are distinct.) Then, from the existence of these basic types of differentials, one deduces the converse of the residue theorem. Even if you barely read German, you can get the idea of what is most important just from deciphering the headings of the first two paragraphs in Riemann's treatment of the theorem in his great paper "On Abelian Integrals"; (since differentials the things you integrate, he speaks of their integrals): "Integrale erster Gattung" (integrals of first kind, i.e. of holomorphic differentials); "Integrale zweiter Gattung" (integrals of second kind, i.e. of differentials with double pole at one point).... With this information, one can deduce the RRT in two steps, as clearly explained in Griffiths and Harris’s book, (see in particular pages 233, 244-5). Namely for each effective divisor D, to compute the number of independent meromorphic functions with pole divisor dominated by D, is equivalent to computing the number of meromorphic differential forms that would occur as their differentials. The assumed facts give the number of meromorphic differentials with the right singularities, and then one has only to compute how many of those differentials are exact, which is a period computation. As in Riemann’s original paper they give this calculation in terms of the periods of integrals, and as in Roch’s follow-up these periods are computed in terms of residues using Green’s theorem. All this is done nicely in Griffiths Harris, where they depend on the Kodaira vanishing theorem for the requisite existence of differential forms of first and second kinds. (They also discuss this deep theorem earlier in their book.) The point is that the deduction of RRT from the known existence of the right number of differential forms of first and second kinds is very clear and elementary complex calculus. Hence it only remains to provide an elementary proof of these prerequisite facts about forms. Now if one restricts attention to plane curves, at least the holomorphic forms can be immediately written down in coordinates, as Riemann himself points out. He also says one can write them down in the meromorphic case as well, but does not do so. I believe this can indeed be done in an elementary way, as indicated in the book of Brieskorn and Knorrer, but I have not done it except in special cases. In fact one can finesse the existence of the forms of second kind by the trick of Brill and Noether; i.e. one can use duality to rely exclusively on the existence of holomorphic forms for the theorem. This argument is explained in the books of Arbarello, Cornalba, Grifiths and Harris (appendix A, chapter 1), and in the book on algebraic curves by Griffiths. I have also written out this argument in the notes for my course in pdf form, at the link below: $URL$ If you want a complete argument for compact Riemann surfaces, a nice treatment using sheaves is in the book Lectures on Riemann surfaces by Robert Gunning, including some nice Hilbert space arguments to deduce the finiteness of cohomology groups. I like the old book, but a more current version of his notes are posted on his web site at: $URL$ Finally David Mumford recommended reading the argument by George Kempf, in Crelle’s Journal, and reproduced in his book Algebraic Varieties, using sheaf theory heavily for the algebraic case. I found this rather terse, but aspire to understanding it. Here is a link to it: $URL$ Please forgive the somewhat rushed answer, I hope some of the references are useful.