If they have a 1099 they aren't the staffing companies employee, which raises the chance that they will be determined to be the employee of the company for which they are working. 

I would suggest arranging a meeting between everyone involved -- the CEO, the developer, the QA person and yourself -- with the goal of resolving the situation without anyone leaving. First off, this isn't a universal custom. Although there are legitmate concerns in some cases, I wouldn't want my internal auditor to be married to the accountant for instance, this particular case doesn't seem to raise a conflict of interest to me. Secondly, if this is an official policy, and you aren't firing them both, you need to be careful of descrimination lawsuits. Finally, I'm not sure it's a good idea to give the CEO an ultimatum in this meeting, but if the meeting doesn't come to a successful conclusion, I think you should let the couple know your plans -- whether that is to simply let the CEO do his own dirty work, or to quit if he fires one or both of them. Letting them know that someone at the company cares is perhaps the last thing you can do to for both them and the company. Whatever you do, and however it comes out, good luck. 

What you are suggesting is accepting the offer on the contingency that you do not get this other offer, but telling the company that you accept it without reservations. In plain speak, that means you're lying. So, no, not ethical. This differs significantly from the other question in that you are going into the situation hoping to leave within a week or so. If things pan out the way you hope, you might get paid for a week of onboarding and knowledge transfer, and then leave, with little to no benefit to the company. If you wish to be ethical, tell them that you accept their offer contingent upon not receiving this other offer. You can do this in a diplomatic manner, tell them you want to wait and evaluate the other offer. This risks their withdrawing their offer, and you almost certainly won't get paid by them in the meantime, but on the upside they may increase their offer. 

In the US a 1099 contractor can not be required to work on sight during a specified schedule under tight control of the employer. Once you do that, you are treating the contractor as an employee 

The way I see it, using your description of the scenario, one of two things could be happening here (assuming your management role is not self imposed and is a titled position within the company organization): 1) The team is yours, you manage the people who make up the team in an official capacity, and this new position is created to manage the function of the team, or "the team" as a whole and not the individuals within the team. In this case there is no demotion, there is simply a new position that is being filled. 2) The team was your team where you held an authority position but have been stripped of any authority and the team was handed over to another employee. This case is more like a demotion (if you held the leadership title in an official capacity*) but without being formally moved to a lower position. You would simply be losing responsibilities within your current position. 

Your claim that because there are a lot more scholarships and entry possibilities for women compared to men creates an imbalance where women are now more privileged than men to IT positions is a misunderstanding by you about the concept of diversity projects. If you think about it this way: The natural order exists where men are 5 times more likely to be hired over a woman with the same work experience, education, and skill level. This is an imbalance of 5:1 where the men benefit over the women from the start. To adjust for that, the industry then creates an incentive where women are now 3 times more likely to get hired over a man for that position. This puts women now at a 5:3 disadvantage. If you look at it as pure statistics, one could argue that women specifically are given more manufactured opportunities to enter this career path than men. This is, in fact, true. The point, however, is that these manufactured opportunities (ones created via incentives for the hiring company) still do not match the number of opportunities that exist for men in the industry. So because women in the industry start 5 steps behind the men, a lift 3 steps ahead can help, but they still did not give them enough of a boost to match the men. This explanation typically leads to the question: "How can we know when industries are equally available to all genders?" The answer is: When the demographics of the workplace more closely match the demographics of the population. If you think about it, if there is no gender disparity in how we teach and guide our children, and how we hire and work with our employees, then an imbalance in the number of men versus women that exist in an industry would be much more rare and typically based on very specific industry niches where gender is actually a driving factor or even requirement for the position. (like acting or modeling ) Basically, the issue here is that you are trying to find misandry which in and of itself points to the fact that as a whole, it is not really a thing in the same way misogyny is. This is not to say there are not individuals in the the world who may hold a more sexist view towards men and purposely do not hire men because of that, but that is a case of individual prejudice and less of a case of a systemic oppression of a group. Basically it is very hard to point to misandry as a struggle for men when men, as a whole, are very much the power players in the world economy. The areas we find where positions are more geared towards hiring women are that way because of misogyny and the definition of "women's work". Essentially, it's the doings of men. These are jobs like child caring and nursing that are typically considered "womens work" and where individual men may hard a more difficult time breaking in it, but this is only due to the presence of misogyny. If misogyny did not exist, jobs and careers as a whole would not be "gendered" and those men would experience less hurdles in those specific career paths, men would not be "pressured" to do things "like a man" or not do things that are not considered "manly". Men would be chastised for enjoying a ballet, or liking kittens, or crying because those are traditionally defined as 'feminine' things and 'feminine' is somehow less than or inferior. This is why the message of most feminists is that feminism is not about creating benefits for women to take advantage of. It is about destroying the female gender stereotypes that oppress women and constrict men. To suggest that a person (particularly a man) is being too feminine and that existing as a bad thing is literally saying that being a woman or woman-like is bad. How do you think that makes women as a whole feel? 

Your defense of the time it took you to complete the tasks implies some bit of uncertainty about whether your bosses threat was just or reasonable as opposed to legal. Legal will vary by jurisdiction, but it was unjust. Employees, whether full or part time, hourly or salary are paid for their effort, not their success. Suppliers, piece workers and some kinds of contractors are paid for success (if an employer pays by the bushel, then someone that doesn't hand one in doesn't get paid). Success is naturally a part of continued employment, but the past is the past. The employer agrees to pay for the employees time and effort, while the employee agrees to provide time and effort in exchange for pay. It is unjust to attempt to change the agreement after the employee has provided the time and effort. You could have been working elsewhere during that time. Your employer may be justified in terminating your employment, but not in refusing to pay you. 

The question I have seen is "may we contact this employer" (with or without mentioning the start date). I would say that is a fairly common question. I would also say that it is fairly common for the answer to be no for the current employer. Not always, but quite frequently. So, asking the question doesn't seem at all strange. What does seem strange is the flat refusal to hire someone if they said no. Normally the applicant is CONSIDERING leaving their current position, and there are any number of reasons why they wouldn't want the current employer to know about that until it becomes final. Ranging from potentially missing out on raises or promotions to flat out dismissal. All for a decision they haven't yet made. That's not a risk everyone is going to be prepared to take. 

Outline your changes clearly and concisely. Start the section by typing up the original paragraph that you intend to change and mark it as such. If the contract has item numbers, numbered lists, or headlined sections, make sure to reference those when reporting changes. Make sure your changes are visually recognizable from the original content. Make use of bold, italics, and strikethroughs when rewriting and editing an existing section and provide a key. This section could look something like this: 

From there make sure to include a place to sign and date the document and be certain to include the pages of the original document with your new document. Addressing the issue The final step is to address the actual issue of presenting this to them. My recommendation is that you simple have a casual meeting where you bring up the contract and tell them that you are excited to get started but had a couple do small changes. This can even more easily be done over email in one fell swoop. Simply inform the correct person that you have the contract and have signed it but have some changes that you need to be made in order to move forward. Handing them paperwork that is enforceable, clear, and professional will give them a very quick and easy path to completing the process, and that is what the majority of clients and employers want once they get to the stage where you are basically hired and this is an informality. Including your signature on your addendum (and not on the original contract) shows them that you are serious about your changes but also serious about signing the contract and doing business. From there they will be the only ones holding up the work. As a result you will look like you have it all together, are a professional, and value yourself and your work. ** As far as what the actual addendum should say in your case; I can't really guide you on. I would need to see the original contract and get a better feel for what position you have in the company. The content I had written above is simply sample content and not be taken as guidance for how you should alter the actual contract. 

I wouldn't bother asking for a best-and-final offer, I would imagine that your current companies offer will be their last, and if the smaller company responds that will be their last as well. I don't see either company treating it like a bidding war on ebay and going up by 50 cents an hour for each offer... As for your second question, I don't think it's common, but neither is it unknown. I don't see how accepting the contracting offer would burn any bridges, quite the opposite in fact. You should probably run it past your new employer, being clear that they will be your priority once you start working for them, and include an out in the contract with your old company so that you can cancel it at any time if it is causing problems with your new company. Get feed back from your manager at the new company before accepting the contracting offer from your old. 

Would you fail to list a full time employer that you worked for years on the basis that they went bankrupt and never made a profit while you were there? If you've been working on it full time, you've put a lot into it and have hopefully learned a lot. Not only is it experience, it is something that they can look at to see your work. Include it. 

So you are explaining that you would rather suffer in pain and depression and less income than see a psychiatrist and take medication to possibly alleviate the actual issues? I don't know your specific scenario here but anyone who is suffering from depression, stress, and insomnia (or any single one of those) and actively chooses to stop treatment and deny medication is going to down a dark path of their own doing. I understand that part of the struggle of depression is the fact that it makes you not want to seek help, but you are here and aware enough to know that where you are currently in your life is not healthy. The unfortunate part is that you seem to believe that time off from work will somehow cure these things. You have to understand that is just not possible. If time off from work were any kind of cure for depression or other psychological disorders the world would be a very different place. Finding the right medications is also a very long road to take, but at least you have the added benefit of actively seeking treatment under the care of a professional and not just shooting in the dark hoping doing nothing, rather than something, will help. In my opinion, you should only take time off to actively pursue treatment, not passively. If you find a doctor and create a care plan, you are much more likely to get a LOA than if you simply state that your mental health is failing but do not have any doctor to back it up and no actual reason as to why leaving work will benefit you. Companies only want to give a LOA if you provide some type of incentive to keep you on. If they don't feel like you will return as the productive employee that you are, why would they want to hold your position while you "seek health" knowing you aren't actually seeking treatment? 

This is probably a moot question, as you will almost certainly be asked during the interview when you could start. But if not then you should volunteer the information. Do NOT wait until the offer has been made. If they expect you to start immediately, they are not going to be happy to find out at the last minute that you are unavailable. If the start date is their number one priority, then they will immediately go on to their second choice regardless of when they find out that you can't start when needed. If it is not their number one priority then being surprised with your unavailability is going to be at least as big a mark against you as your unavailability - how can they trust you to meet your deadlines if their first experience is you failing to do so? As for how to convey this, just say that you can start work after X date. 

Tell the truth, use your actual title. The value and meanings of titles are company specific. Both potential employers and recruiters will know this, and it is their job to take it into account when looking to fill a position. If you feel concern about your ability to fulfill the requirements of a position that you are applying for, then that is a topic for conversation during the interview. If you are working with a recruiter and are afraid that he will be looking for the wrong jobs for you, then have a discussion with him about your concerns. It does him no good for you to either turn down interviews or even worse positions, because they are outside the scope of what you can/want to do. 

In my experience as an owner of a company that does the majority of our work as a contracted team, I can tell you that this is very common. They handed you a boilerplate agreement and chances are a good percentage of people just sign it and hand it back, which is a bonus for them. That said, they are absolutely aware that the passage exists and that some more studious candidates will see it and question it. So the question is (and correct me if i'm wrong), how do you address this problematic passage inside of a contract that you were ready to sign? What I have done in every similar situation is to simply rewrite the areas of the contract in a way that I am comfortable with. Typically contracts are sent to me in a PDF or Word doc format that allows me to actually edit the original document with edits and re-save it. If that is not possible because it is a hard copy or a locked document, then you should write up a contract addendum. What is a contract addendum? A contract addendum is simply a document that outlines the disputes you have with the contract as it currently stands and your desired outcome. The document itself could be signed as a contract addendum on top of the original contract or it could be used to rewrite the original contract. How to format a contract addendum When writing up your document try to match the style (margins, fonts, etc) of the original document. Title the document using the name of the original contract or a descriptor of the original document like this: 

There is no one true way or one true answer. It's a balancing act between what you feel conformtable with, what the client feels comfortable with, and building the trust necessary for a sucessful business relationship. However much you share can be too much or too little depending upon circumstances that you won't be aware of until it's too late. So, focus on what you do know - how you feel. And try to pay attention to the client, and see how they feel. The good news is that there's a vast middle ground of "it was good enough this time" and odds are, that is what you will land. 

I wouldn't say "No, never", but I wouldn't expect it to be done very frequently. If you tell someone that you have accepted another offer, but are still looking, you are going to look unreliable. Negotiating, looking, considering, no problem. Accepted??? Consider this scenario -- you are at a Friday afternoon interview, your phone rings just as someone pokes their head in the door and asks if your interviewer can come give some urgent assistance. The interviewer tells you to take the call, he'll be back in a minute. A minute later he walks back in through the door and over hears you say "I accept your offer. I will resign effective today, and start work Monday morning." Unless there is some special reason to want you, and nobody else, he's going to shake your hand, say congatulations and goodbye. Not continue the interview. A recruiter, internal or external, is basically going to take the same approach -- they don't want you to quit THEIR position, before you take it, it makes them look bad.