In walking meditation one tries to be mindful of the walking process, i.e. the movement of the feet (lifting, moving, placing, turning), the sensations of touch, wind and other elements. In walking meditation the main thing we want to develop is mindfulness of the different phenomena that arises. It's about keeping one's mindfulness throughout the meditation. This type of meditation is both slower and techniqally more simple than aikido, swimming or running thereby making it easier to keep one's mindfulness. When one gets really good at it one can turn anything into meditation, e.g. the activities you mention. Brushing teeth, eating, climbing, doing office work, talking, watching a movie can also be turned into meditation. It depends on the skill level of the meditator and the pace and complexity of the activity than one wants to turn into a meditation. The difference in walking meditation is the slower pace and less complexity in the technique thereby making this method more approachable when developing mindfulness while moving. It's more difficult to be mindful when moving around than when sitting still. Walking meditation would be easier to begin with than e.g. running meditation or swimming meditation. In here it would be more difficult since the technique is more complex and the pace is quicker. Lastly, here is an interesting article on walking meditation called "The Benefits of Walking Meditation" by Sayadaw U Silananda. 

The Five Daily Recollections can be found in the "Anguttara Nikaya - V.57 - Upajjhatthana Sutta: Subjects for Contemplation". They are in brief: 

These are all methods to overcome laziness and arouse energy, i.e. to balance the energy faculty so that one has the stamina to reach the goals that one sets forth. 

No, that is not possible. When reaching Nibbana one has destroyed all fetters. One has uprooted all defilements. There exists no longer Ignorance (Avijja) which binds beings to Samsara. One has freed oneself from the cycle of rebirth. 

When hindrances are present one cannot clearly see reality as it has been plastered over with many different colors of dye (example given by Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi). 

I was watching a video about the oral tradition in relation to how the suttas was first communicated and conveyed to monastics and lay people. I was wondering what techniques buddhist monastics and lay people used/are using to memorize suttas. I know of chanting as an effective method. Are there other methods used within Buddhism? Thank you for your time. 

By doing insight meditation one gets a point of reference to reality. When one has seen for oneself how reality functions then there is no need for academic discussion. Buddhism is not like philosophy where there are multiple opinions or views on a topic. We can go and test everything in insight meditation and thereby gain the right understanding of reality. It is not like other religions where there is only faith. In Buddhism faith is balanced and guided by wisdom so that it does not become blind faith. 

Ven. Pa-Auk Sayadaw teaches both Samatha and Vipassana meditation. First one develops Jhanas and then one can progress to Vipassana if wanted. Here is a description from the website of Pa-Auk Forest Monastery: 

To gain more knowledge about this i would recommend listening to this dhamma talk on the 5 aggregates by Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi. This talk gives a detailed explanation of all the aggregates. 

It depends on one's intention. If one's intention is to contribute to he upkeeping of tax avoiding companies so that they can earn more money then one should probably avoid buying at those companies since it will create unwholesome kamma for oneself. If one's intention simply is to buy a cop of coffee then no problem. One can also view it from the perspective of the company, i.e. from the perspective of the people who are doing the tax avoiding and thereby creating unwholesome kamma for themselves. One could minimize their ability to create unwholesome kamma for themselves by choosing to not buy from these companies. If more people choose not to support them it might end up in them choosing more carefully how they conduct their business. There are probably many more perspectives than i mention here. These are just the ones that were most important for me to mention. Again this is purely theory since we do not know the reason behind tax avoiding. It could simply be that they need the money to open up another office building so that more people will be able to get a job. 

I'm not sure how much value one should put into the phrase "confirming". That is because science is limited and that most of what we know is theories that change when new evidence is found. I have divided the answer into 2 parts. First part is about the "limitation-aspect" of modern science. The second part is about how science could confirm/back up some of the Dhamma. Here is a quote from the book "What Buddhists Believe" by Ven. K. Sri Dhammananda. The quote is from the chapter: "Limitations of Science", p. 363-364: 

This does not however answer what a wrathful Buddha is but if one follows the thought further one might suggest that the wrathful form of a Buddha might serve the same purpose as deities with wrathful appearances. Here is another very interesting quote on Wrathful Forms: 

Consistency and diligence are key factors in ones practice. Without them, progression cannot be gained. It is the continuity of practice that yields advancement. It's like rubbing to sticks together to make a fire. If one stops rubbing before the fire has started, then the fire will never start. Similarly, if one has long periods without practice of meditation, then the advancement will not arise or at least it will arise in lesser degree. Another thing that will derail ones practice, is wanting to get results or worrying about why one is not advancing on the path. These are hindrances, that slow one down. When doubt arises, i.e. when one is worrying about why one is not advancing, then that is the 5th hindrance arising. That is an oppertunity to gain insights. One should note the hindrance and work with it. One should not react to it or dwell in it, thereby fueling it and making it stronger. Observe it with mindfulness, in the present moment and gain insights about the 3 marks of existence. If you establish a regular practice, practice correctly and diligently, then you will advance. If you do not practice regularly, then advancement will not come or it will come slower and in lesser degree. Sounds like you need motivation. You could begin studying the Buddha's teachings yourself, go read the discourses from the Pali Canon and read up on the practice of meditation. Its also important to not push oneself to practice more than one is ready for. That will only result in one not wanting to practice at all. It sounds like a good idea to practice a small amount of time each day. You could try that for a week or two and then gradually increase your sitting time. Start small and then work your way up. Also try to incorporate your practice into daily life, outside of formal meditation. For example you can to try to be mindful, every time you brush your teeth, wash your hands or take a shower. Walking meditation is also a great way to gain continuity of practice. 

My answer is based on the last section of your question, i.e. the part about the 5th aggregate of consciousness. Consciousness exists a taker of objects. Without consciousness there would be no awareness of the object. You might have experienced this before, e.g. if you have been fully absorped in a good book or movie and someone calls your name and you dont hear it. That is not because the sound of the voice is not there, its just because consciousness was not at the ear-sensebase at that moment. There are 3 factors that must come together in order to talk about conscious experience. 

Thinking about past and future is actually done in the present moment, since past and future are concepts and do not really exist. There is only the present moment. The tradition I practice (Mahasi Sayadaw, The Burmese Method), has a technique of noting. There is already an answer in the thread which describes the noting. If one is thinking, then one makes a mental note saying "thinking, thinking" while sending the Mind out to the object. That means that full attention has to be placed on the object (in this case mental formations), while the mental note is being applied. When one has observed and noted the object a couple of times, one places attention on the feeling of the rising and falling of the abdomen. The abdomen functions as an anchor, so that the Mind will not get lost. One keeps attention on the abdomen until a new object arises, then one notes that object a couple of times and again returns attention to the rising and falling of the abdomen. The function of the noting is the remind oneself to stay in the present moment and to stay objective. This way the Mind cannot identify with the objects. Instead one is seeing their ultimate reality, i.e. the 3 marks of existence; Impermanence, Unsatisfactoriness and Uncontrollability of conditioned phenomena. In this tradition one tries to cultivate insight about the 3 marks of existence. They are gateways to Nibbana. 

As it has already been mentioned, then when dealing with this issue in ultimate reality, there exists no "Self, I or Me". In fact there exists no persons, animals, cars, planets or other conventional stuff. These are merely conventions that when searched for cannot be found. In order to truly understand this, one will have to do insight meditation. By practicing this type of meditation, one will gain experiental knowledge of reality and thereby realize that there is no person to begin with. When one first begins to see this, gradually ones problems begin to fade away. One realizes that all problems are caused by this non-existing "Self, I or Me", that is identifying with stuff and taking ownership of it. There is a huge difference in saying: "I am angry" and "Anger has arisen", or "I'm feeling guilty" and "Guilt has arisen". It is the second option one will come to realize by doing insight meditation. If you would like to read more about insight meditation, references can be found here. Ven. Yuttadhammo has also made a video series, called "Introduction to Meditation: How To Meditate" and a book called "How To Meditate: A Beginner's Guide to Peace".