How is soul-body hylomorphism different from property dualism? What are the different types of property dualism? 

Personally, I am an amateur student of philosophy myself (no formal training except for a couple of high-school classes). Coming into contact with analytic philosophy has definitely changed the way I look things, and more importantly the way I argue and negotiate with people, in both my personal and my professional life. 

(Parts of this answer are unsourced, but it is too long to fit as a comment) There are some assumptions you are making about evolution that you need to correct, and then you will understand how evolution can explain such behavior. 

Is someone who subscribes to these views considered an atheist or is there another name for this worldview? Have any prominent atheist philosophers had positive views on religion? What were their reasons? Have any atheist philosophers addressed the idea that religion, even if factually wrong, does serve a purpose and that any system (science or other) that eliminates religion needs to provide a workable substitute? 

The position is a form of anti-realism: Anti-realism states that there is no objective reality independent of our sense data (so a strong form of empiricism), the only thing we can know is our own observations. Anti-realism is a broad position which can be applied to science, math, metaphysics, etc..When applying it to science, it means that things such as waves, atoms and sub-atomic particles, genes, etc don't exist other than convenient ways to helps predict our sense data. To some extent, the logical positivists were anti-realists. It can also be seen as a form of pragmatism: we will never know the ultimate nature of reality and being, blah, blah, blah,...our theories are good as long as they are useful and have "cash-value". Pragmatism when applied to science became known as instrumentalism, and was championed by John Dewey. 

Quantum mechanics poses a challenge to epistemology in terms of what is measurable, what is observable, and realism in general. But does it pose a challenge to ontology as well? Ontology is the examination of the nature of things, presumably this supposes everything has a unique nature. Wave particle duality shows us that objects can have more than one nature. Is this a challenge to ontology? Does the law of excluded middle apply here or is ontology underpinned by a non classical logic (such as fuzzy logic or Von Neumann and Birkhoff's quantum logic)? 

As PeterJ points out in the comments, one additional position w/r to the mind-body problem is idealism or immaterialism, which means basically that everything is made up of minds and ideas (whose most famous proponent is Berkeley). In this worldview: the mind and consciousness are immaterial, but so is everything else, so pretty much all bets are off. Presumably in some versions of immaterialism, computers will have consciousness, since they like everything else, are made out of the same stuff as minds. Idealism/Immaterialism is not a popular position these days and philosophers who work on questions of A.I. almost never subscribe to this worldview, so the question of computer consciousness in an immaterialist universe hasn't been addressed. 

In his book "A Tear at the Edge of Creation", physicist Mario Gleiser argues that results from cosmology and particle physics make it unlikely that we will ever find an elegant unified theory of everything. He suggests that the current search for a Theory of Everything (TOE) and symmetry in the laws of physics by cosmologists, string theorists and other scientists is really just a hold over from monotheism. That even self identified atheist scientists, who are perfectly happy to abandon the notion of God, still cling to the notion of a single set of fundamental laws governing the universe due to the influence monotheism has had on western thought in general. I find the argument compelling, even if I don't agree with it (In fact his book has me doubting my own atheism and pondering deism). My questions are the following: 

Per Russell's "mysticism and logic", the difference between mysticism and logic (He uses the term logic as a tag for reason and the scientific method in general) is purely epistemic. They are two different epistemic methods, even if they both have the same objective of acquiring (metaphysical) knowledge about the world. So to answer your question: 

Is it fair to say that Gödel's result seriously challenges the logical positivist program? How did the logical positivists respond to Gödel's incompleteness theorem? 

A person doesn't move because they're in shackles. A person doesn't move because they've been injected with a drug that paralyzes them, but they are fully conscious and in control of their thoughts. A person doesn't move because they've been injected with a drug that has removed their desire to move. A person doesn't move because they have been hypnotized. A person doesn't move because at a young age they have been taught that moving in that particular time and place is evil and they will go to hell for doing so. A person doesn't move because someone has threatened to harm their loved ones if they move. 

Per Quine's results from "Two Dogmas of Empiricism", the Duhem-Quine thesis, and later results such as those of Kuhn and Feyerabend, all empirical observations are theory laden. Even widely accepted facts such as the Earth is round or the Earth revolves around the Sun are dependent on theories and presuppositions, and any theory can be supported by any set of facts provided additional auxiliary hypotheses are added to reconcile them with each other. But then if no clear cut epistemic method can differentiate between Einstein and Newton or Ptolemy and Copernicus, how can we ever be able decide competing debates about various social issues and science related social debates? If facts cannot clearly decide in favor of one theory over the other, then doesn't everyone become truly entitled to their opinion? Consider various contemporary debates such as climate change or the debate over the relationship between vaccines and autism and other diseases: There is broad scientific consensus that climate change is real and vaccines do not causes autism, and anybody who denies these facts is considered to be unscientific, ignorant and deserving of mockery and derision. But, if Duhem-Quine and theory ladeness of facts hold, then climate change deniers and anti-vaxxers are perfectly entitled to their opinion. As long as they come up with a suitable set of presuppositions, then no set of facts can ever prove them wrong, and accusing them of being irrational or illogical is disingenuous and unfair. The situation would be made even worse when trying to discuss facts about social sciences and policy. If facts cannot decide in favor of one theory or another, how are any discussion about ethics or the effects of policy on society ever possible? If a far right nationalist party wants to make some farfetched claim about how immigrants are destroying society and corrupting our pure innocent women, nobody can accuse them of being irrational or crazy, they can always base their worldview on a set of suitably chosen presuppositions. So my questions: 

I always assumed that reductionism was an inherently materialist/physicalist point of view: If one believed that everything can be reduced to the fundamental laws of physics, then by implication, they only believed in the existence of the physical. But I realize there might be flaws in this reasoning. Can one be a reductionist, in the sense of believing that everything can ultimately be explained by a basic set of fundamental laws, while also being a dualist or an idealist? Has anyone held this position? How would a set of fundamental mental laws or dual substance laws be any different from physical laws? If an idealist reductionism is as atomistic as a physicist one, then how is it any different? Would it have to include intention and teleology? Would a reductionist idealist claim that everything reduces to psychology? 

Is Quine really saying the same thing as Kant, except using the concept of language as oppose to that of mind dependent sense perception? If that is indeed the case, why is Kant considered and idealist while Quine is considered an empiricist? Why does Kant's epistemology require the analytic/synthetic distinction while Quine can do away with it? 

The traditional definition of knowledge is called justified true belief. A person P has knowledge of a fact 'A' if the following three conditions are satisfied: 

Several authors have mentioned that mythology play a central role in human societies, satisfying various social and psychological needs and giving meaning and a spiritual dimension to people's lives. (See for example Karen Armstrong, Joseph Campbell). But since the enlightenment, science and reason have slowly eroded at myth, to the point where they have almost eliminated it from modern societies, and yet science and reason haven't been able to replace it. Adorno and Horkheimer best describe this in their "Dialectic of Enlightenment": 

On one hand, Kuhn approach to the development of science is ahistorical in the sense that he doesn't believe in cumulative scientific progress or in their being any sort of scientific 'geist' that grows and realizes itself through the efforts of individual researchers. On the other hand, his classification of scientific discovery into normal science and revolutionary science seems oddly reminiscent of Marx's boom/bust business cycle and very historicist in nature. My questions: 

On the other hand the physicist Mario Gleiser offers an argument related to yours in his book "A Tear at the Edge of Creation" (I will need to find my copy and then I will provide a more complete reference). His argument is physics based, not logic based, and goes something like: 

The name for this position is radical skepticism: the idea that no knowledge will ever be certain. DesCartes tried to disprove it with his "I think therefore I am", Hume talks about it. It is one of the central problems of epistemology. 

Are the same operation from a classification point of view. However prioritization involves a notion of order, so that 

And yet at the time (Early 17th century Europe) there would have been few if any openly irreligious or atheist philosophers. The Church still dominated European intellectual life, and people like Galileo got prosecuted for less radical transgressions than being atheist or declaring that men didn't have souls. Moreover, literalist interpretations of one or the other monotheisms were so dominant and influential, that the idea that people had immaterial souls would have been so obvious as to be self-evident. The Enlightenment, with its questioning of existing dogmas, wouldn't start for a few more decades. So who was Descartes exactly trying to refute when he came up with his cogito? Were there any openly materialist/atheist philosophers in his day? 

What is it that I am missing here that makes Locke's realism and Kant's realism so different? Why did Kant see himself as having revolutionized epistemology, given Locke's results? My understanding was that Kant was mainly refuting Hume, why wasn't he concerned with Locke's results? 

More generally there are two interpretations of probability, Bayesian and frequentist. In the frequentist interpretation, probabilities are "real" in the sense that thy correspond to frequencies that the event they describe might or might not occur.