Solar telescopes typically have filters to reduce the amount of light reaching their detector. Depending on their purpose they may use, for example, neutral density filters to reduce the amount of light to a level where they can resolve details without blocking any of the visible spectrum, hydrogen alpha filters to observe the Sun at a wavelength of 656 nanometres for observing features in the Sun's atmosphere such as solar prominences and the chromosphere, or blocking the solar disc to observe the Sun's corona, flares and other ejecta. Hubble, on the other hand, is designed with a very different purpose in mind such as taking long-exposure images to obtain the deep- and ultra-deep field full spectrum images. It avoids the Sun as even a very short exposure to the Sun would damage its instruments. 

The practical length of the time exposure will depend on your equipment. Cameras used in astrophotography are generally able to be used with exposure times ranging from milliseconds to hours. As your question stands, cooling the chip will have no effect on the length of the exposure time. What it can affect is the amount of noise in the image. Cooling the sensor generally reduces the amount of noise. Cooling beyond -20°C may have limited value, particularly if you are not using research-grade instruments. While you may further reduce the noise, you may still be at the mercy of the quality of the optics, drive mechanisms, etc. and you may have less noise in the image but the limiting factor is not your image noise but the system limit for drift and distortion. Some professional instruments use liquid nitrogen cooling while others use thermoelectric cooling, depending on the manufacturer and the intended use. The instruments that use sub-zero cooling also usually have a high quality sensor with a pixel well depth that supports longer exposures, without bleeding effects from adjacent pixels. It all depends on the sensor, camera, and other parts of the system, so your mileage may vary. 

This relates to what I was saying about the universe was once the size of a grapefruit morphing into the observable universe was once the size of a grapefruit. Along with the universe is infinite. IMHO there is no evidence for the latter. To be pedantic, I guess the answer to your question is "the non-observable universe". That’s because the word universe is derived from “uni” as in unicycle and “verse” as in vice versa. It means turned into one. It means everything. Hence the word "multiverse" doesn't float my boat. 

It certainly makes sense to me! Edit 13/09/2017 : as Dave points out in the comments, there are other motions, including the motion of the solar system around the galaxy, which is circa 514,000 mph. (See the Wikipedia Galactic Year article). And the motion of galaxies isn't neat and tidy either. 

Like StephenG said, nobody knows for sure. But we do have confidence that the universe is expanding, and we also have confidence that the expansion is speeding up. So extrapolating from that, the future looks cold and lonely and bleak. A bit like life for the older generation! 

Galaxies are oriented in different directions, if we consider the orientation to be relative to their central axis of rotation. Then when we consider things like galaxies and their "direction" of spin, we tend to orient them so that "up" is the direction that, when we look at them from "above", they rotate in an anticlockwise direction - the same as observing Earth's rotation looking down from the North Pole. We tend to use a "right-hand rule" for this rotation, so that when the direction of rotation matches the curl of the fingers on the right hand, the thumb points in the "up" direction. What this means is that every galaxy rotates the same way. On the smaller scale what we see is that things in systems tend to rotate in the same direction - looking "down from above" on our Solar System we see that the planets all revolve in the same direction around the Sun (anticlockwise). The vast majority of smaller bodies also revolve in this same direction. The Sun rotates in this same direction. And the planets themselves tend to rotate in the same direction (exceptions being Venus and Uranus). This is understandable as the accretion disc would have been rotating during Solar System formation. So yes, for the most part at least, as far as we have been able to determine, everything spins the same way within its own environment. 

Because it would otherwise end up falling faster than the speed of light. Sounds strange I know, but take a look at the Shapiro delay: "the speed of a light wave depends on the strength of the gravitational potential along its path". Or see Professor Ned Wright's Deflection and Delay of Light: "in a very real sense, the delay experienced by light passing a massive object is responsible for the deflection of the light": 

I'd say the Big Crunch and the Big Bounce are out. The universe didn't contract when it was small and dense. Instead it expanded, and that expansion is increasing. So it looks like we're in for a Big Freeze. However I wouldn't rule out a Big Rip of sorts. Have a look at page 5 of this paper where Milgrom mentions the strength of space. Then think of the balloon analogy, but make it a bubble-gum balloon, in vacuum. 

This is not a coincidence at all, but a direct consequence of the way the solar system was formed. The generally accepted model is that solar systems (including our own) form out of a Protoplanetary disc. Gravitation causes mass to collapse around a protostar, which always has some angular momentum (as does everything). Wikipedia explains it better than I can: 

When it's cloudy at sea, the one measurement one still has is approximate sunrise or sunset, which can be used to determine longitude, but the uncertainty is very large, in particular at higher latitudes where sunrise and -set are slow. Having both (length of day) one can estimate latitude as well. Although one cannot determine those to the same precision and accuracy as in clear conditions, an experienced person should still be able to do a pretty good job. If they are 10 minutes off in their estimate, that translates to around 2.5° of longitude. And of course it means they can only make 2 measurements per 24 hours. Between those, they'd have to extrapolate. 

Yes, like pela said, before 1998 people thought the expanding universe was slowing down. There are other changes too. Some people used to say the universe was once the size of a grapefruit. Now since WMAP some people say the observable universe was once the size of a grapefruit, and the universe is infinite. For myself I cannot see how that fits with big bang cosmology, which I think is largely correct. 

If I was covered in lights, I would emit light in all directions, and you would see me because some of that light goes into your eye. The Andomeda galaxy is similar. 

The horizontals bend downwards, so the electron falls down. Could it be any simpler? Anyway, your TV camera falls down because the speed of light is reducing with altitude. We tend to call this the "coordinate" speed of light nowadays, even though Einstein just called it the speed of light. But regardless of what we call it, you don't have to be the Brain of Britain, or the Brain of France, to work out that half down, there's some kind of problem. At this point the camera will be falling as fast as the "coordinate" speed of light at that location. And it isn't going to slow down. Things always fall faster, not slower. But matter can't go faster than light, because of the wave nature of matter. When matter is made of waves, there is no way that matter can move faster than the speed of those waves. So what's going to happen? I can see no other option: that wave has to break. Again it sounds strange, but take a look at an old version of the firewall article on Wikipedia. Follow the reference 7 link to Friedwardt Winterberg's Gamma-Ray Bursters and Lorentzian Relativity: "If the balance of forces holding together elementary particles is destroyed near the event horizon, all matter would be converted into zero rest mass particles which could explain the large energy release of gamma ray bursters". I think this is what happens to your TV camera. Flash! It turns into a gamma-ray burst. It would be like an atom bomb, but a lot more efficient. So make sure you drop it from a safe distance. 

You are forgetting parallax. Something which is very distant and lies on the celestial equator will have a declination of 0°, but if it is nearby then its declination will only be 0° to an observer located along Earth's equator. From your location in Zagreb, something like the ISS, even if it is crossing Earth's equator at a longitude of ~16° will appear to be in the southern sky, and your declination coordinate will likely be south of 0°. 

Use SHA, solarHourAngle or some variant thereof, as James K said, if your programming language allows it. Longer variable names can be more cumbersome to type and have more possibility of mis-typing the name, but can save a lot of time by providing clarity of purpose when reviewing code at a later date. 

No, stars that are seen through the asteroid belt are not any more variable than stars in any other part of the sky. All stars vary in brightness on measurable timescales, although some have been measured to have such small variations that they are recorded as "standard" stars and for most purposes can be considered to have a constant brightness and thus be used as reference for other brightness measurements. What you are referring to, as noted, are occultations. There are many hundreds of thousands of known asteroids in our Solar System, and billions of stars in our galaxy, and so there could be hundreds of predicted occultation events every day, and there are many people interested in occultation events. For one thing, we can calculate the distance and speed of an asteroid quite accurately but we can't directly photograph it to determine its size. But when an asteroid passes in front of a star, we can measure the duration of the occultation and set precise limits on its size. But for all the asteroids in the Main Belt, the space between them is huge and for any one star the chances of an occultation are quite (vanishingly) small, so the stars seen through the asteroid belt are not any more variable than anywhere else in the sky. 

As to why this isn't common knowledge, I don't know. There's this myth that Einstein gave up on a varying speed of light in 1911, but he didn't, see this Wikipedia article and this example from 1914. I don't know why the reason matter falls down isn't common knowledge either. You know about pair production and electron diffraction and the wave nature of matter, just think of an electron as a wave going round a closed path, then simplify it to a square path, like this: 

I read the report and thought it was reasonable, and in line with Rob's answer. But note that there's no certainty that this is what actually happened. They saw a very bright "optical transient" event, circa ten times brighter than a normal supernova. See the paper on the arXiv: A Luminous, Fast Rising UV-Transient Discovered by ROTSE: a Tidal Disruption Event? There's a question mark on the end of the title, they don't know for sure. And see this from the news article: "To narrow it down from four possibilities, they studied Dougie with the orbiting Swift telescope and the giant Hobby-Eberly Telescope at McDonald, and they made computer models. These models showed how Dougie's light would behave if created by different physical processes. The astronomers then compared the different theoretical Dougies to their telescope observations of the real thing." They came up with what they thought was the best fit. But we don't know for sure that this was actually a black hole "choking" on a star. 

You can upload your FITS files to astrometry.net (or use an API) and get the coordinates. You can optionally get new FITS files back with the coordinates included in the metadata. From there you will be able to proceed with your processing. And, instead of uploading everything, you can also install a copy of the astrometry.net package locally if you're running Linux. 

They do use two or more detectors to triangulate the origin of a source. Most recently the Advanced Virgo detector in Italy was used in conjunction with the two LIGO detectors in the USA. This has been published in Physical Review Letters (Phys. Rev. Lett. 119, 141101 – Published 6 October 2017). With two detectors the sky area for "pinpointing" the source is quite a large area, but with three detectors the area is reduced by a factor of about 20. 

The Sun will be at your zenith a few days after 21st March, after it crosses the equator heading northwards* going towards summer, and a few days before 21st September, before it crosses the equator heading southwards* after summer has ended. * from an Earth-centric viewpoint. We know, of course, that the Earth is rotating about its axis and revolving about the Sun, and that Earth's axial tilt is what causes the seasons and the apparent motion of the Sun across the sky both through the day and through the seasons. 

Indeed, the only force massive enough to alter the orbit of a planet would be another planet, either hitting it full force, or passing closely thus altering its angular momentum. You'd need an awful lot of this to cause a planet to reach a solar system escape trajectory, however! And it has nothing to do with colour or photon interaction. It's all about mass. 

A dark object very much interacts with light: it absorbs light. An object that does not interact with light would be transparent, not dark. 

One may define three forms of twilight on Earth. Although the actual amount of light depends on weather, topography, and land cover, they are defined as: 

And then, from this protoplanetary disk, planets form. Consequently, they're all in the same plane. As such, the inclinations of each planet's orbit are pretty close to that of Earth's: 

Human eyes see logarithmically so % of sunlight left is not a very useful measure, unless you are interested in incoming shortwave radiation for solar panel or other energy calculations. To answer your question, you need to calculate at what time the Sun will be at those elevations below the horizon; this is calculated in a similar fashion to sunrise and sunset times. However, on top of that you also need to consider atmospheric refraction. See position of the Sun and sunrise equation. The formulae are quite complicated, but you may be able to simplify them if you're only interested in the duration, not the absolute times. The time after sunset at which those occur are a function of latitude and time of year. On this carpet plot from Wikipedia you can read the length of different forms of twilight at 70°N (north of the Arctic circle):