A deontological (duty-oriented) approach would say "using drugs and alcohol is bad for you, and so giving money to poor people for them to use drugs and alcohol makes you an enabler." One reasoning is: well, we have homeless shelters, and giving the homeless money allows them to continue living on the streets instead of the shelters where they are better off (and where meals can be provided more cheaply). I've heard this both from a utilitarian point of view (it's better for everyone if they just go to the homeless shelter), but also from some who look it as a "tough-love" sort of approach (as if not giving to someone is doing that person a favor). 

Hard Determinists believe you don't ignore criminal acts at least because the person can be changed in the future To say that someone had no ultimate choice in the matter does not mean that the thing that was done was morally ok. It is ok to even go so far as make judgements about whether an individual is capable of moral reasoning. 

Things we detect directly with our senses Things we can detect by having our senses enhanced (e.g., via telescope, magnifying glass) Models that can be created as a result from data collected in 1 or 2. 

Wikipedia has an article with a list of philosophy journals. While I'm sure many journals include articles about Kant, there is a journal dedicated to talking about Kant. These obviously can be very expensive, so if you have access to a college library, it is probably better to go through that then buying yourself. Another approach is instead of trying to follow all of academic development in philosophy (or even within a specific topic), you can do the opposite: find a few people who write about topics you are interested in, and read their books, see if they have videos on YouTube, subscribe to their blog, etc. 

Something cannot come from nothing. The cause of an idea must have at least as much formal reality as the idea has objective reality. 3.I have in me an idea of God. This idea has infinite objective reality. I cannot be the cause of this idea, since I am not an infinite and perfect being. I don't have enough formal reality. Only an infinite and perfect being could cause such an idea. So God — a being with infinite formal reality — must exist (and be the source of my idea of God). An absolutely perfect being is a good, benevolent being. So God is benevolent... So God would not deceive me, and would not permit me to err without giving me a way to correct my errors. 

I cannot speak for every system of belief in God, but here is one way I've been taught to resolve the problem you observe. God being perfect cannot experience change, and so cannot experience a change in his will that would have created the universe "at an impulse." It is better instead, to say, while God is eternal, he is also a single Devine Act (identical to the act of being from Aquinas). He is, as many have drawn the analogy, the Author of a great work, who is not absent from the story nor bound by the same passage of time as the book. As an example, one of the main creeds of Christianity discusses the precise idea of "verbs happening" before creation began. The Nicene Creed mentions that the Second Person of the Trinity "was born of the Father before all ages... was begotten not made," and that the Holy Spirit proceeded either from the Father or the Father and Son (depending on which branch). Since these things happened before "all ages," they proceeded time, and so it's not accurate (in this point of view) to think of them simply having happened in some time before Creation. It is also a common refrain among Christian philosophers that God had no need of creation, so again, it is inaccurate to speak of an "impulse" causing God to create the universe. 

In antiquity, there was already a tradition similar to the "nobody stands above the law, least of all those who make it" approach. It was however more of an approach of giving leaders a very short leash and calling them to account. In Greece, there was a tradition of euthyna. Generals (strategoi) were given latitude in how affairs were conducted, but at the end of the term were called to account for what they did and potentially penalized. A similar practice happened with Roman consuls. 

A common theistic-objective response to this (CS Lewis is the first to come to mind) goes something like: someone created the rules of chess, so who created these rules of morality? Either there are no rules, or you are saying that we as a society made the rules, in which case what you've proposed is not an objective morality but a subjective morality. It is subjective because different cultures have different norms for how to behave/achieve the greatest good/avoid causing embarrassment/etc. Hayek wrote about something similar to what you mention (he referred to these organically defined rules as laws, and the rules created by design by the government he called legislation). But he was also very explicit that these rules could (indeed, should!) change over time, and thus are subjective. There's the example from Herodotus about the one culture whose "current rules" got them "closer to [their] objective" by burning their dead, the other culture who did likewise by eating their dead, and who found each other's ideas of morality regarding treatment of the dead abhorrent. Quite clearly, this could not be an objective morality. 

Of course, it will depend on who you ask. Most religious people would not agree with that statement. There is, the little matter that "religion explains things that cannot be explained" is an oxymoron (if they can't be explained, then nothing can explain them). Let's leave that aside. If you look at, for example, Thomas Aquinas, the Summa Theologica has a lot of explaining that takes place in it. He explains things in pain-staking detail. The same goes for much of Augustine's work (see, City of God, On the Trinity as two examples that are more like this). There is also a great tradition among Jewish philosophers (Moses Maimonides, Philo) and Muslim philosophers (ibn Sinna, Averroes as just two examples) of explaining rationally different aspects of God. So, based on that, it doesn't seem quite right to say that religion is only about the unexplainable (or, as is sometimes stated, the "irrational"). To take this a bit further, if you look at anyone of Augustine (Confessions), CS Lewis (Surprised by Joy), or Thomas Merton (Seven Story Mountain) as examples, there are many people who felt logically the need for God's existence before believing in any particular religious tradition. If you believe what they have to say, that points that to some degree God is knowable just based on natural law before knowing anything about, or believing in, revelation. They would disagree with the idea that religion/theology is just some separate (and therefore unnecessary!) sphere. 

It obviously is going to depend on who you ask. For an empiricist, the answer to this can only depend on something we've detected with our senses. So, to confirm that there is such a sense, one of the other five senses would need to confirm it somehow. Many, however, have argued that there is such a feeling, not so much by providing a philosophical argument but rather by their personal experience. For some-still-pretty-philosophical examples, see Thomas Merton, Holly Ordway, or CS Lewis. In any case, Peter Kreeft has an counter-argument to the common "psychology of religion" argument: in general, one can only ask for psychological reasons for anything once one concludes that psychological reasons are appropriate. In the context of belief in God (or a feeling of God's presence, or whatever other similar aspect), that means that a blanket psychological answers beg the question - they assume the answer is that "God doesn't exist, it's all in one's head" and then look to explain why it is made up. (There are obviously examples of individuals that hear voices where psychosis is the reason.) 

In a sense, I can see how the argument would go that utilitarian ethics based on the second kind is circular: since the amount-well-off is based on trade-offs, if someone already says how trade-offs are made in order to make utility functions, then the utility functions are not useful for discovering how trade-offs are made. In the first case though, one just assumes that the curves are somehow discoverable (via data, polling, or by creating incentive structures that reveal them), so in such a case it is pretty clearly not circular. 

Before Christianity existed, philosophers wrote about the first four virtues (the Cardinal Virtues) extensively, and how they were required for a happy life. Experience also shows that a person can be made happier by following these. As an example, we all seem to know someone whose intemperance, manifested as substance abuse, has been made unhappy. Faith is less obvious, in part because it is colloquially used to mean something different than what it means in a philosophical/theological setting. CS Lewis used the following analogy: when a surgeon tells you that you need surgery, it is easy to intellectually understand that. Faith comes in as the anesthesiologist puts on the mask to put you under. As I summarized above, Faith is persisting in knowledge of something despite doubts and seeming contradictions. Without this persistence, progress is obviously impossible: if one keeps changing one's mind, nothing ever gets accomplished. Hope also means something different in a technical sense than is often used colloquially. Many of the great moral advances fall under the category of hope, that is, they were things that were desired, possible, yet uncertain. Just a few examples: the Civil Rights movement, the over-throwing of Apartheid, the defeat of the Nazis. Through this lens, it is clear that hope is a great motivator for good and creates happiness. Love is a bit more obvious. The Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma demonstrates intellectually that acting selfishly can make everyone worse off in the long run, but more personally many of us have experienced how our loving others makes us happy. 

As the above examples show, models explain some aspect of reality within some error bounds. In practice then, one does not often speak of a model being "correct," but rather a model is able to make good predictions or not within some specific set of cases. 

Of course, all of the above is just common sense on how to have a productive philosophical debate about anything. 

The point is that you shouldn't complain. If you there's something you don't like, don't complain about it, change it (or at least try to). If you can't change it (which, I read as: "If you've tried to change it an discover that you cannot..."), adjust your attitude. This quote follows in the stoic tradition. See, for example, Marcus Aurelius: 

One current philosopher and theologian, Robert Barron, would dispute this claim by looking at what is meant by the word "freedom." Freedom, in Kaczynski eyes is the ability to do whatever one pleases. However, another dictionary definition for the word "freedom" is "familiarity or openness in speech or behavior." As Barron often points out, familiarity or fluidity in speech or behavior actually requires constraints: eg one becomes good at piano not by mashing on keys but by learning scales. Obviously, some societal constraints (eg: unjust laws) go against freedom, but at least in one tradition constraints are needed for freedom (eg family relationships, friendships, contracts). Seen in this light, increasing technology is morally ambiguous - it comes both with challenges and opportunities. 

It seems to fit with the ideas of stoicism, being detached from pain. As the OP alludes to, there are other philosophic traditions that have a different approach. As just one example, certain branches of Christianity understand sin as not just a story we tell ourselves but rather as something that has real temporal effects that must be addressed (i.e., through confession and performance of penance), and simply telling oneself a different story does not change one's actual state. 

A consciousness without passions or emotions would be a consciousness without perceptions of anything - it's hard to imagine how that would work. For a final example, the view of the Stoics (a word which popularly has come to mean "unemotional") included rational emotions, in opposition from passions, which they saw as irrational. Since the mind is rational, to be without any kind of desire again doesn't make sense - the mind must include rational responses even to what Stoics considered indifferent things. Two common themes through all three of these cases: