I've been reading some recent books that refer to money as the "value form" in Marx. In English translation, Marx does use the term "value form" and also refers to commodities as "values," in the plural. (I had always thought this might be better translated as "goods" in English.) But I can't seem to find anything on how Marx might be using the term "form" or how this is best translated. I can't even find which German word is being translated in Marx as "form." Any ideas as to interpreting "value form"? Especially, "form" in his post-Hegelian context. As an aside, since "values" might also be "goods," I was also wondering if there is anything here related to the Platonic "form of the good," though I suppose that is a stretch. 

Definitely! There is a genre of works primarily in etymology, textual analysis, and media studies known as "primary orality." Among the great scholars in this field are Walter Ong and Eric Havelock, both contemporaries of and collaborators with Marshall McLuhan.The best starting text is "The Muse Learns to Write" by Havelock, brief and fascinating. These works present what might be called a hermeneutics of punctuated equilibria.The shift to writing is the crisis giving rise to the Platonic tradition. The well-known aversion to representational media in Plato or "logocentrism" as described by Derrida are analyzed through the actual recorded shift from voice to text.These scholars are aware of Derrida, but somewhat antithetical to his thesis, without really engaging at the same level. Interestingly, all of these thinkers, according to Havelock, were led into their studies by the shockingly powerful effects of radio in WWII, as utilized by Hitler, Churchill, FDR, and others of that period. Even if you want something more "cognitive-science" based, I believe these are essential works and an excellent platform for wherever this interest takes you. I would also note, as an aside, that "voice" is a priori rationality, in that it is the basis of "ratios" in utero prior to birth. Personally, only an opinion, I find this an intriguing link to Pythagorean (octaval) and then Platonic (formal) concepts of anamnesis. Postscript. I would add one more point on this intriguing subject. As is well known, Socrates, like Jesus and Buddha, did not write. His "wisdom tradition" traces its ancestry back to the intoxicated "voices" of the Delphic oracle and his daemonic "inner voice." Why? There is another reason, aside from devaluation of "representation," to discount the "written" voice. It is impossible for linguists and archeologists to translate ancient "writing" as pure visual symbols. There is no purely ideographic writing. The text must somehow be linked to a language that is linked to a "spoken" language for the "meanings" to be translated. If there is no link to voice, breath, or Pneuma, as with Linear A, then the language becomes truly "dead" and its meanings cannot be revived. The transmission of "ratios" and "rationality," especially in the Pythagorean traditions, is deeply based in "resonating" with "others." 

To offer a footnote to these excellent answers, the paradox can also be seen to arise from what Bergson calls "spatializing" time. By treating the "self" as if it were an "object" in time we can only observe a "past self" from the position of a "new self" that now contains the past self, and so the two "selves" cannot be identical. Even the computer or video camera cannot go "fast enough" to both be "itself" in the present and to re-present "itself" at the same time. Hence, as Jo Wehler points out, the peculiar linguistic hybrids like "it-self" and "my-self." The noun twists around, attempting to become its own preposition. Thus spatialized or reified in time the "self" observing "itself" enters an infinite regress of mirror images. This recursion is known in art as the "Droste Effect." Not unlike fractal recursion and Zeno's paradoxes. Though the paradox is real, meaningful, and fascinating, the answers above have indicated how we overcome it in practice. The being of a "self" is not an object "in time" but, as Heidegger would say, being as "time itself." 

Yes and no. Creationism per se cannot be construed as a science, normal or otherwise. The causal entity defined as an "intelligence" exceeding "human intelligence" simply cannot be falsified, experimentally demonstrated, or even adequately defined by its subsidiary "human intelligence" or the necessary self-limitations of science. The ID hypothesis can be endlessly pursued as "puzzle-solving," of course, as in Thomism. It may even be true. But I do not see that it can ever conform to what is meant by a "scientific" paradigm, even in the most relativistic interpretation of Kuhn. In this, I appear to disagree with both Cort Ammon and Rex Kerr, who are venturing, I believe, far outside the Kuhnian framework. Lysenkoism, on the other hand, could easily be "normal science." Even political intrusion and falsified evidence might have been overcome by some continual, Quinean revision of the subsidiary hypotheses. Presumably, it would have encountered a Kuhnian crisis sufficient to dismantle its ideological embankments. But in fact it never did become a "normal science" because an alternate, crisis-inducing paradigm appeared not in its "normal" development, but as a superior, contemporary crisis and challenge. But as ideologically driven science, corrupted science, politicized science, or "bad" science, Lysenkoism is not so different from many short-lived episodes in the history of science generally, some of them perhaps widely accepted today. One can only... wait and see. Indeed, it would not be terribly surprising to see some of today's Lemarckian or teleological heresies return to favor in the near future. Teleology of a sort is not necessarily ruled out by scientific paradigms, but a "superior intelligence" as causal entity is, whether God or Stalin. 

While I will go ahead and post this, I see there is a near duplicate. I know that bits and pieces of Leibniz, such as relativized space, are picked up by today's philosophers, but I am especially interested in the monadology. It is certainly, at least to me, a complex and peculiar theory, yet intriguing. I cannot say I grasp it. It is sometimes likened to Indra's Net. Apart from this image, are there comparable or similar theories proposed by other, subsequent philosophers? Is there something comparable in Whitehead, say, or other systems philosophers? The purpose of my question is actually to get a clearer interpretation of Leibniz by shedding some of the remote, 17th-century rationalism. Is Deleuze helpful in this regard or too idiosyncratic? 

This relates to a previous question as to whether or not we are "born with" Kantian categories. I had objected that this would imply that the categories in some manner depend upon or inhere in a physical process, while they are logically prior to any such physical process. I am not sure I'm correct about this or what sorts of interpretations Kant's categories might allow. First, are there problems in thinking of the categories as "innate abilities" in the manner of instincts, neural constructs, language, or Chomskey's deep grammar? Do such interpretations contradict Kant's meaning and essential elements of his theory? Second, how is the whole process of physical gestation and birth to be understood in terms of Kantian idealism? Does Kant anywhere discuss this? Do idealists generally discuss this developmental aspect of mind-body problems? 

Ontology concerns the nature of being itself. What is, what exists, or perhaps what really exists. This is not the concern of modern science, which is a particular method of epistemology. The classic division came with Newton's statement regarding gravity that he "feigns no hypothesis" as what it really is, a question that bothered the Cartesians. This was a decisive turn from the ontological concerns of metaphysics or "first philosophy." I believe most scientists tend to be Kantians or pragmatists in this sense, at least officially. Gravity is a set of concepts, a mathematical model that works. We cannot pull off the phenomenological drapery and look behind the concept to see what is really there. Something, we assume. Kant's "noumena" or Locke's "something I know not what." But we can only improve the precision of the models. Similarly, wave-particle duality are not phenomena that confront us in daily life. They are conceptual products of science, mathematical models. In this case especially, it seems quite obvious to all concerned that "wave" and "particle" are simply convenient nametags applied to "we know not what." Thus, as scientific models, which is what they are, they do not present ontological issues. However, this is admittedly a somewhat superficial answer. The seemingly endless regress of subatomic physics does have ontological implications, that in my own view tend to support some sort of Kantian or pragmatic compromise, casting doubt on "substance" ontology. And philosophers, unconstrained by scientific prudence, do continue to discuss "ontologies" in relation to scientific concepts, but I'm not familiar with the latest in such matters. You may want to look at "The Wave Function: Essays on the Metaphysics of Quantum Mechanics" (editors, A. Ney and D.Z. Albert), which does deal with ontology and quantum phenomena. Haven't read it yet, so can't summarize. 

In general, the "histories" or "anthologies" present exemplary works by notable philosophers, who are usually innovators in the field. It is like reading Einstein's own popular writings as opposed to synoptic works about Einstein's theories. A preface may provide enough to set the works in context and relate them. The "introductory textbooks" are usually written by academics who overview the notable philosophers in a transitional and presumably "objective" way. Typically, they may be commissioned by publishing companies to fit course requirements and attempt an "even-handed" approach to philosophers who may have differed passionately. Strangely, one often finds that in science and philosophy, works on theory by the ones who originated those theories are actually clearer than the secondary "clarifications." But not always. Primary texts, even excerpted in anthologies, should never be avoided and are usually enlightening, but also have a snobbish appeal. As someone who has only read philosophy on my own, I am a defender of synopses, introductions, and secondary literature. Quality varies. But they are good ways to enter into the complex thinking of the past or present. And some are gems of reduction and insight. 

Your example is incorrect. If you "lack knowledge of epistemology" you could hardly desire to learn it. You wouldn't know of its existence. Your desire to "learn epistemology" is caused by your "knowledge of epistemology" and and its apparently incomplete state. The negative statement of a prior cause is always possible. We may say an infant is "caused" to cry by "lack" of food, or we may say the "cause" is the "presence" of certain neural discharges. It becomes a matter of what one accepts as the a priori cause. If you add up -1 + 1 + -1 + 1.... it depends entirely on how you bracket this "causal" series and which one you take as the beginning whether you get 1 or 0 as the "sum." Having said this, I agree that the introduction of "nothing" into modern philosophy was a very important development, akin to the admission of zero into mathematics, and implies a certain potency, perhaps among the Aristotelean "final" causes. The beginning of Hegel's Logic develops all "becoming" out of the oscillation of "being" and "nothing," so that a relative "nothing" is indeed an essential part of any motion, change, causation. We might say that "nothing" cannot be a "cause".... all by itself. But, of course, neither can "something" or "anything else." 

I believe that would just be petitio principii, mistranslated as "begging the question." And doing it twice. First, you assume the insanity after the fact, based on the evidence of the act, which is defined as insane. Likewise for conflation of "insane" and "inexplicable." But I am not good at naming fallacies, so there may be a more precise attribution. I'm sure someone can provide. And worth doing. You rightly point out an annoying political response to violent acts. People are only officially "mentally ill" after the act... yet the "solution" becomes preventative measures against "the mentally ill." Bit of "red herring," and closing the legal barn door "after the horses are out." I might add that Foucault and Derrida had a long debate about the possibility of "reasoning" one's way into "logic" of the "insane." Derrida thought it impossible by definition, I believe. Sorry can't recall reference.