As Zenbike says... Much of the noise is generated by the tires. Any smooth harder-compound "slick" is going to be quieter than a tread with a lot of pattern. The one I have now, a Minoura, is decently quiet. I can't hear it over the TV. However, my previous item generated a high-pitched buzz that was quite annoying. 

Your hand does look rather cramped in those bars... There are a wide variety of bars available... You have "ergonomic" bars, bars with extra-deep drops... Fairly annoying to experiment, however. Replacing roadster bars is a bit of work; much more involved than say, MTB bars which can be swapped out in few minutes with modern components. Consider getting a "fitting"? It might be worth while to have your position analyzed and then you'd have a better notion as to which way to go with the bars. 

I suppose one could legitimately ask how "practical" a unicycle is, since only a very small number of people can be said to have actually mastered riding the things.... However, I have seen folks with amazing skill, and even off-road unicycles equipped with knobby tires...The riders negotiating rocks, logs, and typical off-road obstacles. So...Rider skill obviously a big part of this. I think the unicycle in motion would be reasonably stable over most "pavement"-type obstacles; cracks, seams, that sort of thing. 

A caveat... Aluminum is very susceptible to "work hardening". Some alloys are softer than others, and you may get away with it OK. I have done it on one of the department bikes... So far so good. However, there's always the danger the thing will just let go. Better to replace if possible. 

Assuming Shimano components.... You shouldn't have any difficulty with compatibility. However, as noted above, you need to find out if you have a cassette/freehub or a freewheel. At 20 years old I imagine you're looking at a freehub... And likely 7 speeds. If you want to go to a more-modern 8-speed cassette, the spacing should be the same but you'd need new shifters. The crank may or may not have replaceable chainrings, and if it does they may not be easy to find. Nashbar used to sell a wide variety of chainring sizes and bolt-patterns, but current catalogues do not show these. Likely available from outlets like Loose Screws. Note that some cranks may appear to have replaceable chainrings but they are in fact permanently attached and you have to replace the whole crank. 

I have accidentally removed the suspension fork from my bicycle (Trek Remedy 8). I was trying to take off just the handlebar, but was distracted for a moment and unscrewed the wrong bolt. How safe would it be to assemble it back without going to my LBS (it will probably take them some much time, and I would not like to miss riding on my weekend)? I have no experience in suspension fork servicing; my idea is just to use common sense to screw parts back in. It doesn't seem that the fork has any ball bearings. 

As the end of the ski season is approaching, I am thinking about visiting our ski resort by bicycle. I would like to do it at the end of the season to avoid the inconvenience of the crowd, and minimize the inconvenience I would make for others. In the ski resort we have, it is pretty unusual to have bicycles. The chairs don't have any hooks or other appliances to hold bicycles, and the crew might not be able (or willing) to help. In these circumstances, how can I ensure safe and smooth boarding and disembarking? I will be in a small group (2-4 people), all of us having standard (non-fat) mountain-bikes. I am willing to do basic disassembly (e.g. remove wheels) if it would help. Our ski-lifts have standard chairs, designed for 2 persons (like in this example picture); they are not of the type that slows down when in the boarding/disembarking area. 

Sometimes I want to ascend a steep (say, 50%) slope, where is impossible to ride and awkward to push/pull the bike. I tried various ways of carrying the bike: 

I might need to replace my rims soon. I've had frequent problems with breakage of spokes, so it's a good opportunity to buy stronger rims and/or spokes. What characteristics should I look for if I want to fix this problem? Should I pay attention more to the spokes or to the rim? Some details: I don't do racing, so weight is not an issue. I do trail riding, including jumps. I have disk brakes. 

If there's one thing I've learned about bike fit over the years, it's that it's rather controversial. I was strictly "old school" since I started cycling seriously in the mid 70s. Standard measurements for seat height, saddle fore-and-aft adjustment, knee-over-pedal adjustment, reach, etc. No high-tech goodies. You used these "ball-park" measurements to get close and then let your body do the talking.... Much more sophisticated now, of course, but one has to wonder about the degree to which all the techie bells-and-whistles are just to justify the price. Bottom line is simple.... If you're happy with the results, and you can ride efficiently without pain... You're golden. Every day I see cyclists who appear massively uncomfortable on their rides. 

Police patrol bikes are essentially mountain bikes with street tires. I have almost 30 of them that I maintain... For years, I've been using the Continental "town & country" tire on our bikes. They have proven to be durable, have low rolling resistance, and also considerable flat resistance. One thing to avoid is any tread design with tiny cuts or "sipes. These look good but will pick up all manner of road debris (especially glass chunks) and then slowly work them right through the body of the tire. According to most, actual tire width is not particularly important. The contact patch (that's actually in contact with the pavement) is remarkably similar regardless of tire width. Inflation pressure is more to the point. 

For the most part, these "branded" bikes are just someone else's bike that the car company (or soft-drink company or beer company) paid to have their logo on. Essentially, an advertising gimmick. We can imagine that the corporation had nothing to do with the design or specifications of the bike other than where and how the logo will appear. 

I do trail riding with some technical elements, and I have decided to upgrade my normal helmet to some sort of a full-face helmet. I have seen some sturdy-looking helmets, which resemble the motorcycle ones (example). However, their ventilation looks bad, so I don't want these. I am interested in the lighter variant, which looks like a normal helmet with a chin guard attached to it (example) - chin guard may or may not actually be removable. So, if I get the latter type of helmet, do I get significantly better protection, comparing to non-full-face helmets? Specifically, will it protect me from a direct face-plant? Is there a significant risk of the chin guard snapping and hurting me? Does it matter if the chin guard is made of metal or plastic? 

My problem is, when I am riding, they sometimes slip down, reducing protection of my knees. This mostly happens because of vibration, while I am riding down (it's when I need them the most), but sometimes also when I am pedaling up. If I fall down when my guards have slipped, it's as if I had no protection at all. I noticed that on some days I get lucky with my straps and they sort of "stick" to my legs and don't move, while on other days I constantly readjust them, and they slip all the time. How can I fix this problem? I am willing to buy a different type of guards if that would solve my problem (however, I don't want soft/flexible guards - plastic has better protection). 

I use my mountain bike for trail riding (a few hours on weekends) and for commuting (20-50 minutes each day), on paved or dirt roads (I have 2 different routes). I would like to replace the grips on my handlebars (because my existing ones are getting too old). I would like to understand which grips fit the very different styles of riding I do. My current thinking is like this: I can do the commuting without gloves, to minimize the equipment I mess up with on daily basis, – and then I need smooth grips, which probably are a bit worse for trails. I can choose to always ride with gloves, and then I can get deeply-grooved grips (that would be better for trail riding?). Which important factors do I miss here? I used ergonomic grips in the past, like in this picture; didn't like them. 

By "tighten" do you mean adjust due to wear? If the pads are wearing at such a rate, something is wrong; wheel rims worn to the point of abrasiveness, riding in extremely sandy conditions... More likely you are generating slack in the system. The cable may physically be slipping in the clamp on the brake itself; or there may be excessive cable length giving the impression of too much play by reason of flexing... Consider replacing the entire cable/housing system with higher-quality items and making sure the clamp is not slipping. 

Note that though impractical for most uses, the speed figures for streamliner and other highly-aerodynamic designs are far greater than anything obtainable from a "normal" bike. The faster you go, the more air you're pushing. The ultimate bike speeds are obtainable through "motor pacing", wherein the cyclist rides in the aerodynamic "bubble" behind a fast vehicle like a truck or a locomotive. These bikes are so high-geared as to be unrideable at lower speeds, and they are decidedly not light... Does illustrate the importance of air resistance. 

To dissent slightly... It's common practice for mechanics and bike-shop folks to recommend this... It does result in selling more parts... However, if your chain is all rusted up as a result of sitting out and not as a result of running it in that condition... The cogs and chainrings might be fine. The skipping while backpedaling might well be due to similarly gunked-up derailleurs. Before springing for a bunch of new parts, I would take everything off. Both DRs, chain, etc. Clean and lubricate everything. I spray the DRs down with WD-40 and let 'em soak for a bit, then attack 'em with a toothbrush and the wire wheel on my Dremel to get off any caked-on lube and road grit. Then just wash 'em in hot soapy water and re-lubricate. Make sure the idlers are free-spinning and unworn on the rear one. I restore old bikes for re-sale, and I've done dozens this way with only a chain replacement and they shift perfectly before I let them go.