It is a Caesar denarius minted in 49 BC. This was the first type of coin Caesar had minted. The obverse is an elephant trampling a snake with CAESAR beneath. The reverse features the fetishes of the Pontifex Maximus, a title Caesar held at the time. See Roman Republican Coinage by Michael Crawford. 

The study of ancient climate is called paleoclimatology. The word "climate," incidentally, comes from the Greek word, klima. There is a difference of opinion about the climate of ancient Greece. For a long time it was the common view that ancient Greece was a temperate, forested paradise with meadows, like modern France or Pennsylvania, a so-called "Arcadia" and that this was ruined by people cutting down trees. This traditional view has even been taken up by modern scholars, notably Thirgood in his 1981 paper, Man and the Mediterranean Forest. This idea is currently not as popular, however, and the most common view is that changes have been limited and due to small natural causes over long periods of time. The proponderance of evidence, such as pollen studies, seems to show that the climate of the Mediterranean has gradually shifted to becoming drier. See for example, Bottema (1994), The prehistoric environment of Greece: a review of the palynological record. There is a clear shift of trees from deciduous to evergreen, even in areas unaffected by human activity. Evergreen trees like colder, more arid conditions than deciduous trees. This change is reflected in agriculture as well, the crops being grown now being somewhat drier crops than in ancient times. This can be seen in Arcadia itself, in the Tripoli region of the Pelopponesus, which is still quite nice, but a little bit drier and more scrubby than it was in ancient times. Thus, a common view is that the climate of ancient Greece was similar to its current climate, but somewhat wetter. In terms of the range of climate in Greece is that it varies significantly because there are lots of microclimates, due to the presence of both ocean and mountains in close proximity. For example, in Elis, you can find grassy fields and oak trees, but in Lemnos is a desert with sand dunes. 

Understanding historical prices is a difficult problem, and even historians of economics use methods that I would consider inadequate. Many published estimates of ancient prices and value are often wildly wrong. Regular historians (not economists) are even worse at value estimation and rarely suggest modern equivalents with any meaningful accuracy. There is actually a very simple way to relate ancient values to modern values and that is through the medium of gold. It is an approximate measure, obviously, but much better than the typical methods you will find economists using. For example, in Pompeii which was covered in ash in 79 A.D. a loaf of bread was listed at 2 asses (an as is a copper piece). If you work out the gold equivalent (the aureus), it comes to about $1 today, which interestingly enough is about what a loaf of bread costs today (on sale). In the Koran it lists the price of a sheep in gold dirhams which comes out to $400 which is about what it costs for a sheep today. In general, everything is cheaper today than it was in the past due to mechanization, and the effects are not equal. For example, in the old days silver was about 1/20th the price of gold, but nowadays due to the Comstock lode and other factors (such as the silver recovered from copper mining), silver is only about 1/60th the value of gold. You can also relate money via work or wages. In other words, you can say: making a Roman tunic took an ancient tailor 3 hours. If we convert this to a modern skilled worker wage of $20 per hour, the tunic is "worth" $60. So, value is determined and synchronized as a unit of a worker's time. Of course you have to remember that different civilizations have different wage scales. For example, workers in ancient Rome would make a lot more than the same worker out in the boonies in Britain, just like today a worker in Manhatten will make more than some guy in Nigeria. 

Although, as you say, a rich slave might be able to engineer an escape, most slaves were not rich and not educated. Slaves could generally be immediately recognized by their dress. Although there were no laws mandating dress for a slave, they tended to wear clothing which set them apart. For example, no slave could wear the toga, so if a man is wearing a toga, you know right off the bat it is a citizen. Also, the tunics worn by freemen tended to be a lot nicer and more expensive than the plain tunics worn by slaves. Likewise for their footwear, which was expensive. Slaves often went barefoot. In general, if you saw a guy with no shoes wearing a plain tunic, it was high probability he was a slave. Freeman also wore hats, called a pileus, which slaves generally were not supposed to do (see below for more about this). Also, there was an ethnic component, since slaves were foreigners, not Latins. Slaves also had a different, much cruder, speech than the upper classes, which is often parodied in Roman plays. The educated in Rome studied diction and speech extensively in school and spoke in a way completely different than the slaves. If you read Plautus' plays, for example, you can learn how he parodies the speech of slaves. Also, note that in plays the free always wear togas and the slaves always wear tunics so the audience knows which is which. If a slave was freed, he shaved his head to be completely bald, and then wore a plain (uncolored) pileus, which was a felt cap. Some citizens wore this cap, but always colored or decorated. A man with a bald head and plain pileus was a manumitted slave. As for runaways, fugitivi, this was always a small problem, but it was hard. In those days travel was expensive so people tended to stay in one place and strangers stood out. Where would you get the money? Usually you needed to have permission to become a citizen of a town, so if you just ran to some random town and applied for citizenship, the authorities would want to know who you were. People abroad on highways were regularly stopped and either had to have a passport or a really good story. Remember the highways were the property of the state in those days and were controlled by the military. Random people were not allowed to just waltz along highways the way they do now. There were severe penalties for people who hid or took in fugitivi as their own, so though it did occur, it was an illegal and risky move. You stood a good chance of getting ratted out by your neighbor or an enemy if you tried hiding a fugitive. Finally, there were the dreaded fugitivarii, the slave hunters. These guys were professional fugitive locators and they were very good at their job. They had spies everywhere. Not only could they track a particular slave down, but they would grab you if you just looked like a fugitivus. Then they would torture you to reveal your owner. If you gave a fake name, they would just torture you again until you fessed up your real owner. Then they would take you to him and demand a fee from him for returning you. 

Normally I would flag a question like this as too broad since it does not define a time period or place. Nevertheless, here I think we can answer the question by dispelling the misapprehensions you seem to have: (1) Full plate armor was used between 1350-1600. (2) It was very expensive and used only by the elite (knights and above). (3) No "guards" wore plate armor unless someone was so important as to be guarded by knights, which might be, say, a king (4) Even if a knight were to guard a king, it would be unlikely he would do so wearing plate armor 

Hitler was not in the practice of making "detailed contingency plans". He was more of "failure is not an option" type guy. If you read Speer's book, "Inside the Third Reich" you will find that it makes clear Hitler considered the pact with the Soviet Union an essential precursor to attacking Poland. The strategic situation demanded this for several reasons. First of all, at that time Prussia was isolated from Germany proper. If Hitler invaded Poland, and England and the Soviet Union declared war, Prussia would be completely vulnerable and Hitler would be facing the situation of having 20% of his own nation immediately occupied by the Russians, something he would have considered completely unacceptable from a political standpoint. The other strategic consideration involved was a miscalculation. Hitler reasoned that if he was allied with the Soviet Union, England and France would not dare to start a war against him. This opinion proved to be incorrect. 

The actual origin of the printed phrase dates back to the 17th century Scottish Parliamentarian, Andrew Fletcher: 

Albert Speer's book "Inside the Third Reich" describes Hitler's nature and personality in detail. Speer was a close friend of Hitler from an early point and knew him well. He describes him as being in person a typical middle class Austrian bumpkin with tastes to match. Hitler had various odd predilections, which Speer describes in detail. For example he was a vegetarian and had very exacting ideas about proper diet. In personality Hitler was kind of the uncle type, very kind and loving towards animals and children, but having awkward relations with women and no recognized children of his own. If you want to learn about Hitler's personality from the horse's mouth, you can read the Tischgespräche (table talk) which records typical day to day conversation at the dinner table and around the house where Hitler lived. It provides an intimate portrait of the dictator which will tell you more than ever wanted to know about his day-to-day personality. 

Because it was illegal. Britain made slavery illegal in most of its dominions, including Australia, in 1833. 

The Turks did not usually occupy the countries they conquered and did not impose any language requirements. They were completely satisfied as long as the countries paid their taxes. Other than a few Beys, the only Turks around would be tax collector, and perhaps a few soldiers to enforce customs. Remember, too, that most of the countries in the Turkish empire had many different languages to begin with. For example, in Algeria, Arabic, Berber and Tamasheq were just three of the many languages spoken. Turkish was just added to the list. The French differed because they required knowledge of French for many official functions and the French involved themselves much more heavily in the their colonies beyond mere collection of taxes. In particular, they sponsored large efforts to build schools, all French-speaking.