I deal with a "bicycle forward stop" box by using it (and being grateful that the city planners have started to arrange things for bikes). For example if cars are stopped where they should be (out of the box) and the light's red, I move into the box. It's there for me. [I'm in Toronto where people drive on the right.] A bike-specific stop box only happens on the roads that are designated bike routes. On the right of the box I'm in the designated bike lane (so not in any car's way, except if the lead car is hoping to turn right across the bike lane, in which case that is one scenario that the stop box is intended for, and I don't mind if they wait two or three seconds while I move off, they'd have to wait for any pedestrians anyway), and on the left of the box it's because I'll be turning left across the traffic (like any other vehicle turning left, and sometimes in a lane for left-hand-turning only). My being in the stop box doesn't slow people behind me (on the right I'm in a bike lane, and on the left it's the on-coming traffic that's preventing the left turn; and fwiw my acceleration from a stand-still is no slower than a typical car's). The point of the stop box is to make me visible to people starting off. I like to think that (me being visible) is better for all of us: that even drivers don't want to participate in an accident with me. I don't rarely see cars contesting them. My reaction to such a car (same as e.g. a car that's stopped in my pedestrian crossing) is to look at and make brief eye contact with the driver, looking through their windscreen. I want to see what they they look like, what/who the person is. I'd like them to see me too, to know that there's another person, outside their car. Hopefully when they're aware that it's people and not just vehicles on the road, they'll be a bit careful about their driving. No more than that: no rude gestures, I don't want to anger people. Also my seeing who they are helps to keep me calm (and not e.g. demonize the car). Most of my route (18 km near downtown) is bike lane, or lightly-trafficked residential street. I have two intersections though, where I need to make a left turn (across traffic) that I'm not happy with. One I don't like because it's turning across tram lines; another because it's 'arterial' roads, one without a bike lane, where cars hustle each other across a wide intersection, and I find it difficult to move across the curb-side traffic into the other left-turning lane. For those two intersections, I get off and walk across as a pedestrian. If that's what it takes to feel safe, then why not. 

When I say "not water-logging", what I mean is that when I take them out of the washing machine they weigh little more than when I put them in: they don't repel or resist water, but they don't absorb it (compared with jeans, which become heavier when wet). Although they're slim-fitting they're comfortable to pedal in even when wet: they slide, they're a bit elastic, and they're durable enough that they don't care if you don't. The fabric is 50% cotton, and 48% Nylon (the heavy jeans) or 48% Polyamide (the lighter sand-coloured slacks or "khakis") 

My bike is a all-aluminium "Kona Dr. Dew" ... cost was some $800 new ... compare with cost of a yearly bus pass at $1200, for which price you could afford to replace the whole bike every year if necessary (which it isn't) ... so it is quite a good deal. 

Maybe use disk brakes, not rim brakes, if heating is a problem. I'm used to the idea that people put about 1 KW into the environment just by existing; I'm not sure what the problem is, with losing one extra KW when descending. 

I have 700x32 Marathon Plus tires: hoping that they are a good general-purpose commuting tire. They're said to be OK on rain. And riding during a snow storm (in Toronto) is analogous to riding in the rain: the tire goes through fresh-fallen snow to find the (wet) hard surface underneath. The manufacturer (Schwalbe) also make ice tires. They have studs, at the edges of the tire: 

Doing this is obviously easier when your shoes are clipped to the pedals. Clipping your feet to the pedals is a long subject (which I won't try to detail here), but interesting. Even if your feet aren't clipped you can partially emulate this full-cycle stroke, e.g.: 

If it's not heavy then it's not important, assuming it's close the wheel (so not much torque). I expect it's easier than a top-heavy back-pack. 

I commute (cycle) for 60 minutes each way. I wear summer (thin and fingerless) cycling gloves in temperatures down to about 40F (5C). At 50F (10C) I'm wearing a short-sleeved shirt, and short pants, as well. I'm totally relying on the extra heat I generate (from exercise) to stay warm. You must adjust your clothing to match, not only the outside temperature, but the amount of work you're doing (i.e. the amount of heat you're generating). 

I have a pannier which unclips easily from the rack, and which I then take to use as a bag. I don't leave it on the bike, full, when the bike is parked (I take it with me). Even if I did leave it on the bike that wouldn't tip the bike: because the bike has no kick-stand, I park it locked to an upright bike stand or post. 

Regardless of who has legal right of way, Toronto tells cyclists to avoid passing cars on the right, and especially when the car might turn right. 

Stand on pedals to ride over cracks and bumps When you're going over bumps, pot-holes, and cracks in the pavement/asphalt: stand (put all your weight on) the pedals and lift your bum off the seat; and coast (without pedalling) over the obstruction. Doing that is more comfortable for you, and for the bike. (P.S.: I do this wearing bike shoes which clip to the pedals; I have little experience of how easy/safe it would be to do when unclipped). Also, do this when you're going over a smooth speed bump (which would otherwise tend to eject you from the saddle). 

Compare your 1500+ Cal, with the 15000+ calories in one day that is needed to swim the cold English Channel. 

With a good bike and not too much traffic, 10 km is about 35 minutes. So take your bike out for half an hour or more. Maybe twice in a day. Scout your routes in advance. Enjoy doing it. Feel better for having done it. Do it again. 

I use a Bontrager pannier (or two) like this one: $URL$ The rack on my bike is permanent, but you can clip the bag onto onto the rack, or detach it again, in a second or two: so put it on the bike only when you're going to the store. I also take the bag into the store so I can fill it there, then bring it out already full and attach it to the bike and cycle off. 

There's a fake Buddha quote on some internet sites which says, "Holding onto anger is like drinking poison and expecting the other person to die." The most popular of the genuine Buddha quotes (the Dhammapada) begins with, 

Stand on the pavement/side-walk, side by side to my bike. Lift the bike down onto the road, close to the curb, facing in the correct direction (i.e. with the traffic) Look to make sure there's still nothing coming. Mount the bike (standing on the side-walk, holding the brakes, swing one leg over and sit on the saddle, with the other leg still on the side-walk) Now I'm on the bike, and the bike is on the road: stationary, and at the curb, and now ready to move off when traffic permits. 

It has done pretty well getting me home on snowy roads (i.e. non-ideal surface). But for an unpaved road you might prefer lower-pressure, wider "mountain bike" tires (e.g. pressurised to only 40 psi): which, if you have them, would be quite a bit a slower on paved roads. Perhaps you should include some photos of what you mean by "rocky trails"? For example if "rocky" means "crushed stone" see $URL$ (which might be managed with a road or hybrid bike) but if "rocky" means natural/actual rocks that's something else entirely (perhaps requiring suspension).