I have been taken team lead position for new project and for new employer one week back. I am leading 8 members of team. The first day went smooth with joining my formalities. The next day after I had met my team I am overwhelmed with many action items. The workday invites me minimum 55 mails which takes at least 2 to 3 hrs to read and respond and figure out action items on me or delegate my team members. I feel like work is raining such a faster rate than I consume and channelize to different channels. Since I am unable to Organize and prioritize properly I am spending most of the time non priority tasks and some times I am unable to spend sufficient time on high priority tasks. Some times I don't know which Emails I can read and which Emails I can straight away delete without reading. From this instance I am clearly able to make out that I need to improve on Organising and prioritizing my tasks. But I am not sure where to start and how to start it. My specific question is (1)How can I prioritize and Organize my tasks and then plan my day effectively? Research that I have done: I am trying to divide tasks by categorizing important and urgent category. But the way that I am getting work and requests from various channels are too rapid so that I have to make the decision very fast. As a starter of the team it is very difficult to make those judgements. And also due to various undisclosed reasons my manager availability is very less and I can approach him very frequently and he sits in different office. 

I have recently moved to new workplace. And it is new job, new team, new management. I always believe the fundamental thing in any business mutual trust. So the first thing I would like to achieve at new workplace is "Gain Trust". I know gaining trust is continuous process. However I would like to do right things and avoid all potential blunders, mistakes in the process of gaining trust. My specific question is below (1) How can I gain trust of my new management and team effectively? (2) What are the dos and donts related to gaining trust? 

At the end of the day it is Organization problem, not your problem. How ever the below points helps you to leave gracefully. (1) Identify best one among your team and identify gaps and training needs. You can identify best fit for lead role in your team. Of course they might not as good as you as Lead. But identify gaps and what they are lacking. And identify what knowledge and training make them be ready for training. (2) Do documentation, write articles or prepare video sessions: Based on your knowledge you prepare some articles about your project, technology and other lead related articles, or prepare video teaching sessions, or dos and fonts in different scenarios. This helps to any one who take up your role (3) Be ready to do extra favor to Management if you can: Generally in this kind of scenarios, management usually requests you extra favor like extending notice period or participating interviews to find your replacement. Be ready and plan for it if you can unto certain reasonable extent. 

After reading entire story I understand the other way of dealing the situation. I understand your situation and the painful journey that you had. It is really tough for any one to deal with such things especially in foreign place. Below are the things that you could have done 1. Make more trusted friends: Since Albert is the only one from your only trustful buddy is Albert at initial days. That could be fine. But later you could have developed friendship and trustful relationship with your other colleagues. It could have helped you deal with the situation or at least lent you empathetic year to your problems. And also when he is saying stories and rumors you could have just checked informally with other senior person/your another trust buddy in the team and listen to their version of the stories and compare how much the information that you received from Albert is accurate and reliable. 2. Keeping silent and keep problem with you doesn't solve the problem: When you have a problem with environment and if you can not resolve the problem by best of your efforts you should take the help who have the control over it. Usually this is problem with people, then you should talk who is managing it. Did you try to discuss about this problem with your manager. If I am in your position I would do that. Ultimately if a person quits a company that is loss to the company any way. Managers main job is to control and avoid such losses to the Company. 3. Discussion problem with blogs or in WPSE: You are posted this question after incident occurred. You should have done this while you are facing this problem. And at least discuss in WP SE chat room(Water cooler) of if you think it doesn't qualify to post. 4. Talk with Albert: Yes, You could have openly talk with Albert and convey him what is the pain you are going and make some amicable deal with both. Some times we feel other person is bad. Actually might not. They simply don't know they are hurting you. When we carefully talk and listen we will know and we can come to amicable solutions. 

I have to act hard as the situation is desperate. But now crisis is over how can I restore the work relationship back? 

This is continuation to below my earlier Question. Context: I am a Lead Developer working for a US based client. Client operates on a client-vendor-employee model. My Employer is the vendor to the client. In our team there are other team members who are from different vendors. Situation:I worked hard for an year and nurterd good team and prepare strong base for success of the project. My team members most of them belongs IT outsourcing Organization. After an year this Outsourcing Company shows competent teammember who are nurtured by me and take over the entire project and I lost my role and my plans in the project. My IntentionI have talked with my manager and my manager shows me another good opportunity, where as I have to start again from Zero. Based on the past experience, I would like to avoid the earlier debacle. What kind of preventive measures that I can took from starting? Updates based on Comments What Kind of Contract? I am hired Employee for the Client. My Contract is getting extended as long as client have work for me. Where Does Client and Vendor Live? Both Live in USA in the same City. What Country laws are you legally subject in your work US Labor Laws 

The other options are you have to check for options like discounts for apartments where apartment rent will fit into your budget. I can not elaborate more because those options will not fit for WP.SE. 

I am working as Team Lead for IT department of US-based organization. I am consultant for the current Organization. In this organization most of the lower and middle level like Developer, Lead, project manager roles played by consultants and Leadership roles Devmanager, Management Director, Vice President roles played by Employees. I have given a team member which are from another vendor(not from my employer) Let us say V. I build happy team and developed goodwill, good reputation and good work relationship as well. Now the below series of events happened 

I will say It is is common thing to happen. In reality Employers looking for ideal candidate and candidates are looking for ideal jobs. The basic purpose of Interview is, employer and candidate should know each other requirements and interests and assess each other how well they are meeting each other’s requirements and interests. In your case the fact is you have met your prospective employer’s interests and requirements. That is why your employer still considering you. However there are other candidates who are meeting the interests and requirement much better than you. Every one look for best and hence your prospective employer would like to give first priority to them. The same concept applicable to candidates also. They are also looking for job that suits their interests and aspirations best and hence they also attend interviews with more than one prospective employer. Some prospective employers met their interests very well and some employer just met their interests and aspirations. So Candidates also give priority to best of the offers they got. Hence your prospective employer honestly and realistically say that he will get back to you if those candidates to whom he is giving priority will not take the offer,and he would like to give that offer to you. 

I am working for a US client for web application development as Vendor. Our team consists multiple vendors, client employees as well. Recently this project is moved into different department since its scope, future growth and its budget more related to another department. Hence myself and few others are transferred to new department. There we have a team member who is Client Employee. Let us name him as Jerry. By the time we join in the department he is Vendor and with in a month he became employee. And he is struggling to learn our application and its code base. Meanwhile my manager announced one of my colleague as dev team Lead who transferred from old department along with me. One day my current manager approached asked me. “Please help Jerry and it is very Important”. By that time I heard some rumors about Jerry. The gist of those rumors are Jerry has secret plans of kicking off the team members who are transferred from the project and bring his own people by finding faults and mistakes in our work. I started work with Jerry to help him by giving suggestions, ideas, solutions and some times code snippets also. Slowly I have learned that he is short temper, anger issues and his style of thinking and development is quite different than many of the people in team. He has already developed serious conflicts with some of the dev leads in my ex-department. He even doesn’t made good impression with whom he worked past and I didn’t find one person who likes him/who are neutral about him except my current manager. As per the rumors he always find mistakes in our code base and propose new changes. And it used to become very hard for me to convince him to the solutions that I used to give for the current problems in project. As of today 4 months passed, and I learned that he is complaining and giving preaches about to both current and ex department MDs and managers about how swamp is the current code by escalating its faults and weak areas and proposing newer solutions. And last week a technical discussion with the current lead becomes severe argument and went to the extent of shouting and yelling. And in that argument he emotionally yells that “No one is helping to understand current code base”. The next day I asked my manager “Am I helping Jerry qualitatively”. And in that discussion I learned that he never tells my manager about the help I am giving and he never gives the Credit. Now the situation becomes more sensitive and people who don’t like him start preaching and trying to influence me not to help him further as he is using that knowledge to attack us. At the same time my manager wants me to help him and support him and wants him to succeed. How to deal this situation. I don’t want any rifts in the positive relationships with my team members and at the same time I want to do justification that the task that my manager gave to me. Edits Based on Questions: 1. The problems he found, some of those are real and some of those are unreal. For real problems the approach he choose to fix those, escalate those and educate others is causing big mess. 2. He is not escalating first to his team members. He is directly escalating to managers, MDs. 3. Some parts the clients/managers are happy the way it is. But he still try to influence them by saying the ways he has are better. 

Be neutral: First both are great value contributors to the team. When ever such conflict occurs the first thing in the process of diffuse the situation is be neutral and don't be on either side of the one. Have an Individual One on One meeting: Set up an individual one one meeting and listens to their concerns and their problems about this responsibility. Make clear that the objective of this activity. Educate both of them. Educate or counsel the individual who feels is meddling in his code so that he should not feel like meddling . Similarly educate the threatened team member, how he should act when other persons threatens. Educate both of them is don't take things personally. Review the process and improve: Review the process or activities what they are following currently to achieve the objective of CCO. May be one person feels that a piece of code is great and other feels it is just crap. May be one person just write sample code and check in and another person immediately review and put his review comments. The person feels that meddling as it is not final piece. If you don't have clear guide lines, clear process these conflicts occurs. Hence define clear guidelines and process for this activity which should not give any scope for conflicts 

I believe you are taking the whole episode in wrong way or wrong perception. Every role has requirement of different set of abilities, traits and attributes. In a software field not only technical abilities/skills and also there are non-technical skills or abilities like communication skills, team player attributes are very much necessary to deliver high quality of work. Generally Project managers are responsible for deliverable with defined quality under defined timelines and hence they always look for a ideal candidate having all the required skills those can help them to deliver the work with accepted quality. So they might not 100% satisfied with your profile. But the good thing is the another set of managers like their bosses etc. are your side helping you to get promotion. Finally they come up with reasonable offer for you which works both of you. I believe this is win-win proposal. When come to the question accept or not, I can not make that decision for you. You have to make the decision. I can provide the below suggestions and points. I suggest check your interests or passion first on the role or work of "Software Engineer". If you are interested in "Software Engineer" role it is good opportunity for you to start with and opportunity to learn, explore and prove your self. And it also beneficial for Company by using your skills. If you are not interested you would have communicated them before starting the interview process. It is not good to develop hard or negative feelings on those managers. Rejection straight away doesn't yield any good results to both your Organization and the managers who interviewed and yourself too. Everyone miss the opportunity to figure out how best fit you are to the software role. And all the effort and time spent on making this offer will become worthless. 

Having team members who are experts and who are very much familiar with specific areas and experienced in the team is good for you. Your work will be easy. Your success depends on how effectively you use them, how you make them work for you. . As per your description it appears to me that this person feels that he deserves the position that you are in currently. And he feels he is better fit for it and management didn't recognize that and puts you into the position instead of him. At this point of time what he wants is recognition. You recognize that. Make sure that person understands that you recognized his capabilities and also your say has more value at management. Have one to one conversation with him, and ask about his aspirations, strengths, weaknesses and immediate goals etc.. If he has aspiration to become team lead, you recognize his/her capabilities and give a word him/her that you will help him to reach his aspirations and if possible you will recommend him/her for this position for next role change or promotion cycle. You assign him tasks which requires more leadership skills or which aligned his aspirations. If he is better than you recognize that fact and use his expertise for team success or project success. Another way of handling him is, assign the task or assignment completely to him and you just review it and make necessary changes and appreciate him once he is done successfully . If any task or assignment that you only have to do and take his suggestions and tell him as he is senior in the team his suggestions are very valuable. At the end of the day you have to make him work for you. he needs special treatment. You give him and then he will work for you.