In the United States there has been a lot of litigation and regulation concerning the giving of references. This article from the American Bar Association lists several of the mines you could step on: 

The U.S. government will take copies of transcripts with an application, and will require official copies if a job is offered. Many educational institutions are the same way, but some require official transcripts even with an application. In the small software company where I work a photocopy of transcript from a recent graduate is appreciated, but not usually required. I've never heard of pure private sector company wanting an official transcript with a job application. 

Just give the recruiter written notice that you are withdrawing permissions to discuss you with any outside agency, company, or person. That will free you to pursue jobs on your own or with other recruiters. If a recruiter ever represented you to a company, and at some point in the future you are offered a job by that same company, then you want to be sure to mention to the hiring company that you were at one time in the past referred to the hiring company by a recruiter. You may well be opening up your new employer to a lawsuit if you don't disclose your prior relationship with the recruiter in question. 

I'm a Toastmaster, and I think it's a plus on a resume. Don't make big deal about it though, the person looking at the resume will either know what Toastmasters are , or they won't. 

It's horrible to think that a good IT person could be passed over due to his choice of tie, but I guess its possible. The seminal work on how to dress in business is the book "Dress for Success" by John Malloy. Even though it was written in 1988, it's still true today, and it's spawned an industry of imitators. Malloy studies all the major organizational types and gives you a color picture of how to dress for that milieu. Just do what he says. 

Include this information in an 'additional information' section at the bottom of your resume along with your SE username and a link to your profile. Most reviewers will want to look at a current electronic copy of your resume, so the link will often be helpful to them. 

I've been a somewhat similar situation. I'd give a lot of weight to the team's technical interviewers, less to just the impressions from the coffee klatch participants. A lot of technical people are not great interviewees from the social point of view. They are working with computers at least in part because they like a job where they don't have to interact with strangers very much. These candidates are often nervous and find it difficult to relax and be themselves when interviewing. I wouldn't give the team members an absolute veto, but I'd be very reluctant to hire a person if any employee the candidate (including managers as well as peers) would be working with has serious reservations about the candidate. How do you collect the opinions from the different interviewers? I think it's better for each interviewer to give his or her opinion separately in an email or one-on-one discussion before having a group discussion on the candidate. I agree with The Joel. It's better to pass on a good candidate than risk hiring a possible misfit. 

If you have regular reviews in your organization then that would be the appropriate time and place to ask the boss directly if there really is an unwritten 'face time' policy. If not, then then just meet the boss in private and ask the question in a frank and professional manner. Don't be emotional, don't talk about 'feelings'. Just ask if he's OK with your work routine or not. 

I'm assuming you're in the United States. It sounds like you and your co-workers are almost certainly employees for tax and social security purposes, not 'contractors'. Any one of you would probably have a good chance of forcing the employer to retroactively pay the 7.5% social security taxes that he should have been paying all along instead of you. The IRS and Social Security Administration will start this process on receipt of an SS-Form 8. Here in Texas the Texas Workforce Commission might help you with stolen vacation pay, but that's something of a long shot if there is nothing in writing. 

My shop has several remote workers. We don't have any written rules about it, but the expectations in general are: 1) The remote worker will be reachable by Skype or phone during a normal work day. In our shop, each employee gets to define what his or her normal workday is. For all of us, remote or local, if we are going to be out of pocket during our normal times we are expected to let our team know as soon as possible. 2) We have frequent scrums. Everyone on a project, remote or local, is expected to attend, or to provide a reason why they can't. 3) We use Fogbugz, which includes an estimator and 'working on now' functionality. 4) At each scrum each team member tells the team what they are working now, what might be blocking them, and when they estimate they will finish the current task. Essentially, we just treat the remotes in an identical way to the locals. The project leaders are expected to track progress. Some people work faster than others, but I haven't seen any correlation between remote and locals in that respect. Our teams are built on trust, and as a company we operate on an adult to adult level. If you team is used to a parent-child style of management then using remotes might not work for you. 

My company is in a similar situation. It's only recently that our business has grown to the point that we can afford recruiters, and we still prefer to hire direct when we can. As others have said, more salary is never going to hurt, although you need to be careful that you don't upset existing employees who didn't get as generous an offer. I think of recruiting for a small company as being the analog of job searching. You need to network, and to get your story out where potential candidates are. Sponsoring user groups is a good technique, or at least encouraging existing employees to join and present at them. Tweets, Facebooks, and blogs can be a great way to get your story out if you management will allow them to speak with a human voice. This is hard for a lot of managers. We go to a lot of job fairs. These can be tiring, but we've found a number of great employees that way. If you're Google then good candidates may be beating down your doors, I wouldn't know. I do know that if you are small growing company you need to have a very proactive recruiting effort if you want to have a chance at the best candidates. ETA: You are no doubt aware that only one out of a hundred of the people who call themselves 'recruiters' are really doing anything other than collecting every resume they can find and throwing the resumes at any job opening that could remotely be related to the candidates qualifications. To find a good recruiter your senior management (CEO, CTO, ect) needs to get out and network with other senior managers. That's the best way to find a decent recruiter if you end up going down that path. 

I assume the form actually asks you to cite a weakness. Dilbert tried this: "I work so hard that I forget to eat or bathe for weeks at a time. Eventually, I starve to death at my desk. I become a bloated, stinking corpse. Insects breed in my body. I spread disease to the entire company." Sadly, that won't fit on one line. Try something skill specific, "I need to improve my knowledge of [insert something you would like to know more about here that is somewhat job related]. Perhaps you'd like to know about scripting languages, XML parsing, advanced sort algorithms, BOOST. Pick your buzzword, preferably something related, but not central to, the job requirements. 

Your case is different than a hypothetical candidate working at Acme Software who sends his or her resume to Springfield Nuclear using a joe.developer@acme.com address. This is wrong on many levels. Using your own domain will be an advantage in your situation. Almost every experienced developer and certainly most experienced contractors have and use their own domains. Not only with this not be held against you, it is more likely to be perceived as more professional and business like than a gmail or hotmail account. 

In the United States a lot of companies will call someone a 'director of Grommits' if several Grommit team managers report to him. This really isn't the best practice unless the 'director' is in fact, a member of the Board of Directors. In the US calling someone a 'director' who is not a BOD member will create an ambiguity with the legal concept of 'officers'. This could become an issue in the event of a liquidity event, termination of the 'director', reporting requirements, and a host of other things best avoided. The best practice is to call senior managers who are not BOD members 'Vice President', or 'Chief Grommit Officer', or something that clearly indicates that this person reports to the CEO and is not a member of the Board of Directors. 

Really, what's wrong with an honest answer? You saved and spent sensibly. Spending a year out of the workplace while traveling on your own money and working on personal projects does not make you a 'bum'! If a company won't hire you because you gave an honest answer to a personal question that's non-relevant to their requirements, then do you really want to work there in the first place? 

For the purpose of this answer I am going to assume that you work in a private sector company in a jurisdiction that has some form of 'at will' employment system. If you are in the public sector or in a private company in a jurisdiction that makes it difficult and expensive to fire someone then this answer probably doesn't apply. My experience in the private sector is that there is an ebb and flow of workload in software, it's not unusual to have periods of lower workload. But it is unusual for a low workload period to extend indefinitely, which is what sounds like is happening here. You need to be concerned about this low workload situation. It sounds as if your company is profitable right now, but in the normal cycle of business there will be a downturn of some kind. At some point your management will 'rack and stack' each employee based on their perceived value in units of currency to the company. Those employees with the lowest perceived value will be the first to be laid off. You may well be that person. If you are in an environment where getting another job is easy, there may be great value to you in having a low stress 8-5:30 job. Many, many software related jobs require much more of your time than that. If you're confident you can move on when the time comes, just enjoy life and if this gig ends go to the next one. Don't worry about it. If, on the other hand, you are in an environment where someone with your background and skill set might have a hard time getting another position then you need to proactively increase your value to your company. To do that, what does your company value? If your company looks at software professionals as modern day loom operators, expected to toil constantly at their loom/workstation between 8am and 5:30pm with a half hour lunch and two 15 minute breaks, then you need to do that, even if it means faking it. Of course this kind of company is doomed in the long run anyway. On the other hand, if you company has moved in to the late 20th century then they may be less concerned with your bio-mass and more concerned with how much you have contributed to the bottom line in the past, and more importantly, how much you can probably contribute in the future. You need to use this slack time to look for ways to improve your company's product, and to improve and streamline your company's software development process. Try to anticipate what new technologies may be useful for your organization in the future and try to familiarize yourself with them. Perhaps come up with a prototype of a possible new product. If your organization has periodic performance reviews then that's the best time to bring this up. If they don't, then consider discussing it in private with your manager. In either case, be careful. You never want to ask a question to which you can't stand the answer. It would be best if you could suggest some tasks you could be doing to help the current or future bottom line during these slow periods. Hopefully you'll get official blessing to fill some of slack hours with activities that will benefit both the company and yourself. 

You need to explain to the manager that your code is correct based on your orgainization's current business rules. If the manager thinks the pay calculations are over or under paying the employees then you and he need to review your implementation of these rules. It's probably that your code is correct, but the manager needs to give you updated business rules.