On 11th May 1998, India simultaneously detonated three separate nuclear devices. One a thermonuclear device, one roughly a Hiroshima-sized fission device, and the third a miniaturized, sub-kiloton device. Two days later, India tested two more sub-kiloton devices. One reportedly used a reactor-grade, rather than the purer weapons-grade, mix of plutonium. Just 2 weeks later, on 28th May 1998, Pakistan also conducted nuclear explosive tests. Two days later, Pakistan tested another device. While the number of tests is not clear, and yields of both countries' tests are contested, but evidence showed that they were unquestionably nuclear devices. Interestingly, the series of nuclear tests came only months before the Kargil war. And even more interestingly, India did not have a nuclear doctrine at the time. (In fact, one of the quick repercussions of the Kargil war was that India reacted immediately to draft a Nuclear policy.) On 17 August 1999 the government released a six-page preliminary draft nuclear doctrine prepared by a 27 member National Security Council advisory board. The draft outlined the broad principles for the deployment and employment of the nuclear force. Although the government would work out the policy and strategy details later, the draft indicated that the authority to release India’s nuclear weapons rests with the prime minister or his or her designated successors. It was only after another set of saber-rattling between the two countries that the doctrine was officially accepted. In that sense perhaps every conflict has had an impact on formalizing the nuclear doctrine- at least in India. India's Nuclear doctrine outlines: • Building and maintaining a credible minimum deterrent; • A posture of NFU; (No First Use) • Retaliatory attacks only to be authorized by the civilian political leadership through the Nuclear Command Authority; • Nonuse of nuclear weapons against nonnuclear weapons states; • India to retain the option of retaliating with nuclear weapons in the event of a major attack against India or Indian forces anywhere, by biological or chemical weapons; • A continuance of controls on export of nuclear and missile related materials and technologies, participation in the FMCT negotiations, observance of the moratorium on nuclear tests, and working toward the goal of universal nuclear disarmament. It was perhaps under the umbrella of a nuclear deterrent that Pakistan sought to engage in the Kargil. On 12th April 1999, General Pervez Musharraf announced that while nuclear weapons had dramatically changed the nature of war, "this, however, does not mean that conventional war has become obsolete. In fact conventional war will still remain the mode of conflict in any future conflagration with our traditional enemy." (cited in Kargil Review Committee) Pakistan's intrusion was, in retrospect, a miscalculation even by their own assessments. The geography of the region played an important part in their calculations, as did their own nuclear capability. If Pakistan could capture the Kargil area (stretching across 140 kilometres of mountain ranges) it could interdict the highway from the Valley to Ladakh and cut off India’s approach to both Ladakh and Siachen. In fact, they assessed that nuclear capability would provide the umbrella protection required to engage in a limited war and ultimately gain territory. 

To be perfectly correct, the Cossack and the ships from the Adamss on are not true "Destroyers" as the true destroyers first came about in the 1890s as an invention of Jackie Fisher named "torpedo-boat destroyers". On this line, the more modern "destroyers" are not what can be classified as classic destroyers but as cruisers (The last of the classic DDs were the Gearing Class). From what I see in the ships post-Gearing, the DD and the Cruiser design merged and the cruiser-type design took precedence. The modern terms of "Destroyer" and "Cruiser" have more to do with the roles that the ships play rather than anything from their historical antecedents. I would like to point out that the Spruance DDs and the Ticonderoga CGs are just different superstructures on the same hull. TL;DR The speed on the later ships are more in line with the cruiser doctrine as the designs of those ships are basically cruisers. The pre-Adams class ships on your list are TBDs and the ones from the Adams onward are modified cruisers. Cruisers have a different usage doctrine than Torpedo-Boat Destroyers have. 

To answer your question, the answer is no, this is not a US Army uniform as the cover (what you call hat) device is the United States Marine Corps' Eagle, Globe, and Anchor. Now to see if this is an authentic USMC uniform... 

Operation Vijay (victory) required a gradual troop buildup because of eography. Almost 25,000 additional troops had to be deployed. On 10th and 11th June the Desert Scorpions Paracommando Unit gained on Point 5203, a commanding position on the Yardol Ridge in the Batalik subsector. The seventy-five paracommandos took ten days to encircle the Pakistani bunkers on the peak and then seized it in a surprise assault on the night of 23rd June. There were Pakistani attempts to cut off the Siachen sector, but this was tharted by the Ladakh Scouts. Apparently there have been heavy casualties on the Indian side. 

As noted in the comments, torture has been used for several reasons, including but not limited to, eliciting false confessions, punishment, humiliation, hegemony and political control, and as a political theology doctrine, also a sacrifice. Large swathes of the torture landscape in the twentieth century seems to be guided by the last mentioned motivation. However, even for extraction of information, the method has been advocated long ago. 

It's not torture until it's very painful (causes death) or causes injury to internal organs. By using this logic the supporters of torture want to give a greater area of freedom to torture. It's okay because it it is for a greater good and saves more lives in the long run by extracting crucial information. (Logical). 

How did the English Civil War and the following reign of Oliver Cromwell affect policies towards and in the American Colonies? I don't see anything Wikipedia that covers this topic (I can only see mainly the militaristic aspects of it there). 

All of the factors you mentioned did play a role in the loss of the ships. But the largest factor in the ships themselves actually blowing up was the absolute horrendousness in the ammunition handling of the battle-cruisers and basically every other British ship. To that point, the battle-cruisers also had less armour than battleships which made it easier for shells to penetrate the ship, which then set off the badly-placed cordite charges in the turret and ammunition shafts. In the loss of the Indefatigable and Queen Mary, the problems in signalling (to Evan-Thomas's battleships) had more of a hand. However, the presence of battleships might not have made too much of a difference since the Defence, an older "armoured cruiser", and Invincible were lost while steaming with the main battlefleet. I must also note that the Germans had also had a problem with ammunition flash explosions in a previous battle (Dogger Bank I think it was) and they instituted a system to prevent that from happening again. So, even though the Germans had a few errors on their part in the battle, none of their battle-cruisers blew up. In all, the largest cause of the loss of the British battle-cruisers was the problems in ammunition handling which was exploited by the lack of armour on those ships and the others which also exploded (Defence and Black Prince). On the Hood, the largest problem was that her armour was not up to par with the weapons she faced, permitting a shell to go into her magazines. If you like, here is a documentary that goes into more detail on what caused the explosions. I must say that I have probably overstudied this battle for too many years. 

Arjuna: The hero of Mahabharata also changes gender. Urvashi cursed Arjuna when he refused her advances, that he would become a "kliba", or of third gender. Arjuna used this as a disguise during his last year of exile, taking the name Brihannala and living as a woman. Vishnu: Changes gender and becomes "Mohini" (the enchantress) to trick the demons into giving up "Amrita" the nectar of immortality. Vishnu as Mohini became pregnant from Shiva, and gave birth to Ayyappa. 

To clarify- this was cited not as the sole research that says torture is ineffective. It is simply the "backstory" that the counterview can effectively counter: 

Bankers, businessmen, landowners, nobles and princes all gave active support to the British. Indigenous collaborators and "traitors" such as Mir Jafar were key elements the British exploited to their own advantage. They promoted and demoted officials and bureaucrats to suit their ends. These are well recorded- the active support by the Jagat Seths and other bankers, the various nobility and princes. The history of this period is now seen as a mercantile expansion- and the role of money, the motivation for acquiring wealth are seen as important factors. So the social milieu, complex economics, dynamics of a center-periphery competition and the transition from agrarian to mercantile economy are seen as contributing much more to the equation- it is no longer viewed as a simple 'military expansion' history. Colonial history is therefore not a simplistic ruler-subject equation. Rather the British are seen as active participants in a greater and more wide-ranging transition. (This is notwithstanding the post-colonial lens which also views the construction of subject identities and many other 'epistemological violence' such as knowledge production.) For a very good introduction that refers to many other scholarly works, see this book. 

Having stumbled across the East India Company's flag, I couldn't help but notice the similarity to the US flag. However, I would like to know what the history of the stripes on the Company's flag was since Wikipedia does not really say anything on it. 

Source Over time, people began to realise that riding vehicles with armour served way much better than having each person wear armour as a person can only carry so much armour. Vehicles (or even a massed groups of people) on the other hand, can carry way more armour which can stop gunpowder-fired projectiles. It is not that soldiers quit using armour, the armour changed platforms. 

The Kiel Mutiny as it took up the High Seas Fleet at Kiel. Based on the Naval Order of October 24 which caused the mutiny, the number of men in that mutiny would have counted at maybe 26,000 as there were 23 battleships and battlecruisers in port at that time each with somewhere between 1,000 and 1,200 men each, not counting the men in the smaller vessels. This mutiny was also a major factor in the German Revolution of 1918 which disposed of the monarchy and set up the Weimar Republic. 

Why wear it when you can ride it? Just look at all these lumbering hunks of armour on the battlefield: