This would also be a good link Risk Assessment Tool for Estimating Your 10-year Risk of Having a Heart Attack Also consider vLDL Total cholesterol - Total cholesterol is the sum of all the cholesterol in your blood. The higher your total cholesterol, the greater your risk for heart disease. Here are the total values that matter to you: Less than 200 mg/dL 'Desirable' level that puts you at lower risk for heart disease. A cholesterol level of 200 mg/dL or greater increases your risk. 200 to 239 mg/dL 'Borderline-high.' 240 mg/dL and above 'High' blood cholesterol. A person with this level has more than twice the risk of heart disease compared to someone whose cholesterol is below 200 mg/dL. top HDL cholesterol - High density lipoproteins (HDL) is the 'good' cholesterol. HDL carry cholesterol in the blood from other parts of the body back to the liver, which leads to its removal from the body. So HDL help keep cholesterol from building up in the walls of the arteries. Here are the HDL-Cholesterol Levels that matter to you: Less than 40 mg/dL A major risk factor for heart disease 40 to 59 mg/dL The higher your HDL, the better 60 mg/dL and above An HDL of 60 mg/dL and above is considered protective against heart disease. top Smoker - Select “yes” if you have smoked any cigarettes in the past month. top Systolic blood pressure - Systolic blood pressure is the first number of your blood pressure reading. For example, if your reading is 120/80 (120 over 80), your systolic blood pressure is 120. 

If you don't have know medical problems (especially cardiac) you may exercise in the morning. This also make you burn more calories during the day. However, if you have cardiovascular problems you may prefer doing exercise in the late afternoon, since testosterone hormone secreted early in the morning that may cause some heart beat abnormalities and can give you hard time. 

Q1. The iron supplementation in the nondeficient state does not improve performance. That is, taking more iron into the body will not increase your hgb level beyond what it was earlier. (Herbold NH, Visconti BK, Frates S, et al.: Traditional and nontraditional supplement use by collegiate female varsity athletes. IntI Sport Nutr Metab 2004, 12:586-593.). In another study it was indicated that although iron supplementation can raise serum ferritin, increases in ferritin unaccompanied by increases in hemoglobin concentration have not been shown to improve endurance performance (Garza, D., et al. The clinical value of serum ferritin tests in endurance athletes. Clinics in Sports Medicine, v. 7, p. 46-53, 1997.). There are other ways of increasing your hemoglobin level such as high altitude (2700m-3500m), EPO, blood doping (last two are not recommended and forbidden) etc. Q2. Hemoglobin has an oxygen-binding capacity of 1.34 mL O2 per gram and it contains 4 heme groups each with one iron atom that are able to bind one molecule of oxygen. That is, if you have high hgb level you can bind more oxygen but it does not guarantee you to have higher cardiorespiratory capacity because iron and hgb are not the only factors that affect cardio performance, there are so many. However, having high enough level of hgb and iron may help cardiorespiratory performance. 

General rule is for HIIT 24 hours is enough to recover (dominantly;ATP, CP and Glycogen)but recovering from long distance running takes more time to recover because energy sources used in these type of exercises are mostly glucose and fat. Replenishing these energy stores takes more time due to the physiological pathways and the availability of enzymes used. Someone who isn't well-conditioned may get injured during HIIT unless the intensity of the exercise is well programmed. 

I could not find exercise induced vertigo specific to push ups. However, If someone has vestibular—inner ear— disorders , he/she often experiences problems with balance and position or movement-related dizziness. In your case, you have to identify the movements that cause the dizziness, he/she can begin an exercise program to repeat those movements—a concept that seems contradictory. In order to get rid of his/her dizziness, you have to repeat the movements that make him/her dizzy. It is important that you repeat them at least five times in a row and do them twice a day. If you find there are five different movements that make you dizzy, pick two to work on at a time. Once you no longer experience dizziness in response to these movements, add two more. Don’t try to do exercises for more than two movements at a time. vertigo 

The deal is that you will get more oxygen through your mouth for sure and you may have a chance to produce more energy depending on the type of exercise. However, if it is too hot or cold you may experience some problems with your respiratory tract. You can use some mouth protector to keep the moisture inside especially during the winter or in cold weather, which may help to some degree. 

It is an indication that you are burning some calories but there is no definite relation between fat burning and sweating. You may sweat while you are burning fat or you may sweat while you are using carbs as an energy sources but since you have sweat around your belly it does not necessarily mean that you are burning fat from your belly. Fat burning is not happening locally, by the way. In addition, environmental conditions also affect sweating ratio. 

If you exercise with a full stomach you will have some digestion problems and it will bother you both during exercise and afterwards. Since most of the blood will be directed to your active muscle during exercise, you won't get enough blood circulation to digest the food that means the digestion will not be the primary concern. That is why, eat light meal 2 hours before the exercise than you can have a big meal! after your workout depending on what kind of exercise you are doing. 

Here is a good article about biomechanical explanation of bench press with references at the end. To make the long story short; Grasp the barbell with an opposing thumb grip (thumbs wraps around the bar) with your hands shoulder-width or slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. An opposing thumb grip provides more security and control of the barbell. Grasp the bar with the wrists positioned directly under the bar. This position helps avoid hyperextension of the wrists. Retract your shoulder blades (scapulae), bringing them closer together. 

It is a well answered question but I wanted to add extra information about DOMS here Muscle soreness may occur after an acute training session, especially resistance training. The soreness manifests itself as stiffness, tenderness, inflammation and/or pain, and as it occurs between 24–48 hours following the training session is referred to as delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS). The exact mechanism for DOMS is not fully understood but it appears that acute exercise, especially eccentric contractions, causes damage to the ultrastructure, potentially the Z-lines, of the muscle cell. Plasma creatine kinase is used as a marker for muscle damage.