No, there are no risks, assuming you're asking abput biohazards. This is poop so old it has petrified, become stone and/or sand. The only microorganisms that actively live in there are ones that can also live in other types of sand. There are some forms of bacterial and probably fungal spores that can stay alive in a suspended state for tens or even hudreds of millions of years, but since this is a cave floor made of crumbling poop rather than some well preserved ancient crystal and you stomp around in it rather than creating the perfect conditions for these bacteria to come back to life I figure you're quite safe. Also because the main poop bacteria that make people sick, like E. Coli, don't form spores at all. Unless you're worried about disturbing an important feces research site, you'll be fine. 

Since there is a great general answer already, I'll add one from my experience with white water kayaks. Length: Longer boats have a higher hull speed. When moving at more than the hull speed relative to the water you'll start creating waves, wasting energy. Shorter boats turn faster, and have less problems "boofing", going over drops without diving in nose first. Boats designed with bigger rivers in mind will often be a bit longer, the slightly longer turning time is easily offset by the higher top speed. Boats made with small and steep creeks in mind are often a little shorter. White water kayaks in general are short by flat water boat standards, as they need to be nimble. Really short boats are used for freestyle kayaking, performing tricks like cartwheels and loops. Rocker: More rocker also helps in boofing, and a pronounced rocker is on the scale of white water kayaks more important in this aspect than a short length, as well as in smoothly crashing through waves and holes. Any kayak designed for the really serious runs will have a lot of rocker. Boats designed with weaker currents in mind, or those designed for surfing, often have less rocker, or only on the front, to make sure the water doesn't flow on top of the boat and push the nose under. Boats with less rocker sit shallower in the water and hit less rocks, and it helps in creating a big flat surface for the effect discussed below. Cross section: A round profile is used to create a forgiving displacement hull on serious river and creek running boats. An unexpected stream or push won't take the boat off course or tip it over. Flat profiles are used for control, for instance on boats designed with surfing in mind. A large flat surface with square corners gives the boater a lot more control over the craft and more steering power, even while planing, but it also gives any unexpected currents more control over the boat. A flat boat can be a joy to pilot, it's very reactive and takes little power to paddle if you're using the currents right, a more round boat makes you feel like you can take on the world. A lot of round big river kayaks these days do have rails running along the sides of the boat under or around the water line, they give back some control while not making the boat significantly more punishing. White water kayaks (with the exception of downriver boats, but that's its very own specialized thing) do not have anything remotely resembling an edge, rail or keel in the middle of the boat. That's roughly it. Speed = long, forgiving = round, boofing = rocker, surfing = flat, freestyle = short, control = flat or rails. For a better feel of what this means, find some good pictures on manufacturers sites or comparison sites like the Playak buyer guide. 

RiverApp (riverapp.net) has a pretty good selection of paddlable rivers across both Europe and the States. The data is all just coming from the separate national services, but it's nice to have them in one place. Popular runs sometimes even have useful notes on recent hazards attached from other users. It's quite a handy tool to use at home or on the move. 

The TL;DR answer: Yes. You can always kill in self defense if your life is in serious danger* from the animal or even person you're shooting, e.g. if you have good reason to believe they are trying to kill you (for instance because they're a bear and they're charging) in any jurisdiction I know of. It doesn't matter if that animal/person is the last white tiger or the queen of Britain. It even doesn't matter whether in hindsight you were actually in danger. If the bear is drawing what after the fact turns out to be a fake gun on you (I know, great example) you were still in the right, because you had no way to know it was fake. If you ever die messily, let it not be because you wondered about local laws. *Some jurisdictions like several US states use a more relaxed idea of serious danger, while other places like much of Europe are stricter, but getting mauled by a bear counts everywhere, even in places without bears. See all the other answers for things to consider and some great alternatives. EDIT: Oh wow, didn't see how old this question was. 

(I'm going to be using cm for this piece because they're more precise and because I'm used to them, imperial readers just keep in mind an inch is close to 2.5 cm.) It depends heavily on all sorts of other circumstances. 4 or 5 cm can be enough. But it's probably not enough is there are a lot of people on the ice, if you're going out completely alone (this is not the best idea to begin with, but it gets deadly quick on thin ice) or if you're going out far from the shore and/or onto a deep (more than your own height) body of water. It also depends a bit on your own size. A typical 50 kg teenage girl can go out on thinner ice than a 100+ kg lumberjack type. (100 kg = 220 lbs, but you already got the idea.) If more cold weather is expected it might also be good to stay off the ice just for the sake of the ice, so everybody gets to enjoy it in another one or two days. Over here in the Netherlands outdoor natural ice skating clubs typically open their rinks when there's 7 cm of ice. That's a controlled environment with safety officials and limited depth, but there are a lot of people on the ice, and typically the only incidents happen at the sides when stepping onto or off of the ice, that's where the layer is thinnest and breaks the easiest. By the time those rinks open natural lakes are often already swarming with skaters, because we know it will thaw out quickly again, risks be damned. So about 6 cm usually holds, even though weak spots will come through quickly and you might have to go ashore for small parts of the route. The ice is seen as solid as houses (for skating purposes) by about 15 cm, when an "elfstedentocht" can be run. (Some rinks can run with as little as 1 or 2 cm of ice, but those are just a thin layer of water on top of a solid surface. The ice itself wouldn't hold a person.) In all fairness I think the other question you link is a better way to approach skating than this one. Don't overemphasize the importance of thickness. Check out the ice for yourself. Is it nice smooth fresh black ice? When you test it, does it hold? When you step out on it, does it crack a bit to set but then seem solid? If there's slushy parts, do they seem superficial, or could those be or quickly become holes? Are the weak parts positioned in such a way that you can take them one person at a time and with some speed? If you're unsure about your ability to judge this, try to find someone with some experience you can take on a trip. That's always a good option if available to you. Also judge non-ice related factors: How far does this route take you from help or a nice and warm place? How good of a skater are you? Is it realistic to say you could fall and land on the ice with a heavy thump? Because most of those people out on 5 or 6 cm of ice do not do that. It also helps if most people there are quick enough to start moving when they notice the ice cracking too much. And take some precautions, like bringing an awl or pick to help yourself get a grip on the ice after you fell through, and a long scarf or a rescue line to drag others out. Don't have those? That's another factor to account for. A change of dry clothes and maybe a warm drink back at your entry point/car can also be nice. And don't be afraid to go check it out and having to go to another location or even coming back empty handed. Outdoor sports mean unpredictability. That's how you know it's an adventure. (It's an old question, but since it was edited and winter is coming around again...) 

While class 2 rapids are widely regarded beginner level, they are challenging to beginners. If you have no experience with them, as the question suggests, I would recommend you: Don't paddle them alone. Even going together with other beginners is still quite risky, as they can't help you, so they don't add much safety. You'll just end up losing 3 boats and/or paddles rather than 1 on an embarrasingly easy run. Having anyone with the basics down around is a lot better. Even just having them yell at you not to try to stand in the middle of the stream could save lives, in the worst case scenario. Don't paddle them as a multi day run away from easy river acces, like in a gorge. I have no idea what you're planning, but if it sounds like an expedition and looks like an expedition, get a little experience first. Don't go out without safety equipment. Have a helmet, floatation device (life vest, but specifically one for kayaking and rafting, not a sailing vest if at all possible), wetsuit or drysuit, plus at least one first aid kit among the group and a throw line for anyone that can use it, depending on the type of water (they're not equally useful on all kinds of rivers, and at level 2 that can mean they're not necessary). Finally: you want a whitewater or a crossover boat, something where you can close the deck with a sprayskirt. But that's probably the least important point on this list.