Experiences I have a 8" Dobsonian Newtonian Reflector. The viewfinder is 20x80. I really get a better picture of deep sky objects like Ring Nebula, which have a small angular size, when using Barlow. But for cases like Lagoon and Trifid Nebula; they are visible to me from my viewfinder but not through the eyepiece(even in the lowest magnification). Conclusion Barlow really helps if you have a deep sky object with small angular size. For larger objects, a binocular may do better, especially for city conditions. 

The caption for the graph in the article linked says "Raw Data". And as far as I am acquainted with GRB measurements, the scale of oscillations would fit quite well within error margins. Final Verdict: Could be anything, background noise, instrumental noise/error. It is raw data. Without the characteristics and calibration of instruments, the only relevant thing that can be said is "Look, a GRB!" 

There is no 'history' behind it. Stellar physics is less than a 100 years old. Thus, it is not a terminology that came to be due to some anecdotal reason. This is the way it has been since the start. Why? Because we don't care. Why, really? Hydrogen and Helium are more important and abundant, so we need something to measure the others, which can be grouped under one name due to their low significance to us. One fine day, one fine astronomer was sitting in his balcony, drinking coffee, and he thought, "What do I call a group of elements most of which are metals?" Surprise surprise, He decided to call them metals. I am not kidding with you, although it may have sounded like that. But that is how it is with astronomical terminologies. I am assuming you are new to the field, because this is not the only crazy thing we've done to express how much crap we give in for terms and notations and units. 

The values are more steady for objects close to Ecliptic poles, but in genenral, they change by a few arcseconds every year. Yes, we lack an absolutely fixed frame of reference. 

Although pre-main sequence stars have lower temperature, they are essentially huge clouds of gas, often as large as 1 pc wide. The luminousity being proportional to square of the radius is essentially large for pre-main sequence stars. Plus, the problem with gravitational contraction is not the amount of energy that can be generated per second. That can actually be larger than that produced from fusion if you insist on really massive objects. The logic, when we ruled out gravitational contraction as a source of energy for Sun, was that gravitational contraction cannot sustain it for long. Geologists knew from their dating science that Sun had to be older than grav. contraction accounts for. Thus, admit it. Gravitational contraction makes pre-main sequence stars radiate more energy than main sequence starts, but that's just luminousity and not really energy. Luminousity is energy per second. 

All we know is this : Distant objects are receding from us at a rate proportional to their distance from us. All versions of "space is expanding" are philosophical variants of this. 

Parallax measurement in practice is not as is explained above using the popular diagram you have used. The parallax causes the star to prescribe an ellipse in the sky, the semi-major axis of whose is equal to the parallactic angle. The telescopes generally measure the shift in co-ordinates of star(RA and Dec) and then translate the information to that of the ellipse prescribed and determine the parallactic angle. Now, the ability of telescopes to note this change in RA and Dec is based on their least count, obviously which is dependent on their angular resolution. 

Now, the slant appears to be the same for June and December Solstices, doesn't it? First thing, it is a wrong conception that Sun travels more "perpendicular" to horizon in the summers. It just reaches a higher point as you can see, not that the slant is more. Where does the disparity come in? Civil Sunrise begins when the Sun is 6째 below the horizon, Nautical Sunrise begins when it is 12째 below the horizon and 18째 for Astronomical Sunrise. So, the Civil/Astronomical Disparity is due to the extra 12째 of altitude that the Sun has to cover. Now, the diagram I have posted is better to explain the sunset, so let it be that way. It is just the same for our purpose. The motion of the sun is uniform along the circles that you see. But these angles which decide our sunrise are measured perpendicular to the horizon, from the zenith. Are you aware of what happens when you project circular motion along a straight line? 

Florin's answer covers most of what I would have said, except one problem which I have faced and I think deserves mention. The telescope assembly might vibrate. You don't need a gale for that to happen. Depending upon where you place it, even a slight breeze might make it vibrate. The solution is to fix your mount on a terrain which is flat for at least a 100 sq m area around it. It does seem cool in pictures, and perhaps movies to fix it on a high mound but a height gradient makes wind currents(local, of course) to turn an twist which causes the telescope to shake. I am sorry I couldn't find an image to support it. P.S. This information came in the manual of my telescope which is a Skywatcher 8" Dobsonian 

No, the telescope doesn't measure the parallax. A sextant or any other angle measuring device fit on the telescope does. And, we don't(can't) directly measure the parallax angle. Instead, we just track the position of the star/object throughout the year. A little bit of spherical astronomy math shows us that the path of a star in the celestial sphere defined by a fixed reference through the year is an ellipse around it's mean postion, called the parallactic ellipse 

Exactly the difference between binary and double stars. Trinary System Three stars gravitationally bound to each other. Here are some examples Triple Star System Three stars that appear to be together but any one of them is gravitationally unbound. Here are some examples. 

Observe the Moon, Solar System objecs Some of the clusters which seem like point objects really "explode" when using a Barlow. The best example is Omega Centauri. 

Let us assume the data for a globular cluster to be equivalent to that of M13. Given 300,000 stars and a radius of 1 ly, let us assume uniform density. Another assumption is to consider all stars to be Sun-like. The number density can be calculated as $$\rho = \frac{300000*3}{4\pi(1\ ly)^3} \approx 9 \times10^{-44}\ m^{-3} $$ Now, using the formula for mean free path $$\lambda = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}\pi D^2 \rho}$$, and using $D = 14 \times 10^{8}\ m$, we have $$\lambda \approx 10^{24}\ m \equiv 10^{8}\ ly$$. Now you don't have to be a genius to see how the sky will look if the nearest stars to you are this far. It will be almost like our own sky but just a lot of stars in every direction. There will be no special hike in flux received. The number density is much higher at the centre. But even if you assume the density at centre to be orders higher than the average value, the uninteresting view exists! As Zack pointed out, we'll have a lot of long wavelength light due to abundance of old stars. It is mentioned that the optical view won't be too attractive, but there is a certain thrill in being at the centre of a globular cluster. It is very difficult to stay there for a long time avoiding collisions or surviving the radiation and stellar winds from collisions and novae which are frequent for globular cluster. 

Based on 1995A&A...303..673E, How far apart they are? No idea. Somebody else might help to provide a density distribution. Are they grouped in clumps or relatively even spaced? This is what I really wanted to answer. They are in a concentric ring-like structure around the galaxy. The maximum optical depth is 0.8 with a mean value of 0.3. By the way, optical depth gives you a nice idea of how far apart they might be, not a good density distribution but you can get the physical picture in mind. 

It is a star cluster in the constellation of Taurus which is inspired from a popular Greek mythology of Seven Sisters. You can read more about it here. EDIT: One of the great softwares, free and open source, for amateur level observational astronomy, though professionals use it as frequently is Stellarium. It's easy to use and should clear all your doubts.