Rubber rim strip is pretty stretchy stuff--and you want it to fit snugly! Therefore, if buying rubber the diameter of your rim strip is not nearly as important as the width. It should cover all the spoke nipples and/or the large holes drilled for the spokes, and fit well along the rim. That said, your local shop should have some in a size that fits 26" rims best. Alternatively, there are brands of rim strip which are not one continuous piece and are not rubber, but instead are similar to thick tape. It's important to note the thickness--electrical tape may work in a pinch (and after a couple layers) but it's not nearly as resilient. This type of rim strip is basically one-size-fits all and is generally considered higher quality that the rubber type. 

Yes, that's the tricky part. I obtained a thin plastic tube (about 1mm diameter), and bent it to form a sort of archway above the computer. I threaded a flexible wire (naked wire used for fastening, not electrical wire) through the tube. This wire provided stability to the arch, and its ends were wrapped around the handlebar left and right of the computer, to fix the "archway" in place. I cut a small hole in the side of the plastic tube, and threaded the two electrical cables into the tube, one from each sides, so they came out at the hole. Then I soldered the LED to the two cables. Finally I gently pushed the legs of the LED into the hole (one to go left, one right, following their respective cable), so the LED sat in the hole. I finally fixed the arch to the handle bar using the wire ends. The result looked like this: 

They are formed into a different shape from a cold, pre-formed piece of metal (Stamped, Bulge, Machined/CNC'd), thereby reducing strength, or They have some weak spot (Rolled, Welding/Brazing), thereby reducing strength. 

Chain noise is not completely avoidable on fixed-gears, due to the stress from chain tension, etc. However, there are many types of chain which would be inappropriate to use and would cause extra noise. Be sure to purchase a 'track' chain (some are produced by Miche, Izumi, and KMC) and expect to pay $20+ for a quality chain. Also, be sure to keep your chain clean and well lubricated! Even on regular bikes, the majority of chain noise comes from a dry chain. 

While there are jeans specifically for cycling (see Tom77's answer), they are still a compromise (and can be expensive). I found the best option for longer rides (> 2 km or so) is to change trousers. That way you can wear bike trousers when biking, and nice trousers when you want to look nice. This also avoids problems when you get dirty or wet during the ride, and lets you adapt your bike trousers to the weather (insulated in the winter, shorts in summer). At most destinations, there is a washroom where you can slip in to quickly change trousers; I did this for years every day before and after work. If that is not practical, you can get slightly bigger cycling trousers and wear them over your regular trousers, so you can put them on and take them off without any indecent exposure. Or just change trousers in a quiet corner... 

This is pretty unconventional and not necessarily available to you, but here's some food for thought. Friends of mine had had a custom 'rack' built for their Kona Ute by a local rack & frame-builder to transport their two daughters (although they are much older). It came out exceptionally well (plus the girls love it): 

The easiest way to see why investment casting is preferable is to compare it to the alternative ways the same items can be made: (modified from here) 

In the past, when I commuted to a job without showers (I've managed to luck out recently) I made sure to: 

The second point is the main risk. A foreign object on its own is usually not strong enough to completely lock the wheel, but if the fender itself gets pulled in, a complete lock-up is quite likely. This is a problem mainly with the (softer) plastic fenders, so it only became a real concern when metal fenders were phased out in favor of plastic fenders. I seem to recall reading about some nasty accidents with early plastic fenders. 

The main detail you will have to watch out for (as indicated by Kibbee) is whether the two cranks use the same bottom bracket. Crankset attachments are standardized; however, to paraphrase Tanenbaum, there are many standards to choose from :-). To check whether a specific crank and bottom bracket match, you'll need to know some details about the bottom bracket, such as shaft length, attachment type (square, most common, or spline) and chainline. There are compatibility charts online to help you; a good one is Sheldon Brown's Bottom Bracket Size Database, which also lists the Shimano Sora and Ultegra. Also, check whether the new crank is compatible with the chainrings. There are different attachment mechanisms in that area, too, so you may need to swap the chainrings along with the cranks. If you want to play it safe, it's best to buy the part at a local shop. They can tell you whether it matches or not, and, most importantly, if they tell you it definitely matches and are wrong, they'll have to take it back. Also, they'll be able to answer your questions about mounting it - or mount it for you for a fee. Finally, note that for some attachment mechanisms, you will need a special tool for removing the cranks, called an "crank puller". I think you don't need one for the Shimano Sora, as it is "self-pulling", but better check to be sure. 

New pads. After a bit of wear (or sandpapering), the squealing will stop. Misalignment. As some others have mentioned, misalignment may cause squealing (although it would be reduced with some wear). Check out Sheldon Brown's tips for alignment suggestions. Oil or water on the rim. Either of these substances, even in small portions, combined with dirt or debris on the rim can create squealing. Wipe the rims thoroughly on the braking surface, as well as the pads, with a dry cloth. Incompatible rims/pads. No one else has mentioned this, but this is often the most common cause. Rims are generally made from one of two materials: steel or alloy. (You can tell the difference by seeing if a magnet will attract (steel) or not (alloy)). Incidentally, brake pads are made of specific compounds to work on one or the other. Often, using pads designed for alloy rims (like most Kool-Stops) will squeal if used on steel (which I'm guessing you have). 

Note: Some websites list an exception for cycling in extreme heat or uphill. This expection did exist, but was removed in 2015. 

No, you most likely did not. Bicycle chains are very strong (and chains on children's bicycles are usually similar to chains on adult bicycles). Plus, if a chain is really overloaded, the links will separate (i.e. the chain will tear) before the force is great enough to actually stretch the chain material (which is usually hardened steel). Note that bicycle chains do get longer due to wear on the material. This is often referred to as "stretch", but that is misleading - the chain does not lenghten due to being pulled, like a rubber band, but because the friction in the links wears down the material. So something else must have happened to make the chain sag. The most likely explanation is that the back wheel was pulled out of its dropouts, as indicated in BillSkiCO's answer. It is also possible that the chain was already sagging before, you just did not notice. On bicycles without a derailleur, chains can sag quite a bit without causing problems. 

I've seen both P-clamps (a.k.a. brace clamps) and the similar, ratcheting versions used. This is actually the preferred method for some front racks on bicycles without rack braze-ons on the fork. As long as they're the right diameter, and there's a little rubber (even an old tube) between the fork and the clamp, it should work fine. 

It seems a bit unusual to me that your grip would be actually 'glued' to your handlebar. Typically grips hold themselves in place, but I'll take your word for it. =] If your grip is in fact 'glued' in place, the adhesive is likely mediocre quality, and rotation you're experiencing is due to heat from your hand and/or the outdoors slightly softening the glue. You may be able to un-rotate the grip by heating it with a hair-dryer, and therefore softening the adhesive to a point where you can move it by hand. Be careful not to burn or melt the synthetic leather, though! 

How exactly to clean it depends on the type of dirt, so try to figure that out first. If it's just regular dust, possibly mixed with moisture and some grease/oil to make it sticky, regular household cleaners should work well. Try to get something mildly (!) abrasive, such as a metal cleaner (used for cleaning stainless steel metal sinks) with a mild abrasive component. The dirt could also actually be a different paint (maybe someone tried to repaint the frame at some point?). That will be a lot more tricky. Solvents would likely remove the original paint too; here your only option is probably to gently work with sandpaper. Finally, there are special erasers for cleaning hard surfaces. They look and work similarly to pencil erasers, but are harder, to clean away stuff that is difficult to remove. They should be available at stores for household goods, or at hardware stores. 

Yes, this has been done and is very often done for the exact reason you mentioned: far greater tire selection. In a general sense, the important considerations you must make stem from the difference between a 700c wheel and a 27" wheel. If we look at a more precise measurement than the common nomenclature, the bead seat diameter, the difference is more obvious: 

This means that the former is 8mm shorter in diameter than the latter, and when you mount a 700c wheel to a bicycle with brakes set for a 27" wheel, they will be mis-aligned by 4mm (a significant amount). Depending on what type and variety brakes you have, you may or may not be able to reposition the brake pads correctly. In the case that you can't, you will be able to replace them with brakes designed to have a longer 'reach'.