If I was going to pay a candidate to travel for an interview with my company and that candidate decided to decline the interview or otherwise not appear then there would be no way that I would reimburse them for the travel costs. I'm paying for that person to show up. Doesn't matter if I ultimately decide to hire them or not, as long as they hold up their end up the bargain to appear for the interview then I'll pay. Now, if I (as the employer) cancel the interview for whatever reason then I would still reimburse them. update To add a little bit: If the candidate does show up then I will provide the reimbursement check during the interview. My payment for their travel would NOT be contingent upon them accepting an offer. Only on that they appeared for the interview as agreed. 

This is fairly common in a number of industries. In mine there are a limited number of established "players". We can usually tell which company was the initial (or even favored) contact with the potential client based on the RFP that is produced. Basically there are certain keywords that each of us use to differentiate our products and when those show up in the RFP itself then we know who wrote it. Is it ethical? No. It's even borderline illegal in certain markets - ours falls in that category. Is there anything that can actually be done about it? Not really. I mean we could certainly sue the potential clients (some of our competitors have) but that is really not beneficial in the long run. 

There is no wiggle room here. Contact the labor commissions office. $URL$ Now, because you were terminated they have to provide those wages immediately at termination and are now liable for damages because they have not complied with California law. Basically, for every day that the final wages are not completely paid (starting on Jan 7th), they owe you an additional day's worth of wages. Which means about 15 days at this point... ($URL$ You can file a wage claim here: $URL$ note: I just reread the question. Considering you've already filed a complaint at this point you need to let them investigate and work through the process. update Based on the last comments: Honestly it sounds like they are scared about something. There is no way that I'd sign that agreement. You will get your check regardless so there is no reason to sign away any rights. Never mind that without consideration a contract like that in the US is likely void anyway - and receiving your paycheck is not consideration. At this point I'd take one of their calls and let them know that you have filed a wage claim against them. Then state that if they want to resolve things now that they must deliver your paycheck plus the additional penalty amount for the Waiting Time Penalty based on Code Section 202 of the California Labor law - immediately. 

note: I'm not affiliated with nVidia - it was just the first company name I could think of that likely doesn't deal with PII. 

If your boss is the one who assigns work to you then you need to speak to the boss about getting work. That isn't crazy, it's what you are supposed to do. 

Start by letting them know that the check is short and ask them for the balance. If they tell you no. Then politely let them know that your next step is to file a complaint with the Oklahoma Department of labor. Then ask, again, if they are going to cut a check for the balance. If they still say no, then go ahead and file: $URL$ Note that page 2 of this form states that you need to have asked the employer for the missing wages. 

By coming in late you are destroying those possibilities. I wouldn't hire someone that was consistently late. If the internship isn't important enough to be on time then likely a full time job wouldn't be either. Further if I were contacted to provide a reference about an unreliable intern then I would have no qualms telling them "Space Cadet doesn't know what 'on time' means". And, yes, a large number of companies believe that being at work on time is just as important as delivering your work on time. At this point in your life there are far more important things than whether you are being paid. You are setting a precedent for your future by establishing a fairly risk free work history. So don't blow it by thinking it doesn't matter. Finally, "payment" in this case is in the form of providing you on the job training that goes beyond what you learn in class - and you are throwing it away but not being present on time. 

updated Yes, I believe references are a thing of the past. (US) We don't ask for references and I believe the last time I was asked for them was over 20 years ago. It's a combination of two reasons. First is that it's trivial to come up with a list of 3 or so people to say how great you are. So "personal" references are pretty much meaningless. Honestly, who would list someone that might even consider saying something bad about you? You could be the worst XYZ in the world and still find a few people that would be willing to say you were pure awesomesauce. Just look at linkedin. I've had dozens of people "recommend" me as an expert in things that they would have zero clue about. It's meaningless. The second reason is corporate policy. Most businesses tell their managers that they aren't even allowed to speak with other companies about an existing or previous employee and instead must refer all questions back to HR. So as long as the manager is following policy then the best you can hope for are the dates a person worked there, the amount of money they were making when they left and the job title. update: In the US it is not illegal for a manager to give more information if they choose. They can certainly say "In my opinion, Bob was a terrible worker". However the manager needs to be careful to stay away from giving false or misleading information. The example I've been given is a manager can't say "Bob was fired for theft." unless it was proven in a court of law that Bob did indeed steal from the business. At the end of the day, I believe asking for references is pointless and my personal experience has been that very few others actually bother to ask for them anymore. Today, background checks are king. It's cheap and trivial to run them on someone. 

She is asking you to tell others that you think she'd be a good hire. If you can't do that then you need to decline. Saying yes, then subtly sabotaging her prospects is about as back stabbing as you could possibly get and, imho, incredibly unethical. When declining to be a reference you have several options. You can be brutally honest or simply not state a reason. How you handle it should be based on how much you value this person. I believe that if you value them then giving the truth is the best path forward. 

This says to me that your manager likely knows why the move isn't happening and should be considered a clear warning to focus entirely on sales. There is a lot more going on here whether you know it or not. In a company that size I'd say finances is likely the real issue. 

Here's the clue bat: the company paid you for the work you've done. They own it. Unless they want to attempt to market, and make money off of, this project in an open source format then they have zero reason to open source it. More than that, if they do open source it then they'll likely end up paying you to continue making improvements that you give away. At minimum your attention will be split between their needs and the demands of the community that attempts to use your product. In other words it's not just passing on a potential revenue source, it would be costing them real money to allow you to do this. Now some businesses, especially large ones, can do this. However, just to be clear, it's a marketing tool. They aren't giving the software free out of the goodness of their hearts. Rather they are hoping to get some payback from it either through support licences or simply by flooding their brand name so that people think of them when they want to buy X. If you look around you'll see that the majority of successful open source projects have a paid for support option. There's a reason for that. Also, you might be considering just throwing something up on github or whatever without intending to maintain it. There are a LOT of projects like that and there is zero value in them. Most of us have figured out that if there hasn't been a check in against a codebase in a year or so then the problems hiding in it are unlikely to ever be fixed and it's just not worth tracking them down when you can locate similar software that is actively maintained. 

I'm an owner of a small company and I've worked in several different startups. There is typically a LOT of things going on behind the scenes that you are likely not even aware of that directly impact the owners ability to create and execute on a stock option plan. Some of that involves negotiation with current investors, if any. Some may involve negotiations with potential upcoming investors. It may simply be that they are trying to figure out how the company should be structured/restructured for the next growth stage. One thing to remember is that the option pool is going to come directly out of the pockets of the owners.. It might simply be that one owner thinks setting aside 2% is good while another thinks it ought to be 20%... It might even be that they are trying to figure out what the vesting period ought to be. If they grant you 1000 options, should it be over a 2 year or 5 year period? Should a portion of it just be granted while the rest vest out? Also how much should everyone get and how much should be left over to help attract other employees? Even more importantly, what is the company worth? Is it $1m, $5m? Can they justify that amount? If they price the options as if the company is worth $10m and ultimately go public and the market prices the company at $2m then those options are completely worthless. If they price the company too low then raising additional capital will cause them to give up more of the company than they probably want to. Point is: it's complicated. Really really complicated. A few places I worked at verbally told the employees they were working on an option plan. One took almost two years to get it in place. This wasn't because the founders didn't care about the employees, nor was it because of any board member issues. Rather, they were trying to figure out how all of the finer points about multiple rounds for raising money, issuing stock, company structure, etc worked. These are serious legal agreements and not something that you can just throw together. It might look like they aren't doing anything, but they are and, unfortunately, they can't really talk too much about it simply because the details might be constantly shifting. My advice: don't worry about it. Options should be considered a bonus if you are ever actually allowed to exercise them. I know I've earned plenty of them over the years. Enough to paper a wall - and they are all completely worthless. If these weren't even discussed would you still be at that job? If you like the work, the people and how much your bringing home then stick with it. However, if you aren't happy then you simply need to move on. I'll tell you straight up that it's a very very rare day that a non-C level employee in a start up "gets rich" off of options. Threatening the owners with your resignation, no matter how eloquently phrased, will never end well. The last thing to cover is your statement