It really depends on locations so if you are traveling make a point to check. Your local club should be able to give you all the info for your area and abroad if they organize group dives in other countries, otherwise just contact the destination dive club (and keep in mind that in some places the situation might change from one year to the other). As a general rule most countries tend to have a maximum length for a blade above which you could face charges if carrying it on the person in any circumstance, or in the car. If your gear is packed up in your car and the knife is in there with the kit generally is not a problem since very often, carrying a blade longer than what is allowed can pass if there is a valid (and legal) reason for it. For example in Canada or parts of Europe a cop stopping me wont give much trouble if he sees the axe, camp knife etc all packed up with camping gear and a canoe/kayak on the roof of the car, or if the dive knife is in the trunk with all my diving equipment. I can see somebody having a problem if its just a pool session, debatable if you are up to it. It always help, if stopped, to tell right away things like "I'm a diver, all my diving gear is in the trunk". It goes a long way in reducing the chances of the person stopping you, or if you are passing a border with the car, becoming picky and giving trouble (this goes even if you are on foot and the knife is in the bag with all the gear). The fact that the knife is in a bag way out of your reach helps too, don't keep it in your glovebox or under the seat. It also helps if the knife is one of those with the blunted tip and not the ones looking like they just came off a gladiator of ancient Rome. A line cutter/emergency tool is even more discrete as it's so different looking and less menacing than a knife that is often not even given a second look. Cruises or airplanes can make the situation a PITA, personally I find that in that case getting one at the destination is easier. 

Apparently there are various grades of Mylar pouches (one of the companies I work with switched from bags from some Asian seller to a marginally more expensive North-American company because the first one did not have any explicit certification as food grade, even if they don't pack food in them). The difference apparently is in the composition of the inner layer when the pouches are the usual laminated ones that can be heat sealed at home. (apparently some are laminated with LLDPE others with VDC and others with some non-described materials. Since coated bags are normally used at home, I didn't bother too much with handling temperatures for the uncoated Mylar) This is from a Mylar booklet by DuPont Teijin Films: 

Not everything needs to be located underdeck, often some hardware is semi-sunk in the deck, or grouped at a navigation/manoeuvring location on the boat. This can make it less visible. Even in more conventional non-luxury sailboats the fact that everything is neatly routed along the deck helps in reduce cluttering and not make the sailboat look like a man of war when you look at it (and there's a reason many boatowners are neat freaks, even if just when it comes to the boat) Some hardware designed just to be flush with the deck and the use of electrical components also allows less conspicuous placement of some equipment. Some components can easily enough be completely located below deck, like furling gear, and they can be also operated manually from above deck in case of failure.. In some solutions only part of the system is routed below, like the placement of the traveler tackle in the Farr40. Often whats routed below are just all the "ropes" and, wanting, this can be designed into smaller affordable sailboats (I suspect some small boat owners would not like to have to maintain such a system). Its not just a matter of aesthetics, racing boats often use these systems to maintain a clean deck and lower the centre of gravity and their main drive is the performance of boat and crew. 

Well, it seems that everyone goes with either walk on the wet sand or protect your feet... However, I've done this in the past since I was a kid (overtime you get used to the hot sand): the really hot sand is just the thin top layer, just underneath is warm, so one way is to dig your foot, a little like kicking the sand at each step, this is generally not appreciated if there is other people on the beach. The other way, that wont get you yelled at but its slower, is to quickly move aside that thin hot superficial layer with your foot and take your step. Next time you are at the beach give a look at the way the old lifeguards or the guys that set umbrellas and chairs walk on the hot sand. These are ok for walking, you cant really do that for running. Over the years I just got used to the heat, now its not a big deal anymore. I would prefer that than running with sand and sweat in my fivefingers (whenever I have wet sand they rub too much on the back and around the ankle) or sandals, its like sandpaper... and sand in socks just drives me nuts... take it as a push to run a bit faster ;) 

As principle behind this think about your old light bulb. One emergency method of lighting a fire used to be to break the glass of the light bulb in your flashlight and burn the filament, no more no less than the way its done with a strand of steel wool for example. Now, when you put the filament between positive and negative there will be some resistance in the filament. This "friction" is what heats it up to incandescence and proceeds to burning it out. Obviously the energy dumped by the battery is wasted in heat by the filament and the circuit is left open once the filament burned. This is very different than shorting an AA battery using something rather thick, like a paperclip for example. Simplifying: the paperclip, being relatively thick, will not offer enough resistance to dissipate that energy in heat and the battery will be the one suffering for it. For a wire of an X material, the thinner the more resistivity it gets, steel wool is very thin in the finest grades, a light bulb filament is really long and really really thin. When you talk about materials the principle is the same: electrical resistance of one material will be different than the resistivity of another (less resistance = less energy dissipated in heat to turn in incandescence useful for us and more energy the battery has to suffer) Copper has a very low resistivity and high conductivity, that's why we make electrical wires out of it, and we don't want those to heat up too much, steel on the other hand is obviously conductive but offers quite some resistivity, and when the filament is thin will just burn and melt off ( thats what we are looking for). Carbon and graphite are even worse than steel in fact, one of the first light bulbs demonstrated, used carbon filaments