point to somebody already deciding that the coworker isn't pulling their weight. If they have a concern they need to talk to their manager about it. That is the professional way to handle it. In some jurisdictions the company may even be required to make reasonable accommodations for the disabled employee. In some cases the average coworker isn't fully informed about the disability and the accommodation. This may be a HR issue, due to the fact that the company doesn't want to be accused of discrimination. If the relationship isn't as coworkers but as a manger, you still should go to HR for advice. They can advise you on how to accommodate the disability, and how to work on the performance issues with the disabled employee. 

Ask HR. If they care about it they will let you know. If it is a borderline case they will have a form. Sometimes the key is just declaring the activity. Sometimes the size of enterprise or frequency of the event is what makes a difference. Becoming the treasurer of the little league baseball team while you are an accountant might not be considered an issue, because the team was never going to hire a professional accountant. Running the fall yard sale for the community is a once a year event, so they know it will be limited to only part of the year. They get concerned when the outside activities encroach into the workday or the work place. So don't use the work equipment to keep the books for the team, and don't use the copier to print flyers. Take related phone calls on your cell. 

I have not seen the company contribution to FICA listed in an offer letter, but I have worked for several companies that did include it in an annual compensation summary statement. In that statement they listed not just your wages and how they were divided between your take home pay, taxes, and employee funded benefits; but they also listed their contributions to FICA, insurance, vacation, sick... Based on my experience I would actually be reading that section very carefully. I would be concerned that they were telling me that I wasn't being considered an employee, and they were reminding me that I was going to be expected to pay that portion of FICA also. 

Both. With the old name in parentheses. You want to avoid confusion, so give them all the information they need. This is the same way you would handle a company name change. Sometimes the name change is simple: College to University. Other times it more complex. 

Most employers will not be interested in any NDA you want to use. They will not want to take the time for their lawyers to read it, and then have the parts of the company that might be working on similar products review it to make sure that they aren't boxing themselves in just to interview a programmer. In my experience we would just move on to the next candidate before even considering your request that we sign an NDA. You should be able to have your customer agree to let you describe the app in a general sense. The fact they have already expressed unease with you showing the App during the interview process is a warning sign. 

This is a situation where Skype is perfect. You working from home due to pain and the inability to dress properly makes sense. So do the interviews while you stay home. The fact that you may live only a mile from the normal interview location doesn't matter, if going to that location is logistically difficult or painfully. Now if the pain meds while resting at home make you too loopy to work, you may have to postpone the interviews or find somebody else. 

If the goal of the questions is to establish a program you did previously or are currently working on, then yes ask questions. If the goal of the question is to ask how to register an idea you may have next year, then yes ask the question. if the goal of the question is to avoid signing the form, then don't ask the question. They have already determined that everybody has to sign the form as a condition of employment. It is also likely that the average HR employee will not be able to anything about it. 

Generally a leave of absence or sabbatical is granted when you will be performing a task that isn't a conflict of interest. They generally fall into one of several categories: 

The purpose of the LinkedIn is so current and former coworkers can find you, and so recruiters and hiring managers can find you. Why would you not include all work experience? You might have a degree in Biology and worked for the first 5 years in a laboratory, now you are an accountant. A company working in biology, pharmacology, and chem-bio defense would be very interested in you. Because you are accountant with familiarity with the subject matter. Former co-workers who could expand your network would not be sure it was you if you didn't include all the places you worked, thus potentially missing out on a source of job references. Also splitting you experience into two profiles will show that both halves of you have trouble staying employed because of all the gaps in experience. 

While the political advertisement may have been put in place by a manager, there is also likely a corporate policy regarding the types of notices placed in view of the employees. In the US it tends to be a policy to put notices required by the government: Health and welfare, minimum wage and overtime notices, location of fire exits... As for other notices. The issue for the company is that any notice posted there is viewed that it is endorsed by company. So they have the need to review the items posted in the canteen. I would make sure that HR is aware of the issue. 

If they are the only experience you have then put them down. It how that you have worked jobs when you weren't in school. If this is your first post-graduate job HR is used to seeing these jobs listed, and won't trash your resume because they are listed. Once you have moved a few years past college graduation, these high school and college jobs get dropped. Their ability to showcase the your skills is limited. Internships may have longer staying power because they are closer to being professional. There is one caveat to this, background investigations. A company may require a background investigation and may want to talk to previous employers going back 5, 7 or even 10 years. In that case your pizza delivery job will need to be listed on the background investigation form. 

There is nothing to be gained by telling them. For 15 months or more you have disagreed with the direction of the project. If you decide to move on to another project, or to another company resign gracefully with the minimal amount of information. Are you expecting them to change their mind? They are unlikely to do so. 

It will depend on the policies of the companies involved. I have experienced several acquisitions. In most cases they have not halted hiring, though if the start date was right around the official merger date there could be issues getting the correct benefit package in place. For example if the small company allows interns to earn vacation, and the big company doesn't. The issue of do you earn vacation depends on your exact start date. I would be worried if the company was being acquired because they were about to go bankrupt. In that case the goal of the company purchasing the small company might be to keep the best parts and shutdown the rest. In that situation your project could disappear. I would talk to HR or your hiring manager. Current employees will be asking similar questions. 

This is a good question because it doesn't just impact software development. It means that you will have to understand the labor laws for the jurisdictions involved. It isn't just the end of the pay period. If there are night and weekend pay differentials and an employee reports for work at 11:00 PM which pay rate are they paid? What happens if they are called in for emergency work? What happens if they end work in lower rate period? what happens if they end in a higher rate period? Even if your options follow the law, some union agreements and contracts may specify other rules. The best approach is to make the settings part of the business rules, and they have to be configurable, with some predefined sets of rules that will cover most cases. 

It isn't fraud. Any money they collect for taxes and social security and the like they are required to pass on by law to the proper authority. So there is no gain for them by accidentally entering your status as exempt. When ever you need to change numbers on a federal or state W-4 just fill out and submit a new one, and then check your pay stubs to make sure they are correct. Don't waste time trying to track down the old form before submitting a new form now so that no more checks are impacted. Always review your stub to make sure it is correct. The stub should include the number of allowances you are claiming, or note you are exempt. Your big problem is now that it is January, how long was it going on in 2017? If no federal taxes were collected at all you may owe a lot of money to the federal or state government. There may also be interest and penalties. I would see a tax professional now to understand what this means, and if there was any recourse. Also download all your pay stubs for 2017 to see if the change happened mid-year. 

For big companies marking up the paperwork will not make the transition smooth. They typically bring in a dozen to a hundred new employees at a time, they give you a stack of papers or links to paperwork, and expect some to be completed immediately, some by the end of the day, the week, or the month. They are staffed to distribute and collect the paperwork. They are not staffed to negotiate. I assume that high value hires don't go through the same process, because they have more to protect. It is possible that you could mark it up, sign it and not have anybody discover it for weeks. But don't expect to be able to discuss it with HR that first day. Smaller companies in my experience have less paperwork, and are much more open to side work. 

If the position you are applying for involved web development, then a personal website would be beneficial. If the position requires a portfolio of graphic arts, animation, music...Then a website is a very good way to display some samples of your work. Keep in mind that some customers will not allow you to show more than screen captures of the websites you created for them. Some won't even allow that. But a website for the sake of having a website, doesn't help you in the job hunt.