The Bicycle Info Project has a nice page at $URL$ that describes the different Columbus tubesets in layman terms. The following is a sampling of what is on the site. The information gets even more specific relating characteristics to particular tubes (e.g. top tube, seat tube, chainstays, etc..) 

I have a cyclOps trainer.... The way the attachment works is pretty cool and does not require a quick release. Essentially, each side of the attachment point is a slotted tube that fits around the axel (the slots are to make room for quick-release scewers) the non-drive side slotted tube can be threaded in and out to get the tension right for your bike width. The drive side has a lever that pushes the drive-side slotted tube in and then locks into place (the bike is secured by clamping using the lever and the non-driveside adjustment). It is pretty universal, you will place you bike on the trainer, adjust the mag (another handled adjustment) such that when the rear wheel sits on it your non-driveside axle lines up with the non-driveside slotted tube on the trainer... to tighten the bike-to-the-trainer pull/rotate the lever on the drive side of the trainer. The first time performing the process will be iterative to ensure you get the adjustments just right so the bicycle is secured to the trainer. Once done it will be good to go. To remove the bike just release the trainer driveside lever... to put the bike back on the trainer just line it up and re-engage the lever. 

The rear hub: Fortunately for you this should not be an issue provided you change the cassette to be a 9 speed cassette. Fortunately the cassette body on the hub is the same for 9 and 10 speed so no issue here Shifters and deraileurs: Since I assume from your text you have both systems you will just need to remove and replace the parts... Nothing here but moving things around Chains: you will need to ensure you have a 9 speed chain on the 9 speed bike and a 10 speed chain on the 10 speed bike. Cranksets: Purists may say you need to change them was well... my experience is it really does not matter but the perfectionist in me would keep the grouppos together so I would keep 105 cranks with the 105 grouppo and the Tiagra with Tiagra. Cables and Housing: There is a chance the cable routing differs or is of different lenghth... so if it was me I would just plan on replacing the housing and cables. Cassettes: The Tiagra is new and probably fine... if your 105 cassette is old get a new one and pair it with a new 9 speed chain and everything will feel brand new. 

Do you just want the pack for hydration or do you want to carry stuff in the pack as well (e.g. Tools, pump, jacket, food, etc..) After gauging your consumption rate (only you can do this) and considering a bottle is 22-26 oz determine the bladder size you need/feel confident will provide the amount of hydration required for your targeted activities. 

Don't just lean forward... move forward such that you are sitting on the pointy nose of your seat... that's right position it so it feels like you are about to have your rear impaled. It requires leaning forward but it also lowers and shifts forward your center of mass. Here is where I get all nerdy. Imagine an ellipse whose ends are defined by the front and rear tires contact points with the ground... the sides (or width) of the ellipse would be a function of speed, terrain surface, and a riders comfort leaning into turns... so we have this ellipse... when climbing if a line projected from your center of mass (gravity) to the ground along the earth's gravity vector falls outside your ellipse you are in an unstable position... So get low, get forward, and keep two wheels on the ground. Have fun out there. 

RULE 11: The proper number of bikes is n+1 where n is your current bike tally. Cycling begets cycling.. with that in mind you should decide if you ever want to try your hand at road racing, cyclocross racing, or gravel grinding (racing). Each of the bikes are different with the road difference being more obvious than the difference between cyclocross and gravel bikes. So here it is... a true legit cyclocross bike will only have frame clearance for 700 x 35 tires (maybe even less as the UCI max tire width is 33), be stiffer than a gravel bike, and have an aggressive geometry designed for going fast for a limited time... speed over comfort. Gravel bikes tend to have slacker (more relaxed ) geometries and facilitate larger tires for more comfort over the long haul. So Dale, I completely agree... you want to be your fastest on a mountain bike you need to train on the road (even gravel roads) and it is more fun to do that on a bike that is designed (not over designed) for that purpose. I personally have a cyclocross bike for that very reason. I can use it for gravel grinding albeit with a skinnier than desired tire, I can use it on the road with 700 x 28C tires, and I can race cyclocross all on the same bike with the same wheelset. What you need to decide is if you want a general purpose machine like a cyclocross bike or do you want to gravitate towards the road or gravel designs that will be more specific their domain but very likely work for other endeavors within some constraints. 

I am not 100% sure for Shimano but my Rohloff Hub used SAE 80 weight gear oil. I can't imagine shimano has magic that isn't covered by the SAE standard. 

Rule of Thumb: a water bottle an hour That rule of thumb slides from person to person... me I am more like a 1/2 bottle per hour a little more if it is hot and a little less if I am mountain biking with my dog just joying being outside. On a 3-4 hour road ride with no water stops available along the way I would take two bottles... if it was exceptionally hot I may add a small bottle to my jersey pocket. On a similar time duration mountain bike ride (sans dog) I would use a hydration pack. So, things to consider: 

Interesting idea but the front axle (whether is be a 15mm through-axle or a 9mm QR axle) does not rotate, the hub-body and by extension the rest of the wheel rotates about the axel via the bearings. Making such a system where the axel does rotate (e.g. unicycle fork) would require creating a capture system (which is the current function of the QR) to secure the wheel to the fork that would likely be less user-friendly that the quick-release based systems we have come to expect. 

It sounds like you may have bent your deraileur hanger. Looking forward from the rear of the bike, the hanger should be perpendicular to the ground when the bicycle is standing straight up. Some bikes have replaceable hangers.... For others there are tools for aligning bent derailleur hangers.... Absent the tool and depending on your comfort/mechanical skill level it is possible to align the derailleur hanger with a large adjustable wrench by removing the derailleur and rear wheel and applying gentle force to return it to its perpendicular position. If it is bent to severely, I highly recommend taking it to a shop. 

I would say the washing instructions.... degrease drivetrain, mild soap, etc. is exactly what you want to do. What I would concern myself with is the extent of the rust. Today there are a number of frame saver (rust inhibitor) products that you can apply inside the seat tube to mitigate corrosion, I am not so sure those product were so well known in 1984. Back in 1984, conscientious owner may have found a product or have used 3-in-1 oil inside the frame to serve the same purpose. My advice would be to perform a very thorough inspection of all the rust areas to ensure the integrity of the tubing has not been compromised by corrosion (e.g. no holes in tubes). Once I was satisfied that bike was structurally safe to ride, I would apply a frame saver product and then not worry too much about the grooved seatpost when washing. Most bottom bracket housings (the tube the bottom bracket threads into) have drain holes at the bottom for water to drain. 

Once you answer those questions I am pretty sure you will be able to look at your selections and make all the little personal preferences relative to style and selection necessary to wind up with a hydration pack that works for your needs. 

Finally, you may need to get some new bar tape depending on how careful you are removing the tape to get the Brifters off. In the end I think you can salvage everything pretty easily to put the Tiagra on your old bike and the 105 on your new. Good Luck 

Using only 9 cogs of a 10 speed cassette will not work as the shifter throw (amount of cable pulled/released) is different between 9 and 10 speed systems. Considerations: Derailleur Cage Length. To go to 42 tooth set up you need to verify you have the long cage version of your Alivio derailleur. Medium cage Shimano derailleurs typically can accommodate 37 tooth cogs so you described system may have a medium cage derailleur and not work with a 42 tooth cog. MBTR has a thread dedicated to 8/9 speed 42 tooth setups Here: $URL$ Essentially, they use a One-Up 42 tooth cog (designed for 10 Speed Systems on a 9 Speed cassette and add the 9 speed spacer behind the cassette on the hub body and indicate it works with vintage XT Thumbshifters. Caution: The thread indicates they use the "ghost" position (click beyond the 8th gear of their 8 speed thumb shifter) so it may not work with your Alivio shifter Another Caution: $URL$ indicates Shimano Alivio (CS-HG50-10), Deore (CS-HG62-10) and SRAM XX (XG-1099) cassettes are not compatible with the OneUp adapter sprocket. In these cases the purchase of a compatible cassette will also be necessary. So to be frugal and mitigate risk, I would buy a new 9 speed cassette. 9 Speed 11-36 cassettes are readily available which are guaranteed to work for about $50 USD and although it may not give your the gear inch reduction of a 42 you can rest assure there will not be any compatibility issues. Another route would be to evaluate your front chain ring sizes. Can they be reduced by a tooth or two? 

I would expect the SpeedZone Sport Double Wireless ANT+ model to be similar. A agree with the comments that say a bit below should work fine but too much below and you will likely lose the Liquid Crystal Display until the unit warms back up to within the specified operating range 

Certainly the cable should be long enough to be under full compression by the tightening screw. The extended length beyond that I have found is a trade-space between design and preference. Some derailleurs and brakes have nice little routing features that allow you to tuck the extra behind a controlled point preventing annoying rubbing on your legs or tires.... If there is too little extra you may not be able to utilize this feature. Some components don't have the routing feature, In that case I usually provide anywhere between 2 to 3 inches. I have found that length is best for tucking out of the way.. and if in the rare case I need to pull some slack our of the cable I have enough to get a good purchase without the use of pliers. If adjusted correctly the first time.. it is rare that you will need to let out cabling at the point of contact with the brake or derailleur but keep in mind that rare does not mean never so if you think its too short it probably is worth getting a new cable. 

Provided the hub has a Shimano/SRAM compatible cassette body you should be able to upgrade to 10 speed with your existing hub. Campagnolo 8 speed cassette bodies are incompatible with Campy 10 speed cassettes so if you are running Campy you will need a new hub. 

Considering that you will be hanging up your bike come ICE time... I would say that CX tires can/would be a bit more confidence inspiring that a typical slick tire. However, I don't think that a CX tire would be much better (and likely more expensive) than a nice inverted tread commuting tire like the continental Touring Plus or an equivalent. Having commuted in an area like you describe... cold wet, more slush than snow, etc... I have had very good luck with inverted tread commuting tires and they can be (are) usually a bit more pleasant on pavement than CX tires. 

The change over to your 105 drivetrain should be pretty straight forward. Here are some things that you should consider... 

Two items to consider are bicycle fit and riding position. Here is a link to how the position of the controls can effect neck and back pain $URL$ The post discussed positioning of the hoods on a drop bar bike but I am sure you can extrapolate the information to your own circumstances given your flat bar bike. An additional thing to consider relative to fit is cockpit room... it is not just a matter of handlebar height relative to the seat. Reach can have a huge impact on comfort particularly with the back and neck. Too much reach has you stretched out and too little room (short reach) has you hunched over.. both situations force your head/neck into unnatural positions to see the road when riding... Top tube length is the primary factor effecting reach but considering you already have your bike you can play on the margins by adjusting your seat fore and aft, as mentioned in the comments you can adjust your bar height, or you can get a new stem that can affect both bar height and reach. With the proper fit, consider riding form. Your elbows should be slightly bent... that is purposely bent... and your back slightly arched (not hunched). this position has the effect of pulling your head and shoulders up so you can see the road without having to hold your head back. It has the added benefit of opening up your breathing pathways.... elbows bent, back arched should be a mantra until it becomes your natural riding position. Play with your fit.. you may want to consider getting a professional fit especially if you are considering investing in a new stem or bars. The professional fit will inform you on what would be best considering your current setup. good luck 

Front Fenders typically mount using a mounting bracket at the fork crown and a couple supporting members from the fender to the fork legs themselves. Since you are dealing with a bike that was presumably designed to utilize the fenders you have, I would suggest that if the rear of the fender is rubbing, detach the supporting members attached to the fork legs (one on each side) re-position the fork crown bracket such that the rear does not rub... (note it is not too uncommon to have to bend the bracket a bit to get the positioning you need) Then re-connect the lower supporting members.