The bike's proportion of total air drag is roughly 20% (for a road bike, more for a TT bike as the rider assumes a more aero position), with the rider accounting for the balance. So assuming exactly the same bike fit and rider position, then even if the new bike halved the drag coefficient of the old bike, it would mean a drop of only ~10% in your total coefficient of drag. A 10% reduction in CdA, while a decent improvement, would result in ~ 3.4% increase in speed on flat terrain. So a bike with 50% the drag coefficient of another results in ~ 3.4% speed gain. If the aero differences of the bikes are less, then of course the potential speed differences will be quite small. What is significant of course depends on how much a given speed gain matters to you. And just to set an upper limit to speed gain from changing bikes (same bike position), if the bike had zero drag (impossible of course) then you'll still only attain a ~ 7-8% increase in speed. That's the approximate theoretical upper limit. If the new bike fit is aerodynamically worse than on your current bike then you may even go slower! So while a nice aero road bike, assuming same bike position, will result in some speed gain, the bigger bang for buck is attaining a more aerodynamic position on the bike. As others have commented, this is often done with the use of aerobars fitted to the front of the bike to enable the rider to attain a much more aerodynamic bike position. Of course you can do both and have fun trying! 

Put them in wheel bags and simply hang the bags up. Keeps wheels protected, clean and dust free. That's what I do. 

Wheels are an easy upgrade to make as you can put them on your bike immediately with little mechanical hassle. There are many factors related to a wheel's performance, but the one that makes the greatest difference to energy/power demand, speed and accelerations is aerodynamics. Hence why one of the most popular upgrades is to wheels with better aerodynamic properties. Wheel weight is generally way over rated as a factor in performance, and I'll come back to that later. Factors other than aerodynamics and weight include: 

This should be reasonably straightforward to interpret, but even so I'll provide some explanation. The horizontal axis is altitude and the dark vertical lines represent the altitude of various tracks around the world. The vertical axis is the proportion of sea level speed attainable. The curved coloured lines represent the combined impact of both a reduction in power using each of the formula highlighted above, combined with the reduction in air density enabling greater speeds for same power. So for example, if we look at the green line (Basset et al acclimated), this shows that as a cyclist increases altitude, they are capable of sustaining a higher speed up until around 2,900 metres, and any further increase in altitude shows a decline in the speed attainable, as the power losses begin to outweigh the reduction in air density. The track in Aigle Switerland represents around a 1% speed gain over London, while riding at Aguascalientes would provide for between a 2.5% to 4% gain in speed. Head to Mexico City and you might gain a little more, but as the chart shows, the curves begin to flatten out, and so the risk v reward balance tips more towards the riskier end of the spectrum. Altitude therefore represents a case of good gains but diminishing returns as the air gets rarer. Once you head above 2,000 metres, the speed gains begin to taper off, and eventually they start to reduce, meaning there is a "sweet spot" altitude. Caveats, and there are a few but the most important are: 

As you can see from the chart above, even a minor difference in wind has quite an impact. Unlike speed, your power output is entirely down to you alone, being a result of your physiological capability and how hard you choose to ride relative to your ability. The second factor I mentioned is the difference in the resolution of speed and power measurement to detect changes in physiological capability. This is due to the cubic (rather than linear) relationship between speed and power. This is shown by the curvilinear plot shown in the chart for flat road riding. In other words, changes in speed (on flatter terrain) require much larger changes in power, in particular at speeds above 25km/h where the plot steepens significantly. The result of this is that differences in physiological capability (i.e. fitness) will be reflected in power measurement but the speed differences may be too small or subtle to be able to reliably detect a change in physiological capability, and will of course also be affected by the noise of uncontrollable variables. So while speed is OK to measure large differences in ability on average over a period covering many many rides on the same route, it does not have the resolution or reliability to detect short term and/or more subtle changes in fitness. As such power is superior as a measure of both your physiological capability and relative effort level, particularly when you reach the stage when changes in fitness are not large, which is typically the case once you've been riding and/or training consistently for a year or two. Whether having such increased resolution and reliability in measuring your capability matters to you is however somewhat subjective and individually variable. 

Just coming back to this question as there are a few considerations. The OP only mentioned (barometric) air pressure and not necessarily altitude. I'll start with barometric pressure only and come back to impact of altitude. Typical barometric pressure variations at the same altitude, and hence impact on the partial pressure of oxygen (O2), are not so big as to be noticeable to one's ability to generate power, however they are sufficient to impact the speed one can attain for a given power output. It may not be all that noticeable in general riding about town, but time trial riders will be able to achieve faster or slower times depending on the barometric pressure. A 10% variation in air pressure at the same altitude won't happen. e.g. the difference between very low pressure day (e.g. a category 2 to 3 cyclone with central low pressure zone @ 970 hPa) and very high pressure (e.g. fine day @ 1030 hPa) is only 6%. Since you are unlikely to ride in a hurricane or cyclone, the fluctuations in barometric pressure for conditions you will actually ride in are typically only a couple of percent. Even so, for a time trial racer, over a 40km course the difference in air density between low and high pressure days can result in a 30 seconds difference in time on course, all other things being equal. Air density can vary by more than that due to changes in barometric pressure alone. Air density is primarily a function of barometric pressure, air temperature and altitude. Air density increases with increases in barometric pressure, and it reduces with increases in temperature and altitude. Humidity has a very small (negligible) impact on air density but for the sake of completeness, increasing humidity reduces air density a little. Impact of Altitude on Performance If we consider the impact of altitude on cycling performance, as others have said there are two primary factors: i. the physiological impact to your ability to generate sustainable power as the partial pressure of O2 reduces with increasing altitude, and ii. the physics impact as air density reduces, meaning one can attain a higher speed for the same power output (ceteris paribus). The physiological impact As we climb to higher altitudes and air density drops, the "thinner" air means a reduction in the partial pressure of oxygen, which negatively impacts the power output we can sustain via aerobic metabolism. That loss of power can be as much as 20% or more depending on how high we go, and our individual response to altitude. There have been a few published papers examining the impact of altitude on aerobic athletic performance and from these formulas to estimate the loss of power as a function of altitude have been developed. There was one from the 1989 paper by Peronnet et al, two from the 1999 paper by Bassett et al, one each for acclimated and non-acclimated athletes. Adding to those, I have generated a fourth formula, based on the 2007 study by Clark et al. The relevant papers are: Péronnet F, Bouissou P, Perrault H, Ricci J.: A comparison of cyclists' time records according to altitude and materials used. Bassett DR Jr, Kyle CR, Passfield L, Broker JP, Burke ER.: Comparing cycling world hour records, 1967-1996: modelling with empirical data. Clark SA, Bourdon PC, Schmidt W, Singh B, Cable G, Onus KJ, Woolford SM, Stanef T, Gore CJ, Aughey RJ.: The effect of acute simulated moderate altitude on power, performance and pacing strategies in well-trained cyclists. Peronnet et al used empirical data from actual world cycling hour records to estimate the impact of altitude on an elite cyclist's power output. The assumptions used in estimating altitude induced power loss may have some error; in particular due to methods used to estimate the power for each rider as neither the power nor coefficient of aerodynamic drag was actually measured. According to the old Wattage forum FAQ item by Dr David Bassett, Jr, the two Bassett et al formula were derived from earlier papers examining altitude impact on aerobic performance of four groups of highly trained or elite runners. So while these formulas were not derived from cyclists we can still generalise from those to the loss of aerobic capacity for cyclists. Finally, the study by Clark et al measured the impact on peak oxygen utilisation (VO2), gross efficiency and cycling power output on ten well trained but non-altitude acclimated cyclists and triathletes by testing riders at simulated altitudes of 200, 1200, 2200 and 3200 metres. They examined a number of factors, including maximal 5-minute power output, VO2 and gross efficiency relative to performance at 200 metres, as well as sub-maximal VO2 and gross efficiency. I used these data to generate a formula similar to those from Peronnet et al and Bassett et al (which make up the numbers in the table listed in one of the other answers). Of course there is an assumption of an equivalent reduction in 1-hour power as for 5-minute power. Clark et al noted slightly greater reductions in VO2 peak than for 5-minute maximal power, and no change in gross efficiency at 5-min max power with altitude. So there is some anaerobic metabolic contribution presumably making up the difference. There was some loss of sub-maximal efficiency noted at a simulated 3200 metres. I chose in this instance to use the reduction in 5-minute power rather than fall in VO2 peak as the base data for the formula, and applied an adjustment to offset the formula for sea-level equivalency to bring it into line with the formula by Peronnet et al and Bassett et al. Of course when you look at the reported data there are of course sizeable variations within the test group at each simulated altitude, so the formula is based on group averages for each simulated altitude. Here are the formulas: x = kilometres above sea level: Peronnet et al: Proportion of sea level power = -0.003x^3 + 0.0081x^2 - 0.0381x + 1 Bassett et al Altitude-acclimatised athletes (several weeks at altitude): Proportion of sea level power = -0.0112 x^2 – 0.0190x + 1 R^2 = 0.973 Bassett et al Non altitude-acclimatised athletes (1-7 days at altitude): Proportion of sea level power = 0.00178x^3 – 0.0143x^2 – 0.0407x + 1 R^2 = 0.974 Simmons’ formula based on Clark et al: Proportion of sea level power = -0.0092x^2 – 0.0323x + 1 R^2 = 0.993 and in chart form they look as follows: