Applying these two tendencies (rules would be too strong a word for them, you can find exceptions, but I think they have some validity) the vast Afro-Asiatic language speaking Egyptian population was relatively unlikely to adopt the unrelated Indo-European language of the ruling Greek minority. It was though more likely, although the process cannot have been that easy, as it seems to have taken nearly a thousand years to complete, for the Arabic of the next set of rulers to be adopted by the Egyptian speaking population. For example, as far as I can say as a non-expert but having studied some Ancient Egyptian and tried to find out a little about Coptic, the language derived from Ancient Egyptian that was spoken by the mass of the Egyptian people at the time of the Arab conquest, Egyptian and Arabic both either often or normally have the sentence order Verb-Subject-Object (V-S-O). Ancient Greek normally used either S-V-O (like English) or S-O-V. Egyptian & Arabic both include sounds made deep in the throat that do not exist in Greek, or any other European language to my knowledge, with the possible exception of the long-extinct and non-Indo-European language Etruscan. Egyptian & Arabic both divided the nouns into 2 genders (masculine and feminine) while Greek has 3, (masculine, feminine and neuter). Hence, it was easier for Egyptians to adopt a language like Arabic than to switch to speaking Greek. This does necessarily exclude other factors that other people have mentioned also having some importance e.g. once Egyptians began converting to Islam, the importance and prestige of Arabic as the language of the Quran. However, against that, in the Christian period Greek must also have had importance and prestige as the language of the New Testament, but that never led to Greek becoming the language of the Egyptian people, as Arabic later did. 

Which countries' independence is internationally recognised and which is not, especially by Western countries, seems to me to based on principles that are only comprehensible to people in foreign ministries and professors of international law, and make no practical, logical or ethical sense to anyone else. Why did the West support the right of mainly Albanian speaking Kosovo to proclaim independent from mainly Slavic speaking Serbia, but oppose it when mainly Russian-speaking parts of Ukraine try to do the same? Why was it OK for the United States to declare independence from Britain long ago but wrong for Biafra to declare independence from Nigeria in more recent history? Why was it OK for India to demand independence from Britain but wrong for Kashmir to demand independence from India? I am sure the 'experts' can put forward rationalisations for all this but I suspect rationalisations are what they mostly are. I think there is a large amount of foreign policy establishment 'group think' that seen from the outside can seem hypocritical, pedantic or plain silly. If the people of Somaliland can create a reasonably successful and functioning state while the rest of Somalia is a disaster it seems common sense and justice that they should be supported. If the leaders of the rest of Somalia object to that, then let them first create a sufficiently peaceful, prosperous and functioning country of their own that the people of Somaliland might reasonably want to join it. 

While Bendikt Grammer's answer is part of the truth, by no means all jobs were done by slaves and the Roman masses did a lot more than sit around depending on the state bread dole or rich patrons. There were many jobs: $URL$ e.g. bookseller, shoemaker, artist, bodyguard, tavern keeper, building labourer, doctor, civil servant, lawyer, clerk, actor, horse dealer, cart driver, teacher, merchants dealing in a variety of different goods, money lender etc. etc. The Cambridge Companion to the Roman Economy says that there are names of more different occupations preserved from Ancient Rome than there are from Renaissance Italy. It also says there was underemployment during the Late Republic which facilitated recruitment into the Republican Roman army. However, the fact that thereafter the Romans relied increasingly and then mainly on recruitment from outside Italy suggests that there was no longer a large underemployed population in Rome or Italy. However, on an Oxford University Extension course I attended on the Economy and Society of Ancient Rome we were told that while there is evidence of massive scale imports to Rome itself in Imperial times, requiring the construction of a new artificial harbour on the Tiber, Portus Romae, when Rome's existing port of Ostia could no longer cope, that there is little evidence of the city exporting anything. Rome was like a giant stomach, fed by the provincial limbs of the Empire. 

I cannot offer a complete answer but some relevant facts, many from my history degree or from having subsequently studied law. In theory, no one absolutely owned land but the king, everyone else if they had land 'held' it of the king. Hence the most complete from of land ownership that someone can have even today is 'freehold' i.e. held as a vassal of the monarch but 'free' of having to pay rent or perform knightly service etc. (Source, Halsbury’s Laws of England 5th Edition, Vol 87 [2017 reissue] para. 19) Hence in Medieval times if a Baron was e.g. executed for treason (say, having picked the side that lost in a rebellion or civil war) his land reverted to the Crown, who might grant it to some other knight or baron as a reward for loyalty (picking the side that won in the same rebellion or civil war) - see the example at the end of Shakespeare's 'Richard II' when the new king Henry IV having successfully rebelled and made himself the new king and then put down a further rebellion orders the defeated rebels executed and awards their lands to those who remained loyal to him. Even today in England if someone owning land dies without a will and without any relatives to inherit the land, ditto in some circumstances if a limited company that owns or leases land is dissolved, the land or lease reverts to being Crown land on the basis that it always was the monarch's to begin with. This is called 'bona vacantia'. There is an obscure 'Bona Vacantia Division' of a government department in Croydon to administer this. [Before I am told off by the vigilant 'you must quote your sources' police on this website anyone can easily verify this by Googling 'bona vacantia'.] Your example where the king gives 99 barons land and some of them sub-divide their landholding between knights: this did happen and was called 'sub-infeudation' [Google that as well, pedants! there is a Wikipedia article on it] but once the knights began sub-dividing their holdings as well it became legally and practically difficult for the nobility to extract all the rent or services due to them as is recited by Section I of the Statute of Quia Emptores of 1290. Section II of the Stature therefore banned further sub-infeudation. (Source: Quia Emptores, passed during the reign of King Edward I, one of the oldest Acts of Parliament still in force. On the UK government legislation website, helpfully in English translation as well as the original Medieval Latin: $URL$ As I have said, this Act is still in force, so you had better not go round practicing sub-infeudation!) In most of England primogeniture applied, which meant the eldest son got all the land and any others had to seek their own fortune in the world. (Kent and some towns including Nottingham had different customary inheritance rules - See $URL$ or Google ‘Gavelkind’ – equal division among the children; See Wikipedia article on 'Ultimogeniture' or Google ‘Borough English Inheritance’ – basically the youngest son rather than the eldest inherits the land.) Hence even in the eighteenth century a significant proportion of emigrants to the American colonies were the younger sons of landowners who did not inherit the land and had to make their own fortune elsewhere. This may have remained a sore point with some of them: it has been suggested (I regret I can't remember where I read this) that opposition to primogeniture in the new United States was partly because its leaders were or were descended from the younger sons who resented the fact that they did not inherit any of the family land back in England. Thomas Jefferson introduced a bill to abolish it in Virginia in 1777. Primogeniture was not the norm in most other European countries. While it seems unfair it had advantages. If estates and farms had to be sub-divided between all surviving sons they might become too small to be economically efficient or even viable. Also, in Anglo-Saxon England a kingdom tended to be inherited as a whole: contrast among e.g. the Welsh or in early-Medieval France the kingdom might be split between surviving sons, leaving smaller kingdoms less likely to strong enough to maintain their independence and often likely to fight each other. Your statement "I think that there are around 10000 shires in England today" - no, a 'shire' is effectively the same thing as a County, hence 'the County of Yorkshire. There are less than 50 in England. [Source - I am English, so know this]. There are a much larger number of lords of the manor, see Wikipedia $URL$ I do not know how many, you may be thinking of that. This is mostly a feudal relic nonsense I wish was abolished, and most people are unaware of them. However, as relics of the old feudal manors they did have right to receive nominal rents from what was known as Copyhold land until the 1930s, and they can pop up unexpectedly and claim right to minerals discovered under people's land even today. This creates a legal problem over ownership of underground oil deposits that has partly inhibited the spread of 'fracking' technology to extract oil deposits in England in recent years. 

The 10th edition of the Concise Oxford Dictionary, which is not infallible but does have the prestige and authority of Britain's second best University behind it, does not list 'benedict' as a word, although it does have 'benediction'. However, if relevant, the phrase 'maat hrw' (maat meaning truth or justice, hrw meaning voice) was often used to refer to deceased people whose souls were presumed after their deaths to have been pronounced worthy by a court of gods to enter the Ancient Egyptian equivalent of heaven. 

I have to admit this will not be an entirely satisfactory answer and I hope someone else can contribute a fuller one. However, I have taken several evening or weekend classes in Egyptology, including learning basic hieroglyphics, and read books on the subject, but I have never come across reference to surviving Ancient Egyptian annals. As far as I know their history is reconstructed piece-meal from sources such as: -Tomb and temple inscriptions (e.g. Ramses II's account of the battle of Kadesh in his temple at Abu Simbel; Harkhuf's late Old Kingdom tomb autobiography about his missions to lands to the south); -Literature, some of which refers to historical events (e.g. the Tale of Sinuhe, which obliquely refers to the assassination of King Amenemhat I); -The late 14th Century BC diplomatic correspondence found at Amarna -Physical evidence e.g. DNA analysis of mummies and examination of their bodies for signs of illness or injury during life; -and mention of Egypt in sources from outside the country e.g. the document known as the "Deeds" of Suppiluliuma I found at the Hittite capital Hattusas recording a request from an unidentified Egyptian queen (possibly Tutankhamun's widow Ankhesenamun) that the Hittite King send one of his sons to marry her, and what ensured. The nearest thing to 'annals' that I know of is that there are references to a book, which does not itself survive but is quoted by other authors, from late in ancient Egyptian history, after the country had lost its independence, by an Egyptian priest who was known to the Greeks as 'Manetho'. His work apparently listed the Egyptian kings going right back to the beginning of their known history, with the length of their reigns, and grouped the kings into the numbered 'Dynasties'. Manetho was probably not totally accurate but he apparently had access to other sources now lost and his scheme of dynasties is still followed by Egyptologists e.g. many of the best known and most interesting rulers like Hatshepsut, Akhenaten and Tutankhamun all reigned in the Eighteenth Dynasty. 

The Saxons probably moved in in force in the fifth century AD when the Romans withdrew. I studied this period of English history at University and have since taken courses in Old English (language of the Anglo-Saxons). General view appears to be that when the Romans arrived Britain was populated by tribes speaking Celtic languages, ancestral to Welsh or the extinct Pictish. However, the Romans were not interested in recording the languages their barbarian subjects spoke and it is conceivable there were enclaves speaking other language(s). The earliest (doubtful) reference to Saxons under that name is in Ptolemy's geography Second Century AD, as a tribe in Continental Europe. By late Roman times fierce pagan Saxons were recorded raiding Britain and northern Gaul by sea, and there is some archaeological evidence that (as with other Germanic tribes) some Saxons joined the Roman army and served in Britain. After the Romans abandoned Britain in the early fifth century AD we have little record of what happened there. By the end of the sixth century, when they began to adopt Christianity and leave significant written records the Saxons and closely-related Angles and Jutes were established occupying most of what is now England, Celtic speakers remaining independent in the poorer, more mountainous territories in what are now Scotland, Wales and Cornwall. Saxons, Angles (and the less common Jutes) were sufficiently similar in speech and culture that they quite quickly blended into an Anglo-Saxon/ English nation, and the terms Saxon and Engel (Angle or English) were used almost interchangeably. Apart from Bede, whom you mention, whose Eighth Century Ecclesiastical History of the English People treats Saxons, Angles and Jutes as one people, other sources include: -'The Ruin of Britain' by Gildas, a British/Welsh monk writing in Latin in the fifth century who regards the conquest of much of Britain by the Anglo-Saxons as God's punishment for the Britons' gluttony, drunkenness and other sins. -The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle in Old English and giving an English point of view probably compiled by order of King Alfred the Great in the late Ninth Century, from poems and other traditions and sources we do not know. -Mention by continental writers. They say so little about Britain for a few hundred years after the Romans left that its contacts with the civilized world must have been severely curtailed following the pagan Anglo-Saxon conquest but there are a few mentions -Archaeology, although we have to be careful that in the absence of written records we do not necessarily know if e.g. a change in farming or burial practice means a new population coming in or what language they spoke. 

The Ottomans did not defeat the British and French navies at Gallipoli although they did cause them losses with mines and the help of a German submarine. The Allied navies were able to land, supply and eventually evacuate the military invasion force which while not routed, did not manage to advance far enough inland to be able to achieve their objectives and were eventually withdrawn. Withdrawing the Allied troops almost without loss in 1916 from trenches in easy range of Ottoman infantry and artillery was one of the few major things that went completely right. Why did the land invasion not achieve anything? 

"I do not understand how Cicero could give his freedman the nomen of another" - perhaps because Cicero was the master and so could do what he liked? If Tiro objected to the name Cicero proposed to give him on freeing him from slavery, Cicero might have said "Well how's that for ingratitude! If you are going to be like that when I offer to free you, on second thoughts you can remain a slave!" Tiro might also have been sufficiently grateful to be freed and glad to have any non-slave name that he may have been happy to adopt whatever name Cicero suggested. In Roman society even free men tended to be bound to more powerful men by client/ patron relationships which imposed mutual obligations to help each other to the extent that their different status allowed. An ex-slave might still want to remain on good terms with his former master who would become his patron. Tiro might e.g. want Cicero's recommendation, advice or help in establishing himself in a career, or if Tiro ever needed a good lawyer for any reason Cicero was reputed one of the best. In return Tiro would show respect for Cicero and help him to the extent he was able. 

There is a fascinating book 'Heirs to Forgotten Kingdoms' by Gerard Russell about minority religions of the Middle East, which includes a chapter on the present-day Samaritans. They claim (although mainstream Jews do not accept this) to be the last remnant of the northern tribes of Israel, their numbers having dwindled over the centuries by defections to other religions like Christianity and Islam. As Pieter Geerkens said in a comment on your question, there are less than a thousand Samaritans left now, living mainly in one or two villages in the 'Palestinian' West Bank, or in one street in Tel Aviv in Israel. We know from mention in other sources (including the Roman period Jewish historian Josephus) that they were much more numerous in ancient times. They still have priests and animal sacrifices as per the religion described in the earliest books of the Bible, call themselves Hebrews, not Jews, and will speak the name of their God 'Yahweh' out loud. Being (they say) northern Israelites they do not accept Jerusalem as a holy city (an innovation of the southern Israelite King David). They reject the later books of what most of us call the Old Testament, which may be innovations of the southern Israelites after their kingdom of Judah separated from Israel or after Judah was exiled to Babylon. Having long been a small minority existing on sufferance of more numerous and powerful groups in the Middle East the Samaritans have learned to keep their heads down and stay out of politics. However, the description of their practices and e.g. photo of a Samaritan priest with his cheeks ritually smeared with the blood of a sacrificed lamb in Gerard Russell's above book seem to me closer than modern rabbinical Judaism to what the religion described in the Bible from Moses' time would have been like. Having said that, it may be that after the fearsome Assyrians deported the 10 northern tribes, as the Assyrians probably intended in order to be able to rule them more easily, many of them did lose their Hebrew identity and religion and merge into the then pagan populations of the Middle East. Given the number of times that the Old Testament prophets denounced and punished Israelites for reverting to the paganism of neighbouring peoples, quite a few Israelites must have been fairly ready to do so anyway. It is therefore quite possible that some of the'Palestinian' and other Arabs of the Middle East who are today mostly such bitter enemies of the modern state of Israel are themselves partly descended from the lost northern tribes of Israel.