If we swap the top pulley and the carabiner, we actually get a better MA of about 4.92:1 with the same gear (but we obviously lose the progress capturing). 

As you can see my rule of thumb is less than 10% off the "exact" formula if the new arrow is at least half as heavy and at most twice as heavy as the old one. But if you consider arrows with a weight difference of a factor two, then the initial assumption is probably get us a way bigger error. Example In your example we have 

The strength is dependent mainly on the angle between the two ropes form, on which the hammock is hung, and the weight you want the hammock to support. For a traditional hammock the angles of the ropes (measured to the horizontal) are about (just an estimate). Lets assume we want to design the system for a person weighing . Then we can derive a formula for the force ( acting on the ropes using trigonometry: 

Ask specific questions here, or browse the other questions and answers! For your first time, try and make sure you have fun. The following may help: 

If it's raining or very humid you are probably going to have to put up with some condensation, but to try and reduce it, look for ways to minimise water vapour and increase ventilation. The following may help, but obviously not all will be appropriate for the conditions you are camping in. Sources of water vapour: 

lower air density which increases respiration and, therefore, water loss, and lower air pressure which increases evaporation of moisture from the skin. 

Even this approximation of the coefficient is quite nonlinear so it is not possible to make a statement x grains equal y fps. In the following graph you can see the relationship between the ratio of the two velocities and the ratio of the masses. 

That would again mean the new arrow is about 7% faster than the old one. By the numbers you could guess that the approximation is about 3% off the "exact" value, as predicted. Bottom line Again looking at the graph above, we can conclude that if the weights are close enough, I suggest the rule of thumb the relative difference in velocity is going to be about half the relative difference in mass. What do I mean by that: If you have a weight difference of 10% (as long as the weights are close enough, it does not matter which one you consider as 100%) then the difference in velocity is going to be about 5%. Again checking with the "exact" formula (considering ) 

Hiking isn't too different from walking, except that the terrain may be rougher (depending on the path) and navigation might be more difficult (again, depending on the path). I am in the northeastern U.S. and can tell you that most people already own the equipment to hike many of the most difficult all-day mountain trails in my region. You're not even planning to stay overnight. Stage 1: Short, Flat Walks How far do you walk already? For starters, don't do anything too different. Go to the local city or state park and walk the fraction-of-a-mile boardwalk or paved trail. You could probably do this today. Bring a bottle of water or another kind of drink if it's hot. The type of container you store the water in isn't important, as long as it's light enough for you to carry. Wear sunscreen or a hat if it's sunny. Otherwise, wear whatever clothes you find comfortable, and whatever shoes you'd choose if you didn't care how you looked and wanted to walk from one end of your indoor shopping mall to the other. On an even paved trail for a fraction of a mile, you'd be OK even if your favorite walking shoes are flip-flops or high heels. If you want to learn more about what you're seeing, read a book about the local nature. I find it enhances the experience. :) Stage 2: A Bit More Rugged Congratulations. If you're having fun on the easiest hikes and want something more challenging, you're ready to do what I would consider serious hiking. A 1-2 mile trail through the heart of a state or national park, possibly on rough and rocky terrain, can really make you feel far away from civilization. Make sure you bring plenty of water and wear sturdy shoes. Sneakers or any kind of sturdy flats are a good choice, and hiking boots are also okay. You might want to wade through streams or into lakes, and choosing stable trekking sandals as your footwear can make that fun. But don't drink the water without purifying it first. Do NOT wear: Shoes that stretch or wobble. Examples: Flip-flops, leather sandals, Crocs, most dress shoes. On rough trails, these increase the risk of ankle injury. You also want to think twice where you put your feet when the trail is rough, and resist the urge to rush downhill. Uphill or downhill, keep a steady pace on rocky trails. To be on the safe side, you'd want to hike with a partner starting at this level. Any type of physical activity incurs a small risk of injury, and you don't want to be alone in a remote area if you're in trouble. You would also want to be familiar with the trail markers, and make sure you can clearly see the markers or the trail at all times. (On some trails this is a challenge...) Stage 3: Moderate Day Hiking 3-6 mile trails can lead you through several different habitats, around lakes, or up small mountains. At this level, you can start to really know the hikes in a major state or national park. Make sure you're in reasonably good physical shape before you attempt a hike of this difficulty. You should be very comfortable doing the easy trails. These harder hikes will take several hours, so you should wear shoes that won't give you blisters. Bring meals or snack food (such as gorp) as appropriate. You may also want to bring a flashlight, in case you miscalculate the time and find yourself stuck on the trail after dark. If you think the weather might change, bring or wear layers of clothes. Stage 4: Are You Going to Follow the Call of the Wild? If you're comfortable with the easy and moderate hikes, you're ready to leave your old life behind and spend a full day immersed in a trail. You probably want to wear some of the sturdiest shoes you own - sneakers or hiking boots, so long as they don't give you blisters. I recommend you take yourself to New Hampshire, which the poet Robert Frost called "one of the two best states in the Union. Vermont's the other." $URL$ He wrote this for a reason. You can take one of his (and my) favorite trails. It's unforgettable. $URL$ If you hike the whole loop, you will ascend above the Northwoods and reach tundra and spectacular views. New Hampshire isn't quite as rugged as Jack London's The Call of the Wild, which is set even farther north. Still, its motto is "Live Free or Die" and despite its small size, it would mess with Texas. Perhaps you will be asking the question "Hiking: How to stop?" Don't. 

The rule of three may be a useful mnemonic to help prioritise or plan in a survival situation, but it is not necessarily going to be accurate. Survival without food is going to depend on many factors, for example, the nutritional state of the person at the start of their starvation and the amount of energy they expend during the starvation. These factors will shorten or extend the three week estimate. One example of survival with negligible food intake longer than three weeks is the story of James Scott who survived 43 days lost in Nepal eating only some vegetation and a caterpillar. He documented the story in his book Lost in the Himalayas. While not wilderness survival, according to this article from Scientific American, there are well documented studies reporting the survival of hunger strikers for up to 40 days. On the three minutes without breathing rule, an extreme example that contradicts this is the static apnea (freediving breath holding) record of 11 minutes and 35 seconds. 

In addition to @Mike's excellent answer I'd like to suggest replacing the barrel knots of the double fisherman's with blake hitches. If properly dressed and set this will prevent the loop from sliding back to full length when under load, whereas the double fishermans slides a lot quicker. 

In practice however you have to deal with the resistance. A good approximatin is that pulleys (as a 180° redirect) are about 90% efficient, and carabiners about 50%. This means if you pull with one unit of tension on one side, the other side only experiences about 90% (or 50%). We can use the same method again and we can see that in practice you only expect about a 4.5:1 advantage: 

CamelBak have a great answer in the help section of their website. Summarising their recommendations: Keep it clean and dry when not in use. If mould develops: 

The key advantage of a geodesic design is the pole configuration can support a greater static load. This means they are favoured for mountaineering expeditions because they can withstand a heavy snow fall (compared with a tunnel design that would sag with the weight of the snow between each pole). Tunnel tents are preferred for polar expeditions as they generally have a better weight to space ratio (the walls are more "vertical" than an equivalent geodesic design), they are simpler and quicker to pitch and as many regions of the Poles have little precipitation (some areas being classified as desert) the ability to withstand heavy snowfall is much less of a consideration. 

(First of all: I'm not used to the english words here.) I think tillering trees refere to the contraptiosn you do mount on walls / something standing upright, using a string and a pulley. But you can easily do the same with just a tillering stick which is quite easy to fabricate, I think following images say more than I can say in words. All you need is a little piece of lumber, at preferably longer than your draw length, and cut some notches in it. That way you can put the bow into the top notch and continuously pull the string back step by step, lean in on a wall, take some steps back in order to observe the shape. This is important as you usually cannot observe it that well when you're still having it in you hands. The procedure is exactly the same as when using a tillering tree. As far as I'm aware this is the standard tool. 

If you're not having fun, figure out why and fix it for next time. As you gain experience things will become easier and you'll have more fun. 

All land in the UK is owned by somebody, therefore, all trees and their produce (including firewood) are owned by somebody. You could be charged with theft if you take logs, kindling etc. without permission. The Jeremy Vine Show on BBC Radio 2 on 6th January 2012 discussed this very topic following the storms in the UK around that time, that left a lot of fallen trees. Jeremy Vine interviewed a lawyer who I remember explained the laws that cover this issue. The Forestry Commission sometimes offers Firewood Scavenging Permits allowing you to gather your own firewood, usually from an area that has already been commercially harvested.