Military commanders tend to be reluctant to deploy troops to areas from which they can't be recovered if things go wrong -- even paratroops landing behind enemy lines have lines of retreat mapped out as contingencies. So you can't in general deploy troops from space unless you can also recover them back into space. And that is a much harder problem -- it's certainly not feasible with contemporary technology, or anything we expect to develop this century. 

No, it's not plausible for binary planets to be inside each other's Roche limit, no matter how hard the substance they're made of. Anything on the surface of one planet would be lifted off the surface by the tidal force when the other planet was overhead -- that's what being inside the Roche limit means. 

No, if it shares an atmosphere with the planet then air friction will quickly cause its orbit to decay and it will crash into the planet. That’s why satellite orbits decay. 

In Russian empire convicts were sent to Siberia for permanent settlement, as punishment and a way to identify them, those who commited grievous crimes (quite a wide definition at that time), would often have been cropped ( their ears cut off), and/or have their nostrils teared. Branding face (usually forehead) with hot iron was also common. Cutting off limbs was much less common, as made inmate unfit for forced labour. Provided authorities with difficult to hide way to identify prisoners. 

As mentioned by Separatrix, basic steam engine was discovered quite some time before black powder. There is commonly accepted opinion among historians, that it's further development was stymied by wide availability and chipnes of slave labour. Make it unavailable or very expensive, and you've got incentive to develop steam technology, and it is worth mentioning that antiquety possessed very advanced theoretical and practical knowledge in mechanics, as evident $URL$ Compared to Greeks and romans, your country would need better knowledge of metallurgy, though. 

Increased global temperatures won't cause the land to all be desert. The warmer it is, the more water evaporates and then falls as rain, so average global rainfall will increase rather than decreasing. Wind patterns will change and the rain may well fall in different places from where it falls now, so there will be some new deserts, but existing deserts may well get rain. Think of your new default biome as being tropical rain forest, not desert. 

The US might not have entered World War I, if telegrams at the time could be properly encrypted. One of the reasons for US entry into the war was outrage at the Zimmerman Telegram, intercepted and decrypted by British intelligence, proposing a German alliance with Mexico if the US entered the war. I'd call that a major impact. 

What can never be automated is jobs in industries whose main selling point is that they're not automated, and you're being served by a real live human being. Motorised taxis are cheaper and more efficient, but people still pay for scenic rides in a horse-drawn carriage. People go to Renaissance Fairs. There will always be an appetite for the quaint and retro, and that will include human service. 

Global pandemic of virus causing agraphia ( $URL$ ), coinciding with regular kind of global catastrophic event (megavolcano, etc). Should be extremely contagious, but should not kill. As added twist, initially it may provide some kind of evolutionary benefit (e.g., protection from wide-spread malaria, etc), before it became apparent what kind of harm it does. Making written forms of communication impossible or extremely difficult would make recovering lost technology very challenging. 

Two examples come to mind: 1) malaria -- recurring disease that often does not kill but makes person very weak. The earliest cure (quinine) was discovered by Jesuits based on observation of indigenous people making concoction from bark of cinchona tree. Cultural habits that could be adopted from other culture would be sleeping under nets and adopting ritual of drinking tea from tree bark. 2) AIDS -- caused by HIV, does not kill fast, but it seems that circumcision greatly reduce the chances of disease transmission. This would lack the requirement of finding cure for already sick, but arguably, adopting cultural habits like circumcision and, for example, more prohibitive rules on sexual life would help to put the spread under control. 

Even in England, Romney Marsh is immediately adjacent to Dungeness, which is the only desert in the UK. 

All you need is three ground stations, about 120 degrees of longitude apart. We're greatly assisted by the Moon being tidally locked, so assuming the base is on the near side it will never be out of line-of-sight with the Earth. NASA already do this for their Deep Space Network, in the US, Spain and Australia. 

Banning the use of all artificial fertilisers, herbicides, pesticides and antibiotics seems like the obvious measure. Won't affect organic farms at all, but will prevent industrial farms from operating in anything like they way they do at present. 

I've ridden a horse up a 20%-25% gradient many times. Horse riding is not going to be your limiting factor. 

Trivially, you can't. Just imagine a two-dimensional labyrinth, except that the exit goes into the third dimension from one of the "islands" that you can't get to by keeping your hand on a wall. 

Weaponized nanobots from last global war, designed to set off powder and explosives spread world-wide and are self-perpetuating, but no technology exists in post-apocalyptic world to neutralize them. You also could add nanobots preventing electricity generation and/or semiconductor electronics, if so required by your story. Granted, nanobots are a somewhat handwavium device, but, on the other hand, at this point we don't know what they are truly capable of. 

Before getting to technicalities (branch of knowledge, skills worth preserving) you need a highly self-organised self-governing group of people with a sense of mission that could do the job. Most likely they would be followers of religion that gives you sense of living and death, gives meaning to your suffering and strength to not be fearful of death and allows for a rise of some kind of warrior code (maybe among caste/clan of warriors). They would have a developed law system (not necessarily a complex one, but strictly adhered to), that will satisfy the need for justice and would be envyed by outsiders. In post-apocalyptic world they would appear most likely first as followers of some highly revered figure, maybe considered prophet. This group must also be self-perpetuating, either through recruiting new members, or natural growth. Preserving knowledge MUST be essential to its stated purpose: rebuilding God's Kingdom, or whatever purpose you give them. If the group considers knowledge evil and root of problems, they won't try to preserve it. Examples: early Church communities, highland clans (these are less likely to be concerned about knowledge preservation), Jewish people throughout most of their history, etc. Once you have your group and where it exists (decaying cities, as early Church in late Roman Empire; group of highly protected sheltered compounds in srarcely populated areas, what would likely be a feature of some reclusive Christian denominations in US) it can be easier to determine what kind of knowledge they need, as it is highly unlikely they could or will attempt to preserve all knowledge. 

There would be no complex life, and probably no life at all. The red giant phase of stellar evolution only lasts for around a billion years, and any planet in the habitable zone before the red giant phase would no longer be habitable. So your alternative Earth would have been a frozen ice ball up until some time less than a billion years ago, which isn't long enough for complex life to evolve. 

Neutron stars should be stable -- there's nothing else that they can turn into unless and until they add enough extra mass to become black holes. Their rotation dissipates energy, and so it will slow down, but they will remain neutron stars. In the very long-term, if the universe itself lasts long enough, it can be expected that all neutron stars will collide with each other or with black holes and end up as black holes. 

Actually, cleaning of cesspits and latrines was a well rewarded, if not we'll respected job since Medieval times to 19 century, you might want to consult this article: $URL$ Up to 19 century many houses in Europe had cesspool in basement, sometimes it caused wooden beams to rot and floor to collapse, as in the case of Emperor Frederik I in 1183, when he and his guests fell 39 feet down into cesspool in Erfurt Castle. 

1) As part of enforcing self-identity and the fact they belong to different groups: career criminals almost universally develop their own language, best known example to me is "fenya" -- made up language in Russian prisons. 2) The large area taken by each race -- sheer distance plus relatively slow means of travel even in case of lack of natural barriers helps to develop dialects and subsequently languages 3) the fact that different parts of one race's territory borders different cultures: this differential influence can speed up development of regional dialects and move the language farther from it's common ancestor 

The whole point of relativity is that there should be no way to tell how fast you are travelling, because there is no absolute speed. There can be no effects from travelling fast, because if there were then relativity would be violated. 

We have plenty of real-life examples for this, that are isolated from each other by time rather than space. Modern Greeks can understand some Classical Greek, with a 2,500 year separation. Modern Icelanders can easily read and understand 10th century Old Norse. A few hundred years will be no problem. 

An acre per person is the general guideline, but you might be able to squeeze that to as low as a quarter acre with fertile soil, a good climate, and intensive scientific farming techniques. There are 640 acres per square mile, so you have 820 billion acres available. That's only a bit less than an acre per person, so I think you'll be fine. 

I would say you should look at Jewish Diaspora in Europe: since dispersion they were able to maintain a high cohesion among it's people, develop distinct philosophical thought, and for long time maintain certain level of self-governance within host nation's. Not exactly empire, but still enormous achievement for exiled nation, and it answers the question whether people disperse among other nation's can maintain cultural identity. 

Actually, it is more likely that you will see chaotic scenes if transport is being used. There would be one (or few?) Transports available, and some crew/passengers would be stationed quite far away from it, and now they have to navigate spaceship with systems shutting down to the boarding gates. While escape pods locations would be, presumably, chosen to minimize the distance each member of the crew has to cover your get into it. 

Realistically, you would use the same approach opposing sides used during Cold War: if you know orbits and time of satellites passing your location, you can plan accordingly, and hide only when satellite is overhead. Then you can dig yourself down, and you won't need to go too deep. 

Giant centipedes clearly use magic in their metabolism — otherwise they’re too big for a centipede’s rather primitive respiration to get enough oxygen to their internal tissues to move that fast. And since we know nothing about how that magic actually works, perhaps luminous eggs are an inevitable side effect of it. 

Antigravity. Star Wars technology clearly includes control of gravity, since people walk around normally in spaceships and stations (the Death Stars may be big enough to plausibly generate some gravity from their sheer mass, but nothing smaller is), and you can build arbitrarily tall buildings if you can turn off gravity locally. 

Regardless of the incorrect percentages in the question, there's not enough nitrogen. There's less than 1% as much as in the Earth's atmosphere, so there's going to be nothing like enough available for plants. Earth animals might survive, but only if you import all their food from off-world.