For those who came in late, a "sentence adverb" is a word that modifies an entire sentence rather than just the verb or predicate. A sentence adverb communicates speaker attitudes about the proposition that the sentence denotes, or discourse information. So "fortunately" is a sentence adverb in the sentence "Fortunately, we found a source of fresh water on the island." Also note "however," the sentence adverb for discourse. I couldn't find much information on the Internet about sentence adverbs. Here are the three most helpful links I found: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ All of the links define sentence adverbs as sentence modifiers. But is this always true? Note the following: a) The man fell from the tenth story, fortunately onto a pile of pillows. b) Fortunately, the man fell from the tenth story onto a pile of pillows. In sentence a), "fortunately" clearly conveys speaker attitude and has the same meaning as it does in sentence b). However, the sentences don't necessarily have synonymous readings. It can be unfortunate that the man fell from the tenth story onto a pile of pillows, and at the same time fortunate that he landed on a pile of pillows (rather than the hard pavement, for example). So, if "fortunately" in sentence a) can convey speaker attitude about the state of affairs denoted by the prepositional phrase "onto a pile of pillows," what should we call "fortunately" in this context if not a sentence adverb? I am assuming that other languages have sentence adverbs, and that this question is therefore not off-topic. 

Consider the area that includes Western Washington and Western Oregon. As many of us know, most English-speakers who were raised in this area speak more or less the same variety of English. Contrast this with English speakers who were raised in the area that includes New York and Boston. This area was settled for longer than the Pacific Northwest, so we have more dialect differentiation. I'm not asking whether modern telecommunications and travel would tend to homogenize the various varieties of English that are already well-differentiated. I'm asking whether there's any evidence that modern telecommunications would slow down dialect differentiation in areas like the Pacific Northwest west of the Cascades where the varieties of English that people raised in this area speak don't yet differ significantly. 

One: In school, we are often told that an adverb can modify, not only a verb, but also an adjective. So we have ... i) verb modifier: The man leaped suddenly. ii) adjective modifier: Suddenly afraid, Alice locked the door. Two: Adverbial clauses can modify verbs. iii) When the grunions come ashore, we all feast. Three: Is a clause that serves as a complement or modifier of an adjective considered to be adverbial? iv) That fish was so big (that) it almost swallowed the boat. Or have I misanalyzed a lot of things here? 

Here's a definition of mediopassive that I got from the SIL glossary. "Mediopassive voice is a passive voice in which the verb has stative meaning, and actor is not expressed. 

For example, does any natural language have 2nd person pronouns or verb conjugations that vary according to whether ... a) All of the people for whom the speaker's remarks are intended are present. b) Some of the people for whom the speaker's remarks are intended are present and others are absent. c) None of the people for whom the speaker's or writer's remarks are intended are present at the delivery of the message? Condition a) would apply, for example, when a speaker is sharing a secret intended only for those present in the room with her, or when a speaker is addressing all and only the members of a present crowd, such as a graduating class. Condition b) would apply, for example, when the speaker's remarks are intended for all members of an organization, both those who are listening to the speaker and those who are absent. For example, a CEO might give a speech whose message applies to all company employees both present and absent from the setting of the speech. Condition c) would apply when the speaker or writer recorded or wrote his message alone, for example, in a last will and testament or in a recording sent to relatives on disc. Some might use such a form to talk to dead relatives. Is there anything like this in natural languages? 

In a word, no. There are more organs involved in speech production than the ones you list. Bear in mind that "the throat" is not a single organ, but a set of organs and cavities. The ones involved in speech production include the true vocal folds, which are part of the larynx, which lies below the pharynx. The true folds phonate when they are brought close together and a stream of air from the lungs flows through them to produce all voicing. The vocal folds also produce glottal consonants, and the pharynx makes the pharyngeal consonants possible. The larynx and the pharynx together also form part of the resonating chamber through which speech sounds propagate. The whole chamber is the vocal tract, which includes every space from the true vocal folds to the lips and nostrils. The shape of the vocal tract can be altered in many ways to produce many sounds thanks, not just to the tongue and velum, but to I forget how many muscles in or for its walls and organs. Yes, the cheeks are involved in speech production too. What is more, our perception of speech sounds as sequences of discrete consecutive sounds grouped into discrete words is an illusion. It is the result of the brain's ability to decode actual speech, which is a stream of often overlapping sets of acoustic cues with no spaces between them other than the spaces created by blocking airflow entirely, and by stopping to inhale. Many of the motions for speech sounds, including the onset of voicing, whose timing makes the difference between our perception of voiced and voiceless consonants, occur at speeds most conveniently measured in microseconds. BTW, the velum, aka "the soft palate," from which the uvula hangs, has muscles and is every bit as important to articulation as the lips, tongue, larynx, and pharynx. It can not only help to produce velar sounds like [k], [g], [x], and others; it also closes (most of the way) the aperture between the oral and nasal cavities, differentiating oral vs. nasal sounds. We don't notice the velum because it's farther back in the mouth than the tongue and lips, and kinesthesia gets weaker the farther toward the core of the body you go. (That's why you can feel where your fingers are, but not where your pancreas is.) And, as you probably know, the uvula itself can be used to produce consonants. In short, modeling speech production is not a simple task. (Consider, for a moment, all the neurology that I haven't mentioned.) I suggest that you read up on speech science for more information. You can always start here at Wikipedia. $URL$