It is a large multidisciplinary movement encompassing advances in the arts, sciences and humanities. More to the point, there's probably not going to be a straightforward definition that isn't incredibly broad; it may be helpful to think of this term (as with 'analytic' and 'continental') as denoting a series of family resemblances among many different works of art, history, literature and philosophy. All that being said, Frederic Jameson's Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism might not be the worst place to start. Here is how he introduces the problem: 

I happen to think this is pretty interesting and definitely agree there is something to this. Zizek might perhaps suggest that there is a kind of terrifying excess when one really 'follows' the rules, without respecting the various meta-rules which make them workable. In passing, I am reminded of Deleuze at the beginning of Difference and Repetition, who talks about the two ways of overturning the law: either with irony, by challenging the law as itself secondary or derived; or on the other hand, through humor -- by offering submission in a "too perfect" way so that you effectively evade it. From there: 

Giorgio Agamben has written fairly extensively on this expression. A systematic reading of the phrase occurs in an essay of his entitled "Friendship," apparently written after discussions with Derrida during the period of time he would have been working on the text you mention (i.e., the one that would eventually be called The Politics of Friendship). Agamben takes it upon himself to "trace" this expression back through Montaigne and Nietzsche to Diogenes Laertius, where as you mention it originally appears. He shows there that, as you indicate -- perhaps through a transcription error -- a one letter distortion had crept in at some point in the history of this phrase. Like you describe, the original actually might have been translated as: 

A few quick thoughts. Clearly Plato's works are dramatic too. They are also, as you suggest, dramas of ideas -- of course structured very differently to Zarathustra. But my sense is that the "real" point here is that an Idea dramatizes intensive spatiotemporal dynamisms. It might be worth contrasting this part of D+R with The Method of Dramatization, a short address to a philosophical society conveying some of the essential elements of Deleuze's philosophy of difference, and in particular the structure of Ideas as spiritual expressions or automata. A "classical" Deleuzian example here might be the idea of truth, which possibly remains obscure unless other concepts are made to resonate with it. That is: unless one applies the method of dramatization to discover beneath it other forces, to find or discover the means to relate it to an essence or future. So in the case of the truth we have the jealous man, the inquisitor, etc. These are not psychological profiles but more like dramatic conceptual personae. A question here for interpretation might be which sort of forces, which sort of lives and spirits and feelings Nietzsche is in conversation with in TSZ, and how they might be different than those in Plato. 

Alienation from oneself is the same process as the coarsening and degeneration of social life under capitalism; it is the loss of authentic community. 

A footnote indicates that Putnam's presentation (referred to in the first sentence of my cite) was reprinted as Putnam, H. “Models and Reality,” The Journal of Symbolic Logic, Vol. 45, No. 3 (Sep., 1980), pp. 464-482. Livingston goes on to suggest that the "standard response" to the paradox "defuses" it of some of its very real paradoxicality. At any rate I'd definitely recommend taking at least a quick look through the article (especially the section on Skolem); I might also suggest reading a bit about Badiou, who you may find interesting in his own right -- and please feel free to share questions on any further concerns that may come up in your study. (Welcome to Philosophy.SE, by the way!) 

I notice they almost immediately backed down (within a week or so); went to back to MIT with React 16. I am not sure there is a serious philosophical question here. There are a few concerns you seem to have with a software license. This quibble was resolved so swiftly it seems somewhat picayune to me. But perhaps React’s intellectual property was worth defending; although notice it doesn’t seem like it is fundamentally different than similar tech like vue, elm, angular. The functional-reactive approach itself dates back decades and so on. Furthermore: the open-source movement is about donation of time and effort, sharing according to terms the donor dictates... For what it’s worth: I would welcome questions on (e.g.) Stallmanism here. Note we aren’t lawyers; and obviously can’t advise you about practical implications of various licenses. Reviewing their philosophical merits seems opinion-based but with a specific framework in mind could (possibly) be narrow enough. 

First, I should point out that a lot of social movements and struggles already do unite continental and analytic thinkers. Also, I should note that 'analytic' and 'continental' are extremely difficult to define conceptually. Finally, there is a somewhat pejorative dimension to these terms in certain contexts at this point, as without a well-defined theoretical context they mean almost nothing. With those qualifications in mind, the analytic and the continental can indeed be said to sketch out planes of thought, which I would see as perhaps intersecting in a few intriguing places. 

This might be answerable at the pure mathematical level but I'm hoping to gain some intuition here. My understanding is that formal arithmetic systems employing only addition can be proven consistent/complete (Presburger I think?) However Godelian incompleteness requires only one further operator, multiplication. Presumably this is in order to construct the G numbers for formulae in the system, but how does multiplication give you the tools to do this where addition does not? (Can't multiplication be rewritten as a series of additions...?) 

A few thoughts, probably too quickly. It seems to me that an ought could be understood as the "sense" of the moral sentiment, but in particular it is a moral judgment. The sentiment then correlates with a feeling of shame, responsibility, piety -- perhaps at bottom simply the desire to obey. Moral passions are negative in this sense, relying on guilt and deprivation as implicit motivators. Maybe more simply: to my mind the sense of an ought is the constraint of free action, the separation of bodies and forces from what they can do. In this sense the ought subjugates, interposes, nullifies. But perhaps the opposite is true as well, at least once we detach the ought from axiomatic moral judgment; maybe this could be explored in terms of Hume's empiricism and the inseparable gulf between an is and an ought. This can also perhaps be read alongside Nietzsche's doubts about ways of life that denounce existence in favor of something else. In other words: there is also an ethical relation of obligation that is independent of moral axioms and the logic of judgment and punishment; a positive order of joy and levity, characterized by an empirical investigation into ways of living, thinking and feeling -- this is ethics in the classical sense as an art of living. It is the abandonment of moral judgments about reality ("existence is blameworthy") that seems key to me here; an experimental ethics yields a very different spirit of analysis than a transcendental morality that knows everything in advance. Very simply it is less gloomy, less bored -- it lacks the gravity and sad passions that motivate moral responsibilities (bitterness, grief, melancholy, resentment, vengeance and so on.) And so just to complicate this schema a bit, perhaps an absolutely immanent ethics makes use of a certain "transcendent" moment in its own way. But there is a different relation; it is no longer a starting point (Spinoza makes this very clear -- it is important not to start out with the idea of God, but rather to reach it as swiftly as possible...) 

Speaking very generally, materialism has been waxing sharply, and idealism has been waning for a good long time. Berkeley studies have definitely suffered on account of this, but he would seem to be least among the "Idealist idols" also relegated to the "dustbin" of history by modern philosophy. In particular, a rancorous anti-Platonism has been one of the more consistent characteristics of the last century's major philosophers, as well as the more prescient thinkers of the century previous to that -- with exceptions of course. So sadly, Berkeleyan immaterialism is quite commonly held to be some kind of insane absurdity, mostly on a misunderstanding of the central premise "to be is to be perceived." Recall that matter and other abstractions don't properly exist for Berkeley; one way to put it is that they are "philosophically-constructed," but this isn't quite right -- in a way they are purely virtual, real without being actual, like a memory or dream -- incorporeal and not directly perceived, in a way similar to Forms. But true existence or 'actuality' belongs solely to perceptions and perceivers, not to abstractions. In a way there would seem to be something incredibly modern and forward-looking in this immaterialism; and indeed taken seriously it is incredibly rewarding work. I too lament the decline of serious work on idealism as opposed to the endless and trivial critiques which tend not to address crucial distinctions involved. 

I'm definitely not an expert in Buddhism, but this strikes me as very similar to a "paradox" which occurs when trying to straightforwardly apply Aristotle's ethical maxim of moderation -- "Moderation in all things," but what about moderation itself? Are we supposed to seek a 'golden mean' even in our moderation, i.e., allow ourselves to act immoderately on occasion? I might suggest there's (perhaps intentionally?) something of a 'logic-bomb' in these kinds of logical structures: not only must you detach from all worldly attachments, you would also have to detach from all spiritual attachments as well -- including the principle of non-attachment! Indeed your attachment-avoidance would eventually seem to require you avoid all principles whatsoever. Zen concerns itself with these sorts of logical extremes, though my sense is that most Buddhist practice is not as concerned with these paradoxes; we will have to wait for a Buddhism expert to set us straight here. 

What is a good question? First, let's concede that great questions are precisely new, unforeseen, unpredictable -- blind spots, or 'grey' areas of irreflexivity, from the perspective of the dominant episteme. So in this sense a great question 'expresses' the gaps in our existing explanations of the world, occupying 'plot holes' in our stories and theories. Deleuze suggests that a great thinker effectively lives their whole life within the boundaries of a single, great Question -- not that they exemplify solutions, but that their very thinking and existence are in some sense dramatizations or 'actualizations' of the Question itself. One way to understand this is to recognize that a great question is critical -- deflating some lofty idea of its hot air, 'cutting' to the core of a theoretical problem. To put it plainly, a philosophy that annoys or saddens no one isn't really one at all. A great question, then, intoxicates us with alternative 'landscapes' or arrangements, and it also sobers us in preparation for the experimental creation of new concepts. It bears repeating that question or problem understood in this way is like a new concept -- unforeseeable in its precise contours, 'unarticulable' from the perspective of the majoritarian discourse. Nevertheless we can say that a good question impels us to both imagine another way of seeing the world, as well as to the active creation of new concepts. Another feature may perhaps be identified in the uncanniness of really 'good' questions: that they formulate in a concise way certain irreconciliable inconsistencies, and demand critical (even perhaps radical) transformations. 

One way to understand the cogito is as a way to state that it is sufficient to know one has doubts (is doubting) in order to conclude one exists. Now, while I am not certain he would claim it is "necessarily" correct, as you may know, Descartes also considers the problem of whether, essentially, there is a "glitch" in existence -- he formulates the question as that of an evil genius capable of making him believe he was experiencing a world (when in fact he wasn't); Descartes resorts ultimately to God's beneficence in order to surmount the problem, asserting essentially that God wouldn't allow such a wholesale and gross deception. In other words, the basic metaphysical question involves whether or not the world as we experience it is "real"; one way of expressing the cogito in this context is to read Descartes suggestion as asserting that we are, at least, as real as our doubts about reality; that this much at least is sufficient to indicate proper existence. This may all seem somewhat naive to us today, so it may be helpful as I suggested above to recognize a certain degree of irony in the formulation and theoretical context of the cogito: Descartes is founding our knowledge of the reality of the world on our thoughts and in particular our doubts about the ontological status of existence. 

We have and , and we want to derive a contradiction. Maybe you could try to show ? One suggestion here might be to try supposing . Then we have by detachment, implying -- which looks like possibly a counterexample to , maybe helping to get you to ? 

Some futurologists predict that we may have human-level artificial intelligences within the next few decades. What might be the most significant philosophical consequences of such a development, and in particular, what might a reasonable ethical policy look like with regards to the rights of sentient machines? Would it be ethical to own a machine with a human-level intellect? 

A work I would highly recommend is a book by Gilles Deleuze called Nietzsche and Philosophy, which is a cautious, systematic and intensely earnest reading of Nietzsche's oeuvre. Brisoline writes about this work (in her review of the text in The European Legacy) that "[t]he fecundity of this reading and the breadth of its implications can hardly be overestimated." Since it is rather central indeed, the question of suffering is addressed in some depth. Google says the word shows up on 24 pages; I'll quote part of the first result to give you an idea of the style: 

You may be interested in this recent collection of short essays by prominent theologians and scientists, each responding to the question: "does the universe have a purpose?" The question does seem to assume an anthropomorphic God, at least in some respects. Yet after all, who is to say our desires are analogous to whatever moves/motivates God himself? And why should we suppose we would have any chance of understanding the mind of God in this or any respect? In passing, I might also suggest another interesting question to explore might be: why should we assume creation itself has a purpose or meaning, even to God? More pointedly, perhaps -- granting that Creation did stem from certain "motivations" -- how much more complex and intricate (and possibly beyond the reach of our understanding) must God's motivations for creating the universe be than even the most complex and profound of human motives? It seems the only chance we might have here to truly provide an answer would be direct revelation. Many religions explicitly invoke the limits of the capacity of our minds to truly understand Creation or it's meaning, more or less along the lines I am suggesting above -- that God transcends human understanding. Hence, at least for some, the answer is simply that: we are incapable of really knowing, though I can see why this might be somewhat unsatisfying. (Other sorts of faith traditions, as you suggest, supply various stories explicating God's motivations.) Interestingly, there seems to be a split among physicists on this issue. Many are on the side of "no, there is no purpose" or "it is unlikely there is a purpose"; their critiques stem from many places, including a critique on the basis of a lack of analogy between the human concept of purpose and the forces driving the universe, as well as critiques based on the intellectual uncleanliness involved in a creator hypothesis, which does not really seem to explain or predict very much. (On the other hand, some physicists draw conclusions in the other direction, convinced by their studies that a purpose is driving the universe.) From another angle, we may contrast the scientific and theological kinds of answers to this question with a very different sort of answer. Consider the early metaphysics of the young Nietzsche, who writes in The Birth of Tragedy (38) (my emphasis): 

Just some quick arrows, but: I would consider trying to maybe turn the question around here a little bit: what are the values of infinity that we are concerned with here? Is it an infinite existence of communication, an unlimited interpretation according to dominant codes, discussion of pre-existing questions and answers? Or on the other hand: do we value the infinite for its ability to subvert an infinite representation, and to enable the continuous creation of new problems?