-Sleep Expert and Neuroscientist Dr. Matthew Walker Highly recommend his book Why We Sleep: Unlocking the Power of Sleep and Dreams. 

For 'lower' pec work, do decline bench, dips and cable crosses with active mind muscle connection and heavy weights. 3 times a week setting two days for volume (lighter weight more reps) and another for heavy weight. Hit that with daily 8 hours of sleep as well as sufficient protein/nutrients. If you're at a good body weight right now, I might even go for a 3 month slow bulk to optimize growth. 

Weighted vest should ideally be used to add resistance to pull ups or push ups. I would not recommend buying one just to wear when walking around due to the pressure added on joints over time. You'd be better off doing body weight exercises like push ups/pull ups/air squats to shape up if you're not able to go to the gym. 

What are your dietary restrictions (vegetarian, pescatarian, vegan etc.)? What appliances do you have? Here are some suggestions: For breakfast: 

Strength is neural. Having muscle mass helps and the heaviest of weights are usually pushed/pulled by larger people. As @Raditz_35 mentioned, it's a lifetime of perfect practice, good nutrition and coaching. At the highest levels there's also steroids involved. You'd be amazed at how much more weight you can leverage with the proper form for of your size. 

Your definition of 'big' is subjective. I can't really say until I see a picture but I believe it's your body fat % that preventing you from seeing your peak if its not a genetics/lack of development issue. It differs for everyone but your peak might not be showing up due to a higher body fat %. Do you have vascularity in your arms (might not be the best indicator because this could be a genetic factor as well)? Try feeling your bicep out at peak contraction and see if you actually feel a 'peak'. If not try more isolation work with strict form contracting till you feel that peak area burning. But in my opinion the best option would be to decrease body fat. 

Please see a doctor if you're at the point of problems with balance, weakness/no strength and unsteady feet as described. Might be a nutritional issue (deficiency of certain mineral/macronutrient) or something else that warrants qualified medical expertise. If your doctor clears you and you're good, it might just be not enough caloric intake before working out (eat a banana before lifting). Track your calories on myfitnesspal and figure out how much your BMR using this site to get an idea of how much you should be eating in a day. Chances are that feeling of weakness is a lack of calories (assuming you've been cleared by a doctor of any health issues). Understanding the concepts of nutrition is really important because your body is essentially built in the kitchen. Start with easy weights or bodyweight exercises and work your way up (with a trainer or someone experienced if possible). I posted this as a suggestion before for someone seeking training advice and suggest the same to you: 

I would highly recommend you add in back workouts as well. Having an overdeveloped chest but a weak back can lead to muscular imbalances and or injuries in the future. Throw in pull ups, supermans (lower back) and reverse hypers. Looking at your workout plan this seems to be an aesthetic endeavor so a back workout would also help develop that V-taper. You can just add biceps to the end of your back day. Also integrate some tricep exercises on your chest day if you're looking to develop big arms because the triceps make up more of the arm than the bicep. 

Fitness is a lifestyle, a marathon not a sprint. Discipline will carry you a lot further than just a spurt of motivation. Learn to love your body and work at it like a sculptor. Congrats on embarking on this lifestyle and good luck! 

Don't try to get fat. That's a misguided approach. You can definitely hit 6 days a week (mix in lighter days etc). I'm assuming you're relatively young with summer break? If so, the under 30 male bounces back fast from exercise (especially under 20, test peak). Do a variant of a push/pull/upper/lower workout plan like PHAT. If you're new to the gym, you'll definitely gain a lot of size due to beginner gains assuming you're eating properly (appropriate macros) and getting 8 to 9 hours of sleep a day. Go learn how macros work and aim for a 500 caloric surplus. It's really crucial you get the macronutrients and diet aspect down if you're goal is mass. Search up videos by bodybuilders on macros. Really put time in doing your research and stay realistic. A pound or two of muscle gained over a week is really good progress. A lot of bodybuilders are on steroids (other factors as well like genetics, age etc.) and that's why they have those insane gains so keep that in mind before comparing yourself. Weigh yourself at the same time (once a week or every day etc. but just know if it's every other day or every day, there will be fluctuation due to water weight etc.) to gauge how well your macros are going. It's a live and learn game which gets even more fine tuned the more you go through with it. Go start reading up/watching videos on meal prep as well to make the proper meals you'll need to stay within your macronutrients as recorded on the MyFitnessPal app. Get your form down for the exercises and the cues to activate proper muscle groups over the first two weeks and put the ego aside. An injury isn't worth it but at the same time know that you will have to challenge yourself to hit that growth. Constantly evaluate your training and watch other more experienced lifters/bodybuilders to see what you can do to improve yourself. Remember strength is neural so don't try to go one rep max heavy as well every day. It's a long term play, a marathon if you will where you have to schedule your higher weight lifts properly. The first couple days you will feel some intense DOMS (delayed onset muscle soreness). Do not ditch days at the gym. Go and do cardio and maintain your schedule. Most of the times those DOMS go away by moving about and proper nutrition. Eventually you get used to the soreness and start to miss it. If you feel fatigued or just not feeling right in the workouts take a day off. Or just go and do cardio and not lift. Adjust your macros and make sure you're getting you're proper nutrients in (Vitamin D, fish oil etc.) Don't overeat and get fat. Hit some cardio everyday for health reasons and good luck with your gains. 

Mr. A. This is assuming all 3 participants have the same experience, nutrients, genetics/potential, program etc. Sleep is one of the most important things next to nutrition when it comes to building your body. Also prevents alzheimer's and improves immunity. 

Instead of aspiring to spend over 2 hours a day at the gym for 10 days straight, I would spend your usual hour a day or more if you're up for it at the gym doing what your PT has you do. You don't need your PT for every one of those 10 days. Try repeating what he had you do on the days he's not there with you to build some self confidence in working out on your own. Since you're on vacation, you can also afford to spend some time understanding macronutrients, caloric intake, protein/carbs/fats etc. Youtube is an awesome resource for people who don't have the time to go through books. I would recommend youtubers like Omar Isuf and Alan Thrall. There are others that you can find as you get into fitness and start finding your fitness style. Specifically look up how to calculate/track macros. You can use a site like IIFYM. Start using myfitnesspal (a mobile application that you can use to search up food and scan barcodes to track the macronutrients (fats, carbs, proteins, calories) of. Your physique is built in the kitchen as they say. Working out is needed but if you aren't eating well and in deficit (less than you burn just existing), you won't lose weight. It's a lot, but spending the time learning about macros/calories/maintenance/deficit etc. will have a huge return. If you're at the gym, I would highly recommend you start lifting if your PT doesn't have you lifting weights yet. Use light weights, search up form vids online and do the lifts properly. Get used to these lifts. This is not to say ignore bodyweight exercises and cardio because those are important as well, but since you are paying for a gym, might as well capitalize right? You mentioned you had a weak back so things like deadlifts/rows (crucial to have good form) and lat pulldowns, cable rows will help build up your back. Start getting an idea of the different exercises and which parts of your body they hit. For example, you could do a standard bodybuilding style workout program where you hit different body parts every day with 10 to 12 repetitions per set. Or maybe you want to start lifting as a sport/strength gaining regimen and might want to check out stronglifts 5x5. There are lots of programs and it's cool to experiment but you want to pick something and stay consistent. Don't be the kid in the candy factory after a month or two of being comfortable with the gym. Pick a program and stick with it for the goals you set for yourself. It's becoming a theme here but I want to emphasize these 10 days will be valuable for information gathering. Start looking up basic mobility work/stretches because as most of the stack exchange community tends to be desk workers, they have a host of problems from sitting too much (tight hips etc.) Check out mobilityWOD by Kelly Starrett (he also has a great book called Becoming a Supple Leopard and another one on desk related exercises which I cannot recall). Supple Leopard is a treasure trove of stretches/mobility work for your back and other areas. This basic mobility/stretching work will go a long ways in living a healthy/injury free lifestyle well past your prime. The mentality. I can tell you're eager to get in there and start working at it. Capture this feeling and remember it. However, consistency is king. Don't burn yourself out thinking you can go 3 hours a day, 10 days straight and when the DOMS hits (delayed onset muscle soreness), you won't even want to walk let alone go to the gym (Force yourself to go even if its just walking on a treadmill because its a habit thing, get used to quitting and who knows how long till you go back?). Terry Crews said it best: