First, let me link a variety of popular science articles which can give you some background explanation. Here are Scientific American, Smithsonian, and Audubon magazines. The 'smoking gun' evidence linking birds and dinosaurs is the evolution of feathers. Feathers are a feature that set the birds apart morphologically from the rest of the tetrapods, and indeed from the rest of all animals. All birds have feathers and nothing that isn't a bird has feathers. So a logical place to start looking for the origin of birds is the origin of feathers. Since the dawn of modern paleontology, there had always suspected links between dinosaurs and birds due to the fossils of Archaeopteryx found in the 1860s. Thomas Huxley claimed the two groups were related as early as 1863. But it wasn't until recent decades that the fossil record started being filled in with definitive links between Archaeopteryx and therapod dinosaurs, such as more species intermediate between birds and therapods and fossil impressions indicating that some therapods had feathers. The rest is just filled in by logical deduction, or Occam's Razor. There is clear evidence that all birds have feathers, and no other animals alive today have feathers. There is now clear evidence that therapods had very similar skeletons to birds with feathers about 150 million years ago. There is also evidence that many therapods had feathers, a trait otherwise confined to birds. Let our null hypothesis be that the origin of birds is unknown, and our alternative hypothesis be that birds evolved from dinosaurs. Given the similarities noted above (and, keep in mind, the evidence is much stronger for scientists who specialize in this area), do you think there is enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis and conclude that birds evolved from dinosaurs? If not, are there any plausible alternative hypotheses? The great thing about science is that you never have to take someone else's word for it. Everyone has the right to be a skeptic, just keep an open mind and look at the evidence and you can draw your own conclusions. 

The simple answer: Because it is. There's a nice theory that explains why the rotation axis of a big gas giant is more or less coaligned with its orbital angular momentum vector. Those big gas giants form somewhat like a snowball rolling downhill becomes bigger and bigger and bigger. This doesn't apply to rocky planets, let alone lesser gas giants and ice giants. Saturn's rotation axis is inclined by 27°, Uranus by 98°, Neptune by 30°. It's a bit random. With regard to the rocky planets, whatever rotation Mercury had in the distant past is long lost. Tidal interactions with the Sun will necessarily have locked Mercury into a resonance between rotation and orbital rotations. That the resonance is 3:2 rather than 1:1 is a result of the largish eccentricity of Mercury's orbit. Mars is not tidally locked, but it's obliquity is notoriously chaotic. A number of past and future recreations of Mars' rotation show chaotic behavior. Whatever rotation Mars had when it formed has long been lost thanks to that chaos. The obliquity of Mars has gone through huge changes over the last few billion years, occasionally changing rapidly, occasionally remaining stable. That's the nature of chaos. Venus also isn't tidally locked per se, but essentially it is. The rotation of Venus is rather bizarre. The solid part of the planet rotates retrograde at a very slow rate. On the other hand, the upper parts of Venus' thick atmosphere rotate prograde. The combined rotation represents one of the four final states in which Venus as a whole can rotate (multiple articles by Laskar, and by others). Venys is in its final rotational state. The Earth is a marked exception amongst the rocky planets. The key to that marked exception is our exceptionally massive moon. The Earth's moon acts to stabilize the Earth's rotation. Whatever obliquity the proto-Earth had prior to the giant impact is long lost. On the other hand, the obliquity after that giant impact has remained fairly constant thanks to that stabilizing influence. 

I was curious about how the Earth's overall air pressure has varied over time, and tried to take a look around the internet. However, Google pops up a lot of sites with questionable science proposing that the air pressure was much higher in the past. The more outrageous claims (such as those by David Esker) are dealt with on Skeptics.SE. However, there are more reasonable claims that air pressure was perhaps 4 or 5 times higher in the Mesozoic, thus allowing pterosaurs to fly more effectively, etc. The websites making such claims do heavily set off my pseudoscience alarms, but then some are published by the American Chemical Society by reputable sounding scientists with references to papers. There is evidence that in the far distant past, air pressures were lower than they are currently. But after the changes to the atmosphere wrought by photosynthetic life, is there any evidence supporting the various theories of higher air pressures? 

Dry season While not being very descriptive, 'dry season' is in general use, even for rainforests (Af Koppen climate, if you will). Example papers using the terminology here. 

One permanent threat to plate tectonics is the oceans vanishing. The scientific jury may still be out on this matter, but most geologists and geophysicists consider water to be the lubricant that makes plate tectonics possible. In a billion years or so, the Sun will have become 10% more luminous. This is conjectured to make the Earth to undergo an unstoppable moist greenhouse / runaway greenhouse, and the oceans will vanish. The core is still emitting residual heat from the formation of the Earth. As the core cools, iron in the outer core freezes onto the inner core. This is freezing is an additional source of heat. The solidification of the Earth's core thus represents another permanent threat to plate tectonics. The liquid outer core is conjectured to have frozen solid less than three billion years from now. A nearer term threat is the formation of the next supercontinent. Plate tectonics may operate in fits and starts. What makes subduction zones form is not known. What is known is that a major subduction zone vanished when India collided with Asia, and no new subduction zones formed elsewhere to take its place. If this conjecture is true, plate tectonics will temporarily stop in a few hundred million years when the next supercontinent forms, only to restart later when too much heat stress builds up inside the planet. This is all highly conjectural. No scientist will live to see their conjectures falsified. 

There are a wide variety of bacteria that peform these steps, and some only do one step or the other. There are also other pathways for reducing ammonia instead of ammonium, for example. In conclusion, these are two different biologically driven steps in the nitrogen cycle, driven by two different sets of microorganims. There other biologically driven processes as well, such as ammonification, where organic nitrogen compounds in formerly living tissue (or waste) is broken down into ammonia or ammonium. 

I can offer a counter-example. What if your soil sample is taken from the site of some lost ancient Roman buildings? The Romans built plenty in northern Tunisia, and like using travertine limestone. A few long-destroyed buildings would explain the presence of limestone nodules in the soil while saying nothing about the bedrock. The point is there are many possible sources of limestone that are not the underlying bedrock. I don't think you can make that assumption. 

Venus has a surface emission peak that lines up almost perfectly with one of carbon dioxide's high absorption region, and a very dense carbon dioxide atmosphere. Thus Venus as come into a temperature equilibrium with a very high temperature because of a very powerful greenhouse effect that depends specifically on the surface temperature of the planet. If Venus were 100 K cooler, its greenhouse effect would be much less...and it would continue to get cooler until it reached some new equilibrium. Earth: On Earth the greenhouse effect is driven primarily by water vapor, not carbon dioxide. Here are the absorption spectra of the two: 

There is no definitive answer. There are a lot of conjectures, however. Whatever the cause, the Earth is markedly void of carbon compared to Venus. The amount of CO2 in Venus atmosphere corresponds to a 0.88 km thick layer of carbonate. The Earth's geosphere (lithosphere plus oceans plus atmosphere) collectively contains about half that amount of carbon, almost all of it locked up in the lithosphere. The huge amount of carbon in Venus atmosphere versus the paucity of carbon in the Earth's atmosphere is the primary factor that distinguishes the two atmospheres. Planet formation. The leading hypothesis regarding the late formation of the Earth is the giant impact hypothesis. Multiple simulations suggest that this collision had to be rather oblique. An oblique collision between a Mars-sized body and a not-quite Earth-sized body would have drastically changed the Earth's rotation rate prior to and after that collision. If the Earth was rotating very fast prior to the collision, that fast rotation combined with the collision could have resulted in the Earth losing a large chunk of its primordial atmosphere. Venus does not have a large Moon. That suggests that it's formation was a bit less tumultuous than the formation of the Earth. With no big collision to eject that primordial atmosphere, Venus may well have been operating in runaway greenhouse mode from the very onset. Water. Whether Venus first had free water on its surface or in its atmosphere has long been a subject of debate. Venus is now nearly devoid of water. If water was present in Venus early atmosphere, it would have served to even more strongly magnify the already huge greenhouse effect of a thick atmosphere that is opaque in the thermal infrared frequencies. If the very young Venus did have liquid water on its surface, it wouldn't have lasted very long. Plate tectonics. One of the consequences of a very thick atmosphere and no liquid water is no plate tectonics. Venus has a very thick greenhouse atmosphere, which makes for a very hot surface. The high temperature of Venus's surface means the surface healed itself too rapidly. Plates couldn't form on Venus (Bercovici 2014). Water is an important lubricant for plate tectonics, particularly for subduction (Mian 1990). (But also see (Fei 2013) for an opposing view.) With no plate tectonics, there was no mechanism to bury carbon inside of Venus. Plate tectonics developed fairly early on in Earth's history. By the time the Sun became hot enough (the early Sun was faint), the Earth had already started the process of sequestering away carbon into the lithosphere. Life. Life loves carbon. It is one of the key agents by which atmospheric carbon is transferred to the lithosphere. Life apparently never had a chance on Venus. References Bercovici D. and Ricard Y., "Plate tectonics, damage and inheritance," Nature 508, 513-516 (2014) Fei et al., "Small effect of water on upper-mantle rheology based on silicon self-diffusion coefficients," Nature 498, 213–215 (2013) Mian Z. and Tozer D., "No water, no plate tectonics: convective heat transfer and the planetary surfaces of Venus and Earth," Terra Nova 2:5, 455-459 (1990) 

Depends on what type of pollution you are talking about Moreno et al., 2015 studied this problem in Barcelona, and compared Metro (subway) to trams, buses, and walking in various parts of the city. There is a massive overabundance of data in this paper that mostly speaks for itself, but let me summarize. The subway was in first place or last place in most measures; it was the only system that didn't occupy the environment of the city streets. So these comparisons are probably exactly what you are looking for. Subway air had the lowest count of particulate matter, and the highest modal particle size; both of these are good. However, at the same time, the PM$_{2.5}$ (fine particulates which are particularly dangerous carcinogens) for subway and bus were notably higher than for tram and walking. The black carbon levels were in the middle of the road; lower than for pedestrians but higher than bus or tram. However, the authors note that black carbon may have been overestimated for the subways; so these levels could have been lower. Carbon monoxide is largely related to combustion engine usage; CO levels were lowest on the electric trams, and higher on the other modes of transportation. Carbon Dioxide, on the other hand, is largely related to other passengers breathing; CO$_2$ was highest on the crowded vehicles and much lower for pedestrians. CO$_2$, unlike the others, I don't think is a chronic health risk at the observed concentrations. Conclusion There is a lot of information in that paper, and I am not really qualified to judge the health risks from one factor against another. I can note that in no health measures does the subway have the worst air quality between the four transportation modes; and there is no other mode that has better air quality than the subway in all measures. I suppose it is safest to say that, in a statistical sense across multiple measures, the subway air is not significantly more unhealthy than street level air. 

Actually, except for the deplorable comments (your "here" was a self-titled deplorable blog site), the maps are from NOAA itself. The maps without deplorable annotations: 

This is based on the overly-simplified model of tides being the result of tidal bulges. As I explained in my answer to a related question on the physics.SE sister site, those tidal bulges do not and cannot exist. Instead, the tides are dynamic responses to the tidal forcing functions from the Moon and the Sun, with the orbits of the three bodies about one another, the Earth's rotation rate, and the geometry of the oceanic basins all playing roles in the dynamic response. For any point on the surface of the Earth's oceans, the tides can be described in terms of a composition of frequency responses to those cyclic forcing functions. See the related question Definitions of tidal harmonic constituents…? for details. At many places, Fiji included, the key component of the tides is the $M2$ tidal constituent, with a period of 12.42 hours. This is the principal response to the tides induced by the Moon. If Newton's equilibrium (tidal bulge) theory of tides was correct, every oceanic place on the Earth's surface would see high tide when the Moon is at zenith and nadir, and low tides when the Moon is at the horizon. Except for a few places, this is not what is observed. In Fiji, the situation is nearly reversed, as depicted by the tide chart below for Nadi on the west coast of Viti Levu, where high tides are more or less in sync with moonrise and moonset. 

The specific 36 F temperature anomaly in the linked article points to a single day event. I am aware that it is associated with unusually high temperatures in general this fall/winter, but a single day event is not that unusual. For example, the average January temperature in Dallas is 46 F, and the average monthly high is 76 F. That means every year (on average) sees a temperature that is 30 F above normal. The record high in January is 88 F, meaning that at least once, the temperatures in Dallas were 42 F above normal. That was all the way back in 1969. While this doesn't look great for the polar bears, and is further confirmation that AGW is coming along nicely, I would caution against getting too upset about it in the short term. We aren't out of time yet. After all, the world didn't end after that record January heat in 1969. 

I've been looking for information on non-plastic garbage, and haven't had much luck. Plastic waste is an extensively researched topic. I don't have access to Jambeck et al., Science 2015, but I did find a graphic and summary. The numbers are all year-long totals for 2010. 

Model the atmosphere from the perspective of an inertial frame of reference. Good luck with that! As an advisor told me decades ago, "Name one!" It's certainly not an Earth-centered frame; the Earth is orbiting the Sun. It's certainly not Sun-centered frame; the Sun is orbiting Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. It's certainly not the solar system barycenter (center of mass); the solar system is orbiting the Milky Way. The Milky Way barycenter? Nope. The Milky Way and the Andromeda galaxy are accelerating toward one another. No matter how far afield we look, we see gravity (and even further afield, metric expansion of space) that hides this inertial frame from us. Use a non-rotating frame centered at the solar system barycenter. The International Celestial Reference Frame is one such frame. This is more or less a constructible frame. Here we either ignore or account for the acceleration toward the center of the Milky Way, the Andromeda galaxy, and stuff further afield. It does makes sense to ignore those extraneous accelerations; they are very, very tiny, and the variation across the solar system is tinier yet. There's another issue with any such construction. The ICRF almost certainly is rotating. The predecessor of the ICRF, the J2000 frame: Scientists now know it was rotating. The same goes for the predecessor of the J2000 frame, the B1950 frame. In fact, scientists know the ICRF is rotating. The ICRF has been upgraded to ICRF version 2.0. And that too is rotating. Scientists just don't know how much. Use a non-rotating frame centered at the Earth's center of mass (aka Earth-centered inertial). Even if the ICRF was perfect, there is no way one can reasonably model the Earth's atmosphere in a computer program from the perspective of such a frame. The length and velocity scales needed to properly model the atmosphere and the length and velocity scales using a solar system barycenter frame just don't match. Oil and water. Even worse, it's a Sesame Street moment! ("One of these things is not like the others, One of these things just doesn't belong.") The thing that doesn't belong is the solar system barycenter. The only reasonable way to model the Earth's atmosphere is to use an Earth-centered perspective. Now a computer program is starting to have a chance to represent the atmosphere, and do so in a way that is computationally feasible. An Earth-centered frame is accelerating, but we can handle that. We can pretend that $\vec F=m \vec a$ still applies. This result in fictitious tidal accelerations. It's not a problem. Physics still works. Use an Earth-centered, Earth-fixed reference frame. A problem remains with the Earth-centered inertial frame described in option #3. The Earth, the atmosphere, and the oceans are rotating, and at different rates. This means that "starting to have a chance" was a bit overoptimistic. It makes much, much more sense to use a frame that rotates with the Earth. This adds even more fictitious forces, the centrifugal and Coriolis forces, but once again, that's not a problem. In fact, this simplifies things to the point where meteorologists do finally have a chance to represent the atmosphere in a way that is computationally feasible. 

Further, the handbook suggests no less than 20 leaf traps in one sample area, and checking contents every week especially in moist areas. Also, to account for branch fall, the weekly collection should check for and weigh fallen branches in a 20m X 20m area. For fine roots: 

Erratic Climate Lets take Broome, Australia as our example. Broome gets 615mm of rain a year (24 inches), including 58/182/180/102mm in Dec through March. Coupled with average highs in the low 90s, this would be fine for the sort of agriculture you see in South Texas. However, Broome's rainfall is very erratic. For example, in 2016, the rainy season started January 15th, with 23 mm of rain over three days. In 2017 (really 2016, again) the rainy season started December 4th. December 2016 also featured 222mm of rain (remember the average is only 58mm) including 113mm on Dec 23rd and 24th. 2016-2017 featured 222/230/249/114mm of rain, with significant rainfall later into April. 2015-2016 featured 0/119/26/28mm of rain. One year saw too little rainfall to grow even millet, while the next year had enough rain to support paddy rice. Laterite Old tropical soils in rainy or monsoonal rainy regions tend to have their soils leached of useful nutrients. The resulting soil is called laterite, and it is heavily enriched in aluminum and iron ore. On the one hand, this explains the mineral wealth of tropical Australia. On the other, laterite (alternately called ferralsols, especially by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) ) is hard to farm, with few minerals for the plants, poor moisture retention, and the tendency to form an iron-hardened crust in the dry season. Not enough people This is sort of a meta-reason, but Northern Australia is a long way from anywhere. Without very many people, it is hard to build a stable agricultural economy. If a bunch of people where sent there and forced to survive, they'd probably eke something out (for example, like the people who first populated Sydney, or South Africa). But since that never happened...population of the reason never happened. Sort of circular reasoning, but without ever having a reason for a lot of people to show up in Northern Australia (prison colony, religious persecution, etc) no one has ever made the infrastructure that successful farming operations could be based off of.