I've been reading about the Warring States Period in Li Feng's 'Early China', and I don't know if I missed a passage but I can't seem to figure out why the period was so violent. I've been searching via Google but still I seem to be getting a lot of information on the dynamics of war, but not exactly why the wars happened in the first place. So a few questions about that: 

This is something that I've been researching for the past few weeks and have found a few answers, but I assume I'm missing a few of them. Basically, the question is this: In which ways have modern historians defined our current era? Not sure how to tag this one if mods could do an edit that'd be great. Edit: The duplicate that was proposed seems to be asking about the distinction between the classical eras historians have defined we are currently living in. Whereas I'm interested in any and all definitions that historians have proposed, which may be more esoteric and obscure than the obvious ones like 'modern' and 'information age' 

When Europeans discovered Americas they also imported plagues. These plagues were one factor of the collapse of the pre-columbian cultures. $URL$ : 

There are still some areas with German background. The Nemetsky National District (German Nationalkreis Halbstadt) was established on July 4, 1927 and abolished on November 5, 1938. It was re-established on July 1, 1991. Similar: Nationalkreis Asowo But all this regions have the same problem: The German speaking people are mirgating to Germany or are assimilated by other local people. 

So it seems the I stands for Generalstab (sorry, I found no source), the c stands for a 3rd (the first officer is Ia, the second officer is Ib. 

Moving backwards in time, can all of the religious families be isolated to their own common ancestor? If so, what are the religious ancestors, and in what regions did they arise? 

Christianity in particular arose out of the Roman period when most people were trying to figure out the nature of the universe in lieu of any scientific evidence. When Christianity was coming into being there were innumerable religious sects throughout the Roman world, all competing with each other. By chance Christianity was the sect that grew, but the reason people believed in it was because it was an answer. In the modern world educated people take scientific knowledge for granted, in the ancient world this understanding did not exist, it was inconceivable. Without the ability to come to an accurate understanding people developed mythology. 

But looking at the map, I have the impression your 'Schwedenschanze' is located at the Stausee Altheim (artificial lake). There is another website, saying the 'Schwedenschanze' in Ergolding is disappeared. 

I try to identify your specific Schwedenschanze. There is a Schwedenschanze on Googlemaps,robably this one: $URL$ 

It were not the plagues alone, but the casualties made the empires weaker and made it possible, that European conquistadors won the day. 

You asked for a . My answer doesn't reflect a cultural difference but a political one. If you follow the link Gesamtergebnisse der Wahlen zum Reichstag und Mandatsverteilung you find maps with the results of the elections of the Weimar Republic. The map for the KPD (communists) shows a strong area in the east of the later GDR. 

In many languages, the general term for distilled spirits (whisky, brandy etc) translates in modern English to 'Water of Life'. 

As a hobbyist in fine alcohol I'm curious of both the earliest known reference to this phrase, as well as it's likely origins, but the best I can come up with is 'likely much earlier than the Medieval period' from Wikipedia. 

I've read detailed social history on Scotland which goes back to about the 16th century, and it would seem like some of the poorest Scots of that era sometimes lived in housing which was as modest as mud / dirt huts. If I'm understanding correctly the medieval era saw a very gradual rise of the town and city, or in other words civilization, so my assumption would be that early medieval society may have been closer to tribal and very primitive. In any case, that brings me to the question of how people in early medieval Europe housed themselves, with Scotland as my case study. How did people in the current state of Scotland house themselves in the early medieval period? 

Your assumption is wrong, there was the Uprising of 1953 in East Germany And the Fall of the Iron Curtain was also initiated by the East German mass protests. 

The German Wikipedia contains a list of all towns of the Volga Republic, there is also Dreispitz mentioned. Some informations of the town are also available at cu-portland.edu and lowervolga.org 

Tarnopol Voivodeship was an administrative region of interwar Poland (1918–1939) There is also a Map in wikipedia where you can see, that Skalat is near the border to USSR (Ucraine). 

There is one problem on this numbers and your question: You can only decide yes/no (or invalid?). So all votes are normally shared between two possibilities. 

I understand that this sounds even more vague than the term power itself, but that's exactly the point of the question. I wonder if you can reduce human conflict to power conflict. 

I'm more of a social historian than military historian, but if I understand correctly war between two factions is almost always a struggle for power. Is that the case? Are there examples of wars started for other reasons? Edit: There were some comments about the vagueness of the term power so I'm going to try to be more specific about it. By 'struggle for power', I mean: 

I'm not clear on number one being the case, and if it is I'm not sure which played a more prominent role in drinking alcohol. Did most people drink alcohol to avoid getting sick, or were they just drunks like us? 

After 1 hour the grade of the ship was 5°, an hour later the grade didn't change a lot (from in German Wikipedia). There was no obvious reason of a danger in the begin of the sinking. The iceberg had two hours time to shift away until everybody realized that there is a danger. And then the iceberg was far away. 

For your speculative question: There were doubts, if the gold is still available. So let's bring it home ;) 

It is depending on your definition of a Russian. Gagarin was born in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, so he was the first Russian in space. Sergei Krikaljow (also a Russian) started as a citizen of the Soviet Union, when the Soviet Union was dissolved on December 26, 1991 he was in space. So he was the first citizen of the Russian Federation in space. The first manned Soyuz after the end of the Soviet Union started on 17 March 1992 (Soyuz TM-14) with Alexander Viktorenko and Alexander Kaleri. It was Alexander Viktorenko third start, so he was also a Soviet Cosmonaut before. But it was Alexander Kaleri first spaceflight, so he may be the first 'pure' Russian cosmonaut. I haven't checked for Russian cosmonauts, which were not trained during Soviet era. Gherman Titov is up to now the youngest Cosmonaut (started at age of 25 in 1961). The Soviet Union ended 1991. That's now 25 years ago. So there is up to now no Russian astronaut who was not a citizen of the Soviet Union before. Perhaps there is also an American astronaut with Russian origin? 

This question may need some work, but I'll do my best.. I remember hearing a while back that much of the history of India occurred in isolation. Without knowing whether this is strictly true, it got me to thinking about parallel social traits that have arisen independently in different regions of the world. One of the more interesting social traits is religion. We know that religion is ever evolving, breaking into further sects and so on, and we know that most people throughout history have had a tendency to ask 'why'. So my assumption is that if you take all of the religions which exist today and trace their lineage backwards, you'll find a set of ancestors of 'religious families' which came to be independently of each other. So what I wonder is: