So we can reasonably assume that Mark Cavendish was adjudged to have caused the crash, but it was not considered to be that serious of an offense to be disqualified, and was given a warning. 

The values come from the FINA Table of Degrees of Difficulty* The tables are a matrix that combine the direction and number of any spins and twists, with the shape that is held during the dive. 

Points Race In terms of the Points Race, there does not appear to be a rule in the UCI Cycling Regulations Part 3: Track Races, under the Points Race section, that specifically talks about a collisions between riders. The closest ruling is in the event of a recognised mishap. 

As you can see, a Forward 3½ Somersault combined with a Pike results in a 3.1 difficulty coefficient. * The link provided is for the 1m and 3m springboards. For 5m, 7.5m and 10m platform diving see here 

I was watching an American Football game the other day (can't remember which, but it was a re-run of an older game) and there were two incidences: 

Batting Index: The batting index is the Strike Rate multiplied by the Average Runs then that is divided by 50 BI = ((SR*AVG)/50) E.g. The batting index of a player with SR of 123.4 and an average of 45.33 runs: (123.4*45.33)/50 = 112 (rounded) As for Bowlers Index, I'm not sure that exists. Or at least I haven't seen it. 

Only direct free kick offences committed by a team in their own penalty area result in a penalty kick[1]. For indirect free kick offences that are committed by a defending team inside their own goal area, the position of the free kick is the closest point to the infringement on the goal area line parallel to the goal line - or in simpler terms, the ball is moved directly back towards the attacking team's goal line until it's on the longest line of the goal area.[2] As for the first part, the offence occurs when the ball is handled by the goalkeeper after having been deliberately kicked to the goalkeeper by a teammate[1]. In your example, this still holds true, as after the ball was kicked to the goalkeeper by a teammate, it wasn't either: 

However, it is a general understanding amongst referees (think of it as common law) that players should not be cautioned for persistent infringement when the infringement only harms their team eg. taking a free kick to oneself, incorrectly taking a throw-in, offside. This forum thread on RefChat highlights this: 

It is worth mentioning that Law 12 mentions that a player may be cautioned for persistent infringement. IFAB Laws of the Game, 12.3 Disciplinary Action: 

If the ball is kicked or otherwise changes direction close to a player and it hits their hand, as long as their hand/arm is in a reasonable position (e.g. not out above their head, or extended out sideways), it is unlikely to be a deliberate handling. Players don't run with their arms stuck to their body, so even if the arm is somewhat away from the body and the ball is struck from close by, it is still unlikely to be deliberate handling as emphasised by the following point. 

Whilst watching an NFL game last week*, I noticed that when the visiting team's offense is on 3rd or 4th down, the stadium's speakers play some sort of noise - I'm guessing as a way of distracting / "putting off" the other team. For example, in the Bengals @ Patriots game, they played what appears to be a fog horn every time the Bengals were on 3rd down. This 3rd Down Noise idea doesn't seem to be unique to the Patriots as, IIRC from a game I watched before, the Denver Broncos have something like a horse neighing, or something to that effect. What is the origin of these noises? * I am not a regular viewer of American Football 

Now, whether a fall covers rider collisions is up for debate. However, on page 6 under the Warnings - disqualification section: 

The ball is snapped to the QB, he performs a fake hand-off to the RB, and fires a short pass over the top to a receiver. He gets about half a yard before he his tackled by a defender, and from the tackle, the ball comes loose. The ruling on the field was that the pass was incomplete. Similar play. The ball is snapped to the QB, who trows a quick pass to a receiver, who is again tackled within a yard of receiving the ball, and the ball comes loose. However this time the ruling was that it was a fumble (which was recovered by the offensive team). 

The accepted answer covers it fairly well. I will add that in order to minimise referee discretion / judgement and therefore increase consistency, FIFA / IFAB have made it more clear cut than the answer suggests as to when previously offside players may re-involve themselves in play. If, when a player is an offside position, a teammate touches the ball, the player in an offside position may not be involved in active play (ie. interfere with play or an opponent) again until: 

Considering that this part of the Laws of the Game has no changed since that answer was provided (and all of these answers provided by USSF are backed by FIFA/IFAB), it is safe to say that this custom still would apply. Finally, the following question asked on asktheref.com also points out that referees should only consider Law 12 and Law 14 offences when considering persistent infringement: Excerpt from the question: 

So if the match wasn't drawn after 90 minutes, a draw is not a possible outcome here, and it appears that the referee has failed to apply the competition rules correctly. The competition administrator is likely to step in and declare the match abandoned instead. Law 7 - The Duration of the Match, Section 5 - Abandoned Match states: 

If this puts the restart location inside the goal area, the restart may be taken from any point within the goal area. Law 13.2: