Gautama Buddha was not the only Buddha. There were many Buddhas in the past and there will be many in the future. My question is: what characteristic of a person defines Buddha? My answer is that Buddha is the knowledge of Truth.Anyone who has realized the Truth is the Buddha.Some say Buddha is a title ... just as King is the title. But they forget that King can be stupid i.e position of title King can be occupied by an undeserving candidate. But any person who occupies the title of Buddha must be the one who has realized the Truth. All Buddhas of the past, present and future tell the same eternal truths again and again... they feel the same compassion and equanimity for all the beings. My second question is : is the past Buddha an ancestor to the future Buddha? In other words can future Buddha recall the past Buddha and say that that was me in my previous manifestation ? EDIT: I think my answer to who is Buddha is wrong one. Buddha indeed occupies an office and Brahma appoints the Buddha through a process mentioned in Manual of Buddhism by Hardy Spence. Any prospective Buddha needs to possess at least following three qualities: 1.Should be a Boddhisat. 2.Should have a wish to become the teacher of the three worlds. 3.Should hold the wish to release sentient beings from the evils of existence. I quote from p.88 which translates the whole process of electing Buddha by Brahma. 

Yes and remember Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha.Give up your belongings and be grateful that he did not hurt you. If he hurts you be grateful that he did not kill you. 

May it lead to conscience and having a sense of urgency! How to keep urgency upright, practice that it stays on top? The Buddha gave all followers, monastics and lay people one reflection the should do: on death: Here the teachings of a merely unknown serious warrior: Maraṇasati – recollection of death Urging to conscience is the most compassionate act, at least because the urged often is not happy with it and some would agrue why one uges others. Because he/she knows that forgetting cause end effect or to do not know the effects of deeds lead to much suffering. Many also believe that the Buddha didn't urge unrequested, but he did, and also his monks had often compassion and went to householders and urged them. Here torward the Brahman Tigerprank: 

May what ever being able to take this gift of Dhamma, have a satisfying and shareful share. May the Devas tell those not knowing, about the merits done here. 

(proper time is when possible and nessesary, sometimes also "just" for others if the certain doer is not capable to take.) So to give the answer, "Does a stream-enter still uses the weapon of speech", the last Sutta and the samples of Buddha, his disciples, till good teachers of today, will show: "Yes (if wishing) he/she will use the weapon of even strong speech (yet still not with word of fools an outcasts), but not for gain, not to harm and simply out of compassion, less are able to receive.", and if a stream enter would have use it in affect in a wrong way (with akusala mind), maybe as defense (never for intended gain!), as a break of good conduct, he would suddenly confess his wrong doing. So it might aslo happen that a Noble One uses not nice word wrongly. It's good to do not just pick up certain things from the teachings and use it as weapon. Most Dhamma-Dealer (those who make a livelihood in teaching, or gain, claim and sometimes even provide no defilement-cutting of speech, "peaceful, not opposing speech, ever lovely speech", because the costumers and fans like that, or better their defilements and so they are able to make more gain while simply slander and harm the Dhamma and lead people to fools. Why? Because what counts is the truth and not artifacted peace for nobodies benefit. Take care to do not use this weapon Dhamma to kill youself off. That goes quick if grasping the head of the snake, walk a way of demand peace and metta (yet on fight and aversive your self), and if not willing to put oneself under good authority, its hard to get the right way. Hope that this - surely at first - unpleasant answer reaches the worriors and warriors at the right time before theiy cut them off with an haft and incomplete weapon and reason to fight. Many think "Oh I Won." Having make a visible strike. But the cut of the other war's so sharp that they still do not realice that the head has been seperated already and it's just a matter of time that he will fall down." 

I have evolved a little since asking this question. I will try to answer the question. First and foremost let us understand that not everything that has been written can be understood fully with proof as we generally stop at the theory. We never fully live the path as preached by Buddha. Only a Buddha can understand some part of the theory because he has experienced it directly. Having said that it is clear that the question can be answered. Who was ignorant about the Truth in the beginning? Answer is that we can not ask this question. This question is wrong. The question assumes existence of Self before the origination of Ignorance. The fact is ignorance led to the emergence of Self. The right question should be : Ignorance is a condition for what ? Answer would be Ignorance is a condition to origination of merit and demerit. Merit and Demerit are condition to what ? Merit and Demerit are condition to Consciousness. Consciousness is a condition to what ? Consciousness is a condition to body and mind ... and so on... I must admit we do not know answers to some questions like : 

Nagasena says that the pain felt by Budha was without any cause on his part. It came naturally from some cause then present or from the will of some other person. 

Buddha explains how world came to be by saying eye and forms come together to create eye consciousness. Coming together of eye, forms and eye-consciousness created contact. Contact lead to feelings which lead to birth , death and suffering. Same applies to ear , nose , tongue , mind. But when we sleep the eyes are shut yet we see the dream. How is that possible ? In that dream I am able to see, hear , touch and feel. Due to which contact in this real world am I able to live the dreams ? My question is : due to coming together of which internal and external senses does the dream arise ? 

So what one does to possible give other the chance to give causes for future good fruits, to gain also merits, is to let others be part on it. This is made by either: 

The Buddha, like all other good teacher, are actually very skilled in use there weapon and there are many stories where they "brought" the "opposer" on the floor, "won over him" made his defilements neutal and even dis-manteled him in front of a big group, but not for any gain or to higher themselves, but to bring him in a situation where he can be talked the Dhamma, has no change to escape, or like in cases like in the above sutta, to bring his disciples again on the lain (or speak to them clear that somebody acts wrong). A good sample in regard of one of the many fights we find in the teachings is: Cula-Saccaka Sutta: The Shorter Discourse to Saccaka Many of the Suttas in MN may offer to see that it is not the most skillful to lay down the sword of skilled speech but show like in AN 4.100, that equanimity is not the highes skill: 

And what is needed to be and stay conscience? Conscience. That is only archived by right View at first place, especialy the 1. Noble Truth and the backwards of all consciencelessness. And how to put it into action? By being mindfull, remembering and keeping in mind and focus primarily on the frames of reference in all deeds, all times. Knowing the body, knowing the feelings, knowing the mind, knowing the phenomenas, all when arising, being present, decay. One who is mindful, one how practice mindfulness on the four frames of reference is a person that is conscience. Don't think that a person just siting in meditation is conscience. That is not for sure. But a person that does not seek after liberation, after archiving path and fruits, is a person of heedlessness, as well a person who does not know and ask for the way, askes people who have not archived anything aside knowing. Why? 

Every internal sense organ comes along with corresponding external organ. For example eye comes along with form, ear comes along with sound, nose comes along with smell , mind comes along with mental phenomenon. I am aware of the meaning of form or sight , sound , smell etc .. but I am not sure what is meant by mental phenomenon? When eye and form/sight come together eye consciousness arises. When nose and smell come to together nose consciousness arises. In both the statement above it is clear from my experience what is sight and smell. But when we say mind and mental phenomenon come together mind consciousness arises, it is not clear from my experience ,what is the mental phenomenon? Is mental pehnomenon the memory of past or the simulation of future or is it the dream or is it the speech ? There are different types of tastes ,colors ,odours, touch etc... Are there different types of mental phenomenon also? 

Buddha says if you follow the teachings exactly then you will be free of suffering. There is no time limit. It may happen in this life or it may happen after few lives. 

After a little research I found the original question in Samyutta Nikaya along with Buddha's response. 

I have now spent quite sometime understanding what Lord Buddha said. Some of the fundamental things are still not clear to me. For example Sabbe Dhamma Anatta. Meaning all Dhammas are not me , mine or myself. But why all Dhammas are not me , mine or myself?Because all Dhammas are impermanent , changeable and cause of suffering. Therefore can I conclude that all Dhammas are ultimately cause of suffering? If that is true then why should I adopt the three jewels : Buddha , Dhamma and Sangha? 

Practice Dhamma, for the most is like that of a Sea Squirt and easily we forget that Mara is still after us and still capable to get us. We still don't see the backwards and forget the Noble Truth. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gain.) 

As seeing that there seems to be no good and right answer in regard of what "sharing merits" actually mean, my person thought of "sharing his merits" and let those possible to take, let be part. Not sure if the original questioner here has Nissaya (condition), to have even physical part on it. Sharing merits does not mean, even if believed, that one can make a share of ones good deeds done, so that the fruit of it falls to the person he likes to give. 

The secound category that Upasaka Sawath created, e.g. the Dhamma beyound world, and at its cream real emptiness requires the right time, done practice and nessesary achivements. When we look for example on the vows of Boddhisattva in later traditions, they have been so wise to see the danger and it is a strong misdeed to teach somebody emptiness if not ready for it. So it's good to listen or readfrom those who actually know the path and to think wisely about it, and 

What do you think? Is this a sample of a Monk you harms you? Heavily harmed your defilements? And/Or sharp words to stay on track and to keep you from serious wrongdoing? Deeply compassioned with some good wisdom, or the act of a fool? Think good and wise about it and its up to the wisdom of the receiver if a gift is taken or rejected. Meaning at least, only a Noble One would recognice another with secure. Just one who had seen will know if a reminder is right. Other need to think, test, observe and bring it to have seen by my self fist or have deep faith. Anumodana! A maybe extended answer and a possibility to ask further or/and discuss the topic can be found here. (Note: this is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or any other wordily gain)