Without knowing exactly what they're capable of physically, and assuming that communication is all you're wondering about (with it being all they need in order to develop into such an advanced society), you might just give them the biological ability to receive and transmit radio wave communication. It's not an utterly preposterous idea for a life-form, in my opinion. You might want to read up on these articles before you think up ideas of how a life-form might be able to do what a lot of our devices can: 

This might be a little too close to telepathy for comfort, though, since to a human, it would probably look like telepathy, until they found they could intercept their communication with radio devices. However, just for the record, radio waves are light, much as red light is light. It's just that our eyes aren't made to see it (unless you're special). Humans would have a harder time intercepting many other kinds of light communication, seeing as not all light goes through walls. So, it would be pretty awesome if they were capable of doing it with several 'colors' of light (considering radio waves as one color, or class of colors) so that they could use different ones for different purposes. Another implication here is that they could intercept human radio communication with biology rather than technology. 

The fact that underground cities in the desert in our own world are very few and far between, as far as I know, might indicate that it would either require some special knowledge or else a whole lot of work to create an underground city in one. I think adapting to the heat or finding another way to cope with it would be easier, and more likely, personally, but then, I like heat, and I like to study heat-tolerant life. Nevertheless, I'm sure you could find a way to make an underground city in the desert (even a practical way), but it sounds like it might not be the easiest thing to figure out. An underground city might start to smell after a while, too (however, probably less in a desert than a humid area, is my guess). If it was close to a river, it might get a lot of water from the river running into it (and I imagine it would smell a lot more; the dry banks of rivers that once were wet can smell pretty interesting). You might consider what termites do.* They have natural air conditioning with the way their mounds are set up. This would be helpful to establish a constant temperature (deserts get cold at night). In the case of termites, they keep it at about 30° C all the time, where it fluctuates between about 0–40° C. outside. They establish a constant draft of air, and build so that the sun doesn't hit it as much at certain times. (*Note in the link that it says termites have a brain the size of a pinhead, but I've heard that science has established that the size of the brain doesn't regulate intelligence necessarily, but rather ability to control a larger body.) You might also consider that the people of your desert might have materials that reflect infrared light (which could cool down whatever they're placed around a lot). Infrared isn't some special space aged thing. It's just a color you can't really see much, if at all (unless you've got super powers), because it's outside the visible spectrum for humans. (And, infrared light heats things up, much how UV rays give people sunburns, kill microbes, and stimulate vitamin D production. Plastic and modern glass usually block UV rays, and this helps to prevent damage of some kind or other—including to vitamins in milk and such, I believe. So, you would need a color that reflects infrared to keep things inside cooler.) In our modern world, you can get clear inserts to go on windows to block infrared (and stop the house from warming up through the windows). You could do the same thing to your whole house (or city) with the right color of paint or something. 

Bullets A machine gun that fires rubber bullets at high speeds would be enough to stop organisms from physically boarding the ship, unless their armor is as strong as the ship's hull. If it isn't, just increase the mass or speed of the bullets. Nets and Rope: Or, if there are few organisms approaching your ship, like maybe one or two, Nets and Rope would work. Keep it like the old times :P Light Blinding light (which wouldn't damage the ship) could also be useful. Considering that the outer hull of the ship should be resistant to the sun's rays, you could mount a high intensity light ray gun on the outside, aimed to blast anything coming near. Worse case, it hits your own ship, but then again, your ship is resistant to the sun's rays. Magnets You have magnets? Okay then. Create an entry way into your ship that combatants must travel through. Possibly a tunnel or something of the sort. Cap the ends of the tunnel with very magnetic magnets. They come barging in? Release the magnets and squish 'em. How to prevent a Mutiny: You said that all personnel wear magnetic boots? Well, make the floor an electromagnet, and if your crew mutiny's, just turn on the electromagnet and poof, they're all stuck to the ground. Does this help? Any questions? 

GoVisually is a possibility. You can mark annotations and place comments on any part of your project, and there is this pretty cool feature where you can click on each user and it will hide or display relevant content, so if you think some user is just trolling around you can ban him. Revisions can also be easily upload and it's simple to switch between different versions of the same document or project. And I'm not entirely sure, but I think it's still free. Here's a promotional video I found on google: Video 

The United States of America has 50 states and 14 territories (according to Google). In my story, each state is drawn far apart from each other due to conflicting interests. If all 50 states + 14 territories went to war against each other, which state would win? Conditions: I am talking about militaristic winning. The exact details, I'm not sure. I would prefer it to be conquering all other states, but I'm not sure if that is entirely possible. Time Period: Current Methods of fighting: Everything each state has, EXCEPT for nuclear war. So states with nuclear missiles would NOT have an advantage. Could you guys include specific details and facts? Thanks :D 

I'll put a few points here as to why this kind of spaceship (minus some of your requirements) will be able to exist with our current laws of physics but not be able to exist with our current technology (or any technology in the near future, anyways). 1) The energy required to accelerate a mass $m$ to $0.32c$. (Also as a minor point, dealing with a constant speed is pretty easy as the spaceship at constant speed is basically an inertial reference frame. I'll deal with the logistics of this later $$E=mc^2(γ-1)$$ where $$γ=1/\sqrt{1−v^2/c^2}.$$ Assuming that each room for a passenger weights approximately $400 kg$ (a.k.a a small car minus the engine and mainframe) and that there are $9000$ passengers, the total weight of structure one is a MINIMUM of $3,600,000$ or $3.5 \cdot 10^6kg$. And this is just structure 1. 

I've seen multiple posts on destroying the Earth, but is it possible for humans to reverse the spin of Earth? In order words, considering modern technology at our disposal, is it possible for human beings to band together to reverse the spin of Earth? In addition, considering how much energy is required to do so, what if reversing the spin of Earth became the most important thing in our daily lives? A.k.a. all the money, all the governments working together. I would greatly appreciate any feedback on how to improve this question, or how to answer. Thanks in advance! 

Electromagnetic waves can carry information, but as far as we know they can't process information without some sort of physical object to mediate the interactions between the waves. So the aliens could convert themselves to waves to travel from one place to another, but they would need some physical object that could carry out the computations their brains normally would carry out at either end. It would be like copying their brains from one location to another, they would not be capable of any thought while traveling in wave form. Even if they could be waves, there is a problem with the idea of them being "all around us". Electromagnetic waves face a number of problems when traveling over great distance that would degrade the quality of the information in the waves. They get smeared both in time and space, they lose energy, they get absorbed, their frequency shifts based on the relative speed of the source and destination as well as the general expansion of the universe. On top of that electromagnetic waves are pretty slow, potentially taking decades or even centuries to travel interplanetary distances. Further, the Earth itself is really good at absorbing electromagnetic waves, so if they were all around us they would be dying as the waves containing them were absorbed by the Earth. Of course you could throw out the rules of physics as we know them, but then there isn't really any way to answer the question. 

A more selfish reason: the Gods have limited reserves of power. Affecting the material world drains them of a little bit of their power. Perhaps this power takes a long to regenerate, or perhaps they have a total amount for their existence and they die when it runs out. So they teach humans not to rely on them so that they either have power when they need it, or so they can extend their own lives. 

There could be as many pathogens as there are types of self-replicating organisms or molecules. Bacteria and eukaryotes are earth organisms. Other planets would likely have radically different organisms, any of which could be a pathogen. Both single-celled and multi-celled organisms can act as pathogens here on Earth, so alien single-celled and multi-celled organisms (or even organisms that lack anything we could identify as a cell) could be pathogens. It wouldn't have to be a full organism, any self-replicating molecule could be a pathogen, as long as it can successfully enter the body and find the raw materials to replicate inside. This could include molecules not found on Earth. It can also include molecules that are found on Earth that have the potential to self-replicate, but don't currently self-replicate on Earth, such as RNA or DNA (there are "naked" RNA pathogens, viroids, but they use a cell's replication machinery rather than replicating themselves, and in the cell RNA and DNA need other molecules to replicate). Similarly, prions work by causing other proteins to mis-fold into more prions. But RNA and DNA also fold in important ways, so there is a potential for RNA or DNA equivalents of prions to exist (although as far as I am aware none are known). Finally, from what I have found there is one (and only one) group of organisms on Earth for which no known pathogenic forms exist: archae. However, archae are particularly hardy, often living in extreme environments. This could make pathogenic archae hard to defeat with our natural defenses or medicine. 

Unintelligent but fast-reproducing nanomachines. In the same way that simple, fast-reproducing organisms dominate the world today (there are more bacteria cells in a human body than human cells by number, for example), simple, fast-reproducing machines would dominate your AIs. However, they could lack many of the limitations that keep biological microorganisms from completely replacing us, allowing them to replace their creators entirely.