The high boots choice extends beyond ankle support and depends on both terrain and personal comfort aspects. Here in Scotland the paths (when present) can be variable, and underfoot ranges from bog to lichen covered rocks to large loose boulders. A high boot often provides a level of water resistance that low cut boots & shoes don't provide, so a choice about cold and wet feet becomes part of the mix. Often the Goretex type shoes just don't last and have leak points. If the terrain is loose boulder or slippy rocks then one factor for boots is the impact protection between the side of the ankle and the rock, which isn't there for a trainer/shoe. A bruised ankle bone can ruin a day and make for a long walk out. On the flip side, my wife had an achilles heel issue which, once there, was exacebated by the boots and she now swears by the low trainers, despite the cold wet feet (the waterproof sox just don't cut it). Meanwhile I'm keeping with my leather boots and wooly sox which keeps my ankles protecetd, feet dry and numb toes warm and cozy. If I was walking in a high dry well marked path region I'd probably change to a lighter weight boot (but still with the padded ankle if scrambling). It's about whether the environment wins. Choose your clothes and shoes for that. 

If you clear too much, then the opened areas won't regrow that well, either because of trampling (continued easier access), or because of lack of nutients from the decay. The overall ecosystem can be damaged because of lack of micro habitats for insects and other lower elements of the food & pollination chain. I've heard it said, in the opposite, that some areas used to have native management that would clear some areas of dead wood (e.g. spring fires) to maintain particular level of usage (old cowboy films of riding through the trees are now overgrown areas, apparently). Other slow growing areas areas have become ravaged by accidental fires with limited/slow regrowth (just been to Patagonia where it was a significant issue - they have no natural fires/lightening). Overall, take it slow, careful and steady. It takes a very long time to get a natural forest back (maybe 3-4 generations of 2-300 year old trees ?) 

The wide array of answers here, and disagreements in the comments, only helps when I give you the dreaded answer that nobody likes to hear: It Depends. Everyone has their own opinions about what is important and what is not important. Fortunately for most of it, what it depends on is you. Safety (Generally, "Must Have") There are a very few things that are absolutely essential which you definitely should have for safety reasons, unless you are willing to risk your safety for reduced weight (I advise against it)... 

Fire. As Kevin's comment said, carefully. I am surprised that was the only mention of fire so far. Benefit over "just use your body to dry clothes" The other answers take at least hours, sometimes days, and that is generally assuming you can use your body heat as a resource at all, as opposed to needing to heat yourself up as well. In my personal experience, if my clothes are wet enough that I want them drier, then I do not want to be sharing body heat. So, fire is both faster and more versatile for warming clothes, so if the conditions are bad enough, just make a fire. Details When I want to get warm and dry, I make a small fire. Small enough that it cannot flare up into a big one if I ignore it for a while, so that I can leave it while I work and keep coming back to it as needed; also small enough that I can get up very close to it. Large enough that anything held a few inches to a foot away for more than a few seconds starts to get hot. You can probably guess that hanging clothes over top of this fire is not generally a good idea, as it will get smokes and also drip water into the fire. On-Body Similarly to some other answers, I often dry my clothes on my body, but it is the fire doing the drying, not my body. In fact, after heating the clothes up, while they are on my body, the warm water then keeps me warmer too and it feels good. Warning!!! You must be very, very careful when doing this. If you stay close to the fire too long or get too close at all, obviously bad things will happen: depending on your type of clothing, it could melt, burn, or both melt and burn. Keep enough distance that you can get the fabric hot, but not nearly hot enough to ignite. I have caught clothes on fire before, but never as part of drying them, not even with 100% cotton clothes, though cotton usually ignites easily. When I step away from the fire after being close for 5-10 seconds using this technique, the wet areas of my clothes are at least warm, sometimes hot. If my clothes are completely soaked, then I often get them hot enough that I can see the water steaming off my clothes rapidly. But, another warning! Even if you do not get your clothes hot enough to burn, you can still be hurt by hot, steamy clothes. Multiple times, I have warmed up a wet pant leg or shirt that was not flat against my skin and gotten a surprise when I stood up and the material pressed back against my skin again, wet but hot. When doing this, I generally have to repeat often. Either because I'm very wet and each application of heat last long enough to get out only some fraction of the water, or because the conditions are wet and I keep getting wet such as when working in light rain or snow. This works well, but I cannot stress enough how careful you must be. Negligence will lead to injury. If you are getting cold enough that you are having difficulty feeling the heat, then you are very likely to damage yourself by overheating; please do not over-expose yourself to the fire due to lack of feeling after you have been over-exposed to the wet and cold! In this situation, you must get help. I have done this multiple times, but here's my best anecdote... One time I did this after being fully submerged under water; it was either late fall or early winter, and it was cold enough that there was some thin ice over parts of the water. After surfacing from the water, I chilled so fast in the breeze I have no doubt that I would have become hypothermic if it weren't for the fact that we had prepared ahead of time with a fire near the shore specifically for warming/drying on. Because of the fire, I only got cold enough to shiver for a while but was otherwise fine and resumed normal activities within an hour. Whenever I see people doing cold weather activities where water is involved (or could accidentally be involved) without a fire ready, it makes me cringe. Fires are an important tool. Off-Body Now, if your clothes are not on your body, you can still use the fire obviously. In this case, do not put them as close to the fire as you might while they are still on your body; since you will likely be leaving them there longer, they can be further away. Also, use fire-heated rocks to keep the clothes warm enough to dry faster. Be careful though that you do not heat the rocks too much. If the rock has heated up enough that I cannot touch it at all without burning myself, then I will not use it to warm anything flammable. Summary In short, and to quote Kevin's comment: "(Carefully) by a fire" 

Ultimately I wouldn't let the speed laces stop me from buying my next boot, but I will definitely be on the lookout for traditional laces. One last tip: Wear the socks you'd be boarding in to the store! 

I know you said you were backpacking but you didn't specifically mention weight as an issue, so this answer assumes you'll trade some weight for comfort ;) The LL Bean Pathfinder Sleeping Pad is better than most mattresses I've slept on. I'm a smaller framed guy with bony hips and I sleep on my back and my side. My wife has larger hips and sleeps on her stomach and side. Most of our experience with this pad is on the hard floor of wooden lean-tos. The short version (the one we use, my shins and feet extend past the end) comes in at 22 oz though it does pack down fairly small. The full size is a whopping 34 ounces and packs quite a bit larger. It's a self inflating foam style pad so I assume others like it would be similar. 

I know an answer has already been accepted but I figured I'd chime in. Preface: I had an AWFUL pair of boots that aged terribly. They were cheap, general sports store off season specials. I don't know if the fit was wrong (I have very thin legs) or if the construction was just that bad, but the tongue would "float" to the outside on both boots after only a few runs, no matter how tightly I tied them, and always resulted in hot spots on the opposite side. My point is - when paying close attention to fit, don't just focus on how much room your toes have like with normal boots and shoes. You put a lot of lateral stress on the boot in all sorts of situations when riding, and the calve/shin/collar area needs to fit well and still be comfortable. Also a note about laces. The boots I ultimately purchased had a "quick lace" system where you pull on the two handles attached to the thin-but-strong laces, pull them back to lock into the grips and try to stuff the excess into the little pockets. It was obvious this is the trend, as that style along with the weird crank dial was the only option across multiple brands in the store in my price range. 

I think the simplest answer is also the best in this case. This should work for (what I presume is) the majority of rationing cases. 

Try to push into the wood. If it is only surface-wetness, you should not be able to push into it at all; the wood should feel completely firm and tough as usual. The wetter the wood is, the more you will be able to push into it. For example, I just did a fire recently where I did use some very wet wood. I had some branches that I could push into about a quarter-inch, more in some spots. I scraped this wettest part away and burned the rest; it did not burn well, but the fire was already established, so it did eventually burn. For wood which is wet, but not wet enough to feel soft at all, you could try looking for signs like fungus. Not all fungus will be large mushrooms; even smaller spots, which could look almost like mold (and might indeed be mold). The location of the wood is another indicator. If the wood was flat against the ground, it is more likely to be wetter all the way through. If it is not flat, maybe a branch that is curved enough that part of it is held off the ground, or one side is propped against a tree or on a bush or another branch, or if the entire thing is caught up in something and not on the ground at all, etc.: since it has been kept off the ground, it is likely to be drier on the inside.