I could be a completely ignorant person here, but that's exactly why I'm asking this. Why does an engineering team need a non-technical manager? What exactly is his job? I mean, I do understand the need for tech leads, which as far as I know, is all we need; that is, someone to provide technical guidance as to how to do certain things or someone to review my code, etc. But I don't see why we need a manager whom I only ever interact with in cases when he comes to me and asks what I'm doing and when I am going to finish my projects, etc, or if I need anything from him (which I usually don't because most if not all of my professional needs can only be fullfilled by someone who can actually code), all of which seems rather redundant given the availability of various project-tracking tools (jira, bugzilla, pivotal, confluence, etc) That seems like a rather waste of resource, does it not? (And I dont think a manager's salary is anywhere lower than 120k!) Edit (in response to answer below): - We already have a product manager whose job is to make sure the products being built will be useful to clients/users. 

I'll say this, from a personal experience being the newbie. If the senior dev (ie., your mentor) had time to walk you through it, he/she would have done the whole thing already! There's always a first time, and you need to figure it out. Part of the job of being a developer is to be able to read the code and understand it, and the other part is to RTFM/D and figure out what is asked of your project. 

Last week, a coworker, my boss and I went on a 4-day business trip to China. It was fun, for the most part. However, things got rather awkward when our business partners took us out to dinner. They would take us to those karaoke places where they had many young women "serving" you(ie., they'd pour us wine, sing with us, etc) The whole thing made me extremely uncomfortable. I'm in my mid-twenties, but I personally don't think this sort of things are business-appropriate(not to mention I already have a girlfriend at home, who'd probably kill me if she knew!) Anyway, the business is on going, so we are expected to have these trips quite frequently in next few years! Should I tell my boss I do NOT want to attend these "social" events? How do I put it nicely, professionally and most importantly convincingly? I don't want to get pulled of the project as it is my first major project in my career! 

At this point you should make it clear that focusing on the issue in project X was the explicit request of your line manager, not your own idea. Like "Well, my line manager requested we deal with an urgent issue in project X before completing project XX. X has some internal problems that can be solved only by end of week." From this point on, they can (hopefully) fight it out between themselves. In case your line manager backs up saying he didn't explicitly request anything like that, it may have been a misunderstanding etc., you should request a private talk with him asap to address the issue, however unpleasant that feels to you. You should make it clear to him that your successful cooperation depends on mutual trust between the two of you, but double-talk ruins trust. One of the possible outcomes may be that in the future you only take such requests from him in explicit written form. Or that before complying to such requests, you always go and double check with the mini-CEO. And this leads to the underlying problem, which seems to be an unclear allocation of responsibilities. Why is it that both the mini-CEO and your line manager can make decisions about the allocation of resources to projects, and prioritization of tasks? You should strive to make responsibilities clear in this respect. There should ultimately be one single person to make the call. Find out who that is, and listen to him/her from then on. 

I think that from your points it already shows fairly well, that it is most likely not going to do you a service to continue this in the long run. 

That may or may not be the case, as you yourself list other possibilities among the disadvantages. Moreover, not being occupied by money does not necessarily mean that one really cares about his work and is good at it. So if you want to give the impression of someone who is so passionate about his/her job as to not think about anything else, I believe a positive approach is better: tell them about what you do feel important in your profession and how that shows, instead of stating what else you do not feel important. My personal feeling is that if you tell you don't care about money, employees in general are more likely to see you in a disadvantageous light. Or both, at best: they may acknowledge you are so passionate about your craft, and at the same time be happy to exploit you via cheap wages, as long as you are willing to take it. I think it is important for you to realize that in the long run, you owe your own personal and professional reputation to ask for a decent salary for your good work. If you do a great service to your employer, solving their problems, you are actually earning / saving them hard money, so it is only fair to get a decent pay in exchange. No need to go overboard of course, but if you yourself don't represent your own interests, noone else will. Not caring about the money, or even working for free, may work though if done for a relatively short and concrete time interval, and as part of a longer term plan. So if you want to get your first job as a newbie, to get experience and build reputation (with which after a couple of years you will be able to get a more decent job with a better salary), it's fine. Or if you desperately want to get your dream job at a dream company, you may decide to offer them your services cheaply or even for free for a well defined trial period, let's say 3 months. That should be enough for you to demonstrate them your real value, and then negotiate a full employee position with proper salary. Or get quickly fired after being exploited, if they don't actually want to treat you fairly... there is always the risk. By limiting the length of such an experiment in advance, you limit your potential losses too. 

For websites that involve demonstrating yourself in a professional manner, or anything "official", you should use the same name that you go by in real life; the one you answer to all the time, to everyone, always. This should also be the same name that you put on your CV. 

If even you don't think it sounds like a real name, should you really be using it to represent yourself on a professional social networking site, or putting it on your CV? Hmm, I would think not.. I'm sure your real name is just fine, and recommend you stick with that when in a professional setting. 

The reason why I'm perhaps giving extra thought to this is because most of the people I work with have families and are fairly high functioning people, so I feel like they would get actually get mad at me, or hold it against me, for not staying home a little longer. Also, from my own experience, people like assigning blame, rather than saying there's no exact rhyme or reason to something. And yes, the coworker who made that comment is quite immature, IMO, and I've actually posted about him before. But, it does show that people are talking about it, since I never mentioned it to him.. 

For a CV, if you were using a pseudonym in real life, then you would put that and nothing else. You should not include both your pseudonym and real name; it defeats the whole purpose. Legally speaking, the only time that you are required to disclose your true name to your employer is when filing out paperwork with HR. At that point, you would provide both your pseudonym and real name. If anyone else is to know your real name, it's completely at your discretion. 

It sounds like your pseudonym was originally created, and is still mostly used, as a kind of internet identity. That being said, I would recommend you keep it to that, and not put it on your CV, or use it to represent your real-life self. 

An announcement like that of your management basically tells (to me) "you are free to secure your future any way you want, including getting a new job". Sending your CV to other companies and even going to interviews still does not oblige you to anything yet. However, you get valuable feedback and experience in interviewing and selling yourself on the job market. And since you still have a regular source of income, you aren't forced to accept the first job offer you get - you are free to be picky as yet, but if you get a really good offer, all the better. On the other hand, use the time you have to make up for your relative lack of experience. If you can list on your CV that even though you have no commercial development experience with technology or language X, but you have studied it out of passion in your free time, and/or did some pet projects, it certainly is a plus in the eyes of most potential employers. But even if you eventually stay at your current workplace, your studies will keep your brain in shape. Getting used to spending the day doing nothing useful will make you sluggish and demotivated in the long run. It is hard from this state of mind to get up to speed when the next project arrives. OTOH if you do spend your time practicing and learning, your manager will most likely appreciate your enthusiasm and may find a good use for the skills you acquired. 

Mentioning to HR that you have another offer should not be a problem in itself - every job seeker is looking for multiple options, just as well as every company is interviewing multiple candidates before hiring. And the better you are, the more options you have. So it might even increase your desirability, but certainly won't decrease it. I think it is also OK to ask for a timeframe, you just need to be careful to avoid making the impression that you are pressurizing them for a decision. That would basically be the same trick as what HR at company A is playing with you when they say you need to decide about their offer by Wednesday. And since HR people all know this trick, most of them probably don't like it applied on them ;-) From what you describe, this may be interpreted by B in a bad way. To make a decision, you need to rank your priorities. Is it more important for you to get a job fast, even if it is less than ideal, or are you looking for the best job you can get, even if it takes longer time to land in it? Assuming the latter, my suggestion is 

I've been working at a private corporation (Fortune 500) for nearly six months now, and have noticed that 2-3 coworkers clip their fingernails while working in their cubicle. Is this kind of personal grooming considered to be unprofessional when performed at work, in one's own cubicle? The reason why I ask is because nobody else in the office does this, which leads me to believe that maybe it shouldn't be done. The noise itself does not bother me though, and is not of concern. Lastly, if this is unprofessional behavior, what would be the best way to address the issue? 

I enjoy whistling from time to time, and like to think that I'm pretty good at it; i.e., it's not displeasing to listen to, unless you just don't like whistling. And, if need be, I can whistle at a pretty low volume - somewhere between that of a whisper and a casual conversation. Being in a cubicle setting office, would it be acceptable to occasionally whistle? Perhaps, while walking down the hall, or, in the break room when making a cup of coffee? How about while in my cubicle? Also, would this kind of "chipper" attitude be ill-received over time? 

It depends on why you're using the pseudonym. When people use pseudonyms in real life, there's generally a reason why. For some people, it's because of various legal issues; for others, perhaps they're in the process of getting their name changed, and are going by the name preemptively. Also, it could be that someone has a high exposure job, and wants to keep family and work as separated as possible. That being said, if someone finds out you're going by a pseudonym, you'll probably have to provide some kind of explanation. If not, it will become extremely tense between the two of you, and word may spread to other employees/colleagues. To be on the safe side, only go by a pseudonym if your reason why is sensible & justified; i.e., if you really need to. 

I just recovered from strep throat, and today is my first day back at work. Since I've been absent half the week, a few coworkers have already asked where I've been during my absence, and I anticipate even more will ask. Should I be completely honest with them, and mention that I've been sick from strep? Or, should I intentionally be vague, as to avoid the, "oh, you must have gotten that from Charles" kind of statements? If I do tell them, and other people start getting sick, whether it was actually caused by me or not, I may turn into the guy that got everyone sick, for the next considerable amount of time. And just now, literally as I was typing this, I just had someone walk by me and say, "welcome back, sick boy!"... Did I do the wrong thing by telling people? 

Those that can't take you seriously will not join your company in the first place. But once someone joined, they will most likely be positive about you, to avoid cognitive dissonance if nothing else. Unless you yourself disappoint them, of course. If you introduce yourself to them like you do here, you set extremely high expectations, thus you have to be really really good to live up to your own promise. 

I would say no. Most of recruiters / HR personnal would still expect to see your CV in a traditional printable format. However, it is worth including a link in it to your SO Careers page. That's what I did; it seems that recruiters find it fascinating and it helps me stand out of the crowd. (This is just a feeling though, with no facts to back it up. The length and breadth of my professional experience and the tone of my CV seems to stand out of the crowd by itself - for better or worse -, so it is hard to gauge the effect of the SO Careers link in isolation.) 

I've been in a very similar situation just lately. It's great that you feel concern for your current company, but in the end, you should look at your own interests first of all, as the company is doing the same (supposedly). If your boss knows since May that they need new developers and still hasn't hired anyone, that's your problem only inasmuch as it's keeping your workload high too; however, the problem is theirs to solve, not yours. I suggest either of these two options: 

I understand your frustration about this, and I would just like to note that you need to be careful with such feelings. First of all, unless they are close friends whom you fully trust, you may need to take their claims with a pinch of salt; some people like to boast their own social status and importance. Moreover, you can't say you want more money because your friends earn more than you; you can only make your point based on your actual achievements and future prospects (which based on your story sound very convincing so you should not have much worries here anyway).