A smart archaeologist (or rather: a team of different specialists) would thus not only be able to figure out that a nuclear war had taken place, but also roughly when it had. This will even be possible as long as there is geological strata generated during the war around to analyse. 

Unspent fissile material Decay products from fission processes Activated material from surroundings (e.g. bomb casing, air, soil) 

The requirements for developed theorium reactors are not that tough: easy access to thorium, limited access to uranium and other sources of power and no incentive to develop a nuclear arsenal (and this last point is perhaps not even true; there are some that claim that the uranium 233 that is the actual fuel in a thorium-based cycle is viable as bomb material). Thorium is today seen as a less viable choice because it would need different reactor technology than what is used in most of the world to be most effective. However, this is not in itself a major problem. The Soviet union, Canada and the UK uses or has used reactor designs that significantly differ from the US-designed LWRs. I will give you one possible scenario: Sweden had it's own program for building heavy water reactors, with uranium mined in Sweden (Sweden has a lot of uranium, but not very concentrated). Had the large thorium deposits found in Norway been on the other side of the border, it is possible it would have choosen designs based on thorium instead, and gotten so far before the non-proliferation treaty that it would have decided to not buy american LWR designs but instead continue with the domestic design. At the peak, Sweden's reactors produced slightly less than half of the electricity used, so that requirement is not much of a stretch. 

We can ignore the last category for our purposes here: the other two will provide clearer evidence. Unspent fissile material The unspent fissile material will be either uranium-235 or plutonium-239. Uranium-235 has a half-life of over 700 million years. Thus, virtually all of it will still be around after the two million years in the question. This will be an excellent clue for the archaeologist: not only will it show that someone spread a lot of expensive, highly enriched uranium over the planet, it will also give them a good estimate of when, as you can analyse the amount of decay products from the decay chain to see how long since this took place. Plutonium-239 has a much shorter half-life, only 24000 years. This means that after two million years, it will be gone. However, it will not have disappeared entirely, but have also turned into uranium-235. This will mess with the time-span analysis of above somewhat, and introduce an uncertainty of about 100 000 years. Fission products Nuclear fission creates a range of different nuclides. In general, these are short-lived and unstable, but they will also generate daughter nuclides that are stable. The archaeologist will thus find a mixture of different isotopes, in proportions that does not occur naturally, in the same layers as the above uranium. This will clearly show that not only has someone spread a lot of uranium-235, but also a lot of fission products. The theory that would best explain this is an all-out nuclear war: 

Although many good thoughts have been added already I would just like to add my input from my experience with a 12th century reenactment group that I was a member of for a number of years. The reenactment was more skill based than scripted and we trained 2 times or more per week with blunted versions of the weapons that they would have had back then. We had a number of female members, many high ranking who also participated in the combat (though dressed as men with hoods or helmets to hide the fact they were female). Regarding strength; it is true that women don't tend to be as strong as men on average and that we build muscle more slowly due to having less testosterone but with continued training it doesn't take too long to become adjusted to heavier weapons and armour. Things like spears and shields tend to be as light weight as possible anyway. If you have little time to train the women or they don't have enough food to sustain the muscle growth, this could be a problem however. We did once have a girl join who was particularly thin and didn't have much muscle strength and she did very badly for a while, particularly when it came to things like shield walls (this is a particular problem as the weak link in the shield wall is not only in danger themselves but the people near them will also be vulnerable - the whole formation can be collapsed that way). Where women lacked in strength they tended to make up for it in technique - a phenomenon you may also see in certain martial arts. Endurance: when it came to sustained carrying of weapons and wearing armour for a long time or in intense heat, the difference between sexes wasn't very pronounced. Some girls had problems with arming spears (carried in one hand, the other holding a shield) but made up for this by balancing them on their shields or holding them upright when not actively thrusting. Things that aren't covered so much by reenactment: Brute strength - our safety rules generally prevented this but i would say that men would be better at this. This may be where better technique is required by the women to make up for this but many weapons do not necessarily need that much force to do damage. It is also a bad idea to keep exerting yourself to your maximum strength in a long battle as you will quickly tire yourself out. Mentality - we obviously didn't experience the psychological effects of battle. You have to deal with the fact that you kill people (especially the first time) and also with the friends you have lost in battle and the horrific injuries you may have seen. I am unsure how things like PTSD affect men vs women, though the fact that women tend to feel more able to talk about emotion than men may help. Recovery from wounds and illnesses: I am unsure if men and women would differ when it comes to likelihood/speed of recovery from things like dyssentry, wounds and infected wounds. Many women in our reenactment group tended to bruise more easily than men and have torn skin or blisters at the start but this would lessen after a while and they tended to get back into it quickly. Joint injuries like dislocations were probably a little more common in women but this tended to be after previous injuries that were unrelated to the combat. Historically: This isn't related to my experiences but there have been some examples of women fighting in history - though there is some dispute about things like the shield maidens of the vikings. Mostly if women fought they probably disguised themselves as men or did it out of necessity if the camp was attacked so it is hard to know but there are some records out there. Currently only two pirates in later history spring to mind (Anne Bonny and Mary Read) but that's a different period of history and a different style of fighting. It might be worth asking the folks at the history site for more information or when I have more time I can try and provide some sources. 

Large-scale nuclear disasters are unlikely. They would also release a lot of uranium-238, which would also be detectable. One could postulate a civilization which has reactors that only runs on highly enriched uranium, but that would be an extreme expense without any clear benefit. Large-scale deployment of dirty bombs is even less likely, for similar reasons: they would tend to leave a lot of fission products, but there is no reason for there to be a lot of uranium-235 and no uranium-238. 

Nuclear fallout will be around for an long, long time Nuclear fallout (note: "nuclear fallout" usually refers to radioactive fallout. I will be using a slightly different meaning due to the context of the question). will be detectable until earth is destroyed - if geology allows. I am no expert in formation of rock sediments or the spread of nuclear fallout, so I will assume that nuclear fallout will be preserved in relatively clear strata in e.g. sandstone. If so, any civilization with a relatively basic understanding of nuclear physics will be able to see that there was a big release of fissile material (uranium-235 and plutonium-239), along with products from fission processes. An atomic bomb works through a chain reaction in which a lot of either uranium-235 or plutonium-239 fusions (there are a few other choices of isotopes which might be technically possible to use, but they seldom are) . However, not all of the bomb material will be spent; a significant fraction will be released as fallout. This means that a bomb will spread isotopes from three different groups: 

Is the reactor itself important to your story? Is it important that it was an accident with the operation of the reactor itself? If not, go for spent nuclear fuel instead. Spent nuclear fuel need to be stored before being moved to final deposition. This storage can be at the nuclear power plants, or at a central repository. In any matter, at one point, sooner or later, it has to be transported. While there can't be a nuclear explosion, there can still be terrorist attacks, or some other grand explosion that breaches the containment of the transport, destroys the canisters the fuel is handled in, and spreads the material. However, to really create a big exclusion zone, you will want to have some way to spread nuclear material as ash from a fire - this was part of the reason you got so much nuclear material from Chernobyl to spread over such a large area. The initial explosion made a hole, and spread large chunks of radioactive stuff over the surrounding area, and then radioactive ash was spread into the atmosphere from the burning graphite.