Bicameral script, the mixing of upper and lower case, was not used in Latin in the 1st century CE. Rather, Latin was written in two styles: majuscule (also called Latin square capitals) and miniscule (also called Latin cursive). Majuscule script was used primarily on inscriptions, but also occasionally in handwriting. A good contemporary example of this would be the inscription on Trajan's Column. On monuments, often dots were used on inscriptions to separate words from one another, bu this was not entirely consistent. We also see titulus, bars over Roman numerals to indicate that these are supposed to be read as numbers. Miniscule script was what was primarily used in handwriting. A good contemporary example of this is the 291st Vindalonda tablet, a birthday invitation from Claudia Severa to Sulpicia Lepidina. We can see from this particular example that full stops were occasionally used, but not consistently even in the same text, and appear to have been typically omitted. 

An aside to begin with: these were fully explained in the sources you gave. If they are confusing, please ask about how their presentation of their etymologies/their logic, etc., is confusing to you, rather than just asking about the etymology itself. It saves everyone confusion and repeat questions. Anyway. For your first question: Greek τρόπος has a much more general meaning than what you seem to think it does; all dictionaries in Perseus agree that it is something like 'a turn, direction, way' with pretty straightforward expansion into 'a method, manner, style'. The clearly related verb τρέπω 'I turn' also has to do with turning. Textual evidence clearly backs this up as well, with usages for something like the directional 'way' (the LSJ cites Herodotus 2.108 who uses this sense in that passage). I'm not sure why the Etymonline jumped to the 'musical' meaning. Perhaps a typo? There certainly was a musical meaning (like 'style (of play)'), but it would be much simpler to keep it in the realm of 'writing' and 'argument', and just have it 'figure of speech' all the way down. Another aside: Greek and Roman scholars, when contemporaries, had excellent command of their own language, of course, but also the other language. This bi-directional language contact situation is a very different than a more one-directional language contact situation. 

Common ancestors are only genetic ancestors, despite how people might informally use "common ancestor". Chinese 豆腐 (standard Mandarin dòufu) was loaned into both Japanese, as 豆腐 toufu, and into Korean, as 두부 dubu. These forms share a common origin (a loan from some Sinitic language at some point into Korean and Japanese), but they aren't from a common ancestor (Chinese, Japanese, and Korean are not related). The Mandarin, Hakka (teu55 fu55), and Hokkien (tāu-hū) forms, on the other hand, are cognate. 

A more modern source would probably use the terminology of word-final obstruent devoicing, a process that happened early in the history of Old French (likely due to Frankish influence) where voiced final obstruents become voiceless at the end of words. Concerning the segment in question, the /p/ in Latin caput gained voicing in Western Romance as it was intervocalic (something like *kabut; compare Portuguese capo [kabu]). At one point in the history of most of Western Romance languages, voiced intervocalic stops became fricatives (something like *kavut; compare Spanish cabo [kaβo]). As the second syllable eroded away in the noun due to a number of phonological changes, it ended up as word-final (*kav), and was devoiced (*kaf) in environments where it was word-final, but not elsewhere. 

The primary function of Korean =ka, to the best of my knowledge, has only ever been marking subjects. Not so with Japanese =ga, so not only are we only looking at a phonetic similarity (I doubt you'll find recurrent sound correspondences here--the Proto-Japonic form was prenasalized voiced *=ŋga), but also an anachronistic similarity in meaning between modern standard Korean and modern standard Japanese. 

Having talked to Shibatani after the book was published, I can pretty safely say that he has since changed his mind. I think the basic consensus among linguists who have some specialization in Ryukyuan is that there are at least seven Japonic languages in two subgroups. The first subgroup is the Japanese subgroup, which includes Japanese proper, as well as Hachijo. The second subgroup, Ryukyuan, includes at least Amami, Okinawan, Miyako, Yaeyama, and Yonaguni. Amami and Okinawan may be a dialect chain (the division between the two is not well studied), and it's almost certain that there are more than just three languages (Miyako, Yaeyama, and Yonaguni) in the southern Ryukyus. The proposal for the forthcoming Handbook of the Ryukyuan Languages reflects the consensus view I outlined above (minus Hachijo, which is not a part of the Ryukyuan subgroup). The ISO codes make absolutely no sense. Nobody that I know of, and no source that I've ever seen groups the languages like they do. Unfortunately, this has trickled down into Ethnologue, which has its own problems in dealing with the Japonic languages. For instance, they claim that there are 984,000 speakers of Okinawan. While the Japanese government does not track language use data on their census, this number is far too high--first and foremost, it includes more people than actually live in the area where their definition of Okinawan is spoken. The actual number of speakers is likely less than 150,000 speakers. 

In fact, we could say that there are a number of possible ellipses that could occur, which we might diagram like so: 

It is important to keep in mind that there are a number of hypotheses about the exact phonetic value of many of the reconstructed phonemes of Proto-Indo-European. Any modern introduction to Indo-European linguistics--even the Wikipedia article on the Proto-Indo-European language--should explain what symbols they use and how, specifically, they use them. Off the top of my head, Mallory and Adams 2006 have a brief discussion, mainly focusing on stop consonants, which are the most debated. Forston 2004 has a more significant discussion. There are many other introductions and many important works specifically on reconstructing Proto-Indo-European phonology. 

The Max Plank Institute's Department of Linguistics has a few resources, including a questionnaire, for dealing with questions of tense and aspect. But as Dominik hinted, tense and aspect are a tricky thing, and a often very intertwined to the point that it gets quite difficult to pick them apart, and even linguists can disagree (for instance, many sources talk about a past and nonpast tense in Japanese, while many others talk about perfective and imperfective aspect). 

With each set of brackets enclosing more and more of what can be ellipsed, all the way from the full, un-ellipsed sentence I do want cake too to the fully ellipsed sentence Me. So I think part of the issue where you're running into problems is that the predicate here do want cake (or whatever it is in context) is simply not there. There is a long body of literature from a variety of approaches on how to deal with this, but it will entirely depend on which specific dependency or constituency grammatical theory you are operating in. 

Honestly, because you are asking at such a high level--just "dependency grammar" or "constituency grammar", rather than a specific grammatical theory, this question is likely not really answerable. That being said, I think you have some assumptions in your question which have lead to your confusion. It is usually assumed that this specific type of structure is a kind of ellipsis, where a portion of the sentence has been omitted. Different syntactic theories will take different approaches to answering the questions of what is omitted, and how we end up with what we see. Just saying "dependency grammar" or "constituency grammar" is not specific enough, as there are many dependency grammars, and many constituency grammars, many of which offer possible theories on what form this particular sentence takes, and thus how to draw a tree of it. It is helpful here to work backwards. Consider the general context where a sentence like Me too occurs. It is an addition to an answer to a question: 

Answers like (2) are themselves usually assumed to be elliptical structures as well, paraphrasing the question they are responding to. For instance, (2) could be interchanged with (4): 

To answer your first question, it is vitally important if linguistics is going to be scientific (or at least rigorous) to have an objective way of dealing with grammaticality. Your second question, however, is a bit more involved. I would personally split what a lot of people (even linguists) call "grammaticality" into several separate things, but mainly into acceptability, an empirical claim, as well as a variety of theoretical claims. The first is acceptability. This is an empirical claim you can test either introspectively or experimentally by asking speakers if a sentence is acceptable or not. The reason why something is acceptable or unacceptable can vary. It could be that something is syntactically wrong with the sentence (for instance, *Herself hit Jean, where herself and Jean refer to the same person should be judged as unacceptable by all competent English speakers). But it could also be that something is semantically wrong with the sentence (for instance, Chomsky's example of !Colorless green ideas sleep furiously, which is grammatically fine, but semantically nonsensical). Or it could even be pragmatically wrong, where it is semantically and morphosyntactically okay (for instance, #My goldfish thinks I'm a lousy cook.). However, there are associated theoretical claims--why a certain sentence is unacceptable. It could be morphosyntactically ungrammatical, which is a theoretical claim about what is morphosyntactically allowed or not in a given language. It could be semantically unacceptable, which means that the meaning just doesn't work. Or it could be pragmatically infelicitous; something about the wider context of an utterance means it just doesn't work. And, of course, none of these are mutually exclusive. While Chomsky's Colorless green ideas... is semantically unacceptable, for example, it is also pragmatically infelicitous. These arise not because of any sort of empirical test (though that's a good way to find them), but as a consequence of the linguistic systems a given language of a given speaker has in place. One article more or less in the vein of what you're looking for, which deals with gathering acceptability judgments of morphosyntax, is Sprouse and Almeida 2011. 

Okinawan, a Japonic language related to Japanese, only marks nominative case with an overt marker (either for animate referents or for inanimate referents). Accusative case has a zero marker. This is what is called a marked nominative language, and there are several like it, most found in Africa (see Köning 2006). And I would argue that differential subject and object marking in languages like Korean, Japanese, Turkish, and other languages is more than just stylistic; it has pretty clear semantic implications. A dropped nominative case particle in Japanese, for instance, implies a less specific subject than a marked subject (see Fujii and Ono 2000 and Minashima 2001, among others). 

The Japanese case marker =ga (a post-clitic), was not originally a subject marker. We can easily see this in the Ryūkyūan languages, related to Japanese, as well as historically attested forms. It's important to keep in mind that standard Japanese is actually fairly innovative when compared to other Japonic languages, both historical and modern. Originally, =ga was a possessive case marker which happened to also have a usage as marking subjects (but only animate subjects; inanimate subjects used the genitive case marker =no) (Vovin 2005: 118). Compare this Western Old Japanese form: 

None of the standard resources for this sort of typological information, it would seem, have helpful information to answer this question as accurately as one might like. That being said, both UPSID and the World Phonotactics Database can help us give an initial plausible range. Both have entries for long vowels, but these include all long vowels, so, for instance, English is included, despite the fact that while vowels like in beet /iː/ are phonetically long, there is no phonemic length contrast in English. UPSID's dataset says that 51 languages, or around 11% of their dataset have long vowels. Some of these are obvious cases where the entry is spurious, at least as it relates to phonemic vowel contrasts. While the World Phonotactics Database does not actually give an accessible list of segment inventories, it's dataset contains 1,384 languages with long vowels, around 34% of its total sample. A number of these will likely not represent phonemic length contrasts. So our estimate should be no less than 10% of the world's languages, based on the UPSID data, and no more than 33%, based on the World Phonotactics Database. Due to the size of UPSID's dataset, my guess would be that the true number is somewhere closer to the number found in the World Phonotactics Database, something like 25% of the world's languages. There are also 3-way length contrasts, but these are quite rare, and all examples I know of (Estonian, Mixe languages, Wichita, etc.) are at least debatably analyzed without resorting to anything more than a 2-way contrast.