Eye contact, body language I have had that situation, and know the feeling. In your case (no frequent interactions) I would suggest this algorithm: 

That is fine with me (and obviously for OP) and much less offensive than what some of the other answers suggested. Really also quite courageous, in my opinion, and quite the correct tone to also shut up any amorous thoughts the guy might or might not be having. In general, I would have suggested a plain but friendly answer somewhat similar to this one: 

This is all about internal communication; there do exist customers, but the problems are clearly inside our company. The reason why communication was bad were probably... 

This leaves you with the reason "taking care of personal/private matters". Do not say "family matters". Looking for a new job is a personal matter, and "personal matter" is open enough to include almost everything else you could possibly do. "Family matters" would be a lie. If someone keeps nagging, stick with it but not so that it gets aggressive or defensive. "Which personal matters?" - "Well, personal ones!". If they do not get the point after that flippant answer, your next escalation would be "I really do wish to keep this private." Be friendly while delivering that line. Do not say something like "I do not want to tell you" (whenever you use the "you" word you open yourself up for attack, or sound overly defensive - invoking the impression that you have something to hide). For me, it would be inconceivable that someone keeps nagging after that. You can repeat the last line ad nauseam if they do (well, obviously not..., but you get the gist). If they keep asking then there is something else going on and you are beyond the scope of a cookie cutter answer like this; you'll have to find out how to weasel out of it yourself. But what you said before does not put you in any attackable position. 

If you were my employee and you did that, I would be pretty sure that I can never trust you with anything of importance again. You would be in the "only ever does what he likes" drawer for the rest of the time, and I would not go out of my way to get you to develop into more mature directions. You do not want to be in that drawer; there may well be "boss decisions" in the future where you would be glad to be involved in instead of learning about them after the fact. If you really do not wish to develop in that direction I interpret the answer in the light of an "event" - i.e., a current project, where the boss needs something from you. One exemption to the things I write here is if the boss tells you that he wants to develop you from being a software developer to, for example, a fulltime consultant or team lead, with minimal coding. If you truly do not wish that, you are of course free to (and invited to) tell the boss that (and, if he insists, skip along to looking for a new job). But I do not really get the impression that the boss in our current scenario intends to do anything like that. How to handle this kind of situation Get your act together. If your boss asks you to do something (within boundaries, obviously), there are two possible answers (maybe after you asked to make sure that you really understood what he meant): 

These outbursts are damaging the work environment and may emotionally affect the other employees. The work productivity is most probably affected, and as HR, it is your job to take action to keep your employees at their best possible shape to work productively for the company. You said you talked with him and I think that's great, but if it's still continuing, you have to devise other methods. Maybe he needs a short break from work to calm himself, or some other thing you can think of to improve his situation. But I believe action must be done, and it must be done fast. P.S. Take my advice with a grain of salt as I am no expert in these types of things. :) 

Number 4 is the safest, however, I think I'd be spending more time as an unemployed man, and I want to minimize that as much as possible. What option would be best in terms of employer convenience and minimal unemployment time? 

The situation : I'm the contracted web developer for my company (which isn't an IT company). They are using a legacy framework that almost nobody knows, has a very small community, and the general reviews on it are just plain bad. (makes me actually wonder why they picked it in the first place) In short, people with this skill are very few, and I'm the only one in this company with this job description. My contract ends soon and the company has offered me an extension. I was hoping to ask for a raise, stating several reasons, but on the back of my head, the main reason is because I know my company needs me and if they don't get me hired, their website won't be maintained. The question : Is the situation where one specific person knows that the company needs this specific person a reason worthy enough of a raise? 

I was fiddling with my Facebook security and privacy settings when I stumbled to this option (which I wasn't aware was controllable!). 

How early could you apply generally for jobs? How much waiting time can you give employers before you are able to work? Is it a deal breaker for employers if the applicants aren't available in 1-4 weeks' time? 

I am a contractor and my current contract ends on May 29. I have been in this position for a total of 3 contracts (including the current one), in contract lengths of 3 months, 3 months, and 6 months, respectively. I am fairly sure that they will offer me an extension after this contract as I am the only one in this job position, and if I leave, they will have to find someone new to replace me. According to my contract, I have to give a two-week notice period, however, I believe that is not enough to both find, hire and train someone new. Given that, I would like to give a bigger notice period to my company, preferably 1 month. How should I approach my manager about this, and would it be 'polite' to do so? 

No Nobody would know that you were related to that app, outside the company? As the app is already out there, it is out under the company brand. Unless you transfer official ownership of the app to your own account, nothing will change. Another question is whether it will impact your resume, and again, no. Generally, it is normal to not include the names of apps or other softwares on your resume. You will list your company, with a generic "mobile apps" topic. While commenters noted that some companies indeed ask for individual apps you worked on, a good hiring manager should understand that a single developer working on a large, bad, application, is not necessarily the one to blame. You can always use a line like "I worked on this large app XYZ as a personal challenge, but was not in a position to really change what I thought was needed to get it out of its stagnant state. I learned X, Y and Z from that experience." So, don't fret. The thing you should worry about is whether you are landing in a cesspool; a bad brownfield project with disillusioned colleagues, bad political landmines, etc.; but not whether your app store rating will suffer. 

Invite him This advice is for you. The reasoning being that you have the obligation towards yourself (I don't care a bit about your old boss). The topic is eating you, and doing nothing will not stop the gnawing. "Hello $OldBoss- a year ago I promised that we'd meet again; let's do so! I've reserved a table at $Restaurant at $Time hours, please drop me a mail ASAP if you can come." You give him an obvious way out ("sorry, I can't make that date"). If he is interested in meeting you, he will continue "but how about on $OtherTime"; and from that point on it's his reponsibility. If he simply tells you that he can't make the date (or even that he is not interested at all), then you have fulfilled your obligation and can move on without anything on your conscience. Promises A promise is indeed the strongest thingamagic that a human being (especially one with so much self-concern as yourself) can give to another. Holding a promise should rightfully be extremely important to you. The way out is to not give promises that you do not really want to keep. That can be hard as well, but can (and should) be learned. Don't wait for him to pick you up on your promise. Mindset You are wiser now than you were a year ago. Treat this as a game, or as an opportunity to grow. Go into it with roughly this mindset: 

Given this, I personally think I could reduce the "unemployment" gap if I started applying early. However, given my vacation schedule, I wouldn't be able to attend interviews in that time period. These are the options I can see right now : 

I'm in quite of a bind here. Although this is unintentional, I've found myself in an awkward situation where I've been offered a job that I'm interested in while being on annual leave, and I'm not coming back for 1 more week. I'm currently overseas where coming back isn't an option unless I wait for my return flight which comes in a week. I don't exactly have the luxury of time to wait until next week to personally hand in my resignation letter, so I'm looking to do it by email. Is there anything I should be aware of? Anything ethics related, or when the notice period starts, and things I could do to smoothen the process? Thanks! 

I found this as one of the more fun aspects of a profile in LinkedIn, however, I wonder if it even matters for employers and recruiters. 

Additional info : They know I already have signed a contract as I've told them, but they said they still want to go for an interview. 

I was wondering if some recruiters would see it as negative, thinking I might not be focused or committed to my permanent job if I had a freelance project on the side. Obviously, more showable work experience is an advantage, but I'm wondering if I'm overlooking some disadvantages in listing concurrent freelance projects. 

Several resources indicate and suggest that you should not disclose your previous salaries in your past employments for the reason that there's a chance that the potential employer could "lowball" you and offer you a slightly higher salary compared to your previous, but a largely lower salary compared to their expected range. However, in the case of a history of a higher-than-average salary, should disclosing my previous salary be OK in terms of getting a higher salary? 

in an aggressive tone (for me, and for other employees as well, as she exclaimed this in public) She sent a request to said employee to do task A, and the employee has indeed finished the task according to specifications. I read the request, and I confirmed that he did the job. The root of the issue, she said, is that he didn't do what she asked him to do exactly, basically, miscommunication. In an IT person's head, the job was done. I read it and interpreted it as such where he actually did the job correctly, when she actually meant something else. She has no IT experience (makes me wonder how she became a project manager in the first place, but that's for another topic), so she can't communicate very well with IT staff. What is the problem here, and what should I do? Is it the miscommunication? Her lack of IT knowledge? Or the badmouthing? Should I talk to my supervisor about this, and if so, how should I approach this?