It may not be relevant in too many places, but… Hot springs! I'm heading to Iceland again this year and I will carry a colourful jarðfræðikort (geologic map) with me: 

Just change socks. I always wear different socks when hiking compared to when doing anything else, like driving. I don't like hiking with thin socks and shoes and I don't like driving with thick socks and boots. It only takes a couple of minutes to change. 

Suppose that we're hiking in a remote mountain region of British Columbia, Yukon, or Alaska. In all likelihood, nobody is going to be nearby. What are the likely consequences if we use it anyway — for us, and for others? Wikipedia notes: 

High on my list of places I want to visit one day in my life is Iceland, but I am worried by a warning I heard. One of two people who talked to me about Iceland experiences told me she was rather disappointed, because in many areas where they went, they were annoyed by four-wheel-drive cars driving by, spoiling the nature experience. The warning has stayed with me ever since. Indeed, looking around on Google Images, Panomario, etc., one finds many photos of cars and 4WD-roads in the middle of the wilderness. Example one, two, three, four. I would not like to be disturbed by a noisy 4-WD that can likely be heard kilometres away, while three days into a backpacking trip. Below is a map of Vatnajökull National Park, and it seems the glacier is surrounded by 4WD-roads on all sides, making a backpacking trip that does not frequently cross such areas possibly challenging. Are there any larger areas of Iceland where 4WD-driving is not permitted? Apart from the obviously inaccessible areas such as Vatnajökull, that is. A map with explicitly prohibited areas would be a great aid in planning a backpacking trip that includes a tranquil nature experience and solitude, without frequent encounters of motorised traffic. 

Under what circumstances can a glacier be safely crossed without special gear? How do I judge if this can be done? 

Image source: Hilleberg Akto Mesh That should make use of any breeze, and as a bonus, is light-weight (540g) Use it seperately when no rain is expected, or with an outer tent or tarp when it might rain. Hilleberg and probably other tentmakers have other mesh shelters like this ridge (designed to be used with tarps if it rains) as well. 

I was caught by a hailstorm the weekend before last. I was high above the tree line, the nearest trees were perhaps 20 km away, and several hours hiking from shelter. The hailstones were not huge, but large enough to hurt. 

Nevada State Parks have the most numerically precise characterisation of hiking trails I have yet seen. For example, see this map and list for Valley of Fire State Park or this one for Beaver Dam State Park. For each trail, they report numbers on length, typical grade, maximum grade, typical cross slope, maximum cross slope, typical tread width, minimum clearance width, surface firmness (typical and worst), and surface stability (typical and worst). If it wasn't for omitting measurement uncertainty I'd even describe it as a scientific measurement. 

Within the U.S. Grand Circle region (very roughly Las Vegas NV /Provo UT/Aspen CO/Santa Fe NM/Phoenix AZ), for what trails are the number of permits issued limited considering day use only? I am aware of the Coyote Buttes area in Vermillion Cliffs National Monument near Page, Arizona (lottery-based for Coyote Buttes North including The Wave, and based on who applies first for Coyote Buttes South, but the Paria Canyon in the same area has no daytime limit). Are there other areas where the number of daytime permits is limited for day-time use? For the scope of this question, I am not considering trails with a limited number of overnight use permits, nor am I considering trails that require a permit, but do not limit the total number issued. I am also not considering trails where access is only permitted with a guide, such as Antelope Canyon or areas in Canyon de Chelly National Monument. 

When travelling on extremely remote roads, you need to prepare for the worst. This is even more true if you are travelling in a climate where the weather might kill you within days, such as in extreme cold. I've had a car break down once at -35°C. That road in Northern Sweden wasn't as remote as the one in Siberia you describe, as it still had maybe two cars per hour during the day. We were around 30 km from the nearest town. It could have been quite bad at night, as apart from travelling together, we had not really prepared as we should have, although I do think we had mobile phone coverage (but batteries can die quickly when it's very cold!). Fortunately we were travelling with two cars so we were fine. 

Smájllájåhkå, 17 September 2013. In my experience, this is the most difficult ford of the route. As you can see, it's glacier-fed so it has substantial amounts of water year-round. It's not particularly difficult, but it's rather cold. I recommend to bring a wading staff. 

This 1998 Draft Wilderness Management Plan proposes to set aside large parts of Grand Canyon National Park as wilderness. However, despite large areas being declared "Wild" in the park backcountry management and wilderness areas in Kaibab National Forest (such as the Kanab Creek Wilderness and the Saddle Mountain Wilderness) and in Grand Canyon-Parashant National Monument (such as the Mount Trumbull Wilderness and the Mount Logan Wilderness), no part of Grand Canyon National Park is currently designated as a federal Wilderness area. This contrasts with Zion National Park, where almost the entire park is part of the Zion Wilderness or the LaVerkin Creek Wilderness. What happened? Why is no part of the Grand Canyon declared as a Wilderness Area? 

It might help in places, but you'd be taking them on and off regularly as the snow is mostly patchy, and it doesn't address the bigger problem of meltwater. The highest part of the Serra de Estrela, roughly the part south of road EN 232 that runs west-east through Manteigas, does still have substantial snow in April. When approaching the highest part, it becomes apparent there is still substantial snow: 

In bear country, we are told, never eat food in your tent. I no longer live in bear country but I may return in the future. If I eat food in my tent now, does that mean that, from a bear's point of view, it will smell of food even one or more years in the future? Or does never mean the less restrictive never while in bear country? 

In my experience, you need to calibrate each guidebook or website to your own experience. As a case study, I can speak from experience with two guidebooks describing hikes and treks in the same region: 

Camping If you're walking with a tent and pitching it up somewhere high in the mountains (this may not be legal, but if you're well behaved nothing will happen), you won't have a problem with crowds. Very few people hike with a tent. In general, as soon as you're more than ~2 hours from the nearest car park, you're out of the crowds. That being said, it may be difficult (and illegal) to camp in the wild, and you might depend on camp sites. With a small backpackers tent, you won't have a problem finding a spot, but you will be sharing a camp site with car tourists with big tents, electrical light, music, etc; those camp sites are in civilisation. Wildlife Bears are rare in the Spanish Pyrenees and non-existent in the French ones. You're very lucky if you see a bear. There are no pumas. Wildlife is not a hazard for hiking in the Pyrenees. Maps On the French side, by far the best maps are the 1:25.000 map series from French IGN. However, for a long trip you might need many sheets to cover the route, so you could choose the 1:50.000 map series instead. On trails, these are usually good enough. The French maps cover part of Spain, too. On the Spanish side, maps are less reliable. My experience with the official maps from Spanish IGN is that many hiking trails are simply missing on the map. Special park maps, only available for touristic regions, may be better. I haven't been to the Pyrenees, and can't recommend specifically. Where to hike I haven't been to the Spanish side of the Pyrenees. From what I've understood, they're quite dry. A friend who has lived in Toulouse (close to the French Pyrenees) recommends Grande Randonéé 10, which runs close to the border on the French side. The entire GR will be too long, but you can do a segment of it. GR's are well-marked with red-white markings. 

What if you've done nothing of this? What if you decided you only needed shorts and sandals because it's warm in the car and at your destination, and you didn't bring much food because it was "only" an 8 hour drive? In this case, there is very little you can do but to hope for survival (or pray, if that's your thing). The situation is described in a Swedish pop song, where someone does exactly that. Ultimately he stumbles out of the car and starts to walk (he has no clue exactly where he is, the song predates both satellite navigation or mobile phones), only to fall into the snow, be pushed off the road when the snowplough comes along, and die a cold death out on a frozen swamp. Don't let that be you. 

Some animals are big and dangerous and, when hungry, may realise that humans contain a pretty decent amount of meat. I've never hiked in such areas, but they do exist. 

Sometimes, people go into nature and go missing. A big search party is set up but they may be never found again. A morbid version of “leave no trace”. We probably all know examples: Joe Keller, Joey Ravn, Hans Nolte (the father of a childhood friend), and many others. It might happen in vast wilderness areas or in relatively small nature reserves. It is often a mystery. In Iceland (with plenty of wilderness and bad weather) the concept is part of national folklore. Sometimes people are found alive, like Mary-Anne Goossens who was found after sitting at a stream in the Spanish mountains for 18 days — she was lost and decided to stay put, unaware how close to civilisation she was or where to go, worried to explore and lose track of the water source; the trail would have been in shouting distance if it wasn't for the sound of the river. There must also be cases where someone is eventually found, but too late, or died in an accident. Are there any statistics on how often people go missing in nature, and out of whose, how often they are found — dead or alive? I realise this may depend on many factors, and there may not be much research on the topic, so I will consider any actual facts on the matter welcome.