If you like to be nasty, depending on the work culture: The next time he passes by, say loudly with everybody hearing it "please keep your hands to yourself this time" (without specifying from what). Let's see how much fun it is for him to be pranked. When you are asked by you boss, explain the situation and apologize for a possible misunderstanding. 

I interview people by phone from time to time, but it is not my main task. Typically it is part of a busy day when i am at a customer site, and up to 15 min is a delay which happens sometimes on such days (since i have to go into a meeting room). It shouldn't but it happens. Maybe the interviewer also got sick, stuck in the traffic etc. The best guess is to call the HR person in contact with you. If such things happen more regularly they will remind the interviewer, and in any case they will track the process. Usually they would try to reach the interviewer directly, by all means available (an possibly they have more than you, like all phone numbers, the assistant phone numbers etc). 

Are you paid by the hour? As long as i am paid by the hour, I am happy to do things for my company. If I clearly take bigger responsibility then it is sure that this will come up in my next meeting where i discuss an increased salary with my boss. People who don't do thing for the company because "it was not in the description" usually have a problem negotiating a raise when the times are bad for the company. It is another thing if this keeps you from other duties for the company, but that is a different thing. 

I remind you: While on clock your loyalty should belong to your employer. This goes a little bit beyond "separate private and business". I assume you are the boss of neither Josh nor Jessica. What i would do (assuming that your relation with your manager is as open as mine to my manager): Tell the line manager personally (while asking that your name will not be mentioned) that you heard that Josh and Jessica are going to be divorced - don't tell about the cheating, since it is none of your or the companies business. The manager has to be informed, since one of them may quit, and he needs to have control over it. If Josh is there for a very long time and good and Jessica is inexperienced in her Job, it's better for the company if she goes. If the company had trouble finding her and Josh is easy to replace, it's better if he goes. Moreover, possibly the manager finds a solution where they don't work in the same team. 

I suggest: "Thanks, I will put it (or: it is already) on the list of possible improvements. If the customer/lead/product owner thinks it is important enough, we will do it". 

You could answer: your previous workplace did not give you the opportunity to develop your career and responsibilities in a way that you were happy with. When being asked why, you can tell that your current skills were not something the company was interested to develop, since the management changed and reevaluated in which direction they want to develop the department/team. The solution that you resign is actually a win for both: you, since you are not fired, and your old company because there is no risk that somebody asks why you were fired. I actually think it is a good sign that your manager states that this was your wish, this is very professional. 

Your loyalty belongs to your employer. inform your boss confidentially about your knowledge, then remove yourself from the interview process. advantages: there will be no traceable hint that she was put at a disadvantage, and the result will be the same. 

There are two parts of your question: the personal outrage over the accrued vacation time: If your company acquires another company they also acquire their liabilities/debts, together with the assets. If my employer owes me paid vacation time for times where I worked (and did not take the full holidays), it's nothing different from any other monetary debt which the company has. So if my employer is acquired by another company y I assume that the buyer did due diligence and find these liability in the books. it is not your position to judge this process, and it's improfessional to complain about the result to your manager. The second part is about personally perceived unfairness in working contracts. It's the same answer and always: never compare your salary or other compensations to others. If you are unhappy, quit your job and relocate around the half world and you will get another deal. (As a personal remark: relocation to US would be something which my employer needed to really make attractive to me) 

There is something in your mindset which you may believe that you can hide it, but i seriously doubt so. This also refers to the linked question. You constantly assert that you know things better than your boss and make good evaluations of your work ("...the code was clear, well documented and working as requested,..."). Assert for a second that the code was all that, but had real problems in it (can happen - i can write clear, well documented code which works, i.e. passes the tests, and still it can be difficult to extend, show a poor understanding of the patterns etc). Imagine that your co-worker which you defended in your other question really fucked something up beyond your imagination. If you assert that, what would be a convincing approach to convince somebody that you learned from these experiences? Before you interview, test if you can formulate what has happened under these assertions. Instead of "...the code was clear, well documented and working as requested,...", you may think "I did not get feedback about the code quality in time before the final review; I should have insisted more that the senior developer reviews with me". Instead of thinking "it was so unfair to my coworker", you may think "my coworker and my boss did not get along, and maybe I misunderstood the weaknesses of both". Actually both of these would make excellent answers to the famous "what did you find complicated in you professional life" question. But if you enter the interview with the idea how unfair the world was, you will have a problem. About what to write: "shifted project priorities of the company" and "restructuring of the department, with termination of contractors" could be a good explanation. 

Before attempting to leave the position inform your manager immediately about the real situation. If a team in consistently overworked ands still has months of work to do beyond what the manager expects, it is a serious situation - if i calculate right, we talk about 0.5-1 man years of work (cost) hidden from management, which is a budget-relevant quantity. Management needs to know, management needs to deal with it. If they do, it may be very good for you (and possibly your colleagues). If they don't, then nothing which do you do or don't do will keep your coworkers from being thrown under the bus, since they will see a high fluctuation, a growing backlog, quality problems etc. The only chance that something changes if that management is being made aware. When presenting the facts, make sure that you reach a common conclusion in the team. Make an estimation of how much the team believes that it is beyond schedule, then present it as a common estimation to your manager. 

In general the most distinct point to make in Germany is if you have customer contact or not. If you do not have customer contact at all, then in my experience, in Germany and the technical world, you are pretty free to dress how you want, as long as you don't go too naked. Most People which I know are pretty tolerant, if they understand that you understand the rules (i.e. dress conservative when needed for the Job). If it is a company of only 5 people, and you have mixed functions, then I would just wear it and informally ask the boss to tell me when he sees it fit not to wear it (e.g. going to customers etc.). Something like "I hope that this does not disturb anybody here, but please tell me if i should remove it in contact with business partners" 

The short answer is: you not do much about it - on your level (i assume not management/executive) the options which you have are 

Something which you could try: Find a mixture of simpler tasks (Documentation proofreading, code review, simple but time-consuming tests, collecting information to reproduce bugs, come to my mind) where his motivation contributes to the team. If you can enable him to stay longer by this, he has a change to grow and be respected enough that people don't consider him a burden, then he can learn. Explain to him that instead of investing all his time there he should read something about the topic. 

What is recommended here? Clarification: I already talked to our common boss, with moderate success: Our boss sees the problem, talked to the manager, but the actual behavior of the manager did not change so much in my opinion. The communicated responsibilities are complicated due to the fact that the manager never introduced himself formally to the persons he should be corresponding with. 

Has any of the two a similar track record with other team members or is one of the two the definitive block in resolving the issue and removing this person does not derail anything? -> remove from team. If not and both contribute equally: Remove the one which is easier to replace. Remark: remove from team does not mean "fire". Sometimes thing don't work out and if there is a clear behavioral issue involved the solution which hurts everybody the least is to let somebody switch the project or the department. The level of expertise or urgency needs to be very high to tolerate such problems for more than a short time. It is my opinion that mediation should already be the exception for adult professionals. 

Ask your Boss when to tell. She/He may have reasons to resolve issues around you leaving in a quiet atmosphere i.e. asking specific other colleagues if they are willing/ready to take over some roles from you. Depending on your position, you can create significant confusion by telling early. 

If she is professional, she will have to accept it. So typically you should just pass it to her, explain your reasons, and prepare for the technicalities (leaving date, handing over work etc) before meeting her so that the meeting does not go weird over something unnecessary. 

First of: You did not bother anyone or cause problems, Bob did. The answer should be: "Mr. [Name of the Manager deciding] thinks it is better that I sit here". If you are asked why, you should just say: "You have to ask him.". 

The next time that you have, such a serious issue like "I saw almost no point in continuing there", go to your boss, explain that you see a big financial risk (project cancellation) in professional language, and state that you think it would make more sense to work on another project. Not sure about his reaction, but when the project is cancelled, he may thank you for letting him know beforehand. 

In my experience achieving gender equality is not a big problem as long as you can allow to cherry-pick for the best candidates - since women who studied STEM subjects against the picture in the society (and thus were preselected) are usually very motivated, and in average also more talented than their male peers. In my experience (Europe) as long as i was looking for the top 5% of applicants for a technical position, the gender ratio of people passing into the second interview round was pretty balanced, when I had to go to the top 25% the story was different. In my experience it is not unusual that management and executives dont understand the statistics of this very well. EDIT: I prefer the second option, since you can find more bright people. Typically broadening your view when hiring is good - motivation, dedication and talent in my experience often (not always) beat good grades, or a long experience. 

Well, i solve this problem by making separate lists of skills for >10 years, >5 year, >1 y experience and hobbyist/seldom used. 

All of this only can work if I present them with something which I actually can expect them to know. If they are good in these things, then usuually they are also good in other topics. 

No (No mater if you participate as being interviewed or as another interviewer). It is not your function to correct your HR. such questions actually have several functions