(Satipaṭṭhāna) Nīvaraṇa Sutta Also see: The Five Mental Hindrances and Their Conquest: Selected Texts from the Pali Canon and the Commentaries compiled and translated by Nyanaponika Thera In relation to general thoughts linked in thinking and pondering on unwholesome thoughts Vitakka Saṇṭhāna Sutta mentions the following: 

I see one aspect of your question is practice of rites and rituals much like other religions. This is also important for Buddhism to be socially and culturally integrated, but this does not give you liberation. Secular Buddhists strip Buddhism of some of the aspects which cannot be conventionally seen (e,g, other realms, life after death) and perhaps some of the aspects not in line with western culture (e.g. respect to the Triple Gem). Accepting and dismissing things beyond your comprehension is a mistake, so would be accepting things which you cannot empirically verify. Until you know something at an experiential level it is best to set them aside. There were many Buddhist sites in India which perhaps became sites for other religions. 

Dhammapada Verse 204 Pasenadikosala Vatthu Ultimate happiness is Nibbana. This is beyond existence. If at all, the best analogy is infinity or singularity than being zero, where mundane experiences are comparable to finite numbers. Finite numbers, however big (even if you reach the Brahma Planes), whatever end of the pleasure meter, is always dwarfed by infinity. Pleasure of satisfactoriness at lower states do not stack against the satisfactoriness of Nibbana, abite all conventionality breaks down, hence what ever conventional is not present in Nibbana. Normally the pleasantness arise out of sensations or feeling, which are also conditioned, but in Nibhana this is not the case. 

The position is something that your should choose to help in meditation, i.e., being able to be in the position for a long time without issue. Dwelling too much on what is the right posture is leaving the main task at hand and concentrating on auxiliary tasks. The danger in this is that this can lead to trying rights or ritual like practices which has been case in some schools of Buddhism and in India. Also any your posture can be taken into practice of the 4 frames of mindfulness. The posture it self (sense through the outline of sensations) and the pain that results from being in it for a long time. 

I think Buddha speaks about sincere attention to the process. Without sensitivity (sincere attention), you pretend to spend time in the practice, but do not concentrate the mind, do not abandon corruptions. In Zen it's explained as losing the balance between calmness and alertness. Calmness not balanced by alertness leads to states of dullness, "like a stone that uselessly soaks in water", "like dry piece of wood devoid of life". Correct meditation should have attentive, sincere attitude. Likewise, a skillful cook pays sincere attention to doing everything so that the food will be prepared well. 

Shcherbatskoy wrote in "Buddhist Logic" (translating Dharmakirti's Logic Manual) something like this: 

It's quite possible to have serious mental problems even at high levels of spiritual practice. Do you remember, for example, Christian literature, where Christ and Saints were tempted by demons, had horrifying demonic visions etc. I myself was hospitalized in a mental facility just half a year before a major breakthrough in my spiritual practice. So the problem exists, but I don't think that a solution is about confronting such practitioner. I guess his problem relates to a state of conflict, an opposition, both inner and outer. Inner opposition results in much tension, which causes fatigue, feeling of being in a deadlock, and "laziness". "Laziness" is actually a sign of inner disharmony, such as disalignment between logic and feelings, or between different intentions, which clash in an inner conflict. Outer opposition is a mutual problem, because you - and virtually everyone else - aren't free from oppositions too. You want to help, but you try to move in a direction of opposing his ideas and behavior, rather than finding there deep meanings and trying to help to realize them in better ways. If you want more help from me, please message / comment, I will try to help if I could. For now, I'll just say very briefly: Your friend have focused on a very hard problem - of illusory oppositions, and illusions in general. If you want to help, try to remove oppositions - any time, as well as you could. I would advise you to get a book by Nossrat Peseschkian, The Merchant and the Parrot, and donate it to your friend. And get such book for yourself and read it. It describes how we can find useful meanings even in problematic behavior. This way we move from opposing to cooperating. Good health to all sentient beings! 

Karma is dependent on the intensity of volition of the person doing the action and the metal state of the person being the subjected to the volition. These states are not easy to measure empirically to build a equalization / mathematical model. The interactions among karma and the Niyamas are too complected also the theories for normal people other than a fully enlightened Buddha. 

It is incorrect that this is later development. From the onset in the Buddhism teaching did not have the teaching of a Creator God or Judgement Day. The Buddhist notion of a creator is the stained mind or conditioned mind or unliberated mind. We keep creating our next moment due to Kleshas. This is further explained in Dependent Origination and the Links of Dependent Origination. This is evident from the Udana 'Anekajati samsaram sandhavissam' in which refers to the creator as Ignorance. 

In Buddhism the universe goes through a cycle of expansion and collapse. The collapse is not the end of everything but part of a cycle like the waves in the ocean. So this might not fit into the traditional sense of an apocalypse. See Wikipedia Entry on Buddhist Cosmology for further details on the cycles. 

The link between sensation and mind comes from what we are made of. We are made of the 5 aggregates of which sensation is one element. Suffering is a result of clinging to these aggregates. To overcome stress you have to get rid of the clinging to the aggregates. The way to to do this is through the 3 Fold Practice through which you gain the understanding of the 4 Noble Truths, The 3 Marks of Existence and Dependent Origination by developing the qualities required for enlightenment in a balanced manner and subduing the hindrances and defilements. Finally destroying the fetters. Your mind is one sense door or a faculty which make up a being. When it when some though or mental content comes in contact with the the mind sense door some sensation arises in your body. (E.g. like when you get angry. You get a through which you form a perception to which you react for future wish for sensations.) If it pleasant you try to grasp on to it. If it is unpleasant you try to get rid of it. Or it can be what you want to be or not get yourself into in the future. (Taṇhā) Based on this clinging arrises. This is due to the ignorance. If you are have equanimity at this cycle you you can break cycle of dependent origination from this point. Main thing is you do not react. It is the mental reaction that keeps you in stress or misery. 

As long as we use many fabrications to build our reality, we may benefit from making certain choices, e.g. how to deal with those fabrications. All these choices can lead to the same goal of realizing the Truth. (E.g. certain choices can help us in cleaning our mind from the processes which recreate illusions). However it's possible indeed to make no other choices than the choice to realize the Truth, and come to the cessation of suffering. 

What do you mean by "Buddha nature"? I think it means: Anyone is Buddha, as soon as he stops to generate vexations. That fact can be described as: "We all are Buddha by nature, we only differ from Buddha in maintaining some mental processes". Therefore, the term "Buddha nature" is applicable to sentient beings, not to metaphysical concepts of reality like Trikaya. 

Is that so? Yes, this is so. For example, if you are young and healthy, and your life is pretty smooth, you can feel: "My life is well!" But it might be not so well for your parents or friends, or for other beings around; and there are ups and downs, so it's better to be prepared when things will change, and you will get sick, old or down on your luck. Moreover, when you are accustomed to living in shit, you don't realize how shitty it is. You need to experience really pure conditions to compare and to understand that. So what seems to be rather well, for awakened view might be miserable. That's why you were told: there's a lot of suffering, get out of there! I hope it must be clear now. It's normal to feel unpleasant sensations sometimes, so indeed there's no need to become obsessed with the idea that we suffer; however, it's normal also to remove discomfort. Therefore, please, don't fixate on suffering, but also don't remain in it as mindlessly as people usually do. Practice the Noble Eightfold Path and find the liberation and the wisdom. Note also an important detail: if instead of the intention to cease suffering we would call people to chasing happiness, then that would likely lead to developing desire and attachment - i.e., to recreation of suffering. Chasing something is not the way to satisfaction. Therefore the path is not through chasing happiness, but through removing dissatisfaction. That indeed leads to profound easiness, openness of wisdom and harmony. 2. The cause of suffering and the way out. Basically, we are dissatisfied because we left our natural condition of satisfaction. We left it for the chase of desires. Do you understand? Do you accept this idea? It's easy to understand. It might seem even too easy, too primitive. So we don't even try to apply this idea to our life. But if we don't apply the advice, then it doesn't work. We may think that dropping the chase we will lose something. That nirvana is bland or something. But why don't you try? Just try and compare. If you really abandon chasing desires, you might discover something miraculous. Having stopped to chase few things... ...you suddenly realize that all the things are already here. That's because while you wander apart from the natural condition, you have an attitude of chasing, all in struggles and oppositions. The whirlpool of mental energy generates vexations, questions, disagreements... If you let it calm down, the dirt subsides, and everything becomes clear. Instead of problems everywhere, natural field of causes and effects appears - in its silent unconcerned perfection. Therefore, practice the path to awakening by going deeper than mental oppositions and struggles. Explore the mind, rather than stirring it again and again. 

2 above related to the 50 Cetasikas in the Abhi Dhamma while 3 refers to the other 2 Cetasikas. Mental formations are the last to calm. (Anupubba Nirodha Sutta) Sankara are formed when there is either greed (lobha), hatred (dosa), delusion (moha), greedlessness (alobha), hatelessness (adosa), and undeludedness (amoha) volitional motivated thoughts (this also based on sensation as any through has sensation associated with it) or when you react with clinging or aversion to any sensation that is felt. (Pahāna Sutta, Avijja Pahana Sutta 2) 

Habitual tendencies persist from life to life. Say you were a monkey than then born a human sometimes the tendency to jump last. Only the Buddha can overcome habitual tendencies. Even an enlightened person will have habitual tendencies. 

You cannot validate the path by other people's experience. If there is an epidemic and you and your neighbour both sick you have to take medicine to become better. Just because your neighbour taking medicine will not make you better. 

A person is a Dependently Arisen process. Actions [Karma] will influence the direction which the process takes [positive and negative conditioning], hence influence rebirth. There is no permanent core [soul] which is a store of Karma. The Buddha is someone who found the truth of regarding existence and compassionately taught it so being can come out of their misery. 

When humans become sinful the criteria to become human falls and life expectancy falls and life in the human realm becomes hellish with more conflicts. 

Any worldling will have some form of attachment or aversions or neutrality towards people, experiences and things. A friend is someone you consider or perceive positively among others. When you think of someone you consider a friend you get pleasant feeling and likewise unpleasant, and neutral for foes and random strangers. In our mind's eye we classify people into buckets: me, dear ones / my friend / my relative / etc., neutral people, foes. [page 85, section "HOW YOU BREAK DOWN THE BARRIERS", Knowing and Seeing - 4th Edition by Ven Pa-Auk Sayadaw] As long as this mental classification is present suffering arises. So you have to break this perceptual classification. The tools to do that are Brahmavihara meditation and Vipassanā. 

I have no definite answer, but maybe this info will be useful: According to Mahayana views, the material world we ordinarily perceive is only a part of reality. Another part of reality can be viewed as some kind of "spiritual realm", Sambhogakāya. In a sense, both that spiritual realm and this material world are projections from true reality. It's not like there are other dimensions somewhere out there; rather, limits of our ordinary perception let us see only a part of what is here. On some levels of advanced practice, we are able to perceive Buddhas and Bodhisattvas from Sambhogakaya realm, 

Gradually the mind becomes less and less involved in the circle of samsara. More and more time it remains calm and satisfied, and that is felt as a great relief. Usually we might think that desires such as sex etc. are pleasant, but in fact those desires are typically mixed with dissatisfaction. There's always some tension, uneasiness - even in pleasant experiences. Eventually, when you release those tensions and uneasiness, it feels so liberated and satisfied that we don't need those desires anymore. Simple easiness of liberated mind is more pleasant than worldly pleasures, because they were mixed with tension, dukkha. So that is the way for us, laid out by Buddha. We drop tensions and attempts to force ourselves, to coerce ourselves, to artificially blow desires. Then we realize that our dissatisfaction came exactly from our own forcing and coercing. We let it go away. So forcing and coercing cease, chasing desires ceases, and finally dissatisfaction ceases. We discover unlimited easiness of life without oppositions. It's so wonderful that we don't need anything for ourselves anymore. Everything is already so perfect! So we just start to share our happiness and wisdom, like Buddha Gautama did. We don't just dwell in pleasurable samadhi, as some Hindu teachers think. In Buddhism it would be called dwelling in solitary peace - a condition of highly developed concentration, but not the true liberation yet. Solitary peace is still attachment, still a result of the division between self and others. In true awakening, there's no division, and that is called compassion (karuna). Then we feel no tension, no dukkha - in complete easiness and non-attachment, we just have nothing to do, but what is natural to do - gets naturally done. Our body does that - helping others to find the same cessation of samsara, coming to sukkha of liberation, nirvana.