About your map : I think it looks pretty good so far. Just be careful when you add rivers. I would recommend to draw the drainage basins (watershed) first. The limit between watersheds lies along topographical ridges. Then you draw a river and its affluents inside each watershed. Rivers should never cross the limits 

You can compare the globe (b) and the icosahedron (c). The distortion is not too big. If you don't want to have your continents cut in half when you flatten the map, you can move the triangles. The Dymaxion map is a good example of what you can obtain with this method ; The continents shapes and proportions are fairly respected. 

About the method : I think it works well for small territories like islands. But if you distord continents like Europe or America, people will find out easily . By the way, the map of Westeros (Game of Thrones) is mostly based on Ireland (upside-down). It becomes pretty obvious when you remove Dorne and the North. 

The yellow lines are the watershed limits (roughly). Draw it on a new layer, that you can hide later. I started along the mountain crest, and between rivers that flow toward different directions. Once I've made a few significant areas, I tried to add the major river in it. Watersheds that are just a coastal band should not have major rivers, that's why I've put red crosses on it. This is where you should add rivers only on a local map. When the watershed was big enough, I added a river, starting from the river mouth and then trying to find a way to the mountains. I added a few tributaries in the larger watersheds, to fill the voids. As you can see, it's just a start. I haven't filled the biggest watersheds. You may need to subdivide them. I hope it gets you started anyway. To get an idea of the number of rivers you should have on your map, just compare to a real map that you like, at the same scale (with roughly same climate). Even if your planet is different from Earth, it's not a problem. There is no "true map". What truly defines a map is not the planet, but the target reader. Maps are always based on choices, a balance made by the geographer to set the right amount of information, and make the map usefull and easy to read. 

Regarding to all the comments you gave so far and given the restrictions mentioned in your OP the answer is pretty simple and it looks you have chosen that already for you and just want to be confirmed. The fact that you say something is observable and therefor given is ok. So in which way it happens is irrelevant, I aggree to that. But one strong point given by zfrisch on an answer is: 

Where you counter ~Thats why this proof is puplicated in a way so everyone gets it~ (stated in my own words) So this is the final knock out! given it is observable that it is infinite and all religions rely on some one that had to be first, so there cant be anything infinite excepting him self. AND given that this fact is presented in a way that everyone udnerstands in what way that affects his religion. so everyone understands why it is prooved that his religion can't be true. given this limitations. (what simply are the limitations you give in collection of OP and different comments) Then religion is simply dead. In the moment everyone knows that religion is wrong and everyone knows that everyone else knows aswell. Then religion is simply dead and there is nothing else you will get as answer for it. 

It is impossible, within your conditions. Note: your given requirement to shut down the internet is without leaving any information available. That is even more strict as your title asks. The internet is no media where something can be stored in. It is just a..... well.... network of connection between hosts. So to make any data unavailable, you had to destroy binary media. So any mobile, any pc any fridge that works wiht a controller.... and anything that would be able to physically store data in anyway that could be retrieved by such a medium connected to the network. You know, the internet isn't a thing. even if all computers were eliminated, nothing would stop (expect the dumpness of the idea itself) humans to communicate verbaly over tcp/ip as language. What theoretically could be fitting into the definition of an network based on that protocoll aswell. and so, since the protocoll itself is jsut an idea, you can't destroy it without eliminating each medium hosting it. In other words your definition of taking down the internet is "extingushing humanity" since you require to make no information of it ever be available again. so as others have allready adviced, but in other context. The only way to achieve this is: Nuke the planet containing the idea and its mediums storing it out of existance. Everythign else will at least leave the possibility of medias (of what ever origin) be starting again to communicate over tcp/ip ;) 

This is important to keep only the major features on your global map. If you add too many details, the map will be hard to read. When the map is done, you need to be able to spot right away the elements that shape the land at a continental scale. To decide what will be your biggest rivers, it may be usefull to draw the drainage basins (watersheds). Draw the limits of your watersheds along topographical ridges. I've done a quick edit on your map to show you as an example : 

So we can imagine that other african species may have followed the same road, and reached your island when the sea was lower, during the ice age. Even if your island was never directly linked to the continent, it may have been close enough to allow terrestrial animals to end up there. After the sea rises they would have been definitively trapped on the island, but they found a way to survive. 

As a start, your phylologists could mimic the various strategies pursued by ecologists (in order to get a political influence and preserve biodiversity). Their points of view are very similar : they see diversity as a treasure and uniformization as a threat. They want to protect endangered species, or endangered languages. So, the first part of the strategy is to convince people that their fight is meaningful. Why uniformization would be an issue for the world ? You must spot the danger, and name the ennemy. Let's imagine that they see global standardisation as a dangerous process, and they think that actual leaders of the world want to make everybody similar, to make them easier to control. People with different languages see the world differently, have their own concepts and culture. They have their specific identity ans tastes. But many world leaders want everybody to follow the same track, buy the same things, vote the same way. Some of them want to destroy local languages, to weaken minorities and strenghten their own power. The phylologists may want to overthrow those leaders, and promote diversity. They should convince people that they face a risk, and that uniformization will have a negative impact on their life. They need to educate them about cultural differences, and the richness of languages. Because those who don't know much about others, don't care. With ecology, you must think local AND global. If you take only the local aspect or only the global aspect, it won't work. I think that the language issue is similar. They must fight at a local level and global level. So they should find a way to unite the various minorities that are fighting for their identity (and trying to preserve their language) to become a political force, and count on the international scene. Once they are strong enough, then can act as a lobby and promote their program to protect language diversity. But they will face strong opponants, so it's not going to be an easy fight, and will take decades. They will have to be patient. A more brutal strategy, like using the force to reach their goal, might not lead anywhere. Their only chance is to think on the long term, and bet on the next generations, to create a new world order. 

If you want to focus more on the psychology of having the speed power, your speedster should be able to use the power (both movement/speed perception) in a similar way that you use your muscles. 

Closer the moon is to the planet -> MORE HEAT Smaller the moon, the more the gas giant will affect the moon via gravity -> MORE HEAT 

You place one flying humanoid that acts as a guard and enforcer. Then put a money funnel on the top of the bus. The funnel drops the coins into the proper receptacle. Alternatively, you could have the driver sit on the top rear of the bus much like how a firetruck is driven. Your driver is here 

If you watch the second video, the scientists can only shoot plasma around 2 feet. To the Marksman Dragon, range is definitely a status symbol. Your dragons might have drastically smaller ranges while young thus making the Marksman Dragon a much more parental dragon over the conventional dragon that doesn't typically need to shoot far. Or maybe the gift of "LongShot", as the Marksman Dragons call it, is a genetic trait that is sexually selected for. Video Example $URL$ More in Depth Video of some science behind $URL$ 

Plasma Breath If you're looking for something quick, hot, and with pinpoint accuracy, look no further than good old plasma my friend. Instead of using weak dragon lungs to propel breath weapon, the illustrious Marksmen Dragon uses naturally evolved magnets (birds have magnets so why not dragons right?) to propel the burning plasma at the weaker dragons. How hot can you get? As long as the Marksman Dragon can get the energy, your dragon could breathe (is shoot more appropriate?) plasma at temperatures hotter than the sun. Even fulfills the cohesive beam requirement, here's a simple google image search for plasma jet 

As your speedster is activating powers 0(human)-100%(86400x), just slow down time by that much. You don't need to slam your fingers as hard as you possibly can while typing. I don't see any reason why this power would be treated any differently than using a muscle. Now that is not to say that using the speed muscle exerts effort (my heart is pumping blood and that costs me no effort). With that being said, some psychological effects of such a power would be... 

The biggest inconvenience is that your map may have a weird shape, and you'll have to cut the oceans. But there is no perfect solution. If you want to preserve areas and distances, this is one of the best options. 

Decrease the brightness of your moon, and make it invisible during the day. By making the surface of your moon darker, you reduce its brightness due to light reflection (albedo). Cover it with black lava fields or dark stones. If it's dark enough, your moon should be only visible during the night or twilight. You can give your moon the same apparent magnitude of objects that appears after sunset. On Earth, the twilight sky allows the visibility of objects with magnitudes from -2.5 to +4.5. -2.5 is also the apparent magnitude of the new moon, invisible during the day. Even if we can't see it, the new moon is not totally dark as it reflects the earthlight. But it's hidden by our atmosphere brightness. An object of similar magnitude would be visible during the night. According to Handbook of practical Astronomy (p. 402, 403), during a total lunar eclipse, the Moon's magnitude is -2 when the sky is clear, and totality is rather light and still visible. Your full moon should look similar in brightness, except that it won't have the red/brownish color of our Moon (due to the eclipse), it should be dark grey instead. So, we can imagine having a black moon with a very low albedo, that reflects a very small percentage of sunlight, and that should be invisible from sunrise to sunset. Of course during the night it won't be as bright as our own moon, and will look more "greyish" than white... But if it's as big as our moon it should be easy to spot it anyway. With such a moon, your nights should be quite dark, even during the full moon. You may not see your own shadow. The behaviour of nocturn animals/bugs should also be different, because the moonlight won't be as bright as what we know on Earth. 

To make things simple : As it seems highly probable that "blue" is dominant and "yellow" is recessive, the following rules should apply : - If at least one parent is blue, children can be blue or yellow ; As the blue allele is dominant, it will mask the yellow allele. In this case, blue + yellow doesn't make green, it only makes blue. That's why blue people can eventually carry a hidden yellow version of the gene and have yellow kids. - If both parents are yellow, children can only be yellow. As the yellow allele is recessive, yellow people can't carry a blue version of the gene (they would have the blue trait instead). That's why they can't have blue kids.