A nobleman may wear silk with opportunities for sable and ermine, not just vair. Fur is always a lining, not the outer fabric, until the 1800s. Underwear (sherte or chainse and loincloth or drawers/braies) are always pure white linen. It would be rare, and foppish, to have a silk sherte, though some queens had white silk chemises. Still, the most common fabric is wool, so much so that "cloth" really means a woolen fabric. The change in usage to "any fabric" is 20th C. So his tunic and hose are probably woolen. Which when not treated with modern chemicals (or recycled as shoddy) is not harsh or scratchy: I've been a handweaver, and while usually allergic to commercial wools, have no trouble working with woolen and worsted threads, nor in wearing the product. The peasants get the cheap rough stuff: he's wearing the best part of the fleece, spun finely, and woven to something like a soft challis. So he isn't wearing a shirt and pants, but tunic and hose, likely with a simple cape/mantle pinned over it. If late 1100s, in the French fashion sphere, you get to bring in the distinctive bliaut. Despite Wikipedia, I would advise against using doublets (the term is more Renaissance), or cyclas (13th C). Just as a fun side note, unless wet or needing airing, clothing was not hung up. There were no coat hangers, only hooks or pegs. Clothing was cut flat rather than body-shaped (like Japanese kimono), so it was folded to store. SOURCES: Hill & Bucknell, The Evolution of Fashion. Ought to be called British Fashion & Modern Versions of Its Cut, 1066-1930 Boucher, 20,000 Years of Fashion. Has a glossary of fashion terms. Find it at your library. 

My favorite ex-seminarian says that he was taught that early Christians were supposed to destroy the power of idols (note the assumption that they had power) by breaking off the nose, genitals, or hands, or any larger destruction. At a certain stage, any statue might be an idol to them. It may be lack of good excavation that many statues were dug up without a good search for the small bits. His nose might have broken off from the weight of earth on it, and been lying right there, but no one looked for it. 

Shaven heads and short growth were both marks of the slave, the criminal, and the outlaw. In the early period, Saxon maidens wore their hair long, and cut it short on their wedding day, and kept it that way. Later, it was worn trimmed and bound up on marriage. Long hair comes and goes as a European male fashion throughout the Middle Ages and Renaissance. From 1624, Louis XIII supported the use of the peruke or male wig, worn very long, because his hair no longer looked so hot worn naturally this way, as he was greying and balding. This led to an exaggeration of length and curliness and mass in male hairstyles under his son, Louis XIV. Charles II brought this style to England, as the periwig. So while men actually had their hair quite short, wearing a cap to bed or for lounging, the fashion or look was that of a huge mane not equaled even in the 1980s hair bands. ($URL$ ($URL$ In the 1700s, powdering the wig became popular. Then men began wearing their own hair long in wig-like styles, powdered or not, which resulted in much more realistic-looking styles we know from the American Revolution. In the 1790s both wigs and powder were out of fashion. Benjamin Franklin is usually shown with long hair loose. ($URL$ In the 1790s, men began to sometimes choose short hair, but so did women, in the fashions of the Directoire. In the early 1800s, Beau Brummell wore his hair quite long, so we know it was fashionable, though shorter hair was coming in. ($URL$ However, Brummell himself converted to collar-length hair, to accomodate the proper crisp cravat and curved collar he came to favor. After this, while some men wear long hair (especially where barbers may be few and far between), it is not fashionable again in the West until the late 1960s. (Then just add Semaphore's great answer) Do note that by the 20th C women are cutting their hair short, so that the "boyish bob" again put the genders about equal on hair length. You can call the 20th C "The Age of the Beauty Shop," when women had to go in monthly or so to get their hair cut again (and permed/dyed/relaxed) because short hair was now the norm for women. Women who wore it long (shoulder-length) and loose were considered either too youthful or too sexy: it really wasn't "proper" for clubwomen and matrons. SOURCES The Costumer's Manifesto is always a good quick check for In/Out for an era ($URL$ Boucher, 20,000 Years of Fashion (good for very early dress -- like, Neolithic) Gernsheim, Victorian and Edwardian Fashion: A Photographic Survey Gorsline, What People Wore: A Visual History of Dress from Ancient Times to 20th Century America (notable for covering American West) Hill & Bucknell, * The Evolution of Fashion: Pattern and Cut from 1066 to 1930* Houston & Hornblower, Ancient Egyptian, Assyrian, and Persian Costumes and Decorations Houston, Medieval Costume in England and France, The 13th, 14th and 15th Centuries Morgan, The Descent of Woman Price, Dame fashion: Paris - London, 1786-1912 Thrupp, The Anglo-Saxon Home: A History of the Domestic Institutions and Customs of England from the Fifth to the Eleventh Century Waugh, The Cut of Men's Clothes 1600-1900 

Seeing as the Economist in question held down a job in that profession for several decades, I seriously doubt he's just ignoring this. So I suspect he either has a definition of "labor shortage" that's a bit divergent than the typical "insufficient qualified candidates (employees) to fill the market-place demands for employment at any price", or he's got some really good reason why all the various market panics, recessions, and depressions of the era didn't count. But in a strict pedantic sense he is clearly wrong: there were certainly periods in the century after the Civil War, including an entire decade at one point, where there was a large surplus of labor. 

Until very recently Canada was a much smaller (population-wise) concern than the UK or France. Today those two countries are in the top 25 in population (65 mil and 62 mil), whereas Canada only has 34 million, about the same as Iraq. This is actually a pretty good relative improvement for Canada though. They didn't even break 15 million until around 1960. At that time, the UK had 52 million (and that number was much more impressive than today). 

The Franks were a German tribe, speaking a Germanic language. They conquered part of the Roman Empire roughly corresponding to modern-day France. However, the common folk in that area spoke Latin, and never stopped just because their ruling class was now German. Over time their Latin language drifted until it became the language we now call "French". This is sort of a mirror image of what happened a bit later in England, where the people spoke a Germanic language, but got conquered by a group of French-speaking people. Some words ended up getting borrowed, but the common folk of England never stopped speaking the Germanic language that evolved into what we today call English. The only common ancestor these two language families really have is Proto-Indo-European. They probably split into their two distinct branches at least 3,000 years ago (possibly as much as 5). So the reason German and French are so different is that they have been separate languages for thousands of years. 

This was an era when nearly all trade was via rivers and the sea. Movement overland was so much slower and more problematic that it was generally only resorted to when there wasn't a good naval alternative. The town was at the confluence of the Sashe and Limpopo. Such a spot would naturally control and access all trade upriver on both rivers. The fact that the town increased in size and power to the level it did (probably only about 5,000 people, but that's still a lot for that time and locale), is all the evidence we really need that this is what was going on. So the watershed below shows roughly the area that their commerce had access to. They would have had control of nearly all the trade in the upriver (western) half of this area. 

Madras* was bombarded by a German warship during World War I. That's the only instance I could find in either war of an Indian city coming under that kind of fire from German regular armed forces. Germany had no aircraft carriers, and their only real long-range bomber in WWII, the Heinkel HE 177, appears to have only been used in the Eastern and Western fronts in Europe. I don't believe Germany ever held any territory that would have been within the HE-177's 5,000 KM operational range from India. (The Eastern Ukraine is a wee bit further than that from New Dehli). * - Now Chennai 

That's interesting. The argument I tend to hear these days is that the most liberal mainstream Democrat today is actually further to the right than Richard Nixon was. The argument there is that for the last 30 years Republicans have been championing views to the right of center, and Democrats have been trying to move to the center. This creates a new center further to the right, and then process repeats. Who is right? I don't think you can really answer that, without having some kind of coherent theory of Politics and political "left" and "right". We don't really have that, but there are several competing theories out there. Personally, I think it may be a bit of both. Cultures change, and values change. Political ideologies have to change too, or they will die. For example, almost nobody is seriously arguing for slavery or anti-miscegenation laws any more. In that way, the entire USA is way farther to the "left" that all but the most extremist wackos in the 18th and 19th centuries. However, it is also true that very few people today are in support of socializing industries (like FDR did) or serious government effort to eradicate poverty (like LBJ), banning handguns, completely socializing the medical system, outright banning of the Death Penalty, etc. All of those used to be popular liberal causes. Good luck finding a politican running on any of those today in all but the safest liberal seats. The Death Penalty is an intersting issue to study, as we have good polling data on it going back almost a century: 

I'm not entirely sure how that bad rep got lost, but I found multiple histories of billiards that claimed the sport's popularity surged after it was depicted in the popular film The Hustler in 1961. So that's a likely culprit. I know by the 1970s when I was growing up pool tables were commonly found items in family gaming establishments (like my community's rec center).