I prefer light jogging or running before. If that's not possible then some light stretching would be good since it tends to warm up the muscles for more rigorous activity later on. Do not forget to hydrate enough before cycling, during the pre-workout. Even skipping ropes works if you can do that. Afterwards, a stretching becomes mandatory to relax the muscles. Also, while you are riding long stretches and get wound up and take a small break, do stretch the legs and back a bit, it helps in the long run. This would keep muscle soreness at bay, if not avoid it completely, but at-least delay the onset of it by a significant distance eventually. The more you practice these habits in accordance to what your body tells you, you will be able to realise which muscle is going to ache/pain next and adjust your speed, posture, pit-stop, hydration accordingly. 

On one occasion I did wear the motorcycle helmet during a leisure cycle ride in the city. I don't mind the looks other commuters gave me. Yes it did hamper the listening a little bit, but not much since I am used to wearing full face helmet on my motorcycle and yet can listen to brake and horn sounds clearly over the din of the exhaust. The only issue that I faced was - Severe neck-ache within a short span of 30 minutes which never happens during motorcycle ride. The reason for this is body posture and movement. During cycle ride, your whole body moves with every pedal movement. From head to toe. The lightweight cycle helmet does not feel like an additional weight on the neck. Also your body posture keeps on changing rapidly - from straight up at crossroads to bending over to gain speed. All this time with cycle helmet you do not have to worry weight since its barely weighs anything (as compared to motorcycle helmet). The ride with motorcycle helmet became a sore neck (literally) since every movement you do, pedalling, bending forward, is accompanied by massive continuously shifting weight on the neck. The neck-ache does not happen in motorcycle because for most of the ride, you are sitting in almost the same position. Your body movements are limited to hand and feet movement from braking, accelerating and gear changes. This does not involve whole body motion and hence once the helmet is set in for the ride, additional stress is not felt. Side Note - Helmet stress can be felt on long motorcycle rides (3-4 hours long continous rides, not taking terrain into consideration. If you do take bumpy and uneven road, that time comes down drastically) 

I was thinking it would be cool to have a bike where the crank arms can be adjusted automatically "on the fly", depending on load. If that is not so safe then maybe a manual adjustment that the rider could make from a control mounted on the handlebars while riding. For example, when extra torque is needed, the crank arms could be extended to maybe 180mm. When cruising along on flat pavement on a windless day (or with wind at the riders back), shorter crank arms might be desirable to save on excessive leg motion. Having adjustable crank arm lengths might actually extended the effective gear range even wider. For example, suppose the crank arm length adjustment is between 180mm and 140mm and is currently set in the mid portion of 160mm. The rider then attempts to ride up one of those spiral walkways that are part of a pedestrian bridge over a roadway. If the lowest gear has already been selected but more hill climbing torque is needed, extending the crank arms from 160mm to 180mm should help. Even if 180mm is excessively long for the rider, it is only temporary until they crest the hill, then they can be reset back to 160mm. I think that would be another fun thing to play with on a bike. So my question is would this be beneficial to a rider and if so, why don't I see these available? Has anyone attempted to make this, either homemade or available to the general public? From an Engineering viewpoint, can it be done? If so, how? 

I am wondering why they use such small cogs on a bike. Problem with that is as you get down below about 15 teeth, you cannot get precise steps to the next gear. For example, you can go 15 to 14 or 15 to 13. 15 to 14 is about a 7% difference. 15 to 13 is about a 14% difference. Now lets suppose instead they had cogs twice the size such as 30 replaces the 15 gear. Now you have twice as many choices. You can go from 30 to 29 (about 3.5%), 30 to 28 (about 7%), 30 to 27 (10%), 30 to 26 (about 14%)... Where this method really shines is when you get down to about 12,11,10 teeth. Then you are forced to space the next gear about 10% away. With my system you could space very high gears within 5% of each other. For example, the 2nd highest gear on a bike could have a 21T cog and the top gear could be 20T, representing only a 5% difference. Cadence would drop from say 100 RPMs to 95 RPMs which someone could likely power thru much easier than a 10% increase. Also, I suspect the larger gears are marginally more efficient in power transfer and should help extend chain life. So is this a practical idea and if so, why don't bike manufacturers offer it? 

Yellow and orange high visibility vests both do a good job of reflecting light. The Wikipedia article on high-visibility clothing mentions the first use of 'safety' orange 

My bike has several gears labelled one to six. Do these numbers relate specifically to a certain standard? In other words, would a bike set to say gear four on one bike, perform in the same way as another different bike set to the same gear? 

The Official Highway Code for the United Kingdom states that cyclists are only permited to cross on their bike when a green cycle symbol showing. If the light shows only a green man, you must dismount and push the bike to cross. If you are part of the traffic (not crossing from path to path) you must obey the red traffic light and stop. 

I'd like to know how to identify bikes. I think that would be more valuable then If someone told me what brand I have. 

What isn't clear in the article is how effective the orange colour is. It was noted however 'the rate of deaths and injuries on the rail network has been reduced considerably'. I don't think there is enough research to prove any major difference between the two. Perhaps at the time it was about distinguishing rail workers from public service workers. I think it's also a matter of preference, from a UK site that sells high-vis jackets the choice of colour appears rather inconsequential. What ever colour you choose it's likely that the retroreflective stripes will be the most effective. 

Copenhagen, Denmark Another interesting bike sharing system. What's unique about this system is that the bikes are free to use. 

The simple awnser to your question is no. However their are a few other nations that have well established bike lock reviewer's, including "Thatcham and Sold Secure in the United Kingdom, ART in the Netherlands, SSF in Sweden, and VDS in Germany" (1) With this in mind I'd suggest considering that individual bike lock brands will likely have their own security rating, which you should take into consideration depending on how much you value your bike. 

I've bought a saddle bag with a set of bike tools; stuff like alan keys, puncture repair kits, spanners etc. There's this one tool (well two but they screw together) that I have trouble recognising. I know for sure it's not part of the installation of the saddle bag. It also didn't come with any instructions. 

Maybe this design wont shift well? I wonder what the main reason is. Motorcycles also do not use it. Maybe large pitch chains require it cuz being 2 links too long or short is a big difference but with a short pitch chain (1/2 inch or so), it is not so critical? 

I read somewhere that steady cadence is a good thing but why is that? It is analogous to running long distance where it is a good idea to set a reasonable pace and stick to it? I would think that varying your cadence would give your muscles a chance to rest some. I question whether the original claim is actually true. I would think it would be more efficient to accelerate briskly then coast down, then repeat. This "sawtooth" cadence question is interesting because with a car or motorcycle, you actually get better gas mileage if you accelerate briskly and then just coast down. For example, you are at a red light in pole position (first). The light then turns green. You then accelerate quickly up to the speed limit (say 50 MPH) and then let the car/motorcycle coast down to maybe 20 MPH and then repeat. This is actually more efficient (you will use less gasoline) than if you accelerated slowly and maintained the 50 mph. This has already been confirmed by many people that have tested it. It is also easy to confirm yourself, especially if you have a real time mileage display. It will be at maybe 10 MPG for a brief time while you accelerate then vary between 99 and and some lower number as you coast down. Ok now to bikes. It seems to make sense that for a bike a similar thing should happen. Imagine a person pedaling an average bicycle 10 MPH on level ground with no wind. The amount of energy expended by the rider depends on several factors including what gear they are in. Imagine they are in the proper gear vs. much too tall (high) a gear vs. much too short (low) a gear. Problem is in the low gear energy is being wasting pedaling faster than is needed (for example 150 cadence). This is a "subpoint" I am trying to make related to the main point of "sawtooth" cadence I am working up to. If I pedal 10 miles at 10 MPH at near constant cadence, that will be 1 hour straight on pedaling. How can my muscles ever get a rest? Compare that to pedaling up to 20 MPH quickly (briskly) and then coasting down to 3 MPH and then repeating. Here I use my muscles for a quick burst then spend most of my time coasting. Here my muscles get a good rest and the number of actual crank rotations is far less. 10 miles on my bike in my favorite middle gear (34/20=1.7) with my 26" diameter tires would require about 4500 crank turns. I suspect using the sawtooth cadence method would require far less, possible only 1/3rd or about 1500. It would be an interesting test to have someone make the trip using both techniques and report their level on fatigue afterwards. Someone mentioned about pedaling then coasting a lot will make me look like a kid on a BMX bike. Well kids are generally lazy. Maybe they figured out it is easier to pedal and coast so that is why they do it. Another analogy is at my workplace. Can I get more work done if I work hard but take several breaks or if I just work straight thru without breaks but I get more tired that way? For me, I need the breaks to stay productive. Maybe for younger riders a steady cadence is better but I am wondering for the 50+ crowd if sawtooth is actually better. I suspect it is.