To answer this section: Eternity is a word used to describe something that was created and lasts for ever. Nirvana isn't such a thing that is created. Nirvana has not been described as equanimity in the Tipitaka to my knowledge. 

Do note that there are alot of false practices like ridding the mind of thoughts which have stemmed out wrong views (Miccä Ditti). It is easy to differentiate them if a person knows and even partially understands the above. You will not reap any benefits of proper Buddhism if you don't follow the above. 

This is the answer (likely an ultimate) re asked in a manner of question. (Try this: Why is the boy crying? Because I hit the boy. Why is he crying because you hit him? Because it hurt the boy. Why is the boy crying because it hurt? Because the boy is weak.... So on and so forth but sooner or later you'll reach an ultimate). The matter gets more complicated because in one place Buddha says Vinñana causes Nama Rupa, and Nama Rupa causes Vinñana. The reason Sankhara causes Name and Form is, I believe Karma. If Vinñana doesn't root itself through the help of Sankhara, I believe that is the state arhatans be. ( 

Suffering is caused by the desire to pancha upädänakkhanda. You need to define suffering. Sometimes it is best to identify the problem very well before pursuing an answer. 

The Buddha has mentioned that it is the givers qualities that matters most in giving. He says for example that if he were to receive something from Ven. Sariputta, that would not be as meritorious as if he gave the same thing to Ven. Sariputta. So, if you are a person with Arya qualities, as long as your giving is also Arya, the effects will be much greater than that dictated by the receivers qualities. Arya giving is letting go at a distance. 

Buddha has stated to bhikku Ananda that Paticca Samuppada is not simple to understand and that it has great depth. However, may I point out to you a paradox that may exist in your question. Let's say I like apples and you ask me 

Is one's own suffering caused by oneself? Is one's own suffering caused by others? Is one's own suffering caused by both oneself and others? Is one's own suffering spontaneous? 

Ideally, based on what Buddha states in Satipattana Sutta, your meditative state doesn't end. I would suggest acknowledgement of certain interruptions in a meditative manner. For example, if you suddenly have a thought within the time period of meditation, then you can note the characteristics of the thought (anicca, dukkha, anatta) and let go. For example, if you suddenly have a thought while exceeding your meditation time (which maybe you can use an alarm to end), you should transition it into Kayanupassana meditation while you get up and move onto your daily activities. The whole purpose of meditation is to improve your basis of the Noble Eightfold Path and fully understand the Four Noble Truths. 

Hearing is sound, meeting ears, giving rise to Vinñana (individually knowing things); This is called contact (passa). When this happens, you are supposed to think that these three things (ears, sound and vinñana) are impermanent (anicca), thus sorrowful (dukkha), thus not me, mine or my soul (anatta). Then, let go of your cetana/kamma (sankhara) toward it by "gift" (chaga). Rising and falling of abdomen isn't a meditation technique Buddha has preached. 

As long as I make assumptions using "me", "mine", "my soul" I need to practice detachment. As long as I have craving, anger or delusion, I will practice detachment, metta and vipassana (Sammä Ditti) 

Kaya (body in its material form) Védanã (feeling though eyes, ears, nose, tongue, body, mind) Citta (that occur in your mind - not to be mistake as thinking) Dhamma (Phenomena).* 

Calculations are done to arrive at a answer that can be supposedly prescribed. Such as, the total of a grocery bill was calculated by the Point of Sales Computer; hence believed to be accurate, can be prescribed as a requisition for payment. That does not mean the value wasn't there before. We just didn't know it until we calculated it. So karma is always there. We just can't calculate it. Only Buddha could. 

With all due respect to your problem and situation, please take some time to read this: Sunita the outcast (Theragatha (-gāthā) - 12.1.2) Further Reading It is important not to forget why you turned to Buddhism and be open to it's understanding of the problems you face. All your problems are due to pancha upädänakkhanda , which by definition is suffering / sad as expressed in the Four Noble Truths. Ideally you need to acknowledge this and detach (disenchant) yourself with them; and extend this perspective when looking at your own mind and body (pancha upädänakkhanda) What has been missing in your pursuit of Buddhism is Sammä Ditti. Without the proper view as described clearly in Buddhism things that your do, almost ritualistic and samatha meditation, will undoubtedly make you feel unhappy upon lack of proper outcomes. The point is, Buddhism clearly states that such things (sankhatha) are sorrowful by nature in the long run. May you realize the Four Noble Truths through Samma Ditti, soon. 

To answer this section: You are temporarily right to try to be happy this moment. A wise person would think "How can I maintain this happiness forever without changing?". A sensible person, upon contemplating the matter for some time, realizes there is nothing created that he or she can retain forever. He or she furthermore realizes such possessions can't be guaranteed to be with oneself beyond death. Thus, a wise person decides the boring path provides freedom from such a mass, sorrow and disappointment. 

This is from the book Brain Rules. It's a well researched and accepted book so grab a copy if you can. By Melina. 

Please read satipattana sutta. It speaks about four forms of mindfulness, which gives you the benefit of Nibbana as well. 

So one might argue that it really cannot be told with certainty which kamma will take precedence or carry more weight in the next birth. 

To "see things as they are" in Buddhism, is to see things with the perspective of the Four Noble Truths. Until you "see things as they are" through full understanding of the Four Noble truths, you have to use logic and reason to reach full understanding of things of the Four Noble Truths. 

Buddha speaks that the power of mära (mära bala) is something we should strive to win against though practice of Buddhism. Buddha has also said that he doesn't see anybody else who exercises power as the mära does. However mära also dies. Even Arhat Moghalläna has been mära. Mära is also explained by Buddha as things that perish. Our eyes, ears, nose, tongue, body and mind, when specifically considered as "me", "mine" or "my soul", is said by mära to be belonging to him when answering a question by Buddha. 

If you're experiencing physical and mental problems, it could very well be lack of nutrients, exercise and sleep. I suggest you do a quick check on these. You might find this book very helpful: Spark Watching breath without knowing why you're doing is likely to do more harm than good. Anäpänä sathi meditation is supposed to be done with Sammä Ditti. Sammä Ditti is not a simple topic and becomes best understood once you become an arhat. I suggest reading material on Arya / Lokotthara Sammä Ditti before doing any Buddhist practice related to meditation. Hope your problems are sorted out soon and may your realize the Four Noble Truths soon through the Noble Eightfold Path. 

Consult a doctor regarding your sickness as soon as possible. As for Buddhism and sickness, you can follow a suitable meditation for that. This however had nothing to do with medicine. I haven't seen any references in Buddhism saying not to have medicine.