i practice for a few years - did basic course and few retreats in Ven/ajhan tong tradition (vipassana) - But no matter what technique i try (meditating a short amount like 5 minutes - only being mindful - keeping 8 precepts meditating all day) i never manage to keep practicing more than a few days and than taking a break for a few months with 0 minute meditating and being mindful Question : I remember reading in several places the importance of continued practice of a steady practice - and since i make huge breaks all the time and cant seem to prevent them - i wonder if there is a point in the practice if i almost certain i will take this huge breaks - i don't seem to be "advancing" in any way but i would keep practicing if it was only not seeing "results" but cause i read in so many place the importance of continued practice is there a point in a very inconsistent practice ? if so in what ways someone who has this an inconsistent practice like mine be advancing advance ? 

buddha loved all animals and all humans - the thing is you dont have to pet an animal to love it i dont pet cows and chickens but im still vegan - so he dosnt have to like petting them as long as his not hating them 

Every intimate relationship I have ever had has ended in a lot of pain and grief. The last one lasted for 17 years but eventually broke down. That was a year ago and the pain is still very raw at times. My question is this. If attachment causes suffering then I was obviously very attached but how do you have an intimate relationship without becoming attached? It seems just like the normal human thing to do. You like someone, you fall in love and it hurts when they're gone. You kind of don't even realise it's happening until it ends and then you feel like you want to die. I'm not sure if it's possible to have a close relationship on the Buddhist path anymore but I also don't want to live life alone. I know Buddha left his family but in these modern times there seem to be plenty of teachers who have partners/spouses. 

It's a good thing to notice joyful and happy states and also to notice when states change. We know that everything is impermanent yet when we are in the throes of misery and suffering it can feel as though we will never be happy again. But the more we practice being aware of positive states and the changing of states the more we will train our minds to realise when we are down that negative states do change and that we can choose more skillful ways of thinking to create more positive states. Everything does not lead to sorrow. I don't think this is the correct way to see it. Sorrow is just part of this life as happiness and joy are. We meet both with equanimity knowing that neither last. Don't cling or avoid either but practice noticing that they change. It's the clinging and aversion that lead to suffering. As far as your comment about wanting a "punishment" for alcohol use. I'm not sure why you are asking for such a thing. Buddhism does not subscribe to the idea of punishments for anything. I see absolutely no problem with enjoying 1 or 2 glasses of wine every now and then but if you drink too much and you feel bad after then learn from that. Is it worth the few hours of fun for the self flagellation, nausea, headaches and general physical fatigue you experience after? If you drink too much again can you maybe try to notice how much you fall into a self loathing mindset after? Notice the feelings of guilt, shame etc and try to be compassionate and gentle with yourself. You are human, you can and will make mistakes. It's how we learn. Having fun and connecting with people is healthy. Alcohol is a big part of that within our culture but you have the choice to control what and how much you ingest. If you feel like you have lost control and the peer pressure is too great I would suggest seeking some support eg counselling etc. If your friends show no sign of ever changing their heavy drinking habits then maybe it's time to make new friends. I had to do this and as hard as it was it was better than staying stuck with people who were slowly destroying their lives. 

Its very clear that dogs are conscious and feel the same pain as humans do and the suffering is the same suffering If by self aware you mean mindful- than most people arent mindful 99.9999% of the time --- many many monks if good ones are not mindful most of the time About bacteria i cant say much 

I practice mahasi sayadaw - and from my personal understanding its best not to eat meat cause its wholesome - its hard for me to explain all the ways it is wholesome but i think it helps in compassion and in self control like another extra precepts that can help the practice even though its not a must i also found this text but not of theravada which talks about meat eating : Many of the Bodhisattva precepts are about not harming, either oneself or others, or animals. The first major precept is to ‘Refrain from taking life’. It points out in great details that one should not kill oneself, nor cause someone else to do it, nor do it in a roundabout way, nor create the cause or conditions, nor the means to kill. It is an exhaustive list that makes us reflect on the many ways by which we might cause harm. We might not kill other people or any living creatures but do we cause them harm in any other way. And if we cause them harm, how do we do it? Do we do it in a round about way so we do not feel responsible for it? Do we create the causes and conditions for causing harm needlessly? These precepts show us that wisdom and compassion help us to reflect on our actions and intentions. Then the precept explains why we should not kill and that is because the duty of a Bodhisattva is to be always compassionate and to lead others to liberation. There are several precepts that investigate what it means to be non-harming due to a compassionate attitude. The third major precepts, which encourages proper sexual behaviour, states that the reason for doing so is that otherwise perverted, indecent, indiscriminate sexual behaviour would cause compassion to disappear. When one is in the power of lustful thoughts or feelings, can one reflect on what would be the compassionate things to do for all involved in that moment? This precept reminds us: “It is the duty of a bodhisattva to always present a state of mind which conforms to the Buddha-nature and to lead others to liberation by teaching them the pure Dharma.” The third secondary precept encourages vegetarianism on the ground that if someone were to eat the flesh of animals he would destroy great compassion and great kindness and the seed of the Buddha-nature. To this day monasteries and nunneries in China and Korean are completely vegetarian. Since it seemed more difficult for laypeople to be fully vegetarian then six specified fasting or vegetarian days a month were created as well as three special months of abstinence, i.e. times when one avoids animal food. taken from : $URL$ 

It's like the bible. Some more moderate believers see it as metaphorical whereas the more hard core believers take the whole thing literally. Personally I think the whole thing needs to be taken with a grain of salt. Nobody can prove any of it is real just like they cannot prove the bible. The dangers of taking such writings literally leads to fanaticism and violence which can be seen all throughout history. 

I was thinking about going to a retreat in thailand called suanmok and then I saw the picture of the bed. A straw mat and a tiny wooden pillow!!! why would they make people sleep like that? It seems like torture to me and so I decided not to go. If the Buddha didn't believe in asceticism why do some monasteries and retreat centres? At the very least I need to sleep comfortably when on retreat. I would just end up sleep deprived and grumpy and not be able to meditate properly anyway. I can't even sleep properly in my luxurious queen size bed with pillow top mattress most nights. Does anyone know of a more comfortable retreat? 

The prison system doesn't reform anyone unfortunately. It just perpetuates the situation. Treating people like animals and placing them in a violent and dehumanising environment makes even worse criminals. Sadly our society seems to turn a blind eye to this situation but it is at our own peril as many of these people will be released back into the community at some point and most will commit more crimes. What needs reforming is the entire system. I know that vipassana meditation is taught in some prisons and works very well. 

More crops are grown to feed livestock than grown to feed humans (And yes livestock do eat non-edible parts of plants and other stuff like fish-flour and dead bodies of other livestock animals and animal feces but that is on top of crops grown specifically for them) ** also grass fed meat which is sold at stores and is a tiny amount of all meat sold - comes from animals that were fed crops at some point and animals eat a lot of crops so even one way to give it to them is a lot of crops as well ( fattening a few months before slaughter - when animals are indors during winter - piles from crops lied in the field for bonus feed etc ) so even that isnt a real exception so if poeple would go vegan then there would be less crops grown and eatn so even if plants are sentient a vegan diet is best in that regard - so its best for the plants as well you go vegan And no you dont have to be vegan to follow thervada buddhism (what i follow) or reach enlightenment but i do think its a kosala (wholesome) thing to do that can aid in the practice if done right (not hating those who eat animal products - "carnists" - and not hating animal abusers etc) - its a way to control cravings better to feel more metta to more beings more easily etc