So, the take away from this type of research would indicate that there are other factors that come into play when determining the energy expenditure of an activity. These include… 

Caffeine is a central nervous system stimulant, and, as such, has been shown to improve athletic performance in some studies. 

The smart money is on your friend and here's why. "Six pack abs" are a result of hard work, genetics, dedication, consistency, diet and smart training. See where I'm going with this? Like any other body part it takes time to sculpt it. So, unless you're predisposed to great abs, your chances are pretty slim given the time frame and the fact there's no "fool proof" method to achieve them. 

I once attended a trade show for Health and Fitness as an exhibitor. I had the opportunity to speak with Mr. Olympia Lee Haney. We briefly spoke about training. The one comment that stayed with me the most was Lee's assertion that the number of reps is not nearly as important as trying to recruit the most muscle fibers during each rep. He suggested squeezing the muscle for a count of 3 for each rep. Yup, when Mr. Olympia gives advice, those things tend to stick with you. 

Following up on JohnP's comment... Aside from the obvious, proper rest, nutrition, genetics, etc. I'll offer one other possible, although speculative, reason. Most people who train have one or more body parts that don't seem to grow, or, need more work. Only those who are gifted genetically can just look at weights and grow. Assuming a “natural training” framework, the rest of us need to put in lots of time, effort, proper rest, and sound nutrition to eek out any possible gains. One common mistake often made in “hard gainer” situations is over-training a body part. The desire to make gains for a specific body part tends to force some people to seek more sets, reps, etc. for the expected gains. It's the old, "more is better" approach. In my opinion (and experience), a better approach is to briefly back off training a stubborn body part. In a sense, “reboot” training that body part by taking some time off, and, going back to basics once training resumes. So, to answer your question, it may not be that you're “just not training hard enough”. But, rather, you're training too hard for your chest to recover and make gains. 

Lastly, don't compare yourself to others. Be humble. There will always be someone who is bigger or stronger. Work your hardest at being the best you can be. 

US Rowing: Make The Most of Your Time on the Erg. While your goal to row 2k under 8 minutes is somewhat ambitious for a rowing “newbie”, using steady state training will assist you in preparing for that goal. Steady state training will help build a base of fitness by training your heart to be more efficient over longer distances. In addition, there's the added benefit of weight control since you should be training within your aerobic zone. Rowing a measured 'piece' (eg. 2k) requires correct form. Contrary to popular opinion, rowing is not a pulling sport. Rather, it's a pushing sport since the first movement of the rowing stroke is to engage the legs to push against the foot plates. If you haven't already done so, I would strongly recommend you take a look at the C2 technique videos to make sure you start with correct form. Using correct form will assist you in achieving any rowing goal. In addition, take a moment to read up on Damper Setting 101 and Debunking the Myths: Damper Setting, Stroke Rate, and Intensity. Those articles will help you avoid many common mistakes made by first time users of the C2 rower. Lastly, as you progress towards your goal(s), there are lots of resources available to you. Depending on the C2 model you own, you can track your progress using the on-board performance monitor and log the results in the C2 Logbook. The logbook provides a history of your training sessions. Also, there's daily workouts available so you can maximize your time on the rower. Good luck and have fun! 

Speaking from anecdotal evidence, depending on the severity of the symptoms, there's no need to restrict your gym time or routine. Again, that's going to depend on what your tolerance for pain/numbness is. Personally, I would back off a little on the weights until you have a firm diagnosis. The surgery is a safe and quick procedure (~20 minutes) that mostly entails snipping the ligament to decompresses the nerve(s) within the wrist. The ligament will scar over, yet, provide enough room for decompression of the nerve(s). Going forward, PT can be prescribed, again, depending on the severity of the condition. In most cases, using a rubber ball (on your own) to work on strengthening the wrist, hand, and forearm is typically sufficient within a ~three week recovery. Additionally, you may want to invest in some hand therapy putty and/or hand grip exerciser. Neither are required, but, could help with recovery. As for contraindications, you should avoid any movements that press directly on the surgery site. To help prevent that, a good pair of padded workout gloves (in the palm and lower wrist) is essential. 

I tend to disagree with this assertion. There's no “rule” per se that suggests you should be able to deadlift more than you squat. Each of us, as individuals, may have one or more lifts that are more difficult than others. However, there's nothing stopping you from improving an individual exercise. Rather than spending time worrying bout the discrepancy, you should work to improve your weaknesses by concentrating on strengthening the muscles that are involved in the particular exercise you'd like to improve. 

Rowers that are used in gym and club settings typically suffer from two problems. Insufficient maintenance by the club and incorrect form by those using the equipment. The average gym member does not know how to use a rower correctly. Their poor technique typically results in the foot straps loosening because of the urge to “lift” the toes on the finish of the stroke. This places undue stress on the tightening straps. Correct form is achieved by the foot remaining firmly planted throughout the stroke. Additionally, improper adjustment of the foot position (ie. the foot settings numbers) will affect the entire stroke further impacting the stress on the foot straps.