You list your employment using the name of the company sending you paychecks. So even though you were on site at your former employer, you're working for the consulting company. The tricky part is that you did do the same job with the same responsibility. I don't think that's necessarily bad though, a career is focus in one area. 

I'd say never. When I'm involved with interviews I'm only concerned with making sure they have the required skills for the job. Ive never thought we should hire one person over another based on nonwork related items on a resume. On the other hand you might find someone that disapproves of something you enjoy and pass you up. 

What are you not certain about? You say both offer and company are good, so you need to decide what exactly you are waiting for in the job search. Of course something better could always come around, but will it? Some candidates do not want to take the first job offer given (using the 'don't buy the first car you test drive' theory), but what if that offer is indeed the best? 

One week is a fairly reasonable amount of time to provide for an answer (in case you were wondering). 

You should check your company's policy, but typically you'd not clock in until you are at work and ready to work. If getting to the lot at 830 is the only way to ensure you can get the shuttle and arrive on time, that's what you should plan to do. It doesn't seem this would be any different than taking a public bus to your office. 

As for contacting the company, I would try to contact the supervisor again. It's possible that the person was not in and not heard your message yet or that they are busy and perhaps have forgotten to get back to you. Ideally you'll have found the required documentation for the I9 and your message will be that you have the necessary information to complete it, let me know when you want me to come in. Alternatively you can stop by in person. However if they don't get back to you after that, I would probably say you need to continue your job search as they may have found someone else that did have their stuff together. 

This problem isn't about you, it is a problem with the company that frankly you should not want to deal with. Some extra hours during crunch time in software product development are expected, but what you are describing are sweatshop conditions that should be unacceptable to most engineers. If a company is asking or demanding employees to work 80 hours a week, the problem is that the company needs more engineers. What probably happened here is that the company underestimated the amount of time and effort would go into this project, and they are trying to make up for it. Paying engineers some amount for overtime worked is a nice gesture, but to expect employees to be available for 80+ hours a week is simply not sustainable for that period of time. If you are new to the business you may not know this yet, but I would say you could probably make the same amount of money and work half the hours. Other than the fact that you are burning out, you mentioned poor software quality. It is one thing to work long hours and to sweat for a product development effort that is incredibly successful, but exerting this much of your time into something that appears to be a failure at this point is a bigger issue for your career. This company's business model is unsustainable, and you will see turnover continuing which means fewer mentors to choose from for a young engineer like yourself. Find a company with a more reasonable work schedule. 

I wouldn't say there's any issue leaving. You've been there four years which is a fairly long time nowadays and if you dont think you'll be happy in your new role you should move on, especially since like the change was done without your employer discussing it with you. Normally such a conversation takes place specifically to ensure the employee is comfortable with it, and your career path should have been important to them. Just resign like you normally would; you appreciate what they've done for you so far but you're interested in the new opportunity. 

Sounds like your best option would probably be to find a shop of like-minded engineers and work with them. If you, as a very new developer, are noticing his company's tech issues already, I'd imagine the issues run deep and are systemic and cultural. As a young engineer, don't be too discouraged by this. It's your first job, and although there are other groups like this, there are plenty that are more friendly to engineers like you. You mentioned that you are able to pick up new languages and APIs readily, so finding new work shouldn't take too long. Lots of companies seem to be doing more hiring in the junior level range as of late, so your freshness to the industry is a potential advantage. If your career is the main concern, even taking a small paycut to work in an environment that rewards learning and your type of thinking would be wise in the long run. Learning is the most important element of any job for you at this point in your career, and the money will come if you learn your craft well. 

No, the device is used by the business to generate value for the business. You're not more responsible for this than an employee at McDonalds is responsible for the grill breaking. Even if you HAD spilled coffee on it, I suspect you cannot be forced to replace the device either. In the US, it would likely be illegal for a company to do this (unless maybe it was intentional). From this page from the state of California: $URL$ 

I would start by saying you are looking for an X% overall raise, and then lay out all the numbers for them. If they want to provide that, there are only a few that they will be able to adjust in most cases (salary, bonus, stock perhaps). Good luck. 

Recruiter here. When I coach candidates on salary negotiation, I always tell them that they are free to speak to the client directly about compensation if they want, but to keep in mind that any number they throw out puts a relatively hard cap on what I can get you. If you list 70K as your desired salary, chances are they will offer a bit less (sometimes, but rarely more), and it will be difficult for me to ask for 73 at that point. Assuming you are not working with a recruiter, you don't have an intermediary or an agent in your negotiations other than yourself. Some of the examples above about insurance contribution being higher than expected or 401k or target bonus being lower than expected are possibilities. Being offered less vacation time that you currently have or than you expected is also an easy one, as vacation days have a quantifiable value (to spitball some numbers, there are 52 weeks x 5 = 260 weekdays/year, subtract say 10 holidays = 250 working days a year, so every 5 day week you work = 2% of salary). The example about commute distance could make you look a bit unprofessional, as in most situations you probably knew the location of the job before you interviewed and applied for it. The other examples about asking for more bonus, extra vacation time, or to change the 401k vesting schedule are not entirely realistic in most cases. Larger companies will probably laugh at the suggestion, small companies may be able to accommodate bonus or vacation but probably not changing a 401k schedule. One valid reason that some candidates will give to increase the requested compensation is a higher responsibility level or work expectation than you expected. Companies will know that if you apply for a job with say no leadership role and they ask you to lead a team, you may want to be compensated for that responsibility. 

Read the I9 form itself: $URL$ It answers your question for you, which is that a certified official copy of your birth certificate, along with a document from List B (see the form, last page) is fine, and legally MUST be accepted. From the form: 

I think in general you'll have to get the certifications. If there's no choice but to travel, I'd talk to your manager and explain the cost to travel is not something you can absorb, and see if they will pay for it. A reasonable employer will work with you to figure this out. You don't give your country, but I believe this would be ok in the USA, even if you had to pay for everything yourself. The job now requires this certification, so you'll have to get it or be terminated, if that's what you're being told. 

One potential reason to tell the second alum about the conversation with the first is referral bonus. Assuming you have not yet applied to the company, and you are going to apply, one of these alums might be entitled to some sort of referral bonus from the company if you were to be hired. This may not be an issue, but lots of companies are now offering these bonuses to the employee who referred the candidate into the hiring process.