It's far better to search for your next job while you are currently working. It removes the financial pressure and urgency that might steer you to take a less than optimal position. And many interviewers look more favorably on a candidate who is working than one who isn't. The steps I suggest: 

The use of the phrase "reasonable accommodations" tends to indicate you are actually asking a legal question, rather than a personal or practical one, in spite of saying that you aren't looking for legal advice. Still, consider a few of these possibilities. You could choose to say "We want you to take a company-paid sabbatical. First help us train someone who can replace you temporarily. Then, we will pay you to get your depression under control, and come back to us in better shape to resume your prior work." You could choose to say to this employee "We will let you take as much time off as you feel is needed. Just work hard when you can and tell us when you can't. We will help you in any way we can, both professionally, and financially. Somehow, we'll deal with your work when you aren't here." You could choose to say "The specifics of your role simply cannot accommodate as much time off as you seem to need right now. So, we are bringing in a replacement to fill your unique role. You will be moved to a different, less unique position. But you will retain all your current pay and benefits." Any of those could be considered "reasonable" from a humanistic perspective. You could also take a more drastic path. You could choose to say "We are sorry, but the unique role you play in our small company demands someone able to fill it on a full-time basis. Based solely on your performance, we need you to find another job. We'll give you a generous severance package, great recommendations, and help you in your search for a job which isn't as demanding of your time." You could choose to say "In fairness to the company, you aren't currently in a position to fill this role on a full-time basis, as indicated by your frequent absences. We are willing to let you reduce your role to part-time, and share the role with another part-timer until you are able to resume full-time work. If you aren't willing to compromise on that, we'll have to ask you to leave." Aside from the legal ramifications, you need to consider the employee's needs, and value, and you need to consider the company's needs. What is "reasonable" is different in the eyes of the law, in the eyes of a depressed employee, and in the eyes of someone responsible for the needs of a business. 

Create an "Official Unattended Ringing Phone Holding Pen". In a past office, I got a cardboard box and stuck an old towel inside. We placed it in a location away from most people. Whenever a phone was ringing off the hook and the owner wasn't around, we'd put the phone inside the box, cover it with the towel, and close the lid. We then put a notice on the owner's desk instructing her/him where to find her/his phone. I forget the exact verbiage, but it was something along the lines of "Since you weren't around and left us to deal with your ringing phone, we have taken good care of it..." It also had a picture of a noisy phone left ringing. We did this with both cell phones and desk phones as well. Doing so fit in with the company culture at the time. It was the kind of office that tolerated lots of "pranks" (filling an office with balloons while the office owner was on vacation, etc) The message was usually received with a laugh, and while it didn't stop the problem completely, the number of incidents went way down. As @IanHolstead correctly points out, in some cultures/contexts using humor this way wouldn't be received well, and some folks wouldn't want you touching their cell phones. (On the other hand, if it were me, I'd try it at least once and see if the folks leaving their phones ringing took the hint. Then, I'd ask forgiveness if necessary. That's just me - your mileage may vary) 

I suspect there are employers who value verified MOOC-acquired knowledge, although I don't know of any. Unfortunately, I believe it's too new for most employers to have encountered applicants supplying such background for it to be considered of much value. I think you need to value the learning you gain mostly for what it gives to you personally - the new things you know and the vigor it instills. I do think it might lead to a great interview conversation when you inevitably are asked "what is a MOOC?" and you provide an answer that shows how much it has added to your skill set and energy. I'm sure interviewers will like to hear that. If you are asking if it is worth $450 to be verified, that's harder to say. And if you are asking if MOOC-acquired knowledge is the equivalent of a degree or traditionally-acquired knowledge, then at this time I think the answer is "No". I suspect that could change as this form of education becomes more common. 

You tell them which of the two you would prefer. Then you make sure they know that you would still be very happy with either position (assuming that is actually the case). 

No. Future employers won't care about your severance package. And you don't really know why you got the severance that you did. It might be because you were an outstanding worker. Or it might just be standard procedure. Future employers won't care. Future employers will care that you were put on a PIP after only 5 months and then dismissed without even waiting for the 90-day period to expire. There's nothing good in that. Try to avoid the entire topic if you can. 

If I understand you correctly, you were asked what you wanted for a salary, and you were offered what you asked. Most potential employers would think that if they offered what you asked for, it would be accepted. I know that's always the way I have felt, and I've been hiring people for over 30 years. It's as if you asked your children "How many cookies would you like?", your children answered "Two.", but then cried when you gave them two. You would surely be puzzled. Of course you can always ask for more, but the risk here is that you might be considered either greedy, flighty, immature, or just someone who doesn't really know what they want. As long as you are ready and willing to walk away from this job offer, you can always attempt to negotiate for more. The worst they can say is "No, and we withdraw our offer". On the other hand if they really want you, they are more likely to say either "No, we cannot offer you more. Will you accept our original offer?" or "We can offer x more." Good luck! 

That might mean that you have priced yourself out of the market for your position. Companies don't pay unlimited amounts for particular positions. You might need to consider your career ladder and seek positions that are higher on it. 

While it's not ideal, it's also not your fault that the company downturn happened when you were there only one year. Unless this has happened repeatedly in your career (in which case perhaps you aren't asking enough probing questions during your interviews), it likely won't be seen as job hopping or impatience. 

Are you imagining writing something like "If I hadn't been sick, I would have done better"? I can't see how that would work to your benefit. It's speculation at best, and pleading at worst. And in a cover letter, you only want to accentuate the positive. You never want to draw attention to (potential) negatives. Instead, just finish up with great grades. If, during an interview you are ever asked how your grades improved so dramatically, you'll have a great story to tell. You can express how you overcame adversity to become a great student. You can talk about the fact that you have a chronic disorder, but that it no longer interferes at all with your ability to excel. 

Due to the poor heating/air conditioning in my building, most folks have fleece jackets with the company logo. If you have the same you could always throw one of those over your shirt. If not, you could keep an extra jacket around for just such an occasion, or borrow one from a friend who has one. 

He is in the right. You say you "can't help it", but certainly you know that you can. Your manager correctly pointed out how to avoid this issue - use the toilet before starting your workday. Get in a few minutes earlier, do your thing, then be at your desk at 11:00. It's at least worth a try. If your manager actually talked to you about this before ("every day"), and you still haven't changed your behavior, then something is wrong. Either you didn't understand him, or you purposely chose to ignore him. I'm guessing it was the latter. I think your manager is doing you a favor by bringing this up again. This almost certainly is "not acceptable anywhere you work" and is behavior you would be advised to avoid on your next job. This is what some call "a learning opportunity". [Note: the boss doesn't sound like anyone most folks would want to work for - most of us would dislike being micromanaged. But that isn't really the question at hand.] 

You already have the ability to turn down tasks that you'd rather not do. You said that your current boss backs you up and you can take on the assignments you find interesting and valuable and turn down the ones that aren't. Just continue to use your current boss as an excuse and say that you are too busy with your real work. There's nothing impolite about that. Eventually, your former boss will get the hint and stop asking. 

Then perhaps you should try a different type of company that won't require you to work extra hours, and won't tax you technically. Your problems might be the age of the other employees, but it might just be your abilities and your performance. Trying a different type of company might help you find out. Before I retired, I was the oldest employee at my location. I never had performance problems and I never had issues keeping up with new technologies. Some of us can be lifelong learners, some cannot. 

They are asking you for a time. So you need to provide one. You should suggest a date and time that is convenient for you. I tend to prefer mid-morning interviews, since I am a morning person and want to have plenty of time to get there no matter what the morning rush-hour brings. Your mileage may vary. You might also want to suggest a date within the next week, to help make you appear more interested than it might if you wait until the end of the 2 week period. 

You probably already know that you should find a new job, get and accept an offer, then turn in your notice here. If for some reason you don't want to leave, you could ask for a title change and a raise while keeping your existing duties. But you may already have burned that bridge. 

This is not at all unusual. Many companies, and some individuals believe this is the best way to find the best employees. Some apply this to many levels of hires - not just entry level. Don't take this personally. Clearly this company is interested in you. It's possible that the position requirement isn't fully settled - that the need for this role isn't certain - and that's why they are choosing the contract-to-hire route. You should ask them why. Then, you can choose your next move based on their answer. If it were me, and I still wanted to take the chance, I'd make a counter-offer. I'd agree to the contract. But I'd want the contract to state that if I were hired full time at the end of the year, I'd get a higher salary than if I were hired directly now. The contract would indicate the higher salary level I would receive. I would spend the year proving how valuable I was, and showing the company why they need me. Using this tactic would depend on my assessment of the company, how much I wanted to work there, and the confidence in my abilities. 

Of course there is a use in disqualifying candidates who cheat - you are removing the cheaters from your further interviews. You characterize this as "cheating". And you are basically saying that this candidate lied to you ("claimed that she suddenly came up with the right answer"). So you have to decide - do you want to hire cheats and liars? I know I don't. If someone lies to me, I assume that they will continue to lie to me. That's not something I'd want to see on my team.