That actually looks extremely good for a fantasy map, which are drawn different than an actual landform map, the rivers make sense even if the origins on rivers are never a single point but I assume the map only notes impassable rivers. The mountains are not ill placed although that could change if you include elevation, the western ranges should be from the same cause thus should be connected by highlands. I assume the prevailing winds blow east to west in which case your northern portions may be too green. I'd day it seems like it is pretty low in forest but it could easily be becasue most if it is settled farmland and you said it was not finished. Depending on if your trying to depict climate it will be off, but since you are just asking about mountains and rivers they will work. 

no for many reasons, a valley that size ringed by nothing but cliffs is impossible tectonically, especially if you want it to be wet. Swamps are relatively small on a global scale, the largest one on earth is only 57,915 miles². lastly single biomes cannot extend to far north/south as global wind cells are the dominant force in rainfall patterns. To get close you may want to try something more like south america with a large mountain range on one side forcing all the moisture out of the air. this can give you mixed rainforest and swamp. You could possibly add a shallow inland seaway with lots of large islands and mangroves, that will give you the same extensive wet foggy area but it will not extend past about 30 degrees north or south of the equator. However putting the entrance to your sea at one end can keep entrance restricted to areas dominated by mangroves and push it a bit farther. you can look at Mount Roraima for ideas about how to put a strange mountain in the center. Isolated mountains are fairly easy to have especially if they are the result of erosion or a hotspot. 

Fecundity, the faster people breed the faster they will spread, give them really high fecundity to the point sex basically guarantees offspring, then make your religious ceremonies as sexual as possible, add in lot of free alcohol and it should work even better. Of you could replace your fake humans with real humans who will spread on their own. 

Having compatible DNA is very unlikely, just about the only way it could happen is if you had some form of cross contamination, like a panspermia event. Just having DNA may not be hard but have a compatible sequence (same nucleotides and/or codons) is just too unlikely to be believable without a common ancestor. 

A direct connection to the brain may work better. Miguel Nicolelis's work on cyborg monkeys (love that that is a thing now) have shown they can learn to control a robotic arm without interfering with their ability to use the normal limbs. His implants are far less invasive then severing the spinal cord would be. It would take time to learn to use it of course but that is true of anything the brain does. It is hard to say how much information could be moved this way, the brain does not work digitally. It is several different analog forms overlaid on top of each other. Memristors would be a better analogy than transistors for the brain. But it would certainly be faster than typing, typing is limited by physical motion and keyboards designed to slow your typing speed. The human brain operates at about 40 Hertz refresh rate, under normal activity levels. So 40 bits per second, per individual connection (wire or filament in the implant connecting to the brain) is a safe estimate and that's not accounting for an multistate signal instead of digital. The only question is how many connections can you have before the brain can't keep up, which we really can't answer. This is partially controlled by attention and how redundant the process, but we really don't know what the upper limit is for output, we know much more about the limits on incoming information. 

vent your waste at it, as soon as the beam hits any normal matter you get an explosion that will disrupt the beam. wipple shields would work too, remember it is still a stream of matter. It would also be worse than useless in an atmosphere, it would actually damage the ship firing it. 

~1,000 years By modern technology I am assuming you mean enough to support a full space program, which means you need a very large country worth or people, which is a lot of infrastructure. Building and maintaining modern technology requires tens of millions to hundreds of millions of people, many of them simply maintaining the other people. That is really going to be the limiting factor, the number of people and specialized labor you have. Human populations can grow at about 2% a year under ideal conditions (max ever recorded) so using A=Pe^(rt) you are looking at 380 - 500 years at minimum. But realistically you are looking at 1,000 year as a safe minimum because growth will be anything but ideal without modern infrastructure. Plus this assumes a single mindedness you will never achieve with humans, the population estimate should probably be larger since people will tend to form factions which will create a lot of redundancy. handy compound interest calculator to put in your own numbers. EDIT : had to recalculate, the online calculator is using "R" and not "r" which makes a big difference. 

Even the most automated plants will run out of fuel within a few hours, coal plants require trainloads of coal per day and there are no people to run the trains, trucks, and tractors. 

Define sentient becasue you don't need to delay agriculture to get several equally intelligent humanoids. It has already happened in the past. Humanoids have been using fire for over a million years, stone tools for much longer. Thats plenty of time to get a diversity of intelligent hominids. There were at least four distinct subspecies that gave rise to modern humans, not to mention other hominids around that did not directly lead to us, like florensis. Homo sapiens sapiens Homo sapiens neanderthalis Homo sapiens altai Homo sapiens unnamed (no bones just genetic evidence) All of which are believed to have been equally intelligent and had similar levels of technology including clothing and cooked their food. They just spread and eventually interbed until they were no longer distinct. you don't have to delay agriculture just make it a little harder for each subspecies to spread and/or interbreed. You can do this by making the continents a bit more isolated, or make the climate more stable so they become a bit more environmentally specialized. Perhaps Neanderthal moved into mountains and tundra and became dwarves, Or denisovans were adapted for a desert climate and became orcs. Maybe Elves are adapted for the deep jungle. I remember a cladogram I made for 4 common races. Dwarves rarely interbred becasue they were the first to split off and thus physically the most different, orcs, humans, and elves were closely related with orcs and elves being sister taxa (becasue of the ears). The only reason elves and orcs did not interbreed more often was due entirely to differences in desirable characteristics. Orcs and elves just had very different ideals of attractiveness in males and females, they just looked ugly to each other. 

Traveling would not be more messy than normal day to day living, and remember bathing was not a daily activity in many preindustrial societies, usually weekly, and often only involved washing the key spots like the hands face and groin (think sponge bath). clean then was not the same as clean today. It actually does not take much time or effort to clean like this, travel was basically controlled by access to water, travel routes followed water routes. You could not carry everything you needed, you had to find it on the way, and remember water came from rivers or public wells it was not like today where it came to your house. Pomades might be used in the hair, or it would be kept short. Smoke baths could be used. plus a bar of soap would last months or years for a single person at the time. Additionally linen clothing is much easier to clean and sheds dirt easily, drying could be done over the fire or during sleep. Many cultures used things like traveling cloaks and clogs or overshoes to keep out the worse of the mud. This is also why hosts were often expected to give travelers time to bathe and clean up after traveling before anything formal started. the better question is how are they eating if they have little to no fire. And honestly the horse is going to be an issue, they will either have plenty of time at camp or they will have a dead horse. a horse does not have the same endurance a person does they also dehydrate faster, you can't walk a horse all day for many days without killing it. your person is better off either using the horse for a short burst of speed and distance or using it to carry supplies until it drops. They would be better off with a donkey than a horse they can keep up with a person as a pack animal. 

The presence of large scale civil construction like roads and canals would give hints especially if we can watch them forming, crawling across the landscape. But artificial light would be a big hint, even widespread campfires can give off significant light. All this would require the invention of telescopes on our part of course. If there is obvious liquid water people would presuppose life, if not intelligent life, very early. 

Just based on what we can see, wide doors, and it does not look they would be able to use a door handle without the legs getting in the way, so doors might open up or they might use their feet to open and close them. Hard points are not good on a flat hard surface, so they would sliding all over a tile floor. So floors should be soft or pitted. 

eye cover of any kind is always an issue in a combat helmet, it is very east to get it dirty and those who cannot see in combat do not live long. Notice on modern combat helmets permanent eye covers are only for very specialized situations. Covering one eye with a hinged/ removable display might not be a bad idea however. You can include your permanent HUD in the cheek plate. If you look at modern designs the one thing they share in common is you can flip the display out of the way or yank them off easily if you need too, the risk of obscured vision is a big issue. 

It's possible but it will be the single largest undertaking in earth history. An orbital ring is within our capabilities, It requires only existing technology. You will need it to move the massive amount of material needed. Surviving off earth means you need artificial gravity created via centrifugal force. humans can't breed in microgravity. You need huge scale agriculture in space to produce necessary food. You need large scale manufacturing in space, asteroid mining will help but you still need to move a lot of organic material. That means you need a huge amount of mass lifted into orbit. there only ways to do that using current technology are orbital rings or skyhooks, or more likely both. You need to also start sending probes in every direction in hopes of finding habitable worlds by the time you have moved a significant portion of the populace into space. We might be able to make mars livable but it will take hundreds of years, but that's OK so will the exodus. It will have to start with dropping a lot of comets on the planet. You care basically building generation ships and trying to be self sufficient in space while hoping to find a suitable world. 

at least two effects. Air pressure would start increasing drastically anywhere warm. To the point that walking from a sunny spot into shade would involve explosive decompression. the poles would freeze solid. 

So assuming a sword and assuming you are starting with decent steel. If multiple strikes are allowed a drop forged blade will have fewer stress points, flaws, and other anomalies than smith forging. Thus it will be less likely to fail in the long run. But the benefits compared to a master-smith's work will be small, especially with proper heat treating. If single strike is important press forging produces the best result, roughly the same as multi-hit drop forging. A single strike drop-forged sword will be full of cracks and weaknesses, unless you have already shaped your ingot to a roughly sword shape by other means. It will be lucky to survive finishing much less use you are just moving the steel too much at once, moving steel cools it, move it to much and no matter how fast you do it it will get too cold during the process. Your biggest difference is with consistency with quality, drop and press forging produce more consistent results so if well made will produce good results all the time, where a smiths quality can vary. The other big benefit is speed, drop forging is much much faster than hand forging. 

finding new experiences and new people to talk to. Terry Pratchett had an interesting idea about a race that reaches the point that they really stop experiencing anything new, they hit their evolutionary constraints on thought. so they they start looking for other races and then start learning about them to the extend they can kinda live vicariously through them. So then can start getting new opinions, perspectives, and ideas. Newness is going to be very valuable, as will skill, anyone can have a computer built tablet, not many will be able to hand make one. you see the same thing to day things made by craftsman having value simply because they are hard to make by hand even though machines can make them better. 

Emotions are how you program an intelligent machine. It is the same reasons mother nature gave rats and goldfish emotions it is part of how we learn, and helps prioritize actions, pain in particular will very useful, if you keep doing something that damages you, a signal telling you that it is damaging you so you should not do that is very useful, that is all pain is. The more expensive the robot the more being able to feel pain will be an advantage, that way it is far less likely to damage itself for no reason. Even subtle emotions like discomfort can be useful, if the robot feels discomfort every time civilians are harmed it will be far better at avoiding civilian casualties than any pre-programming could do. Likewise if it gets satisfaction from dead enemies it will get better at killing them. the simplest emotions are just learning tags, you take an action and its results and tag it with one of two thing, keep doing that (pleasure) or stop doing that (discomfort). That's how to program dynamic learning. Emotions are basically the only way to program such a complex decision making machine as a combat robot, one that cannot possibly be pre-programmed but has to learn and respond to intelligent opponents. Otherwise your robot has the intelligence of the lowest insect at best. 

it depends entirely on how quickly it is buried, if buried in a single event it will help preserve it, if it takes a long time all that time exposed to the blowing sand will do a lot of harm. 

There are white rocks on earth, many of them in fact, I used to work in the white river formation and the rock is so white you can get a sunburn from reflected light alone. It contains a lot of calcium minerals and volcanic ash. 

Based on what you have said something like a mountain goat would be your best bet. They have been domesticated and live in a wide variety of environments. They could easily get into the trees. Just breed them for size or make your species a little bigger than normal and you have your pack animal. 

There personality and memories would be completely intact (although new hormone levels could cause some minor change), they would have to relearn all their sense organs and muscles. Each person is wired differently, the connections from my eyes to my brain will not perfectly match the one from your eyes to your brain. Your brain learns to control your body and its wiring plan, and interpret the signals for your cellular layout, these will not match from person to person. Then you have the differences in the organs themselves, ear canal shaped changes the sounds as they travel down it, even if the wiring matched up perfectly everything would still sound wrong for months. The screwed up the signals from the inner ear will probably make the person horribly nauseous or dizzy for while. Likewise the signals from the eyes will not match. Even if you reattached the right nerves everything would be a blurry mess until your brain learned to interpret the different patterns of signals, since depth perception appears to have a critical period you might never get that back. the distances between your joints is different as is layout of sensory cells in the muscles and skin as well as the number of muscle blocks per muscles this develops as you grow, in a whole new body some muscles will be weaker than expected others stronger. With voluntary muscle movement you will start out incredibly clumsy, possibly very weak as well, until your brain figures out the patterns of your muscle connections and movement sensors. You see something similar in limb transplants but it tends to be much easier since it is tends to be one isolated part. they person would likely be unable to speak for quite a while while they learned their new tongue, throat, and mouth. Speaking of which they will have a lot of problems eating for a while and will be biting their tongue and cheeks all the time. This mismatch in wiring will exist with every sense, with one exception. Smell would be the one sense little changed, you would have to get used to your new body smelling differently but your olfactory bulb and receptors are attached directly the brains so it is likely they would bring those along for transplant, along with a small chunk of the adjoining skull. Of course this brings up an interesting point, a head transplant instead of a brain transplant would solve most of the sensory problems, although muscles would still give the same trouble below the neck.