After 10-15 reps a lot of people would zone out and lose focus. I have been told 15 is the magic number but opinions vary. I personally think 12 is a great number because it is one syllable and after that it is all 2 - you have to say eleven really quick so it is one syllable. You are counting in your head 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, THIR, TEEN, FOUR, TEEN... If you are doing something high intensity you either slow down, skip numbers, or lose count. A lot of people in class have trouble doing more than 10 of something. By doing the same thing over and over you are rubbing it in and leaving them out of an exercise for a while. So if a guy can only do 4 crunches at a time he is doing 40% of the crunches - that's OK. Better than doing a set of 30 and he does 11%. 

Squats and deadlifts definitely promote growth. But that is not the whole story. I use the tree analogy. You don't see a tree with a tiny trunk and big thick branches. If you want the thick branches you have to have a thicker trunk. So yes doing squats and deadlifts will promote complete body strength but that isn't the whole story. Thing #1 - So you are starting out and want to get big quick. Yes go heavy on squats and deadlifts. But you have to do some arms. First you need a little triceps to help bench. Second the arm workouts help forearm and hand strength which help deadlifting and other lifts. Then the biggest thing is so where are you at after 6-12 months of deadlifting and squatting when you have got a little bigger and you haven't touched your arms? Well you are starting your arm workout and your arms will basically be shocked for a while. Why not work them out (even marginally) so that your body can adjust easier to new routines? Thing #2 - You might be at a point where you are not going to have huge gains in deadlifts and squats. Of course working out your arms hard will make them stronger and bigger. I don't think we need to debate that working out a body part makes it stronger/bigger. Thing #3 - If you want size you need intensity for the reps or weight. You can't do everything with intensity. You get about 30 mins if you are lucky with high intensity. So you if you want great arms you need to do them on their own. 

I do not agree with strapping your ankles unless you are battling through an injury and the bracing is critical to you being able to perform/play. I really really oppose any young athlete to wearing hi-tops, braces, or anything else that hinders ankle movement. First and foremost you are debilitating the strengthening of that region of your body. The sport of soccer is a great example. Compared to football players their ankle injuries are less common and less severe. Big surprise - because they have been wearing low cut shoes their whole lives. Yes they might have gotten quite a few low ankle sprains along the way. But those are the ones that are good in a day or two. What I am seeing now is a generation of teen girls and boys that have grown up playing in hi-tops. Their ankles never developed. Yes they don't get the nuisance ankle sprains but when they do it is a high ankle sprain and they are out forever. I have seen high ankle sprains compound into a year or two of PT. Also I am sure that some pro soccer players strap but in no way is that the norm. Straps, braces, and hi-tops all inhibit ankle movement which decreases speed and power. There is movement in football where skill position players are switching back to low cut cleats. In basketball pros are switching to mids and lows (Kobe's shoes are lows with extra ankle support). If you are injured I would use the brace to help heal the injury. I have worn braces for half of practice if going through an injury. The muscles need to be used to properly heal and most importantly strengthen for future injury. Given that you are injured I would try the Mueller brace. I have personally worn this and recommend it because it allows for different degrees of tightness in multiple regions. Your goal should be this fitting looser and looser until you can lose it. 

I would drink something after each workout. You are doing P90X so I am guessing you are trying to get lean/ripped. If you start dabbling into multiple kinds of supplements I would recommend monitoring your bowel movements. Your body can only handle getting so much bigger or processing so much protein but it can take in tons of calories. If you have too much #2 you need to cut the supplements down/out. Also nothing wrong with 16 ounces of chocolate milk after a workout. 

Only the core movements matter at first- squat, deadlift, bench, pull-up/chin-up, power clean. When I work a weight room for a team you aren't allowed to do anything else until you do two of those. To re-emphasize if you want to get bigger your body will adjust to the largest muscle group which is in the ass and legs. If they get bigger so will your arms. Your body likes harmony. Intensity is a big big big part of the strength building equation. 

No. I was a manager/trainer at a couple of Gold's gyms. Our insurance company wouldn't allow these on the floor. They are actually good to hold very moderate weight for several different lifts. The problem is they can take little to no horizontal force and when the squat racks get full people would spill to these. And to make matters worse it is hard to have rules for them. For instance some people may put 300 on a bar and this would work great because they can do 300 20 times... The next guy can barely do 300 and throws the bar in causing a chain reaction. 

Pull-ups - palms out. Weighted would be better. Do them nice and slow too. Inverted Rows - just reverse bench. Dumbbell raises. Skull Crushers Good mornings and ab work for core. 

The sidestroke is used in open waters to navigate and not get sick. It is not the most efficient method of movement in water by far. However when you are swimming in salt water you have to keep the water out of your mouth. The backstroke is about the worst at this and other styles are not as bad but entail bobbing your head in and out of water. There are a lot of reasons the NAVY teaches this but keep your head a little tilted to the water and a little out of the water is just common sense. Getting a technique that revolves around that is just taking that given and trying to do the best with it. I am positive that if a NAVY seal had a shark coming at him from 100 feet he isn't sidestroking to the boat! 

I boxed for four years and came out of one of the best gyms in the midwest. It was no frills and no excuses type of place in one of the worst areas of the US. But they were popping out guys for the Olympic team like candy. We also had a trainer that is recognized internationally. I will let his methods answer your question since you are more or less asking how long does it take to fight. 2-4 weeks. Doing something that you are doing is just as much psychological as it is physical. You must work out both of these at the same time. There is no use of you getting into your armor and fighting only after you are in peak condition. For new people we always had a saying - "Get his ass in the ring." We would never talk about how strong, how weak, how good someone looked training, how in shape someone was, how hard someone hit, until we saw them in the ring a few times. Your sport is no different from this. Let me give you an example. My second week there I was in PRIME condition. The trainer looked at me and asked if I was ready to fight. He had me and a veteran (out of shape former Golden Glove champ) spar. Three times four minutes. Four minutes might as well have been four hours. He beat the crap out of me the first round. The second I got a few blows in. Halfway through the second we both were wobbly and ready to pass out. During the third we stood within 6 inches of each other and pushed each others' gloves every 30 seconds. We couldn't move. So my point is you will want to get in your garb as soon as possible and start "real" training. The weights and other stuff is extra. That's not the real thing. Even if you can barely move at first, who cares. Get into the garb and try to go through a (intense) simulated workout. This should be a much bigger piece than weights and running. Also you said that you want to have great sword control. Running sprints won't help that. You will want to spar 2-3 times a week while doing sword work on the side every day. My normal routine while boxing included: weights 4 times a week (45 minutes), 2 times long cardio, 4 super intense training sessions times 1 hour (bag work, jump rope, footwork, handwork), 2-3 sparring matches at 4 minute rounds (amateur rounds were 2 mins back then). Wearing the armor and sword work would be everyday after the first few weeks or at least 2-3 days a week. How fast you get to this optimal level is much dependent on the amount of time you put in, the effort level, the coaching you get (practicing bad habits 2 hours a day gets you no where), and your natural ability. You could be in shape and pretty good in 3-6 months. But FOR SURE this will include just as much work getting you up to par on the sport, not just in shape. Note: You are not entering a cross-fit competition. Getting in shape is great. However how you perform is directly correlated to your current ability to do the role playing things right now and how fast you can pick them up. This may have some correlation to how well you are in shape but I would tend to think that is 10-20% of the whole equation. I fought plenty of fat guys who couldn't squat jack that could kick some ass for four rounds. 

Usually none. I tried several things including swimming "socks". It doesn't matter, sand gets in them and drives you nuts. Barefoot is the way to go. You will get used to it after just a couple weeks. 

What I think is happening is that your forearm strength/shoulder strength just isn't there yet. This instability is causing you to hunch a bit a you try to use your back instead of shoulders for stability. This is very common for younger deadlifters. Spend a couple of months not getting hurt at all - lower back injuries can take forever to heal. After a couple months start adding a couple of heavier sets of 2 and see how things feel. (8-8-8-2-2) I followed this same advice/routine about 8 years ago. Year later got squat up to 625lb and deadlift at 725lb. Not trying to slow you down at all but without a foundation you are going to keep injuring yourself. 

If you want big forearms, get a bar or a piece of wood and hang from it as long as you can. Do sets like this. When you can do 4 sets of 1 min start adding in some wrist movements to target the area even more. 

Lost the big muscle body and some fat. My body couldn't handle the body builder physique at all. I started jumping rope again. It is a great low impact core workout that trims. Two feet down - two feet up. Drink before and during workouts. I switched from high weight to quick sets. 5 sets of 12-14 reps at a fraction of the weight with 30-45 seconds in between. That way I could focus on technique and still get a good workout in (harder). This is something that I still don't practice - hard to lift before basketball. I do abs 4 times a week. I also do side bends at 45 degrees and good mornings. I have been explicitly told not to do good morning but nothing strengthens the lower back better - IMO. I won't go more than a couple days without at least jogging no matter what. Blood flow and muscle use is key. 

Don't confuse burning calories with exercise. Drumming certainly can be hard work but it is not exercise. Well maybe if you are at the very beginning stages of exercise it has some beneficial element but it is not exercise unless you are using the broadest definition - way too broad for this site. Drumming again is work and you can burn a lot of calories working. I used to carry tables and chairs all day. I am sure there were hours I burned 500-1000 calories and had a high heart rate... wasn't exercise though. It is an activity that is good because it burns calories and it is fun. Certainly burning more calories than playing the flute. But you are not getting any of the health benefits of exercise while playing the drums. You are just getting better at playing the drum, sweating, and burning calories. 

Anyone can box. I started when I was 18. My first months in the gym would probably be laughed at by most including myself. You have to start somewhere. You aren't going to kill yourself punching a bag. You also aren't going to get a magical fat loss explosion. If you want to punch the bag I would start with 1 minute on 1 minute off until you can work up to 4 minutes on and 1 minute off. You need to have wrist wraps on and some type of glove (heavier gloves = more workout). Simply circle bag with your off foot in front and throw jab/punch combinations. This is what any new boxer should do. You should not be lunging into the bag but a simple 6"-12" step on punch is OK. The top of your gloves should reflex right back to eye level. Probably the only harm you can do to yourself is standing too far from bag and overextending your elbows/shoulders. Bags don't punch back. However I would not expect much if any fat loss from doing this. You might get more tone in your back and shoulders but not fat loss. To even add onto this if you are taking away running or useful cardio and doing this instead then you are working in the wrong direction. That stuff will contribute to fat loss. Most people want to do boxing routines because they want to look like boxers. I got people all the time to try to get me to teach them the "boxer routine" so they could be cut. Bag work is probably 20% of the equation. And the heavy bag isn't even half that. The uppercut bag works your core and back far more than a normal heavy bag and has a much greater effect on overall physique. But really what makes boxers cut and defined are the less glamorous things. We run a lot. Both long distance and sprint training. I would run 5 miles at least twice a week and at least twice I would do 20-30 sprints (50 yardsish). Then there is the jumping rope at 4 x 20-30 minutes a week. In my opinion there isn't a better exercise in the world that is geared towards shedding fat and low impact (relatively) as jumping rope - two feet down, two feet up. Then there are the situps, shadow boxing, weighted movements and other things. Please please do not equate losing fat with punching a bag. A general rule I live by with cardio and I know this is a vast generalization is - if you are doing something because it is easier it probably won't be as effective. So in your case you are thinking I want to hit the bag for 30 mins vs running for 30 mins. Well no duh I would too. But I also would know that really there is nothing like running to lose fat/weight (I am talking about training here not diet).