They do not trade for their ale--they wouldn't depend on 'lesser, surface-dwellers' for something they drink that much of. They do not trade for their food--same argument as above. Extrapolating from points 1 & 2: They have the means to grow their own food, and process it to make whatever foods/drinks they enjoy. And can do this efficiently enough to sustain a city or multiple cities. 

Once life is given a chance, then you need to worry about reasons for certain strains of this life to evolve with all the bells and whistles: 

Now that you have your first spread going, it will start to attract more and more attention. People will start ranting and raving in the streets. Trustworthy people, people that can affect a wider audience for you. They will tell their stories, they will say what you did and what they believe you are capable of. In their panicstricken state, they will not realise they are doing your work for you. If you set it up right, others will start to believe it's true. That will do one of two things: either they will believe they have it too, or they will start to try to preemptively cull those they believe that are infected to 'stem the spread'. Now that the one town is in utter anarchy, you need to: 

About the method : I think it works well for small territories like islands. But if you distord continents like Europe or America, people will find out easily . By the way, the map of Westeros (Game of Thrones) is mostly based on Ireland (upside-down). It becomes pretty obvious when you remove Dorne and the North. 

Icosahedral map Icosahedron is a polyhedron with 20 triangular faces. Icosahedral maps are often used for RPG. You may easily convert your icosahedron into a sphere. The landmasses won't be too distorded. 

It seems impossible to make a 1 km high living creature with the actual laws of physics. You just can't scale up a human and turn him into a giant without drastically modifying his anatomy in order to keep him alive. The tallest people alive (more than 8 ft / 2,4 m) have many ealth issues and don't live long. Their bones break easily because their body is too eavy for their skeleton. So, if you want to create a 10 meter high giant, you must give him massive legs and stronger bones (like elephant's legs). But he would probably be unable to walk on two legs like humans, and would more likely use his arms and walk like a giant gorilla. So he might not be able to throw a ball, and would never do a salto. His heart would have to be very big to pump blood and send it to the brain. He would have trouble to stand up, and would rather keep his head at a lower level to ease his heart and help the blood flowing to his head. As his body adapts to his new posture, he may loose the ability to speak like humans, and would probably only make deep grunts. It will be more difficult for him to cool his own body. He would have to find a new way to regulate his body temperature, or he would die of hypertermia. And yes, he would be slow. Giant animals are always slow. They need more energy to move, and their nervous system is less efficient. The bigger you are, the more time it takes for nerve impulse to travel through your body. That's why elephants walk very cautiously : if they step on something sharp, it will take more time for them to notice it. 

Question? Any and all questions should be posed to the nearest homocidal maniac with a fully loaded, fully automatic assault rifle (and I really don't care if that's really a thing, it will still shoot you in the head!). Sincerely, The head of E-Conglomo's R&D Division. So you'd better make me look good! NOW GET BACK TO WORK! 

Congratulations, you've finally earned your space pilot's license! The only problem is, you can't afford a large enough ship to house more than one person (considering food, breathable air, refuse recycling, etc). And the only way to earn enough credits for a larger ship is to work the cargo lanes and haul freight from one remote location to another. This, of course, isn't the environment in which mankind evolved. We aren't meant to survive for months at a time with no social interaction. Not getting into the tangle of Faster Than Light travel, ignoring the interplanetary economics of supply and demand, and let's not even get started on safety precautions to keep you alive in the most deadly environment known to mankind. I want to focus on how you're going to keep yourself sane when one trip can take weeks to months at a time, with no human on board but yourself. While keeping in mind the following: 

The Adamans appears to be a milestone in the great coastal migration of Humans along the shores of Indian Ocean. Black tribes came from Africa via the Arabian peninsula, and then they migrate toward India, South-East Asia and Oceania. 

To make things simple : As it seems highly probable that "blue" is dominant and "yellow" is recessive, the following rules should apply : - If at least one parent is blue, children can be blue or yellow ; As the blue allele is dominant, it will mask the yellow allele. In this case, blue + yellow doesn't make green, it only makes blue. That's why blue people can eventually carry a hidden yellow version of the gene and have yellow kids. - If both parents are yellow, children can only be yellow. As the yellow allele is recessive, yellow people can't carry a blue version of the gene (they would have the blue trait instead). That's why they can't have blue kids. 

Decrease the brightness of your moon, and make it invisible during the day. By making the surface of your moon darker, you reduce its brightness due to light reflection (albedo). Cover it with black lava fields or dark stones. If it's dark enough, your moon should be only visible during the night or twilight. You can give your moon the same apparent magnitude of objects that appears after sunset. On Earth, the twilight sky allows the visibility of objects with magnitudes from -2.5 to +4.5. -2.5 is also the apparent magnitude of the new moon, invisible during the day. Even if we can't see it, the new moon is not totally dark as it reflects the earthlight. But it's hidden by our atmosphere brightness. An object of similar magnitude would be visible during the night. According to Handbook of practical Astronomy (p. 402, 403), during a total lunar eclipse, the Moon's magnitude is -2 when the sky is clear, and totality is rather light and still visible. Your full moon should look similar in brightness, except that it won't have the red/brownish color of our Moon (due to the eclipse), it should be dark grey instead. So, we can imagine having a black moon with a very low albedo, that reflects a very small percentage of sunlight, and that should be invisible from sunrise to sunset. Of course during the night it won't be as bright as our own moon, and will look more "greyish" than white... But if it's as big as our moon it should be easy to spot it anyway. With such a moon, your nights should be quite dark, even during the full moon. You may not see your own shadow. The behaviour of nocturn animals/bugs should also be different, because the moonlight won't be as bright as what we know on Earth. 

CVA's (Cerebral Vascular Accidents), which strokes fall under, can take many forms and the causes are equally varied. The thing is, the causes each take months, years, or decades to build up enough to cause them, so three days aren't going to make a whole lot of difference. If the cause is a clot forming (which is the root cause for two types of stroke), then blood thinners could save her life. Most doctors would need to see the patient, but even in the third world, doctors should be trained to deal with that (getting them to care is not something I will debate, however) If, however, you are travelling back in time. Maybe travelling further back will be more fruitful. Changing her diet a decade in the past will certainly prolong her life, but it would depend on you how to get her to do so. But that brings me to one key question: why save this life? Surely the harsh reality hasn't evaded you? That people die all the time? Or perhaps even more curiously, what caused the need to save her, when far more influential people would certainly be more deserving? 

It seems impossible to find an island that have split off from Africa and moved that far in the east of Indian Ocean. You're far beyond the limits of somali plate. So it would be more plausible to explain the presence of african species by an ancient migration. Your island seems to be very close to Andaman islands. Indigenous people from Adaman, like the Jarawas, look more like African than Asian people. 

About your map : I think it looks pretty good so far. Just be careful when you add rivers. I would recommend to draw the drainage basins (watershed) first. The limit between watersheds lies along topographical ridges. Then you draw a river and its affluents inside each watershed. Rivers should never cross the limits 

The biggest inconvenience is that your map may have a weird shape, and you'll have to cut the oceans. But there is no perfect solution. If you want to preserve areas and distances, this is one of the best options. 

You may add a fame system in your game. When a player do collaborative actions, he earns fame points that he can use to upgrade and gain new skills or items. He may need a certain amount of fame to become a team leader, or create a guild, etc. A player can also reward with a few fame points another player who helped him. On the opposite, a player killer would loose fame points for each kill, and then would have a restricted acces to cities or NPCs, etc.