Simply put and ignoring a lot of variables, the answer to the question is that it doesn't matter which bike you ride. First of all, remember the law of conservation of energy: that matter and energy can neither be created nor destroyed. As applied to bikes, that means that you cannot put in "less" or "more" effort to do something like climb a hill. All you can do is adjust the leverage on the gears. Remember Archimede's hypothesis that with a long enough lever you could lift the Earth? By shifting into a lower gear, you are effectively extending out a lever arm that makes lifting the weight (i.e. climbing a hill) easier. But, it also means you have to push that lever much further to lift the weight (i.e. turn the pedals many more times to go the same distance). With a higher gear, you expend more energy upfront, but you get a faster return. Now, in terms of raw physical forces, the amount of energy it takes to move a given mass (you + the bike) a given distance doesn't change. When human bodies are taken into account, the picture is significantly complicated. That is the subject of research on athletic performance, about which there is plenty of literature. For cycling, usually it boils down to minimizing lactic acid buildup, which occurs during anaerobic (sprinting) exercise. That's grossly oversimplified, but the point is that it really depends on your body's fitness which mode of travel will be more efficient for you. However, as far as physics is concerned, it doesn't matter one bit. Some other notes: 

At my shop a typical "heavy" tuneup will cost about $130. We have considerably cheaper labor costs than other shops, where that might be more like $200+. That includes replacement of all the wear-and-tear items on a bike: brake pads, chain, freewheel/cassette, cables & housing. Those are things that wear out ON EVERY BIKE regardless of what the bike costs initially. This is also the general annual upkeep cost of owning a bike. There is no ratio that will be helpful - there are too many variables - but what you can do is go to your local bike shop and ask what it usually costs for a tuneup with all the wear-and tear parts replaced. That'll be your maximum cost. You'll get a more precise answer if you know what kind of bike you intend on getting. 

I have a continuum of clothes that I add on as the weather gets colder. During the summer, I ride like you do with shorts and a t-shirt. As things cool of a little bit, down below 60F/15C, I'll put on a windbreaker over my t-shirt and some full-finger gloves on my hands. The next step for me is to add an Under Armour Cold Gear shirt (many companies make equivalent tops) but to stick with naked legs, they're doing all the wok after all. Once temperatures get down to the 45F/7C range, I'll add som snazzy leggings in a fabric similar to the Under Armour top mentioned above. When things start to freeze, my final move is a fleece vest over the long sleeve top, but under my windbreaker. If things get even colder where you are, Icebike's clothing page is a good place to look for further advice. Keep two things in mind: you need a lot less clothing once you're moving and generating heat than you do standing around, but you also need to be prepared for a problem that might leave you standing around for some time. Dress light and carry extra clothes in a backpack. 

For similar things on cars I use white lithium grease (e.g. this stuff on Amazon)—it is a good lubricant and sticks around the joint that you apply it to. Any similar thick grease should work for this joint, but the crucial thing is getting it into the right place. Taking the joint apart and applying grease to the mating surfaces is the best bet. 

A lot of manufacturers sell something like a road bike without drop handlebars—variously categorized as urban, city, or touring. I have a Marin Alp Series that has flat handlebars, with some short bar ends that allow you to get a bit of a different position for comfort on longer rides. You might consider something with drops which will make longer rides (I would consider 25 miles a good length) more comfortable: Raleigh Clubman, Trek Portland, Surly's Long Haul Trucker are good options, but there are certainly more. 

Using a fixed gear develops muscles that you don't normally use on a geared bicycle. It'll take time for your body to get used to using those muscles and until then skidding will be difficult. First focus on hopping the rear wheel. When you're comfortable doing that, hop the wheel and then hold your legs in place on the landing to get a short skid. When you're used to that you can practice shifting your weight forward ("unweighting" the rear wheel) and dragging the skid out further. You must make sure your feet are in the correct position - they'll be relatively flat horizontal to the ground. Also be aware that skidding ruins tires quickly. I commute using a fixed gear and I scrupulously avoid skidding. I can stop as quickly or even faster by keeping my weight back on the rear wheel and using my leg muscles to slow down. That being said, being able to skid is a practical skill - a short "hockey" skid has saved my ass at least once from getting creamed by a car. 

You won't be able to replace that freewheel with anything new you can buy on the market; your only options will be old stock or take-offs that you can find on eBay, etc. 

Yes! Well, sorta. You can get an approximation using.... ~~trigonometry~~ In order to get an accurate reading, you'll need to divide the frame up into right triangles. We'll assume that the top tube is horizontal, parallel to the ground. This makes everything much easier because you automatically get right angles. However, many bikes will have sloping top tubes, which complicates the work. The first step therefore is to determine what slope the top tube has. For this particular example, the chart gives measurements that strongly suggest the top tube is horizontal, or even downward sloping, so this method is likely viable, but double check anyways. But anyways, assuming a horizontal top-tube parallel to the ground, here's your frame broken up into right angles and the proof for stack height: 

Idaho passed their law in 1982 and it was brought up in the Oregon legislature but failed to win enough support to be passed. California and Montana have considered adopting similar laws, but they have not yet been brought to their respective legislatures. So, in the US, it sounds like Idaho is still the only state with such a law. Here is an an animation explaining the law: $URL$ 

Minimally, you want to be able to tighten all of the bolts on your bike (likely a few hex keys will do this) and an appropriate screwdriver for adjusting derailer & brake pulls. Separate from a multi-tool, a pair of tire levers are the other tool you should carry with you. I would add a chain tool to the above list after being left in a state where I would have been much happier were I so equipped. For that reason, I bought a Crank Brothers Multi Tool 17 which features the requisite hex keys, screwdrivers, and a chain tool, in package that is smaller & lighter than most Leatherman tools. Some of the hex key sizes don't fit anything on my bike, but it's nice to have a set that can help most other riders. 

Sheldon Brown can show you how to fold a wire bead tire. Grab the tire at 10 & 2 O'Clock and overlap your hands until you have an uneven-size figure eight. Then just grasp the large loop of the figure eight, twist and push it towards the middle of the eight until you have three loops. Just tie it up with a strap and toss it into a bag. 

I only ride on the street, but I use a Nite Rider MiNewt on my helmet, which gives great visibility of the road ahead. For off-road riding you will want significantly more light, but I still think having a light on your helmet that follows where you look is quite useful. Couple something like the MiNewt with a 500 or more lumen bar light and you'll be in good shape. If you're handy, you could also build your own light. 

This is a very old military bike, estimates say circa 1898, credited to a French officer and cycling advocate Captain Gerrard (although actually probably designed by someone else). It is indeed a folding bike, one of the first of its kind. Soldiers on bicycle were a relatively common thing prior to the first world war. Lots more information here, The BSA & Military Bicycle Museum ; and here Captain Gerard history 

Now calculating the reach is easy. We know the height of the stack is 60.25cm, which is one side of a right triangle with a hypotenuse of 63cm. Knowing this you can use the Pythagorean theorem to determine the remaining side, a segment of the top tube is 18.41cm. We also know the full length of the top tube is 59cm, so the remaining segment must be 59cm - 18.41cm = 40.59cm. And that's your reach! 

You'll generally want to get the smallest inner chainring possible, in order to maximize the spread of gears. The actual size of that chainring will be determined by your crank's BCD (bolt-circle diameter). It's impossible to say what size your BCD is, although with a stock 52t big ring I would guess that it's a road standard size, 130mm. This means your smallest available inner ring is 39-tooth. 52/39 is a modern standard combination, and 52/42 is an older standard; either will work. I wouldn't worry too much about your derailer capacity and chain slack. If your rear derailer can accommodate a 32 tooth cog, it must have a medium or long cage, both of which are capable of "wrapping" plenty of chain. The only instance in which chain slack becomes an issue is when combining the inner small chainring with a small cog on the cassette. This combination is horrid for your drivetrain, and ought to be avoided at all times. If you are worried about chain slack because of dropping a chain, that is a separate issue, largely unrelated to derailer/chainring compatability. 1) dropped chains are a fact of life. get used to "picking up" a chain using the front shifter to avoid having to get off the bike. 2) if it's a mechanical problem, your limit screws may be improperly set. 3) don't shift under heavy load. if you shift into a low gear while you're already climbing the hill, you're doing it wrong and you're breaking your parts. shift BEFORE you need the gear you want to be in. sorry for the pithy attitude, i've had a few beers and am striving for clarity. edit: if your cranks end up being 110bcd (compact BCD), you can go pretty low on your inner ring. You could even do a 52/34 (I do!), but you must accept tricky front shifting.