So why become a teacher? Indeed this problem cuts to the very possibility of learning anything at all. How could you learn something if don’t already know about it; how would you know where to “look”? This is in a way a bootstrapping problem. For Plato, the solution has to do with reminiscence; all apparent learning is remembering, owing to a kind of transcendent Memory oriented towards a “past beyond the past”. Hence: you knew all this before birth; what you perceive as learning is only remembering. 

Derrida, for his own part as you show, does seem aware of this distortion. He certainly concedes that the version of the phrase he analyzes might indeed have resulted from a copyists' error or bias. Note that Agamben is mentioned among the friends Derrida thanks in the text. I found this essay (Giorgio Agamben's "Friendship") published in the tiny volume, What is an Apparatus?; you can read more about the Agamben-Derrida connection on this issue in Durantaye's Giorgio Agamben: A Critical Introduction (in the notes to the main work, pp. 418-419). (In passing, Deleuze and Guattari speak extensively about the relationship between friendship and philosophy towards the beginning of What is Philosophy?; in particular, I might note that they indicate Maurice Blanchot as being "one of the rare thinkers to consider the notion of friend in philosophy". I cannot speak directly to the point but I thought it might be helpful nevertheless.) 

It does not sound like a suitable finality for human subjectivity to abandon creation and give up production altogether. On the other hand, maybe alienated production under the constraint of profit (for profits' sake) is also not a suitable finality for human subjectivity. My suggestion might be to consider the ways in which our desires and expressions have become the objects of a kind of economy of subjectivity, where the substance is often completely lacking -- Zizek is very good on this critical point. He might suggest that today one often has "everything" but the (sometimes malign) property that would also make it "real" or worth it -- coffee without caffeine, beer without alcohol, etc. He says this is one of the ways ideology functions today: it obfuscates the shape of the world, robs us of the very language to articulate our unfreedom. One way to see this is of course with "recreation" itself, which in many ways is often a mirror image of our alienated work: locked into fierce yet "legal" combat with others or the world, etc. At any rate, one thing to think about here might be that even our relaxations from work life have also become various forms of competition and rule-dominated exercises; we have recreation "without leisure." 

He is spidery, I might conjecture, in his recovery of transcendental judgment (after the radical breach of Hume) which amounts to a critical recuperation of the notion of a universal law that would underlie morality and act as a truth-procedure for human societies; and indeed Kant is important for the western legal tradition, and more generally maybe the institutional structure of western democracies, especially with regards to its ideas about fixed subjects endowed with transcendental or universal properties (rights, duties, etc.) 

Occasionalism is the position that God is the true and "efficient" cause of all that occurs. Absolutely nothing happens, except through him, even when we appear to witnessing the demonstration of a law of nature, or indeed experience ourselves to be directly exercising agency over our activity. God is the only entity capable of being a true and necessary cause. Nevertheless God observes "order" in creating and conserving the universe, constraining himself through certain logical and physical rules: 

One quick thought here is that there is another sense to the stratification in the Republic; it is a principle of responsibility-separation not just used to ordain life-tasks to individuals, but also to ensure the separation of duties and scope for different governmental institutions. This is basically the sense of the Platonic critique of democracy; that its "unnecessary desires" corrupt the order (divisions) necessary for justice (harmony). A rough rendering here might be that the legislature should not do the work of the judiciary. 

In terms of prima facie validity, it does seem like justifying induction on the basis of induction having worked in the past might involve circularity. Hence the logical foundations of inductions have to lie somewhere else. Possibly an induction is rooted in an abduction; we “steal” a hypothesis without explicit grounding, retroactively justifying based on experiments. (This seems to have connections with the sort of ideation scientists are doing when they’re inventing hypotheses.) 

Deleuze is very interesting on this point; one of the only (“continental”) thinkers I can suggest who is — at least in certain works, Difference and Repetition in particular — concerned explicitly with the philosophical implications of question-forms. A rough gist might be that what-prefixed question statements are less interesting or important for thinking (and so for philosophy) than question-forms like where?, when?, how many?, which one? There is a specificity to these latter, non-what? questions; they correspond to what Deleuze calls “spatiotemporal dynamisms” which dramatize a concept — and so express ideas more effectively than what is...? problem-forms, which seem to call for a transcendent essence. (This seems like a theme Derrida might have considered, perhaps at length, but I’m not sure in what works this might appear.) As suggested above there is definitely a long history of analytic thinkers doing philosophy of language and wondering/working on the problem of question forms, but I’m not really very familiar with it; SEP as usual has a good review. 

A few quick points and arrows, since there's something very interesting around you're hitting upon here. (I wonder if you can't draw it out a little bit further?) There might be a line of inquiry here around the world-historical role of philosophy: perhaps to what extent it actually arrests thinking/abstraction (or did historically, this is something Deleuze for instance is curious about); and on the other hand how philosophy "hides" its real-structure-in-the-world behind the indeterminable complexity of the concepts it proliferates. The accelerating complexity of the world is (more or less plainly) coupled with a reduction of the scope of ethics to theories of (efficient, agile) administration. This is something Baudrillard is particularly concerned with; and framed as a more general historical phase-shift is something Foucault is also curious about (his concept of governmentality would be something to investigate around this.) Too quickly -- perhaps Virilio's ideas about the weaponization of speed could be relevant here as well. Negative Horizon seems maybe an interesting text to investigate in this direction, in terms of how to "live" an ethics after the Disaster, after the traumatic disappearance of distance. He seems particularly urgent in terms of crafting life-practices, though again there is a sterility here, a strangely "terminal" or administrative ethics, even though it is operating in a chaotic milieu of continuously exponentiating powers. Whereas of course there are other kinds of ethical visions entirely (which it might be worth returning to Spinoza to see clearly.) 

The law of identity provides a logical expression of the notion that a thing () is the same entity as itself (). It establishes a simple two-way relationship of equality that serves as a basic presupposition of any formal logic. My understanding is that the law of identity is somewhat more technical than simply a rule for calling two things "the same"; in fact the law of identity is really an axiom, a tautological expression indicating a single object "is itself." Furthermore, I think things get significantly more complex when we need to talk about the identity or equality of two distinct objects, even if it is ultimately the same object simply referred to in different ways. (I believe in particular there are implications for epistemology and the theory of reference.) Finally I might suggest that identity is not a trivial characteristic; is the candle the "same" object after it has melted into a lump of wax? Perhaps, but even so it has undergone some kind of transformation. Since at an energetic level everything is effectively continuously transforming, identity is as you suggest -- a common notion, an axiom, but not something reflective on an underlying truth. 

It is not clear to me that the notion of a "lost sale" is coherent. How are you supposed to quantify it? Even if we were forced to assign some percentage of downloads which would have been almost-certainly-purchased, it would have to be tiny -- dwarfed by the amount of content shared in violation of copyright-holder's wishes on the matter. In passing, as I alluded in my comments above, there is at least some contention over the idea that an illegal download is morally significant (at least when compared to implicitly supporting the arguably immoral behavior of profit-obsessed music industry executives, the underlying capitalist framework with its tendency to relentlessly exploit artists, and so forth.) From a wider perspective, perhaps, illegal downloads might seem to be a relatively minor "concern" compared with the revolutionary transformations we are witnessing in the social and economic order today, in part due to the increased interconnectivity of people on the internet and the growing impact of globalization on everyday life. I am suggesting that artists need to focus on making products with inherent or intrinsic value, and giving people a reason to purchase; fighting piracy is ultimately an enormous waste of time. You can read about a recent presentation by the creator of Minecraft where he makes more or less this case; he emphasizes the difference between pirating and theft and the incoherence of the "lost sale" concept, as well as the importance of giving people a reason to buy. From there: 

Pity weakens through multiplying "reactive" passions, melancholy and woe and the entire 'negative' spectrum of affects. (I believe this argument is perhaps in itself not original to Nietzsche.) He explains Christ's sacrifice as a suicidal melancholy eruption of a kind of pity 'virus', one which perhaps betrays a kind of nihilism. It may be interesting to note how he emphasizes this "viral" and contagious nature of pity; which seems still basically in line, however, with the problem of the "multiplication" of suffering that pity causes, perhaps even an extrapolation: pity is an outbreak of the violence of the negative, which if taken far enough can become turned entirely against life, even self-destructive. Christ as the "Typhoid Mary" of a strange virus of bitterness, misery and resentment; this "pity" has turned the world into a madhouse. 

It seems resonant with certain elements of his philosophy, and is generally attributed to Nietzsche, but I cannot seem to find the precise source anywhere. I was struck, in passing, by the variety of different critical or theoretical enterprises which were using this quote in different senses or registers -- ecological, theological, sociological, and so on. I'm thinking it's interesting especially in this light that the precise source seems to be (perhaps symptomatically?) omitted in many cases of its use. So secondarily I'd also be curious about others' thoughts on the political aspect of the "reading" (or its absence) of Nietzsche which is implied in these sorts of non-specified citations -- i.e., I'm thinking that perhaps in this light the multiplicity of different enterprises exploiting the quote take on another aspect entirely; of disastrously obscuring the "real" potential for Nietzsche's philosophy to transform our discourses and disciplines -- to "really" change the world... 

I'd recommend Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison. Michel Foucault is perhaps the most important modern critic of the prison as a social institution. The work is a rigorous socio-historical analysis of the evolution of the modern prison system. He suggests, among other things, that there may be fundamental relationships between various 'disciplinary' institutions, like schools, churches and places of work, as well as prisons. 

Color space is broad and deep, and the visual system can really only distinguish a little fragment of it. One thing to contemplate here is that we know that the standard-issue human visual system is definitely limited in critical ways. And we don't even have to speculate to see this: tetrachromacy is "the condition of possessing four independent channels for conveying color information". Tetrachromats are able to differentiate colors that appear identical to those without the condition. But they may also be sensitive to wavelengths outside the typical perceptual 'bands'. However, I'm not sure we really know what it would be like for your visual system to "suddenly" start receiving this additional information. At any rate, tetrachromacy points to the fact that color is deep. It seems to me to demonstrate that color space certainly isn't exhausted by the handful of cone and rod types that modern humans happen to have evolved. 

So this kind of analysis seems suggestive, but maybe is especially illuminating with respect to the viability of larger-scale "socialized rent" programs like basic income -- which an increasing number of administrative districts are experimenting with, in different variations (so soon hopefully we'll have a lot more empirical data about these sorts of programs on much larger scales). However recall that Zizek has some hard words for basic income supporters, since after all it effectively serves to morally legitimate capitalism (this was even the stated motivations of the sociologists who come up with the idea) -- and so basic rent programs, precisely because they are so effective at fighting extreme poverty, may end up extending the amount of time capitalism is able to mystify people into thinking it is a virtuous economic regime. 

First, let's suppose we have such a human-level artificial intelligence. Depending on the constitution of the machine, it may have 'transparent access' to its own cognitive structure. In such a situation, the machine would have a choice as to whether or not to experience the pain, or indeed attenuate the intensity experienced (by, say, 17%) before the pain-experiences even begin. Presumably posthumans and active mindfiles would have the same capabilities in terms of manipulating the intensity of their input sources. Now, if the machine doesn't have this sort of access to its "mind," which seems likely at least in the earliest stages of development, it will be in roughly the same position with respect to suffering that modern humans are; i.e., its internal neurocognitive structure is effectively a 'black box' manipulating signals of its own accord, so the machine wouldn't have any opportunity to consciously interrupt the flow of pain-signals. Finally, the question of why you would cause a machine intelligence to feel pain also seems worth investigating to me. After all, it would seem possible to design a machine intelligence without providing an equivalent of 'physical' pain -- so why would we go out of our way to provide this "benefit"? Note that among sentient machines are likely to be uploaded human minds, which presumably would prefer not to experience physical suffering again; the pain response would seem more like an unfortunate meatspace necessity we would be gratefully ridding ourselves of (as with aging and death.) So yes, in general, I think a sentient machine could suffer -- but again, with the strange caveat that once a given stage of development has been reached, it could potentially have a choice in the presence, degree and quality of suffering experienced at any given moment. So could this really be called "suffering" any longer? 

While their colloquial meaning do significantly overlap, I would argue for a sharp distinction between the two in terms of their philosophical implications. Morality relies on a transcendent good-evil distinction. Very generally it means a set of constraining rules (a code) consisting in judging actions by relating them to universal values. Morality addresses itself to jurisprudence: "This is right, that's wrong." Ethics indicates a set of optional rules assessing what we do and say in relation to ways of existing. Ethics addresses itself to the "art of living": the properly ethical question is which mode of existence, which style of living. An ethical analysis would interpret actions and propositions as so many sets of symptoms that express or “dramatize” the mode of existence of the doer or speaker. An ethical analysis seeks to identify different ways of existing and to judge their worth empirically, rather than weigh them abstractly against a set of "universal" values. So ethics is very different than morality. (I believe this can be seen especially clearly in both Spinoza and Nietzsche, who were both called 'immoralists' in their time.) 

D+G have an exceptional reading of the Labov-Chomsky debate in the linguistics plateau of ATP. Their analysis of his linguistic theory is quite interesting, examining the Chomsky hierarchy in terms of their concept of arborescence. (Possibly also worth mentioning is the somewhat-recent conflict between Zizek and Chomsky over factual references to historical events, but this is definitely less about linguistics than politics per se.) 

This may be well be one way to state what phenomenology does; although not an explicit return-to-the-Greeks, Husserl and other phenomenologists are definitely engaged with the first person study of the structures of qualia (and more generally of consciousness and intentionality.) There is a decidedly "inward" or subjective bent to these analyses: 

UPDATE: With respect to your clarification, I certainly agree indeed that the context of the problem of happiness is ethics. In particular, I submit that the kernel of the problem is that even though we agree human nature aims at happiness, that there are necessarily very different qualities of happiness for different ways of life. In other words my suggestion is that some actions, passions, expressions, values are only possible on condition of a 'low' or 'base' way of thinking and living. I am even tempted to claim this may even indicate the critical dimension of philosophy itself, in a way -- to identify the difference between "high" and "low" thought, to rigorously establish the spiritual distance between "base" and "noble" ways of living. We need to distinguish critical, ethically significant variations in the quality of happiness being served in particular instances. (Note: I am not an expert on Aristotle.)