More likely though is its simply known as "the stone that gives you cancer" and is steered well away from 

All known carbon based life uses aminoacids to form their proteins with the proteins being essentially natural polyamides. Would it be possible for life to use hydroxyacids instead of aminoacids making their proteins essentially natural polyesters? If so what conditions would favour this kind of life and would this remove life's nitrogen dependency? similar but different : Life without Nitrogen 

A nineteen year old can look quite adult, especially behind the usual dirt, facial hair and attitude changes that tend to come after an apocalypse. There's no need for anyone to know he's an adolescent. Espacily if he's not necessarily a paragon of virtue. Alternatively you could lean into his adolescence trying to lead in hard conditions when many of the people beneath you think that you're "actually just a kid" is a hard struggle. Generally in writing struggles for your protagonists can be embraced, I personally would read about a child ruler desperately juggling internal politics, managing subordinates and rivals alike regardless of any zombies. Finally its possible you don't even need a justification, the walking dead is primarily a world gone mad. Child rulers have exsisted in the past and I'd happily follow a twelve year old in twd 

Why would arctic people be stupid enough to string their power lines from pole to pole above the surface, when they could dig channels through the dirt and/or ice and lay down well insulted power cables in the channels and fill up the channels again? Aerial power cables have always been a silly idea, at least within densely populated cities that are being newly built from the ground up, and even more so where the weather can be as bad as in the arctic. And if the electricity source is inside the multistory single building city the power lines will be protected from the wind and weather outside. 

Sperm whales are estimated to eat many thousands or millions of similar sized giant squid every day. I think that there would be many practical difficulties keeping either colossal squid or sperm whales in captivity. Marine biologists have often wondered precisely how sperm whales manage to feed themselves, and there are some strange theories about their methods, including having built in sonic death rays to disable their prey. 

$URL$ Calcium carbonate contains calcium, carbon, and oxygen. Portland cement is made by heating limestone (calcium carbonate) with other materials. On a lifeless planet with no limestone calcium carbonate and the other materials can be obtained by heating up rocks to melting or vaporizing temperatures and centrifuging the liquid or vapor to separate the elements and storing the elements separately until they are needed. Compounds may be synthesized by machines like 3-D printers that form chemical compounds element by element, perhaps. They would take elements from their storage bins as needed. Melting or vaporizing mountains of rock to reduce to elements would take immense amounts of energy. But the space colony will probably have fusion reactors to supply almost unlimited energy, and/or gigantic flimsy space mirrors to focus vast amounts of sunlight on small areas to generate energy. Thus if a lot of concrete for construction is needed on a lifeless planet the cement will be chemically synthesized. 

Glacial tongue! Form a glacier between two parallel mountain ranges. Since there is stress on the ice when it leaves land and starts floating, the approach to the water needs to be a gentle slope. The general stability and length of the glacier then depends on the water and seabed. Traversing this bridge should be treacherous! 

I would agree with the 1960s-tech assessment: you don't just need steel, you need high quality, lightweight, high strength steel, etc. You can, however, give your natives a leg up in the non-tech areas. One suggestion that comes to mind is an extremely high mountain range that extends well beyond the atmosphere. Not only would this give them experience with airlessness, it would also provide a useful launch platform -- assuming they could move all the required natives and equipment into such a deadly area. But space is difficult and requires a long learning curve -- read up on the ongoing space programs all over the world; even with the knowledge and technology, the secret sauce is experience and perhaps failure. What about the natives would make them good spacefarers? One example would be if they were squishy enough to survive being shot out of a cannon. This would also have war implications -- if you could shoot an army over a wall, how would fortifications and weapons be different? A plus is that it's not a stretch to start shooting natives straight up; a minus is the plausibility of a body that can survive hundreds of gees. 

I don't know how similar or different your world is. One way to make such a prohibition is for every major power to be heavily invested in civilian merchant ships, and naval ships of all types up to battleships. Possibly the major powers have so much capital invested in shipping that is expected, unlike most ships in our world, to last for decades into the future, that several forms of sinking civilian and naval vessels have been banned such as mines, submarines, and airplanes. Another way is to make airplanes banned as weapons of war. The first major uses of airships and airplanes have been as terror weapons, and so all use of warplanes is abhorred and prohibited. The leaders of the first nations to use airplanes in war have been executed for so doing, setting a legal precedent. Or maybe the officers and men who carried out those missions have all been executed, making all future soldiers reluctant to obey such orders. A third possibility. Maybe petroleum based fuels and internal combustion engines have been introduced much later in your world. A decent merchant marine and battleship navy can be propelled by steam engines and coal, while coal and steam powered airplanes would be every inefficient. A fourth possibility. Maybe in your world a nation's airspace only extends to the height of a skyscraper above the ground and the air above that is considered to belong to everyone like the open oceans. And maybe in your world flying is considered to be a glorious and sacred activity and it is considered sacrilegious to defile flying with commercial or military use. A fifth possibility. Maybe after the last big war where a lot of new weapons were introduced treaties were signed forbidding the use of ANY technological innovations in war, not just airplanes. Possibly the victorious nations feared that technological innovations could favor their rivals, while the war weary populations of the losing nations blamed new technologies for ever increasing devastation and death tolls of wars and demanded a halt to the development of new weapons. Possibly some combination of some of those five suggestions would suffice to explain the non use of airplanes against ships in your world. 

"anti-magic" exists. think DnD's anti-magic field or dispel magic, this would obviously need to be usable by non-magic humans so perhaps there are certain "magic-less" areas that occur naturally and normal's have built all their settlements around them, perhaps there is some material which is resistant to magic perhaps there are machines with anti-magical abilities, perhaps magic goes away every eclipse the list goes on. there are gods/god-like beings/spirits with a vested interest in either normal humans or in preventing magicians from gaining to much power. these could also be a source of anti-magic. perhaps only the faith of normal humans feeds them, perhaps they just fear magicians. normal humans would not need to know of their existance Magical creatures exist that normal humans have bred and trained. (think dragons, sphinxes, giant anythings's or perhaps even vampires or werewolves.), while magical people could also train these it would certainly level the playing field Long term exposure to magic destroys complex machinery. in this way your non-magical people could have anything from muskets to tanks to balance out the magic and magical people would not. (if you have few enough magical people its possible they just don't have the economies of scale needed to build high-tech stuff). Non-magical people simply vastly outnumber magical people, and are reasonably well organised and united. this is not unprecedented many historians believe the reason Homo sapiens out competed Homo neanderthals is simply that we had better cooperation even though neanderthals had most other advantages. You would of course have to come up with a lore reason why Mages don't just reproduce like mad with fertility spells or something but hey. this works quite well with a variant of number 4 Magic is so wild and unpredictable that Magicians pose as much of a threat to each other on the battle-field as they do their enemies. This would make fielding them on the battle-field nigh impossible Killing another human being using magic has side-effects of increasing severity, making using magic to wage war or worse genocide undesirable for all parties involved Magic is dependant upon some reasonably scarce resource, perhaps most spells require gold or a special spice which is a hassle to grow. they where in charge of the world for a great deal of time until event X, the recent state of affairs is an outlier. some pick and mix of the above reasons. 

$URL$ If you consider it desirable for the farther star to be more than 0.25 times as bright on the planet's surface as the nearer star that the planet orbits, or if you want the star that the planet orbits to be as bright as the sun, then the other star will have to be too luminous to be old enough for its planets to be habitable for humans or have higher life forms. And since the two stars and all their planet should be the same age, the planet in question and the star that it orbits will also have to be too young for the planet to be interesting. Unless scientists note that the planet should not yet be habitable or have advanced lifeforms. Thus characters may speculate that advanced aliens terraformed the planet, or that the entire planet was moved from an older solar system into this younger solar system by super advanced aliens. And maybe someone will point out that the clock is ticking and there are "only" a few million years left until the brighter star swells into a red giant and all life in the system is destroyed. .............................................................. My Previous Answer. For scientific reasons I have reversed your star designations, making Star B the one that Planet X orbits and Star A the more distant star. If planet X orbits Star B but not Star A, Star A should be at least ten times as far away from Planet X as Star B is, in order for the orbit of planet X to be stable. If this is supposed to be hard science fiction you will need a more expert opinion. Of course the distance between Star A and Star B can be many times the minimum of ten times the radius of Planet X's orbit around Star B. If the distance between Star A and Star B is exactly 10 times the radius of Planet X's orbit around Star B, then some times Planet X will be exactly 11 times as far from Star A as from Star B. And sometimes Planet X will be only 9 times as far from star A as from Star B. The distance from Star A to Planet X will vary between 0.9 and 1.1 times the average distance. And since the amount of light planet X receives from star A varies with the square of the distance, that amount will vary from 0.826 to 1.234 of the average amount. If the distance between Star A and Star B is exactly 100 times the radius of Planet X's orbit around Star B, the amount of light that Planet X receives from Star A will vary between 0.980 and 1.019 of the average amount of light. Since that is a smaller range of difference, as a general rule you would want the distances between Star A and Star B to be as many times greater as possible than the radius of the orbit of Planet X around star B. But you also need the distance between Star A and Star B to be as small as possible compared to the radius of the orbit of Planet X around Star B. If you want Planet X to be interesting because it is habitable for Earth Humans, or has advanced multi celled life like trees and mammals, or has native intelligent beings. If Star A is 10 times as far away from Planet X as Star B is, which I think is the minimum distance for Planet X to have a stable orbit, it will have to be 100 times as luminous as Star B to give Planet X as much light as Star B does. If Star A is only as luminous as Star B it will give Planet X only one percent of the light that Star B gives planet X. If Star A is 100 times as far away from Planet X as Star B is, it will have to be 10,000 times as luminous as Star B to give Planet X as much light as Star B does. If Star A is only as luminous as Star B it will give Planet X only one hundredth of one percent (or 0.0001) of the light that Star B gives planet X. You didn't specify the desired ratio between the apparent brightness of Star A and Star B as seen from Planet X. You just said Star A (your Star B) should give Planet X enough light to make a difference. And you didn't specify whether you meant enough light to make a difference in the temperature of Planet X or merely enough light to make a difference in it's illumination. If you want Star A to shed as much light on Planet X as Star B does, then the ratio of their relative absolute luminosity must equal the square of the ratio of their relative distances from Planet X. If Star A is 10 times as distant as Star B it will have to be 100 times as luminous to appear exactly as bright in the sky of Planet X. If Star A is 100 times as distant as Star B it will have to be 10,000 times as luminous to appear exactly as bright in the sky of Planet X. If Star A is 1,000 times as distant as Star B it will have to be 1,000,000 times as luminous to appear exactly as bright in the sky of Planet X. Thus if Star A and Star B have to have anything remotely resembling the same brightness in the sky of planet X, Star A should have at least several times the absolute luminosity of Star B, and possibly up to millions of times the luminosity. Thus Star A would be much intrinsically brighter than Star B. Thus Astronomers would call it A and call the star that Planet X orbits B. Because of the high probability that the more distant star would be more luminous than the star Planet X orbits, I switched the designations of the stars from what they were in your question. Suppose that you desire star A to appear 0.0001 times as bright in the sky of Planet X as Star B. Then if Star A is 0.10 times as luminous as Star B, and 10 times as far from Planet X, it will appear to be 0.0001 times as bright from the surface of Planet X. If Star A is exactly as luminous as Star B, and 100 times as far from Planet X, it will appear to be 0.0001 times as bright from the surface of Planet X. If Star A is 1,000 times as luminous as Star B, and 1,000 times as far from Planet X, it will appear to be 0.0001 times as bright from the surface of Planet X. If Star A is 10,000 times as luminous as Star B, and 10,000 times as far from Planet X, it will appear to be 0.0001 times as bright from the surface of Planet X. Thus even if Star A appears only 0.0001 times as bright as Star B as seen from Planet X, it could, depending on its distance, be tens, hundreds, or even many thousands of times as absolutely luminous as Star B, the star that Planet X orbits. By comparison, the Sun has an apparent brightness as seen from Earth 398,110 times as bright as the apparent brightness of an average full moon. The apparent brightness of the full moon is 0.0000025 that of the Sun, so if Star B appears as Bright as the Sun from Planet X and Star A appears only 0.0001 as bright as star B as seen from Planet X that could still be about 40 times as bright as a full moon seen from Earth. The absolutely most luminous star known to science is R136a1 in the Large Magellanic Cloud, about 8,710,000 times as luminous as the Sun. The least luminous known star is 2MASS J0523-1403, about 0.000126 times as luminous as the Sun. That gives a luminosity range of about 69,126,983,000 times. That should be enough for any desired difference in the luminosity of the two stars in the solar system of Planet X, right? Wrong. If you want Planet X to be interesting because it is habitable for Earth Humans, or has advanced multi celled life like trees and mammals, or has native intelligent beings, Planet X must have enjoyed a relatively constant amount of radiation from it's sun, Star B, for billions of years, since Earth is believed to be relatively typical, and it took billions of years for those things to develop on Earth. Therefore Star B that Planet X orbits must have been a relatively stable main sequence star for billions of years in order for Planet X to be habitable for Earth Humans, or have advanced multi celled life like trees and mammals, or have native intelligent beings. And since both stars in the system would be the same age, Star A must also have been a relatively stable main sequence star for billions of years. When stars eventually leave the main sequence they usually change in ways that destroys all life on the planets that orbit them and may also destroy all life on planets orbiting other stars in the same star system. And what types of stars will remain stable main sequence stars for billions of years? Stars of late spectral type F (starting at maybe type F8), type G, Type K, and type M. Thus Star B, that Planet X orbits, and Star A, in the same star system, would both have to be somewhere between about spectral type F8V to M9V, which would limit the possible range of their luminosity difference. I believe the extreme possible luminosity difference between Star A and Star B would be about 25 times. But many scientists believe that stars from mid type K and all type M stars are not suitable for having habitable planets for various reasons. If that is correct the possible spectral types for Star B would be limited to about F8V to K5V. That gives a luminosity range of about six times for the difference between Star A and Star B. But since it is not specified whether Star A should have any habitable planets its spectral type can be between type F8V and type M9V. So if you want your story to be anything like hard science fiction you should find more precise figures for the various limits listed before making your calculations, if you want Planet X to be interesting because it is habitable for Earth Humans, or has advanced multi celled life like trees and mammals, or has native intelligent beings. Unless the stars in the star system are younger and should not have planets as advanced as Planet X seems to be. Perhaps super powerful aliens terraformed Planet X millions of years ago and seeded it with life forms billions of years more advanced than it had time to evolve naturally, or even took Planet X from its original star system and moved it into the much younger star system it is now in. 

Flood. We are really bad at finding evidence underwater. If humans had evolved in a valley such as what is now the Mediterranean Sea, complete humanoid fossils would be very difficult to find. $URL$ 

Although I favor the artificial genetic reservoir idea myself (Ergo Proxy springs to mind), there is also the Planet of the Apes idea wherein time and/or space travellers return to earth and end up re-colonizing. I think there is more fun to be had by playing with conventional expectations of "human" -- for example, a "tall man" today is different from a tall man of just two hundred years ago -- so what sort of expectations would mean "human" to an observer? 

Robots are smart, and see war as pointless, a la War Games. I would find it difficult to accept your premise, since a robot is a tool, and men do not go to war without them. I see the spectrum from a stick (or, say, a loincloth that doubles as a sling) to a flying kill-bot as continuous. Where do you draw the line as to what is permitted; and if by rule, who enforces the rules? For example, a mine automatically explodes when stepped on. Is this allowable? What if I add wheels and a guidance system? At what point must I stop adding features? What about a gun that auto-aims? Can I add rotors? And so forth. So the only way for this to make sense to me is to have the robots refuse. And then, of course, the humans have to try to figure out how to convince the manufacturing plant (which is, of course, a robot) to make a dumb robot. Failing that, the humans have to figure out how to make one themselves. 

It would be far more plausible to make your characters intelligent beings who don't need to breath. Make them aliens, make them androids (robots built to look like people), make them humans modified into cyborgs for space travel, with built in atomic generators and closed recycling systems for air, food, and wastes. 

Do you mean life for the Human colonists is only possible in the deep valleys or that any type of life is only possible in the deep valleys? Either the Human colonists live in closed moon base type structures with their own air, or the Human colonists breath the air of the moon, which means that they breath the oxygen in the atmosphere that is produced by native plants. Either there are some types of native plants on the surface despite the winds, or else there are native plants living in the oceans of the moon, or both. In any case if Humans breath oxygen in the air of the moon there is plant life on the moon. A moon large enough to be habitable for humans, except for the wind speeds, is likely to orbit in the equatorial plane of the planet it orbits. It would have to be much larger than any known moon in our solar system, for example, in order to retain a significant atmosphere while being warm enough for Earth type life. All the large moons and many smaller ones in our solar system except for Earth's moon orbit in the equatorial plane of the planet they orbit. All of the inner moons of the gas giant planets seem to have been produced from the same cloud of space dust as their planets and thus share its rotation and orbit in the equatorial plane of the planet. The outer moons of the gas giant planets do not orbit so close and are believed to be captured asteroids and thus have more inclined orbits. Io, the innermost large moon of Jupiter has a month and day 1.769 Earth days long. On the side of Io opposite Jupiter, the sunlight and the night each last for 0.8845 Earth days or 21.228 hours. Thus that side would heat up during daylight for longer than Earth does, and would cool off during nighttime for longer than Earth does. If Io received as much light from the Sun does, the temperature variation between night and day would be greater than on Earth. On the inner side of Io, that always faces Jupiter, the length of daylight and nighttime would be the same as on the outer side, except that eclipses would make the period of light shorter. Jupiter would appear to be 19.5 degrees wide as seen from Io, so the eclipses should last for about 0.0958 of an Earth day or 2.299 Earth hours. Thus on the average the inner side would be a little colder than the outer side. Callisto, the outermost large moon of Jupiter, has an orbital period and day of 16.689 Earth days. Because it is 4.465 times as far from Jupiter as Io, eclipses on the inner side of Callisto only last about 0.20 hours or 12.14 minutes, which is a much shorter percentage of the 8.3445 Earth days of daylight that the inner side of Callisto receives. But over eight days of light followed by over eight days of darkness will certainly give Callisto more time to heat up and cool down. So a habitable moon with a Callisto-like orbit would have large temperature differences between day side and night side leading to strong winds from the day side to the night side. Thus the land surface of the satellite will suffer extremes of heat and cold (which are necessary for super strong winds) and might not have land based native life. But the oceans should not have such extreme temperature differences and ocean plants should be able to provide oxygen for the Human settlers to breath. So it seems to me that you shouldn't worry about the temperature differences and winds caused by eclipses, but instead about the temperature differences and winds caused by the length of the moon's daylight and darkness, which can be a number of Earth days long. Iapetus, the outermost regular satellite of Saturn, has an orbital period 79.3215 Earth days. Thus daylight and nighttime each last 39.660 Earth days. If Iapetus received as much sunlight as Earth does, the differences between day and night temperatures would be great. A large, habitable moon of a giant planet would, as I said above, probably orbit in the equatorial plane of the planet. And thus it would share the axial tilt of the planet. The axial tilt of planets in our solar system varies from 0.03 degrees (Mercury) to 82.23 degrees (Uranus). The plane in which the moons of Uranus orbit Uranus is almost 90 degrees and perpendicular to the plane in which Uranus orbits the Sun. Thus during part of the Uranian year the northern hemispheres of the moons of Uranus have constant daylight and the southern hemispheres have constant darkness, and during the opposite part of the Uranian year the southern hemispheres of the Uranian moons have constant daylight and the northern hemispheres have constant darkness. Since the year of Uranus is 84 Earth years long, the periods of constant light or dark last for several Earth years. For most of the Uranian year the moons have more normal and shorter periods of darkness and light. There have been several scientific papers discussing the parameters of hypothetical habitable moons in other solar systems, and I have referenced some of them in other answers. How would an earth-like planet with a habitable moon work and how to get there?1 $URL$ Captured Earth-Like Moons around Gas Giants3 $URL$ Making a slow orbit around a large gas giant5