Modern industrial uses are a lot less noxious than they used to be, even though most people don't realize that. For example, the U.S. Mint in Denver is actually a pretty hard core industrial use that turns raw metal into coins through an industrial process. But, from the sidewalk right next to it, in the middle of downtown, you wouldn't be able to guess that it wasn't an office building. Detroit has one of the nation's largest salt mines, tucked away with an entrance in an innocuous low rise building that you'd never notice was anything other than a storage facility with a decent sized parking lot. It's less of a disturbance to the neighborhood than a rowdy dive bar. A large scale brewery capable of providing beer for several million people is similarly surprisingly quiet (almost all a series of connected pipes), employed about twenty people, and is mostly notable for trucks dropping off raw materials and taking away finished products. Small scale distilleries and milk processing plants (I have both in my urban residential neighborhood) are similarly barely more notable than a self-storage place. I've been to the factory that makes all of the world's Celestial Seasonings Tea, and you can't hear anything notable on the outside, although it does have some strong smells on the inside. Ditto for several other factories around town. The factory in Colorado that makes the giant windmill blades for industrial sized electricity generation from wind creates less disturbance in the neighborhood than a high school or a pro-baseball field. Also, most modern factories run on electricity and natural gas, rather than coal and oil, like they did in the industrial era. Pretty much the only really noxious modern industrial facilities are oil refineries, coal fired power plants (a rapidly declining share of the total power grid), steel plants that use coke (the coal product, not the soft drink), slaughter houses, and dog food factories (one in Commerce City, Colorado stinks up the entire city when the Chinook winds blow in from the north). The other really noxious modern land uses are landfills (although less so now that people figured out that collecting methane emissions and recycling compost creates another revenue stream), and feed lots (thousands of cows crammed densely into cattle factories) which smell intensely like cow poop for miles. 

English has been a written language for all of its life, yet Old English (up to about 1150 CE) may as well be a foreign language to anyone by an academic specialist, and even Middle English (to 1470 CE) is challenging to read and understand. Of course, the fact that English has a phonetic written language, rather than a written language based on ideograms has something to do with that evolution as well. The time depth of the Indo-European language family that can just barely be discerned by professional linguists, in on the order of 5,000 years (albeit without writing for the first couple thousand years on average). A thousand years is plenty long enough to give rise to mutual unintelligibility, although the absence of a competing completely different language to influence the evolution of these separated languages would slow dialect formation, and for the time periods when they had audio recordings, this could stabilize the language in ways that mere writing would not. But, it is also not widely recognized how high a share of linguistic drift comes through contact with other languages (often as substrate languages) and from the intentional efforts of two distinct populations to bring about language schism for the purpose of distinguishing in groups from out groups. In the absence of such pressures, e.g., in Iceland, languages evolve much more slowly than they would otherwise. Lots of language change attributed to random linguistic drift isn't actually random at all. Also, some long term trends in phonetic drift tend to happen in one particular direction. For example, a given set of vowels is more likely to drift to another particular set of vowels than any other vowels. So, some of the phonetic shifts would likely happen in parallel and once you grasped where a sister language was in phonetic shifts and learned to make the substitutions, learning to understand the sister language might be a lot easier than it would seem otherwise, particularly for basic daily life words that are more stable over time where the lexical content would change only a little after adjusting for phonetic drift in an orderly fashion. In your scenario, any professional linguist could probably figure out that the languages of the known world have a common ancestor and even estimate how long ago that was. Also, language learning might be much easier than learning a language from an unrelated language family. But, an average person who knew one language could probably not understand another with separation at a time depth in multiple thousands of years. 

Sorry, it is impossible to do this with gravitational lensing without killing everyone. There are ways to bend light other than gravity (e.g. prisms, reflective surfaces and fibre optics), but if you use gravity everyone dies a horrible death unless you want to change the law of physics and stick to magic. The diameter to get the gravitational effect you want would be about 8.7 millimeters for a planet of Earth mass, or about 0.1 millimeters for a planet with the mass of the Moon. 

There are thousands of species of spiders on Earth. Ditto insects. And, prehistorically, there have been times when there have been several, or even half a dozen species of hominins in existence on Earth at the same time. But, now, there appears to be only one species of genus Homo on Earth. What circumstances could plausibly cause Homo sapiens to fracture into multiple species again? 

This is how corporate America works today. The process of buying votes is called a "hostile takeover", "leveraged buyout", or tender offer. 

The Pacific Northwest, called the Oregon Territory was ceded from the U.K. to the U.S. in the Treaty of 1818. 

Camille Roux, et al., "Shedding light on the grey zone of speciation along a continuum of genomic divergence" (October 5, 2016). The open access pre-print is a nice, analytical introduction to the various ways of defining what constitutes a species in biology. 

The City of Gurgaon in India is probably the most compelling example of how a private company could privatize most of the role of government. It is also relevant of comparable developments in the U.K., because ultimately, India's legal tradition is a direct outgrowth of the British system of government. 

You are describing something quite similar to transhumance, which involves seasonal migration to different territories, based upon weather conditions and the needs of crops and herd animals. 

Our genomes tell us that there are many examples in human history of a group of foreigners who are mostly male migrating somewhere and having children with local women to the nearly complete exclusion of local men over a few generations, mostly (although not necessarily 100%) removing Y-DNA from local men from the local gene pool. But, apart from the Iberian dominated migration of men to Latin America around 500 years ago, almost all of the known examples of this either pre-date written historical records, or are only thinly documented from a social history perspective (e.g. maybe there are king lists and military records, but not histories documenting daily life and ordinary people). Indeed, even the post-Columbian event has fairly thin historical documentation and was far less extreme and complete (in terms of the extent of replacement of local men in the gene pool) than many historical examples of this phenomena (e.g. Indo-European migration to Europe in the Enolithic/early Bronze Age era). What would this look like in terms of social structure, class division, genocide v. control of scarce female populations, polygamy v. monogamy, cultural and linguistic change, etc.? For example, suppose that humans from 70,000 years ago were transplanted by aliens to habitable planets in several nearby solar systems, and that humans from one of these other stars, who are only trivially different from modern humans genetically (although different enough to be obviously different from native humans on sight in some purely cosmetic way), who are more technologically advanced/culturally effective than us, send a few tens of million of their men and a few million women to Earth as it is now in the present day, as colonists who repeat this historical trope. How would it play out? (Assume that the aliens disappear after leaving some tech behind with the transplanted humans, are never seen again since their disappearance 70000 years ago. Assume that handwavium solves the interstellar journey problem for these migrants who are making a one way trip. I am thinking something a bit Book of Exodus parting of the Red Sea-like in terms of crossing the barrier between worlds through a moderately short-lived gate kind of scenario with no explanation, involving a large military unit and associated camp followers who emerge, en mass, in some large vacant area on Earth with themselves and their gear.) 

Globally, we use about a third as much land to product the same amount of food as we did fifty years ago, and agricultural productivity per land area has increased steadily year in and year out. The highest cereal yields per acre in the world in Kuwait and some Caribbean islands (in both cases, where arable land is at a premium) are about three times as great as in the U.S. Still, farming in the U.S. is organized to optimize dollars of food output per dollar of food production cost, not to optimize caloric output per square meter of land (as you might want to in a space colony or starship or biosphere), because the U.S. has vast amounts of arable land available to it. The easiest way to maximize calories per square meter per year relative to the status quo would be to replace lots of meat with lots of plants in the average person's diet. Soybeans for example use about 5% as much land to generate the same number of protein calories as cows. 

Short Answer Probably not. Pheromones, even in species that react strongly to sex pheromones, are like an on/off switch or a volume switch that triggers the strength of an existing impulse. But, pheromones don't do anything as complex as changing the basic template of the species (or even family or order or phylum) of what someone has a capacity to see as a sexual object. That would involve reprogramming lots of different areas of the brain, not just adjusting the flow in one or two biochemical pathways in the body as pheromones do. Long Answer A plant that chemically triggers direct dopamine release a la the Greek myth of the Lotus Eaters (producing an effect similar to Oxycontin) wouldn't be explicitly sexual, but can be transmitted in gas form (people can smoke heroin, for example), and would trigger feelings of euphoria and trust. Basically, it could skip the sexual arousal phase and go straight to the afterglow. But, even if any existing pheromones have only a slight effect (and count me among those who think that the evidence supports very mild pheromone effects in humans), I don't think that anyone seriously disputes that sexual arousal has a strong biochemical element to it. Sex pheromones do have powerful effects in many non-human species, and while humans have greatly degraded olfactory capacity, that doesn't mean that the biochemical pathways that sex pheromones trigger in other species don't exist in humans. It just means that the way that those pathways are triggered in humans is different. Find the right trigger and you will get the desired effect. Like pretty much anything else that has a strong biochemical element to it, it would probably be theoretically possible in principle to hijack the relevant biochemical pathways with a gaseous form perfume from a plant, even if that isn't something that happens in nature. A plant could have an even more powerful and plausible impact on the biochemical pathways involved in sexual arousal if it accessed these pathways not through a gaseous form perfume, since humans are particularly insensitive to smells, but instead through some sort of contact poison (think poison ivy that made you horny instead of itchy), perhaps in tendrils extending far beyond the main plant, or spores (the nettle and burr examples are good ones), or pollens. 

Grand Bargains Many regions of the world - sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East, large swaths of Europe, Brazil v. Spanish South America, Yugoslavia, N. v. S. Korea, W. v. E. Germany, have boundaries (or had boundaries) that were drawn up following the conclusion of major conflicts in great political conferences by outsiders in a moment of an indigenous political vacuum, often with little sensitivity to the concerns or desires of the locals. Strong Expansionist Leaders Powerful states with strong leaders swallow up small states - e.g. the United States gobbled up most of North America, Russia expanded to the Pacific, strong leaders unified Italy and Germany respectively, Nazi Germany grew tremendously in its expansion phase. Something like that might unite pieces of the former United States that were formerly fractured. A scenario that makes sense I'm going to consider just one scenario that could cause the breakup of many. Critically, the end result is only metastable, rather than being as stable as the existing boundaries of the North America or Europe. These boundaries and alliances would be young and might be reshuffled and dynamic as political winds and global realities shift over time. The federal government collapses and states go their own way. Suppose that three factions emerge in the federal government, none of which is willing to work with either of the others on anything, so there is no longer majority support for any bill in Congress in either house, and no President who must be associated with one of the three factions can command majority support for anything. It doesn't really matter much which particular factions they are, although post-collapse alliances might track faction lines. Think hard about some scenario that could create three non-majority roughly equal factions that mutually hate and distrust each other and has some regional skew to it. Imagine in this scenario that Congress fails to produce a budget year after year, with no faction able to command a majority, and no President able to get many cabinet officers or judges appointed. Federal workers and federal government contractors start quitting when they stop getting paid. No one takes meaningful action to enforce federal laws. After a while, some states stop bothering to even try to hold elections for federal offices, and people cease to bother trying to file cases in federal courts. Maybe a rare consensus in the dysfunctional Congress approves the secession or reorganization of states in separately negotiated interstate compacts. Eventually they go ahead with interstate compacts without honoring the constitutional requirement of Congressional approval. What happens? State lines would remain in tact except by mutual agreement. I could see Washington State and Oregon transfer their territory to the east of the Cascades to Idaho. Economies of scale and a lack of benefit to having their own U.S. Senators in the absence of a federal government might encourage a merger of North and South Dakota, of Montana and Wyoming, of North Carolina and South Carolina, of Kentucky and West Virginia (and maybe Indiana too - which has an almost Appalachian conservative culture despite its location and topography outside Indianapolis and the northern coast), of Michigan and Wisconsin, of Oklahoma and Texas. A grouping with Montana-Wyoming-Colorado and New Mexico could work. The six New England would be a natural candidate to merge into some sort of federal country, or perhaps to realign themselves as new Canadian provinces, a la Alaska. The Mid-Atlantic States (Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware) and the District of Columbia would probably form a unit and might even manage to get Virginia to break up with Northern Virginia joining it instead of a Southern Confederacy. The Mid-Atlantic states might be part of the same political entity as New England (if DC got statehood and Northern Virginia joined it would have thirteen states just like the original thirteen U.S. colonies, with many of them having been original colonies). or might just have close ties with New England. A federal type country made up of former Confederate states, minus Florida and Louisiana (which would go their own ways), but possibly plus some of the Appalachian border states (perhaps a merged West Virginia-Kentucky-Indiana or perhaps all three of them separately). Texas might have close trade relations with, but not join, this new Southern confederacy, a bit like the non-EU member Scandinavian countries relationship with the EU. I could see a loose confederacy tying the Dakotas, Kansas, and Nebraska. Missouri and Iowa would be more likely to join them than a grouping that included Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, Michigan and maybe Ohio too in a Midwestern Confederacy. Rump Washington State and Oregon, along with California and Nevada might merge. In the West, Arizona is the odd state out. It would probably be more inclined to either stand alone, or join a greater California, than to affiliate with New Mexico or a greater Utah. New Mexico and Arizona aren't very similar culturally, ethnically or politically, and while there are lots of Mormons in Arizona there aren't enough for it to be comfortable joining a greater Utah with the Mormon faith as a central focus of national identity. Hawaii would probably return to independent status as would Puerto Rico. Expanded Idaho and Utah (both heavily Mormon) might merge and might try to secure rural Nevada (which makes up most of the state, has very few people, and is heavily Mormon). To Recap Where 50 states and D.C. and it territories would end up