Here is link giving a bit of details that Buddha preached about the decline of Buddhism after parinibbana. $URL$ I share with you the following passage taken from the page of the above link 

This is just an opinion. I believe a that a Buddha does not have a gender and I say this because of what I have learnt from the Agganna Sutta where the brahmas did not have a gender and their mental deterioration caused humans to come to being. A Buddha is someone who is beyond the brahmas in terms of intelligence and so on. So I think a Buddha does not have a gender 

My question is simple. Does thought or intention alone become karma? Or does it need to have certain characteristics (Sorry if this word is inappropriate) for it to become Karma? If intention alone is karma whether we engage in action in though, word or deed what is the point of good deed? Can we just "think" that we are helping the poor and have good karma? Can we "think" that we are giving dhana to monks and have good karma? In the context of good karma, can we just have good intentions and thoughts of good deeds and get the same karma that we get from physically engaging in such activities? 

Your breathing is normally an autonomic function. Controlled by your brain and generally involuntary. That way we can sleep at night and not die. But when we actually focus on it we take over that function. So what was a rate previously controlled by the brain automatically now becomes a rate we have more control over. Of course what's being controlled is the amount of oxygen getting to the blood and the brain. It doesn't take much of a variance in that percentage of oxygen in the body to change how we feel - be it sluggish or excited. Our body automatically keeps us a little "hopped up" on oxygen so we have a little reserve to flee in case a sabretooth tiger approaches. When WE take over the breathing we tend to be more relaxed about it and lower that oxygen percentage a bit which increases the CO2 level and further relaxes our body. This is why anapanasati meditation is so simple and so effective. It works right along with our body in relaxing. 

I believe we are coming closer to an answer to this question Daly. The double slit experiment shows us that are mere perceptions actually determine the property of matter. Thus we find our tie between the physical world and the world of consciousness. But we also see evidence of this in the current multiple universe theory where in all probabilities exists around us and the universe we encounter is the one that follows our choices and Karma. I believe these choices and the resultant Karma may actually have a physical component in the quantum world and this may be the source of consternation regarding rebirth. What happens to the chain of events created by our choices or probabilities we have affected if our body passes way before we may be affected by them? According to the Hindus and some Buddhists this is the source of rebirth. That is if we die with a karmic imbalance or resultant then it must somehow be played out in another life. I am in the process of studying The Vedas and the upanishads as well as the dhammapada and comparing them two modern scientific theories regarding consciousness. I believe at this point we may find a scientific basis to support the original philosophies of Eastern mysticism from 4000 years ago. 

I saw a cat chasing a mouse outside of my house and kill it. I could have chased the cat away and saved the mouse's life but I just watched and didn't do anything. Not that I was enjoying what I saw but this made me think whether what I did was a sin or not. I just think I would have interfered with nature had I stopped the cat from killing. One side there is the food chain and on the other karma. I am confused. Is it a sin to not stop a predator from catching its prey? 

"Homosexuality" is a hot topic everywhere in the world now. But is it a sin according to Buddhism? Does it cause a breaking of the third precept? I have heard in a sermon that people are born gay because of breaking the third precept severely in previous births and people are born as females for also breaking the third precept (not as severely I suppose). I know that where I come from if the government accepts gay marriages the monks will be the first to protest even before the church does! Is it because it is a sin? (PS: I am totally fine with someone being gay) 

I am constantly at the mercy of field mice. They invade my cave and eat my potatoes and bread. Normally I can catch them by the tail and take them out to the trash can where the city hauls them off to the public dump where they live in peace. But, that said, I have one mouse I cant catch. One mouse who has eluded my grasp for 2 seasons. He evades all my little puzzles and traps designed to snag him. I have even had him in my hands twice and he got away. I have named him Prof. Moriarty. We coexist. I leave him some crumbs and he doesnt disturb me as much. namaste. 

I find this troubling. My poor relationship with my adult children causes me distress. Logic and the dharma would suggest that severing ties with them would be a positive for both sides. But I cannot get over the feelings for neglect and guilt. Plus I may be causing them some current discomfort. They neglect me because they don't understand me seeking the jewel so I try to respect that BUT how do I get past this guilt and sadness? 

Human population is increasing whether we like it or not and might even hit 10bn in the next few decades. But why is this happening according to a Buddhist's perspective? Some that I know that don't believe in kamma use this as a counter example saying that if people are becoming more sinful they ask how come the population is increasing. While I have my own understanding (devas being born back among humans, kamma alone doesn't determine the next birth "cuti sitha" does) I would like your expert opinion this. 

I suggest maitri meditation because not only you'll be able to forget but will develop a loving kindness attitude towards the person of interest and all other beings 

I have heard and read that relics of Buddha have certain supernatural powers. I was reading a book once that said that it is not the relic alone that performs these supernatural acts but the deities that protect the relic. Can anyone help me understand this. thanks! 

From what I know body and mind are two separate entities. Body cannot survive without a mind but is not the same case for a mind from what I know. When a person completely rids himself/herself of all the delusion and desire he/she becomes an arahant. An arahant ceases to exist when he/she passes away and nothing goes on or lingers and there are no more births. I am curious to know why this cannot happen as soon as becoming an arahant. Why does an arahant only cease to exist after death? How come the mind or sansara is extended to the point of which the body dies? Why doesn't the mind cease to exist as soon as attaining nirvana? 

So I have a definite dispute with the Buddha over the feasibility of working towards an end-goal of Nirvana. Has anyone ascended to date? I believe the true definition is nirvana after death and better lives while alive. Why is this not a more feasible end result? What is wrong with my reasoning? 

I seem to be making rather unusual choices in my life for unknown reasons. Like on a mere hunch or for some reason I gain interest in a strange topic. And later it turns out that these choices were exactly what I needed to have done to prepare for things that eventually happened. Is this addressed in the dharma? I make no claims about psychic powers or anything like that - I just wonder if it is merely coincidence. 

My dog has run away and I am sad. To be honest I was probably not taking care of him the best as one possibly could. We both excelled or declined based on my success, but I tried to allow him his own freedom and now he is gone. Do I grieve? I mean I know that I am but should I? Is this precisely the type of attachment I should and must choose to sever? This dog has been my friend and cohort for almost 10 years. He helped me recover from heart attacks and multiple surgeries. How could one not grow attached? So should I feel relieved or guilty and sad? I made sure to ask this while he was missing. Now he has since been found and returned. 

The story of the birth of prince Siddhartha tells us that he walked and talked right after birth. That he even said that he will become a Buddha in this life and end the cycle of life. But after this he seems to have forgotten what he knew about being a Buddha even on the day he left the palace to find the truth. He started off knowing he would become Buddha, then becomes very confused with all the life experiences as a prince and has no idea what to do or that becoming a Buddha is the answer to it. How is this possible? Is it a flaw in the story or is my understanding of the question poor? 

Vicikicca or skeptical doubt, some interpret this as perplexity, is known to be one of the mental hindrances. But why is having doubt bad for one's mind? For me, doubt is what makes me think more harder to understand certain issues. Doubt leads to creative thinking as well. I am sorry if I have misinterpreted vicikicca but would much appreciate if you could help me out with this 

My knowledge in Buddhism is quite poor. IMO it is a greater sin to kill a larger animal than to kill a smaller animal but this cannot be the case always! Let me ask you a question. Which is easier, to kill an ant or to kill an elephant? Generally the effort and planning you have to go through to kill an elephant is much greater than to kill an ant. The greater the effort you are willing to put is because of the greater intensity of cruelness of your mind which makes it a greater sin. True physicality isn't what determines this. Hope this answers the question 

Yeah, I can understand where someone would get that impression. Maybe some of it depends on where you're coming from to start. I was raised a Southern Baptist in the southwest plains of the US. That meant twice a week as a child (starting at 5) I was told how even my most subtle thoughts were sins and would send me to the worst place in the universe. I was so afraid that I would lay in my bed at night crying in fear. This is why I sought something different. I knew this wasn't right and man wasn't expected to live in that manner. Or even if he was I wasn't doing it. So I searched. I could not put faith in a deity that supposedly loved me but wanted to make me suffer. I sincerely questioned whether that whole system was nothing more than a tool for control. Then I was exposed to the story of Siddartha Gautma. Siddartha convinced me that suffering was part of the very nature of man. We seek the opposite of each type of suffering as relief from suffering and all that relief is impermanent. So if we don't change our focus we are doomed to always suffer. And it's OUR fault really. As babies our needs are very simple and they're met rather easily. But as we take on relationships and material items and individual identities we create attachments that actually contribute to our suffering greatly. Siddartha also showed me that one could relinquish those ties and that individuality and by simplifying ones' life we can great diminish if not conquer suffering in this life. As you study the dharma you find that the individuality so spoken of is a facade. We are actually driver of this chariot. The consciousness. The rest, our body, is just a shell that limits our awareness. Even if we make our physical life the simplest and most responsive possible we will still suffer. This is because that suffering is part and parcel of the enjoyment on its' flip side. We try to walk that narrow path between both extremes as we work to extinguish our suffering. And that just THIS life. As soon as this body dies we'll go thru it all over again. And we'll KEEP going thru it until man learns to pierce the veil between consciousness and the physical world - at which time we evolve to pure consciousness without having to go through the cycle of rebirth. The "purpose" of this body and existence is to graduate from the "me" thinking of a human infant to "we" thinking of a mature human (right mindedness). That is what our brains are designed to do. That is how our bodies operate most efficiently - by assisting one another. Our consciousness in this body is just a piece of dough pinched off from the consciousness whole. As soon as this host passes we return to the whole. I see nothing depressing about this. It gives me purpose and hope. It makes me smile during bad times knowing they are temporary and will be followed by good. I live by the words damyata (self-control), datta (giving of yourself), and dayadhvam (compassion). This simple map or pattern brings me a smile. Not a sign of depression. 

This is something I keep hearing from my grandmother that keeps annoying me so much. Although I am well off age (26 to be precise) I am still expected to listen to almost every word that my parents say (at least according to my grandmother). Not to bring in any personal matters into the site but I keep arguing that not listening to parents should not be considered as ill-treating them. They expect me to wear nice clothes but I don't (I prefer wearing the same clothes. Who has time for fashion?). They expect me to marry the one they want. They always say that as Buddhist I should be very obedient and these days when your turn the TV to listen to some Buddhist advice, monks most of the time talk about parent-child relationship and goes on about how children should always listen to parents. I am not saying my parents ask me to do anything bad. But as children we know (sometimes not always) what is best for us. But when we do what we want all hell breaks lose, daddy shouting mommy crying and granny shouting my bad karma will eventually give me disobedient children just like me. Jokes aside, I want a serious explanation when it comes to parent-child relationship. I am quite aware of the singalovada sutta but when we do something we want and parents get hurt is it always bad karma? It can't be right? Otherwise the amount of bad kamma prince Siddhartha would have gained after all the pain his father went through... Pleas share your thoughts. 

Coming from the middle of the United States (OKC, OK) I have encountered the following Buddhist groups: Vietnamese (Mahayana), Korean (Mahayana), Thai (Theravada), Chinese (Mahayana), and Californian (Zen). After spending time at the Kopan monastery in Kathmandu I have also experienced Tibetan and, of course, the Theravadan people here. Every one of these groups have differences. Some rather vast and many rather surprising. So my first response would be - by whose standard are you evaluating their interpretations to be wrong? To call themselves Buddhists one asks ... Do they seek refuge in the jewel? Do they follow the 5 precepts? After that it's a matter of school and lineage. I have noticed much more of a dao influence in the Chinese Mahayana group compared to the Vietnamese (who seem much more pedantic). And the Korean group has prescriptions of an origin I still dont know. The Zen group seemed much more Hindu in nature (even mixing in Yoga ideas of shedding karma) and the Tibetan group from Kathmandu was much more mystical than purely secular. I mention all this because there is a wide variance in views and all maintain some form of justification based on canon. I wouldnt rule any group out as errant until I had done my own homework beforehand. I studied the Upanishads, the Dhammapada, and the Bhagavad Gita before deciding which path I would follow and my determining factors were: