Areas of high pressure stop clouds from forming, which can mean warm summer days or cold winter days for the reason above! (In summer, a lot of sunlight can get through to the earth's surface, in winter when there's little sun, any of the earth's heat escapes into space with no cloud to stop it!) I presume you are a beginner, so I've given a basic and easy to understand answer. Once you wrap your head around this, I can update with more details. 

Yes, with exceptions Rainfall is related to temperature. However temperature is not the only thing that dictates rainfull. In general, the more hot a place is, the more water evaporates and the more rainfall is able to be produced. For example, the equator has a belt of rain-forests precisely because it receives the highest amount of heat from the sun and thus high amounts of rain-fall. However, not all hot places make a lot of rain. Deserts occur when there is a lack of rain fall. Yet deserts can occur in cold temperatures (the north pole) and hot temperatures (Sahara desert). To sum, temperature is certainly related to the amount of rainfall. However, you can't just presume the level of rainfall by temperature as many other factors are invovled. 

While I cannot give a good explanation, at least I can give additional information. Antartica, continent that is just in the south of the Earth, is completely surrounded by rifts, where new land in constantly in creation and pushing north and south. As result adjacent plates are forced north while Antartica rises. Therefore, that ridge helps to explain current land distribution. Probably in the future we'll see more land than now in the north hemisphere. 

You will only have aftershocks, which are always smaller than the original earthquake. Aftershocks are the accomodation of the surface to its new position after the big movement of the original earthquake. But you might have another big earthquake near the original one, because since big earthaquakes means than a whole line of earth moves (not a single point, but a line where plates touch), you might have another masive earthquake next to the original. That happened on 1960 on Chile. On May 21 an earthquake 7.4 Ms hit a zone north to the city of Concepción, and the next day another earthquake, this time 9.5 Ms hit the zone next to the first one. Actually the first earthquake was the sum of three earthquakes, and the second was the sum of 37 earthquakes distributed on 1000km. $URL$ 

Is there any pattern regarding plankton productivity and ocean climate that would help answer this? I.e. warmer waters with higher levels of sunshine (Mediterranean) have higher productivity, than colder waters (North Atlantic). Or are there too many factors involved (stratification, eutrophication) to generalise for the oceans? 

I read that thermohaline circulation is caused by cold and saline water sinking, while warm and less dense water rises. link I understand that saline water is more dense, as there is a higher mass due to dissolved salts. However, decreasing the temperature of water decreases the solubility, so in theory, shouldn't cold water hold less salt than warm water? Vice-versa, shouldn't warm equatorial water increase in density as it is able to hold more salt? 

The main thing to keep in mind is that divergent boundaries occur at the boundaries of plates. Hot-spots occur in the middle of plates, often thousands of kilometres away from the boundaries of the plates. 

Are element/compounds and ions the same thing? If they are the same, why the two terms? Which is better terminology? I'm just after a basic understanding of how elements form rocks and being able to differentiate between this terminology is beyond my layman abilities. 

According to this link is 14% for Köppen classification. The precise cite is: "BS - dry semiarid (steppe). Is a grassland climate that covers 14% of the Earth's land surface." 

Glaciars and snow in mountains act as natural dams for many rivers. That's why several rivers have an increase of their flow during hot times, when the snow melts and the river moves more water compared to other times of the year. Since many mountains keep part of their snow and glaciars the whole year, the rivers that start there will have water for a long time. Finally, snow that falls in mountains is by far more than the rain that falls in the valley below, so each rain you see in the valley is a storm up in the mountains. In exchange, rivers that depends heavily on rainfall are more prone to dry once the rain stops. 

Magnetic field exist because of the hot liquid in the external core of Earth moves, that movement of charged particles produces the magnetism. Therefore, the magnetic field can't change at once, it only can change slowly with variations of these inner flows. I "suppose" that earthquakes might produce small changes in the magnetic field, because seismic waves travel through the Earth core and mantle. 

I've seen the gulf stream mentioned as both a wind-driven surface current and being part of the thermohaline circulation, which is due to density differences. Does the gulf stream belong to both classifications of currents? 

I often come across the words "atmospheric forcing" or "meteorological forcing" in journals. I presume it just means the influence/impacts of the atmosphere upon factors such as climate, wind patterns and tidal/ocean currents. However, this is a presumption. Am I correct? An example is located on page 11 of this link 

Different textbooks use different terminologies when discussing the same chemical compounds, for example when discussing the minerals... 

Why anticyclones are also called areas of high pressure Let's call anticyclones areas of high pressure. Areas of high pressure (anticyclones), pull air towards the earth's surface. The increase in the number of air particles near the earth's surface causes a higher pressure for things on the earth, hence the name. Impact of high pressure areas on weather High-pressure areas don't always bring hot weather. High pressure areas do prevent the chances of clouds forming. Why? Because more air is pushing down around the earth's surface, rather than rising up in the air where it can cool and form clouds. This is why areas of high pressure (anti-cyclones) bring clear skies. Because high-pressure areas prevent clouds forming, this can cause hot fine weather in summer when the temperatures are warm and sunny days are long, or cold weather in winter, when sunlight hours are short and the lack of clouds means any warm can escape from earth's surface and back out into space. Background info on clouds and heat Heat generated by the sun travels two ways: 

The cooled lava might be covered by ashes. So depending of the amount of ashes and the wind you might have a black volcano or a gray volcano. Many volcanoes are formed by layers of lava and ash. $URL$ 

Even though sun always moves from east to west, latitude affects the north-south perception. If you are in the north hemisphere, beyond the tropic of cancer, the sun will be most of the time in the south hemisphere (except close to dawn and dusk, where it might cross to the other hemisphere during summer). While if you're in the south hemisphere, beyond the tropic of capricorn, the sun will be at north. Usually I use the sun to check where is the north in a map, but I must remember the north-south rule, otherwise I might choose the wrong direction to follow... that's why a bougth a cheap compass. Since you're talking about two places that are in the tropical belt, most part of the year the sun will rise in the north-east, move later to the south and it will end in the north-west. But during the winter the sun probably will be always in the south hemisphere. Probably the difference they are seeing between two close towns is due to different times of the year or due to a mountain that covers the exact sunset in the horizon in one place. 

Hot-spots, or mid-plate tectonic activity, occur away from boundaries between plates. A hot-spot is where a plate is moving over a stationary mantle plume. Hot-spots are responsible for island-chains, such as those seen in Hawaii, which form as the plate slides over the plume or even volcanoes on land, like Yellowstone. The islands of Hawaii lie thousands of kilometres away from the boundaries of the Pacific plate on which they sit. A nice feature is that the Hawaiian island chain lies in a north-westerly line that matches the direction the Pacific plate is moving. 

Divergent boundaries occur at the boundary between plates. A divergent boundary is where two tectonic plates are actively being pushed apart. Divergent boundaries create rift valleys on land and eventually ridges on ocean floors, where hotter material wells up from the mantle, cools and form new crust. For example, the East African Rift Valley (a divergent boundary), is pushing apart the African plate, separating Somalia from the continent. Eventually the rift valley will flood, producing a ocean between the newly split plates with the East African Rift becoming a mid-ocean ridge.