This reminds of an American army "training" film I was shown in high school (!), which was an anti-axis propaganda piece. At the end of the film they showed three portraits, that of Hitler, Mussolini and Hirohito, while the narrator intoned, "If you see any of these men, doooooooon't hesitate!" I think you can safely assume that if Hitler had been captured by the allies he would have been tried at Nuremburg and hung. A similar fate would have occurred if the Red Army had captured him. The actual plan for Nuremberg was made by Army lawyer Murray C. Bernays at the direction of Henry Stimson, Secretary of Defense. After the Quebec Tri-Powers Conference in 1944, Roosevelt ordered Stimson to make a plan for the treatment of captured Nazi leaders and organizations. Stimson gave the job to Bernays who wrote a 6-page memo. 

You kind of answered your own question by mentioning the phalanx. First of all, you will often read some historians saying that chariots were not used by "mountain" people or that the terrain in such-and-such country was not suitable for chariots. This is not true. Macedonia is one of the most mountainous areas in Europe and they were famous for their horses and chariots. Likewise, the idea that Greece did not use chariots is completely untrue, as anyone has read the Iliad knows. The key factor with chariots is that they are most effective in unorganized fighting when people are spread out. What made chariots obsolete was the adoption of highly disciplined, organized, shoulder-to-shoulder fighting. If you have seen the movie "300" you may remember the scene in which Leonidas gives a lecture on how the Spartan hoplites fight in close formation and lock their shields together, so they fight as a single unit. This kind of tactic in combination with the use of the spear will defeat the use of chariots. Phalanxes are a continuation and advance on this basic tactic. The Romans never had problems dealing with enemy chariots for exactly the same reason: they fought in highly disciplined, close formations called "centuriae" using rectangular shields that could be joined together to make a tight wall, bristling with spears. Such a formation will easily defend against a chariot. Another factor in the decline of chariots is the decrease in the use of champions. In many cases chariots were used essentially as battle taxis. A champion would use the chariot to gallup to a place of fighting, kill everybody using a weapon supremacy, then jump in the chariot and ride to the next hotspot. This only is useful if you have champions that have some kind of superior ability and weapons. If the champion is using a bronze broadsword and the average soldiers are using clubs, like in ancient Gaul, then it makes sense. But if every soldier has a good sword, then the champion becomes less important. Thus, economics is a factor too. 

Injecting subjective, modern-day judgements on ancient civilizations like calling them "bloodthirsty" is just bad-mouthing ancient civilizations and not objective historically. If your goal is to look at ancient civilizations and just insult them or consider them inferior because their customs are denounced by your own civilization, you will have a hard time understanding history. To correct Swamp Yankees answer, Aztecs were not "like" Mayans, they were Mayans. The Aztecs were a Mayan people that invaded and conquered central Mexico. Like all Mayans they believed that the god of the Sun needed to be propitiated by the sacrifice of human blood. Mayans often cut themselves and drained the blood into bowls for the purpose of sacrificing their own blood. One type of blooding involved thorns threaded on twine which they would pull through their own tongues to draw blood. When the Mayans conquered the Mexicans they sacrificed as many as they could to the Sun, sometimes in large ceremonies where hundreds or thousands of prisoners had their hearts cut out and their blood drained in sacrifice to the sun. As far as violence is concerned, the Aztecs were "violent" and were proud of it. Being a warrior was a privileged position in society and the Mexicans held the Aztecs in absolute dread. Not only the Aztecs but many of the surrounding Mexican tribes were very warlike and violent. For example, when Cortes was marching to Tenochtitlan (Mexico City), his force was attacked by a tribe called the Tlaxcalans who were especially warlike. In one battle, these men kept attacking the Spaniards until the men of Cortes were fighting in a pool of blood that came up to their knees and the number of bodies was in the thousands. One of Cortes' lieutenants, Bernal Díaz del Castillo, wrote about a book about the march to Tenochtitlan which describes in detail many of the Aztecs and Mexicans whom they encountered, so if you are interested in their attitudes, you might read his book. 

The NAACP was founded around 1910, not the "mid 1910s" by Mary White Ovington, a gentile. In 1914, she wrote a short pamphlet entitled "How the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People Began". According to this account nearly all the founding members were gentiles, although an important figure at the beginning was Henry Moscowitz, a close of Ovington's. Another important figure was William English Walling, who came from a prominent Southern family, but was influenced by his wife, Anna Strunsky, a Russian Jew highly involved in various social causes. The original officers of the organization were: Moorfield Storey William English Walling John E. Milholland Oswald Garrison Villard Frances Blascoer William Edward Burghardt Du Bois Among these only Blascoer was Jewish. In general, the main body of the organization was composed of wealthy Protestant abolitionists like Storey, Milholland and Villard and there were many Christian clergy. Jewish members, like Walling's wife, were certainly present, but they were a minority, perhaps making up 10% - 15% at most. 

The Bessemer converter is often cited as the critical invention causing a breakout in the production of cheap steel and enabling the industrial revolution. However, I just put together this chart today from data in "The Chemistry of Iron & Steel Making" by Williams which suggests another cause: 

There are many different, what might be called, "pre-Caucasian" ethnic communities in Europe that have been identified by archaeology. This terminology refers to the 19th-century idea that peoples originating in the Caucasus Mountains invaded and overcame various ancient races of Europe and central Asia. In 20th-century retrospect it seems reasonable to assume that it was not just Caucasian tribes that did this, but also Nordic and possibly Alpine tribes as well, so "Caucasian" may be too restrictive a term. This, by the way is the origin of the term "Caucasian" to describe Europeans in general. From an anthropological point of view, Caucasian skeletons (and Nordic/Alpine) are distinctive because they large shoulders bones (the scapula and clavicle). When burial sites were dug up in the 19th century containing very ancient bones it was found the people had by contrast smaller, shorter shoulder bones, what a tailor today would call a "soft-shouldered" person. From this distinction was made between "modern" and "ancient" burials in Europe. First of all, there is no such thing as "Celts" (Keltoi); that is a Greek word, simply meaning anyone to the north of Greece and basically means nothing. Usually when that word is used it refers to the Gaelic peoples. By their own tradition the Gaels were a Caucasian people who invaded first North Africa, then Spain, then Ireland and Britain, and finally Western Europe including what is now France, Holland, Denmark, and parts of Germany and Switzerland and Northern Italy. The people living in those areas prior to the invasion of the Gaels included many different aboriginal and non-aboriginal people. Describing all the different known aboriginal peoples of Europe would take far too long, but I can summarize a few of them: Basques (in northern Spain) [as you have already pointed out] Maltese and Sicily ancient culture Bell Beaker people (qv) Scots (the people the Gaels called the "Ulaid" in northern Ireland) Picts (the people the Gaels called the "Cruimthne" in Scotland) Cumry (the Welsh) Belgians (an ancient tribe existing in Holland and Belgium) The Eagle Tomb people (northern Scotland) The Iron Gate people (sites in Romania) There are many others. It is notable that these people have not died out and their descendants live today, such as the Basques as just one example. These people often have primitive characteristics, such as having fingers of all equal length and having six fingers, for example. In general, it is hard to explain why one culture defeats another, but from my own observations it tends to be a combination of superior physique, cultural freshness and flexibility, superiority of culture, access to the right natural resources at the right time, and development of superior technology. If you are interested in ancient peoples, the "American Journal of Physical Anthropology" is a good source, and also the Peabody Museum of Harvard for many years published a journal called "Papers of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology" which is very informative and has much information on aboriginal cultures and anthropology. 

The old Greek empire, meaning the empire of the Macedonians, the empire created by Alexander spoke Greek widely and had many Greek colonies. The entire city of Alexandria, which was founded by Alexander and became the center of learning in the Western world for 500 years was entirely composed of Greeks and Greek-speaking people. The political control of Rome did nothing to change this. 

Bows are suitable weapons for mounted warriors because it is difficult to close with a mounted opponent. For a foot soldier a blade is needed, because it is not so easy to run away. The difficulty with maintaining a professional army is the cost, which in the case of archers is more expensive because training is problematic. Also, you must pay for both archers and foot soldiers to protect the archers. Some English kings actually started requiring yoeman to attend archery tournaments and taking other measures to basically force peasants to learn the complexities of archery. For nomadic peoples who spend their whole life mounted, they learn to use the bow from childhood and become skilled in it naturally. The Europeans were not able to duplicate Mongolian bows because they were of extremely complex design and used materials native to central asia. What is known by scholars as the "Tatar bow" is a very complex construction. Typically it has various "arms" that are laminate and use animal bone and sinews of various kinds to maintain strength and tension at the proper points. This is called the "backing" of the bow. The joints of a Tatar bow are always carefully protected by a tight wrapping made of snakeskin or other waterproofed material. For information about such bows refer to "Der nordasiatische Pfeil." (1901) and "Die Bogen Nordasiens." (1902) by Bruno Adler, authoritative works on the subject. To give you a sense of the complexity, there was found in Egypt a very ancient bow which apparently had been imported and eventually deposited in a 26th dynasty tomb in Thebes. At the time this bow was recovered, the archaeologists speculated for no particular reason that it was an Assyrian bow, but in all likelihood, considering its construction, it came from Eurasian plains and is a prototypical Tatar bow. To understand the complexity of this bow, consider the following cross-sectional diagram: 

That is Avignon, part of the papal states. In 1791 the French annexed it. The map below shows the extent of the papal states in 1700: 

All receiving stations used such systems, not just the German one at Sayville. The example above is from the Bar Harbor station operated by the US Navy, for instance. The box itself is a light-tight case (notice the red window) in which the undeveloped film is stored on a reel. By opening the box in a lighted room you ruined the film. 

Unfortunately there are very few written laws known from ancient Greece, except as they are mentioned in plays and such. Greek law differed from nation to nation and there are no inscribed monuments of laws as we have for Rome. The Greeks preferred judges who interpreted traditional laws over hard and fast written laws. For this reason, there is no specific written Greek law that I know of forbidding polygamy. Marriage Under the Romans Under the Romans, polygamy was legal until the Christians gained control in the reign of Constantine. The first Roman law forbidding polygamy was by that emperor made in 320 AD, stating: "No married man may have a concubine during the existence of his marriage." In this law the term "concubine" refers to wife by usus, not to a slave. Usus normally required a written legal contract and the wife was a legal, freeborn wife. In Roman society a usus wife was just as legal as the primary wife. Originally, Romans had several different grades of wife and it was common for wealthy men to have all grades. This gradually devolved into having a primary wife and various usus wives. This does not include sex with slaves who were not considered any kind of wife. Roman law provided for what we now call "common law" wives, meaning automatic usus status even without a contract if the woman slept in the man's house for over one year. The Twelve Tables specifically states the terms of this law as follows: 

Note that this shows the "open" (southern) area of the Kursk salient. In the north it is heavily forested and even less accessible and open than the terrain above. The hill in the image is about 2 miles in diameter. 

It seems strange that she should die so suddenly at so young an age and at a critical juncture, no less. She died shortly after discovering that John Smith was alive. Is there any additional information that is more definitive about the way she died? 

The hastati are first. The hastati (spearmen) were the young men. Originally they only carried spears. Behind them, the principes were the regulars, who carried shields and swords. The triarii were the veterans. Later on when Rome got rich, the hastati were armed with the pilus, a kind of javelin, and swords as well. Vegetius' error concerning the order of the lines is simply because he was just copying earlier authors indiscriminately and probably just assumed the principes were first because the "principes" means first. N.P. Milner the modern translator of Vegetius comments: 

Zinn's book is not so much a history as a collection of essays in chronological order. His book projects a modern left-wing view of events which often veers into distorted depictions that the original participants would have found barely recognizable. His facts are excellent and correct, but he omits key information and ends up portraying things in a false light. For example, when writing of the expansion of the railroads, he describes them as conducting "battles" with Indians whose "territory they had invaded". While battles certainly did occur, they were rarities. Nearly always the railroads made financial arrangements with the Indians, essentially paying protection money, to win their favor. Zinn makes no mention of this, even though this was the standard thing that happened. Rather than use a different text book, I would recommend referring to original sources. In prior years it was hard to do this, but now with Google Books, you can instantly read contemporary accounts of history that will give you a much deeper insight into the past than any history book will. Autobiographies are especially useful and interesting in my experience. For example, one good autobiography is that of Calvin Coolidge. It is very short, but paints an indelible picture of life in turn-of-the-century Vermont. Other good sources are "county histories" such as the History of Washington County from Its First Settlement to the Present Time by Alfred Creigh (1871). This tells the story of the place my ancestors are from. If you find the county history from your ancestors' place of origin, not only will you learn history, it will have a personal importance for you. 

In the early Christian era (200 AD to 400 AD) there was no "bible". Individual gospels and epistles were copied and sent around separately. When more than one was bound together very different combinations existed. It was not until the time of St. Jerome that what Christians know today as the "bible", meaning a combination of Hebrew canon, the Gospels and the Epistles of the Apostles collected together began to take shape. A scribe can write about 2 characters per second. There are approximately 320,000 characters in the four books of the Gospels, meaning it would take about 160,000 seconds to make a copy of the Gospels. There are 3600 seconds in an hour, therefore, it would take about 44 hours of solid work to make the copies. If we account for taking breaks, rests and other factors, it may be reasonable to assume a scribe could copy the Gospels in about 2 weeks. Note that books come in all different qualities. My estimate would be applicable to a bookseller's copy or a "trade" copy, meaning a low quality copy meant to sold to any random person. Books were also made on commission and those tended to be much more expensive, being higher quality copies, and taking longer to produce. The existing earliest Gospels we have are on scrolls of papyrus. To write on papyrus you need ink and a pen. The typical pen was called in Latin a "calumo" and was made from a type of reed. You would also need a lectern of some kind to hold the scroll being copied. In some cases a professional scribe would use an assistant to do such tasks as unrolling the model and re-inking the pens.