A classical particle is in spacetime and has a continuous motion within it. Properties such as electrical charge and mass inhere within it. This description in its qualitative essentials is no different to the ancient greek atomists. Are there any such equivalents to discussing particles in modern theories of physics? I'm not asking for philosophical concepts from ancient greek times, any time period, any culture will do. For example, I think there may be analogies to the idea of substance in the european discourse to that of field in modern physics, but I don't understand enough about what substance is, nor who discussed it and why to say anything firm about it. Although I have the impression it may have been Aristotle that first discussed it. 

This is astonishingly like Einsteinfs GR, it is also in this description astonishingly like Thales description of the world as water. What were the philosophical influences that led Clifford to this conjecture half a century before Einstein found a complete solution to this conjecture in the form traditionally favoured by physicists of the modern era - physical mathematics ie calculus? Its possibly worth noting in this regard, that Aristotles Physics VI.1 on Continuity, states that: 

There is such a thing as cultural chauvinism: I note for example, you are not asking why philosophy of the aborigines of Austranesia not represented. I take it, you are of Indian ancestry; and this is why you're asking about why it's under-represented. Turn this on its head; and you'll understand why Western philosophers appear to be unfair; because they are - in most part, in the same unfair way that cultural chauvinism always is. Again, this can be observed elsewhere; the symbol for China, for example, is simply a square quartered, to show that China is the centre of the world. Hence one also needs to take into account, the intellectual and cultural dominance of the western episteme: after all, I am writing this in the Roman alphabet, which presupposes a western or Western-inflected education; which will then carries with it, incidentally, an understanding of a Western world-view, or philosophy. This view shouldn't be taken as some hard and fast binary opposition; there has been times when the two have had a rapprochement, easily seen for example in the syncretic statuary of Graeco-Indian Gandara. Later, in the world spanning colonial empire of Western Europe which brought into existence scholars whose raison d'être was to understand the East, at first in Western terms, then latterly, in its own terms, to the West; this view, though was critiqued by the Christian-Palestinian scholar Edward Said, who called this form of scholarship, Orientalism; where it, rather than reflecting truthfully, the East - it's project; it represented the West, in distorted form. It's rather like reading a historical novel of Roman Antiquity by a Londoner; and finding it, when comparing it to accounts written by those living then, of contemporary Londoners dressed in roman togas - rather like the pastiche or parody carry on up the Tiber. To be fair; there are philosophers of the margin - such as Derrida or Deleuze who make a point of representing the margins; but this still appears, generally, in the margins of the West - this is why for example, Badiou can say, in passing, Islam has a great philosophy - but one looks in vain, in his oeuvre, for a real reading of it, by him. Still, too - it's worth noting - as a cautionary tale - what Tagore had to say about Indian Philosophy, and Indian chauvinism (he was writing in Bengal, over a century ago) in an essay on education: 

Before digging into philosophical questions about aesthetics in general, it may be worth investigating what philosophically inclined artists and critics have to say. I'd suggest Ruskins Modern Painters which argues for the transition from the 'picturesque' to 'truth to nature'; and John Bergers Ways of seeing for unearthing or discovering (Gramiscian) 'ideology' in the arts - a kind of visual anthropology. It might be worth looking at Benjamins The work of art in the age of mechanical reproduction - apposite in todays world of overproduction of imagery and there loosening from traditional moorings. Susans Sontags On photography is useful in framing the (Foucaldian) discourse of 'truth' that is represented by the photo or cinema verite (one appears if one is actually there); of the course the substance of her argument is much more readily apparent in a world easy of photoshopping. Of all these John Bergers book is probably the best introductory secondary source - it was used once as a university set text. You didn't mention poetry, but this is the subject of one of Aristotles essays On Poetry where he discusses the aesthetic effect of poetry - lyric, satiric & dramatic; despite its antique provenance its fairly straightforward, and easier than Benjamins essay which takes some investment in the 'philosophical writ' of the Frankfurt school. 

Pretty much every part of your body is continually changing at a molecular level. So physically after a certain number of years you are literally not the person you were before. Though manifestly you remain the same self. 

Well, its a well-attested fact that philosophers argued against the Newtonian conception of determinism and action at a distance. This was at variance with the agreed upon science at the time. Nevertheless it was later found that QM led to the loss of the first and GR to the loss of the second. Similarly Smolin, a well-known American physicist, thinks - on philosophical grounds - that time is real. This is at variance with the conception of time inherent in GR. If you want to look up the argument then have a look at his book Time Reborn. 

In Wittgenstein, one shadowy element is his mysticism and his ascetism. What are these elements that are shadowy and subversive in Dewey? How does one paint Dewey in chiarscuro? 

If you appreciate how formal systems work in logic and mathematics then Godels theorems are best exposited by taking a detour through a modal logic called provability logic. There is a (standard) modal logic called K, after Kripke which (standardly) models neccessity, and whose axioms are 

The example of the statues is an example of material cause, and he's not there examining in depth the notion of material cause; otherwise he would have written much more. In Aristototles day, statues were painted; so one could ask does the material cause of a statue include pigments; but of course he doesn't as - at least here - he's more interested in examining the different types of cause - material cause is quite different from formal cause. Thus, if you're is interested in purely material cause, then you can and perhaps should go as deep as you can; if you're interested to see how the different causes: the formal, the final, the initial and the material all hang together - then one need not. 

Were I someone unfamiliar with the word 'presuppose', I'd suggest that 'presuppose' places a supposition before a suppose; and this by taking the word apart, and noting: presuppose=pre+suppose. This is just using language as it should be; and one should expect good philosophers being good users of language to be sensitive to their meanings and use-value; so that it discloses meaning even in unfamiliar contexts or usages - but one may need to pay attention, so that the meaning shines forth. And since there are many good philosophers writing in different languages - though in one tradition; this then shows the worth of good translators who know the real value of two different languages. Now, for example, if a man says 'I suppose that ...' Then I might have cause to think that this suppose has a presupposition behind it. Let's examine the extract, now knowing this: 

The Italian philosopher, Agamben who is influenced by Arendt, takes this as a starting point in his book The State of Exception; he considers that the sovereign is a liminal figure; that lies both within and without the juridicial order; and he (ie Agamben) who appears to question sovereignty in is in fact not: he is questioning the linkage between that of sovereign order and the juridical one; which in his considered view had suffered a certain erosion through an expansion of soveriegnty - through an expansion of the 'exception'; which is why he prefaced the book with the quotation: 

The objection isn't philosophical but simply a refusal to think through consequences; this is surprisingly common but happens because others have done this for them: prophets, poets, thinkers and legislators. Social contract theory, utilitarianism, consequentialism, Kantian ethics are some options in arguing this in a secular context. Given the religious context of your question, it's worth noting that In Kantian ethics, one imagines oneself as a legislator through the Categorical Imperative; and this according the SEP is a formalisation of the 'Golden Rule' in Christian ethics. 

To picture this, put a penny on a table, we can quite easily draw a circle around it without touching the coin or drawing on top of it; now what Freed & Uhlenbeck say is if we give space this exotic geometry then we would be unable to do this, the line drawn will enter the coin and exit it; and it doesn't matter how far away we begin, for example a mile away, or as far as the moon; so this unsmoothable exotic geometry on four-dimensional space is 'very jagged'. So Russell is in very good company to suggest this possibility. 

Although, I can conceive of a potentially infinite amount of time ahead of me, for it is not actual as it remains to be experienced, I can't conceive of a potentially infinite amount of time behind me, for having been experienced it is actual, and being actual it is finite, as I can't conceive of actual infinities. Hence there is a beginning to time. Has anyone discussed this argument in the literature? 

This question really only arises for man as he is self-conscious and can see past the moment of now; so for all other forms of life - most life on this earth - this question does not arise. Heidegger tackles this question in many places; essentially the meaning of life lies in the living of life - its doing; this is at the root of existentialism. This is why existentialism adopts the slogan that essence follows existence; the essence of what we are, the meaning of our life lies in what we do; its generally signalled by the adjective becoming. 

It's also probably worth recalling that metaphysics has several senses; and in the sense it might be used in ST, it's more akin Descartes notion of First Philosophy, taken by him, as tribute, from Aristotle - where it's understood one is looking at the basic (for him - first) principles of nature. And is it not basic (or first) to ask whether particles are extensionless, or have extension? 

Its an attack on the educational system of the State. Rousseau contrasts this against the natural education of the mind & body by Nature itself. Its part of his vision of the Noble Savage; and through this it becomes more - it is an attack on the form of Western Civilisation. 

But Ibn Sina qualifies, existence isn't an ordinary accident, but a special one which he holds in relation to Allah. It looks like from 

This is the fruit or of a complex theology/philosophy. Perhaps better described as a distilled slogan. As one can use a computer without understanding at all the complex nature of how its put together - its physics, chemistry, computer science - one can be the beneficiary of an inherited philosophy/theology without being at all aware of all its intricacies or ramifications, or indeed that one has inherited it. (Although, one could say that the seed of all thought is already inside one and it is the conversation of our ancestors that has brought it to flower).