I read this story in the 1990s sometime. I remember it being novel-length, but short novel length, maybe 200 pages or so. The cover art I remember was the most 80s thing you've ever seen - a girl with big poofy hair, shoulder pads, and the kind of VHS-style lighting you only still see in soap operas. The main character was a girl, American, sixteen years old and fat (her word). She was in a relationship with a man twice her age (I seem to remember he was 32 years old exactly). The book may have even been a sequel - I seem to remember they already knew each other when it started, that we didn't really get a "meet cute". During the course of the novel they move in together, and I believe she gets a job. I don't think he does - I seem to remember him being the "starving artist" type, as his immaturity, and the girl's realization of it, is a significant plot point. I don't remember if they stay together or not at the end of the novel. I do remember that her parents very much don't approve of the relationship and are always trying to talk her out of it. (I don't remember why they don't just forbid her to see him.) The story is somewhat of a romance. Their relationship is sexual, and I distinctly remember her complaining to him once that he wants too much sex and it's exhausting her. I don't remember the prose being explicit at all though. I also remember how she either read a book or went to a seminar about why average-sized men like heavy girls, and the speaker/writer explicitly made it an Oedipal thing, that men like fat because it reminds them of their mothers. I was reminded of this story a little while back and have not been able to remember what the title was or who wrote it, so I'm trying to figure that out. 

The two main characters are around age 13. They find? steal? a time machine from someone and end up back in Medieval England. But it's not them exactly - their consciousnesses get put into other bodies. The protagonist finds himself in some knight's body, while the deuteragonist initially gets put into the knight's horse! Later he gets thrown into the knight's squire (and the squire is mid-sentence when it happens, it's a rather bizarre scene). Aside from the fish-out-of-water aspects, the main conflict is some evil knight, who eventually challenges knight-boy to a duel. I'm pretty sure the kid wins, but I don't remember the rest of the plot, and I don't remember how they get back to their own bodies and time. I seem to remember that when the two are discussing whether to actually use the time machine, they talk about how the protagonist has hatched a lot of hair-brained schemes, including trying to sell some gross treats that turned out to be "worse, not better, than they looked." That might all be from another book entirely though. I want to say the deuteragonist's name was Max. This book was adapted into an animated film (not feature length - it might have been an episode in an anthology series) that I remember watching too. In it there's some knight with chicken pox, and he tells people not to touch him because he's cursed with "little red itchy dots." I would have read this book sometime prior to 2000, probably more c. 1996. 

I don't see quite the connection that you have made here. The situations are really quite different. Also, don't forget the show is vastly different from the books... A few key differences are: 

Possibly some inspiration came from the Order of the Garter. During a general interview regarding question on the Kingsguard he mentioned the Knights of the Garter. 

The most direct comparison I can see is that the Order was formed to help Edward III pursue his claim on the French throne. The Kingsguard helped Aegon I keep his throne... 

So how I would interpret the line is that since the child's right hand is wasted, that is a "risk" to try to get the button away from his left. The child is playing a game with themselves the "desired result" being the right hand winning the button from the left. 

All this talking and complimenting is not something Ygritte is used to. In he above passage it confirms that they have laid together many times, but never been fully nude together. So, her asking if this was common in the South is her way of determining if Jon was treating her as he would "a Lady". If he answers yes, she is special because Jon thinks of her in the same way he does a Lady. If not, she might be even more special as Jon has done something he isn't used to doing and it was very pleasurable to her. Either way Ygritte has learned something about Jon and the way he feels about her. In the end she ends up learning more than she expected... 

The two other answers have shown the directly George denies the connection, but ice dragons do (might) exist in Planetos... 

If Martin had wanted us to draw some parallel between Bronn and Illyrio he would have had the perfect opportunity during Tyrion's conversations. Beyond that I have never run across any mentions of similarities between the two in any of of Martin's interviews. 

So I guess we have to accept that at most the ice dragons in A Song of Ice and Fire are a homage to The Ice Dragon. 

In A Dance with Dragons Tyrion spend a bit of time with Illyrio and never is Bronn brought up his thoughts. A few people do remind Tyrion of Bronn, namely Griff. 

Beyond that I see no reason why a book by the same author, same foreword, same maps, same illustrator, and same number of pages would differ between publishers beyond the cover. 

The narrator Nick moved into West Egg, and determined to read many books on banking and securities, as well as literary works, in order to become the "well-rounded man." In this part, I could not understand especially what "limited" means. Does it indicate that the well-rounded men have limited knowledge compared to other specialists? Or does it indicate that the well-rounded men are so rare compared to other specialists? And I also could not grasp how the concept that the well-rounded man was limited leads to the epigram that life is more successfully viewed from a single window. I think the well-rounded man has many windows, for he knows about everything albeit shallowly, so I couldn't see the connection here. Or, is the author being ironic here, saying that the well-rounded man is a failure because he has so many windows from which he looks out at life? In short, I would like to know how the well-rounded men are "limited" and how the concept of being a well-rounded man is connected to looking at life from a single window. I would very much appreciate your help. 

I am reading The Great Gatsby, and came to be curious as to the meaning of "ramifications" and "by which" in these sentences: 

In this part, Daisy, her husband Tom, her lover Gatsby, her relative Nick, her friend Jordan came to the suite parlor in the Plaza Hotel to have some cold drink on the stifling day. The room became the battlefield between her husband and her lover, when each began to claim that it was him that Daisy loved. Tom had made some small "investigation" regarding Gatsby's past, and revealed the information during the argument that he earned his money through not very honorable routes. At this astounding information, Daisy felt her love toward Gatsby fail. Seeing the two already crumbling, Tom generously allowed Gatsby to drive her home. I find the last sentence especially difficult to understand. How could they have been "snapped out"? And I could not grasp what "accidental" means here either—does it mean that their encounter was reduced to a merely accidental one, not a destined one? And what does it indicate that they have become "isolated" and "like ghosts"? I would very much appreciate your help. 

I am reading The Great Gatsby, and would like to know what "if we had room for him" means in the following sentences: 

Only the narrator Nick, Gatsby's father, and a priest went to the cemetery where Gatsby was to be buried. However, as they went into the cemetery, a man came in, who turned out to be the man whom Nick met in one of Gatsby's parties. In this part, I could not understand what was the "protecting canvas" and how it unrolled from Gatsby's grave. I guessed, since it was raining, the canvas cloth was covering the pit in which Gatsby was to be laid down. But as people arrived, the cloth was now "unrolled." So I wonder why it was described as the "protecting" canvas. I would very much appreciate your help. 

Tyrion in well aware of what is going on even takes a small verbal jab at Robb to which Robb jabs right back. 

to give us the an interpretation of: I admit I am unable to believe in my confidence which is of no help to you or him. 

George also a series of short stories set in what is known as the "Thousand Worlds". So while he says the two works are not the same world, they still might be connected... Alas, he has shot down this theory too... 

Ygritte wants to know how special she is. Jon had just gone on and on about how much he loved her and what he loved. 

Taking the rest of the passage in context, it seems that the "speaker" does not think to highly on themselves and has no self esteem. It seems there is a group of three people; the speaker, Aurora, and a man (Aurora's cousin) about they are speaking about. The speaker is saying that Aurora's cousin is so "good" that it is almost a bad quality within him, and that is worst thing the speaker can say about him. The speaker also seems to think that Aurora is a much better woman than her. So breaking down the lines you have highlighted, I would interpret the word in question this way: 

It seems that the argument to be made is that songs are poetry. In essence, songs tell a story and (once writing was thing) are generally written as text. It just so happens that text is meant to be performed. Continuing from the above interview 

Your understanding of the word gamble is a bit incomplete. While the most common usage is with games on chance (i.e. betting money), broader sense is an risk: 

George has certainly made many references and homages in A Song of Ice and Fire. However, the only direct mention I can find of Dante by Martin is the following: 

The historical part of - "The famous flutings on the the famous columns—what are they there for? To hide the joints in the wood" - is accurate. When using squared shapes (i.e. lengths of wood) to build a circular structure (the column) ou will have visible joints. See this picture... 

Certainly there are those that consider music to be literature. In fact, the organization PEN New England (a chapter of PEN America) which among other things 

Varys and Illyrio were both poor when they met and teamed up and worked together to become rich. Bronn is the poor one and uses a chance encounter to befriend himself to Tyrion (who is already rich) and then become rich. Bronn doesn't help Jaime in campaigns as he does on the show. In the books Bronn goes off to Stokeworth after marrying Lollys (we see this in the show). The Dorne subplot is completely different and in the books timeline Daenrys has not made it back to Westeros yet, so we don't know if Bronn will be involved with that. 

The narrator Nick is telling how Gatsby first came into being. Before he became Gatsby, he was named James Gatz; but when he met Dan Cody, who would start him in business and leave him inheritance, he decided to change his name to Jay Gatsby. When he met Gatsby, Dan Cody was soft-minded and was liable to be swayed by women. In this part, I could not understand what "ramifications" and "by which" meant. Are the ramifications some flaws in his character derived from his soft-mindedness? Or the negative results, or rumors, caused by the fact that Ella Kaye pushed him out to the sea? And I would also like to know what "by which" means. Does that mean Ella Kaye played Madame de Maintenon by the none too savory ramifications? If it is the case, what does "by" mean here? Did she use, or took the advantage of, the ramifications? I would very much appreciate your help. 

In this part, Nick recalls his memories he had in West. He used to return to West at Christmas time, and travel in the train. But I could not understand why and how they were aware of their "identity with this country" for that one hour, because for me "identity" seems quite the same with melting "indistinguishably into it again" which follows after the comma. So for me the sentence read like 'we knew that we were the same with this country for one hour, and then mixed into the air indistinguishably again," so the two phrases felt repetitive and redundant. Does "identity" have some special meaning that I couldn't guess? I would very much appreciate your help. :) 

The young Gatsby found his humble family background unsatisfactory; that was why he began to imagine himself as somebody different, divine. Thus he started to reach for a higher goal in his life, such as earning a huge amount of money or winning Daisy's love. But I could not understand especially what "the service of" meant. Does it mean that he provided such beauty? Or that he believed in such beauty? And since "His Father's business" has some Biblical undertone in it, I would like to know whether the boldfaced phrase also has such a tone in it. I am not much knowledgeable when it comes to the Bible, so I would like to know whether there is some description that Jesus serviced some beauty, just like Gatsby, because I think that could give me some hint as to what was indeed "a vast, vulgar, and meretricious beauty." I would very much appreciate your help.