When a being holds the view "the soul exists", that being, at the time of holding onto this view, must also hold the view "self exists". Why is that so? In order for the soul to exist, there must be a cognition of existence of the soul. With cognition of existence of the soul, even if the soul truly does not exist, the soul exists. Thus, for existence of the soul to be cognized, a cognition of existence of a soul is needed, and what else is a cognition of existence of a soul then a kind of self itself? Thus, in order for the soul to exist, there must be a kind of self with a cognition of existence of a soul. That is why a being who holds the view "the soul exists", also holds the view "self exists". 

All knowledge is conditioned by the same cause. The closer a teacher is to the cause, the more his teachings are similar to Buddhism. 

There is nothing wrong with eating plants. Keep your body alive and strive to gain knowledge. As when you gain knowledge, liberation will follow, and great will be the goodness of the liberated one. Or ... start worrying. And stop moving your body ... One tea spoon of soil contains 1000 millions microorganisms ($URL$ You don't want to kill all these beings, don't you? So? Stop moving your body. Don't walk. Don't eat. Die. Or ... completely stop worrying. And start killing ... there are millions of edible animal species. Kill. Eat. Live. Big is this mess of suffering. Too big. Neither of these two extremes lead to liberation. The answer is the "middle way". 

You said anxiety symptoms cease when you meditate. A great opportunity for learning the cause of your anxiety has come to you. Once you see the cause, you'll become forever free of any form of anxiety. Now it's time to put the hard work of meditation you've done in the past 2 years into practical use. Try this: Make the anxiety arise. How? You already know how. Go into the environment where you start feeling anxious. Once anxiety arises, go quickly in meditation and observe how the symptoms cease. Then, come quickly out of meditation and observe how the symptoms arise. Then, go again in meditation, but this time slowly, and observe how the symptoms cease. Then, come out of meditation, but this time slowly, and observe how the symptoms arise. Then, do the above very very slowly and observe very very attentively. Then do it again, but veryyyyy veryyyyy slowly and observe veryyyyy veryyyyy attentively. Do the above exercise many many times. Observe precisely, like a scientist observes things under the microscope. You'll see the cause of your anxiety. Once you know the cause, you'll gain total freedom from anxiety. 

I'm wondering what do other meditators see when they analyze closely the arising of a visual representation of an object in their mind? Please do this experiment: go into meditation and think of a visual representation of an object of your choosing. Look carefully how that visual representation of the object arises in your mind. Please describe here what do you see, from the moment there is "nothing" in your mind, to the moment when the visual representation of the object arises in your mind. Please also give an estimate how many hours of meditation have you practiced in your life. Here's what I see when I do the above experiment: What I'm seeing is that first, there arises the wish/want/decision/effort (I use different words here, but I'm referring to the same thing). Then, there arises a subtle subtle subtle feeling of the object (no visual representation of the object can be seen yet). Then, the more I wish/want/decide/effort, the stronger is the feeling of the object (no visual representation of the object can be seen yet). Then, when I wish/want/decide/effort even more, an incomplete/dimmed/unclear representation of the object can be seen. Then, the more I wish/want/decide/effort, the more complete is the visual representation of the object in my mind. In my life I practiced meditation for about 450 hours. UPDATE: I know that in Buddhism this rule applies: "it is not appropriate to reveal personal insights" ... the reason I'm asking you to describe your personal insight in the experiment above is to see it first hand why this rule applies: "it is not appropriate to reveal personal insights". I personally don't know any experienced meditators, thus I have nobody to ask this same question and see how personal insights of others differ from mine ... that's why I'm asking here. Hope some experienced meditator will give some description of his personal insight by answering this question. 

Suppose we have this view regarding the child's cause of suffering: "The cause of the child's suffering is in his fathers's Karma" With such a view, liberation from suffering comes from the child's ability to have control of his father's Karma. Can we have full control over the Karma of others? No. Can we have "some" control over the Karma of others? Yes. How? By having the ability to control the actions of others. The ability to control the actions of others arises from the ability to have control of our surrounding environment. Again, liberation from suffering would come from our ability to have control of our surrounding environment. Is the environment permanent or impermanent? Impermanent. Can we have perfect control over our environment or can we not? We can not. Is worldly existence satisfactory or unsatisfactory? Unsatisfactory. How could this be the right path towards liberation? It can't and it isn't. Why? Because we are searching for the cause of suffering outside, not within. Our view "The cause of the child's suffering is in his fathers's Karma" is wrong. With such wrong view, clinging and craving cannot be removed. With such wrong view, the Second, Third and Fourth noble truths cannot come to fruition. 

Correct, but it needs explanation. "No new kamma" implies that a being reached Nirvana and is free from his kamma, thus no rebirth. But it does not mean that before death an enlightened being is not producing new kamma. (read my explanation above about the arahats) 

If a being decides to steal because of the view "stealing is an illusion", he is ignorant of the fact that "his self does not exist" and "self of others exist", thus creating kamma with potential for stealing to occur again in the future. If a being decides not to steal because of the view "stealing is real", he is ignorant of the fact that "his self does not exist" and "self of others does not exist", thus creating kamma with potential for stealing to occur in the future. If a being decides to steal because of the view "stealing is real", he is ignorant of the fact that "his self does not exist" and "self of others exists", thus creating kamma with potential for stealing to occur again in the future. If a being decides not to steal because of the view "beings are ignorant", he is speaking the truth, thus he is not creating any kamma with potential for stealing to occur in the future. If a being decides to steal because of the view "beings are ignorant", he is either ignorant of the fact that "self of others exists" or "self of others does not exist" or "his self exists" or "his self does not exist" or any combination of the previous, thus creating kamma with potential for stealing to occur again in the future.