Is your resume posted on a job board such as Monster? If so, I don't think the recruiter is keeping you in their database. I get a lot of calls from recruiters, including those I've sent my resume to in the past. They often say that they found my resume on a job board, not in their own database. (I can confirm that, based on the e-mail addresses I use in different resumes.) I'm fairly certain that this company really does remove you from its list, but a few months later their agents simply rediscover you, along with many other candidates. I suggest that your resume (at least, the one you put on the job boards) have only a Google Voice phone number. Not only don't you have to answer it, but the voicemails can be sent to you as e-mail, so you don't have to play them back. 

I get lots of job postings from agencies, many of whom I'm not familiar with. I've heard it said (on this forum and elsewhere) that many such postings (and those on sites like Monster) are not for real potential jobs; they're either a way for the agency to build up a database of resumes, or maybe the hiring company is researching the talent pool or something. Is there a way to tell if a job is fake? I assume that if I see the same job from multiple agencies, they didn't make it up. Although maybe the hiring company did. 

There are any number of reasons why someone might not work on outside field-related projects outside of the office. These reasons may run anywhere from "I/We have a new born." to "I pursue my hobbies outside of work." Neither of those answers give you any real insight into the person as well and generally not everyone wants to spend their off time working on the same thing that they do at the office - or the fact they are doing work outside of the office could also be the sign that they are moon-lighting and may not be around that long if they are able to work for themselves. 

On the résumé itself, I would just list them out, for example, on my CV it currently has the following: 

In all honestly, motivation is very hard to measure and there is always a possibility that you will not ask the right question to be able to get a good answer. For example, using the ones that you provided: 

As other have noted, it depends on where and it depends upon what the game is. If you are in the break room and everyone else is engaged in non-work activities then you should be fine as long as you aren't playing a game that is likely to be controversial (i.e. Grand Theft Auto) or contains objectionable activities. Depending upon the industry that you are in, puzzle games might actually reflect somewhat positively as it shows that you have problem solving skills which can be desirable skills in an employee. Consider two employees reading a book, one is reading a non-fiction book about something that is mildly indirectly related to work while the other is reading a random fiction book, which do you think is going to look more impressive to an employer? In the event that someone does object to playing the game, I would say you need to be careful about how you address the game playing, but depending upon the type of game, you could point out others playing sudoku or doing a crossword puzzle and ask how that is different? 

I can't say I know the best thing to do, but I'd love to hear that you went back to them and said: "I have to confess, when you asked how much I made before, I exaggerated the amount. I'm sorry about that, but to be honest I was afraid that if I told you the real amount, you'd make me an offer that was too low. I've heard that happens, and I really feel I'm worth X." "I wouldn't be surprised if you're no longer interested in me, but if by some chance you are, I was actually making Y. But I'm afraid I'm not comfortable showing you my salary sheet." "Again, I apologize for not being completely honest before." 

I'm asking on behalf of a person I know. Honest. He's looking for a job, probably entry-level. This would be a good time to start searching out seasonal/holiday jobs. However, he's going to be out of state during the month of November. This opens up a number of issues. 1) Interviewers sometimes ask if the candidate has any "vacation" time planned. He'll have to say "Yes, the whole month of November." Is there anything he can do to counteract that? 2) I think he should try to get a temporary job where he'll be in November. He'll be living with a local family, but he won't be a resident. Will there be any legal issues that make this difficult? 3) When he gets back at the beginning of December, I suspect most holiday jobs will be already be filled. What industries or types of jobs are likely to still have openings? 

Turns out that this is actually quite the complicated field and that there is also quite a bit of difference between how things are treated in the United States and the United Kingdom so this answer will focus on the United States usage. With regards to the order of post-nominal letters the standard order in the United States is as follows: 

With regards to what should actually appear, it depends upon the environment involved and the actual context. Generally it is only appropriate to the academic degrees if it is directly relevant to the context which is why generally they only see heavy usage in academic environments or in the medical profession. Likewise, professional licenses and the like would only be listed if they are relevant to the environment (i.e.a CPA should not include it if they are working for a software company as a developer) and should be added or dropped from correspondence as needed. Thus, the usual rule of thumb in the United States it that less is better and in most cases they are dropped completely from anything less than very formal correspondence. 

Personally I find this to be a good question because it is open-ended enough that someone may come along with something that isn't on their usual script (i.e. "I wrote and published a book.") and you get a feel for how they may work in the face of deadlines. Additionally, you also get an extent of insight into what they consider to be a major project: if you work on projects that take 12 months on average and they find 90 days to be a challenge then you have a direction to take follow up questions to see why that is. 

What's the best way to prepare for a job interview where you will meet with several different interviewers, about half an hour each, over a period of several hours? 

A friend of mine sent me a job posting. I read the description, did some checking, and discovered that two months ago I had applied on Indeed.com to a job at the same company, that used the exact same job description. This could be the same job, unfilled until now; or it could be a second opening for the same position. Perhaps they suspended the search to fill the job, and started over. In any case, they have my resume. This time, however, my friend knows the recruiter and has given me her contact info. He recommends that I send my resume to her, mention that he referred me, and say how much I'd like the job. But if there's a chance that she somehow remembers my previous application, won't this seem pushy? I didn't get a call back, after all. UPDATE: I took your advice and sent my resume to the recruiter. Now I have a phone interview scheduled with the company. Clearly I was too timid, and having a referral helped. Thanks, all. 

I'm applying for a job, and among the questions in the boss's e-mail is: "How many of [your previous] employers would provide positive references for you?" Most times, hiring managers ask for references knowing we'll leave out the unfavorable ones, but this time he's implicitly asking about those. What should I say? The honest answer would be "All but one". But I'd hate to be the only applicant who's being honest. Should I briefly explain about the unfavorable one, even though he didn't ask me to? 

Again, this isn't really a good question because there are a lot of employees that will do this while at the office and on the companies clock when they have downtime or as part of "recharge" time at the office when they need to take a break away from what they are currently working on. The question that I generally is going to give you the most insight into how well motivated a candidate is something along the lines of the following: 

Recently I accepted an offer for a position; however, I have interviews that are scheduled for a couple days out. What is the best way for me to phrase an email and/or conversation explaining that I need to back out of the interview? 

Religious orders Theological degrees Academic degrees - Which should be listed in ascending order if there are multiple degree is different fields. Thus, someone with a PhD would not list all of their preceding degrees if they are all in the same field, but if they were to earn an MBA they would list it as [Name], MBA, PhD. Also, holders of a PhD should not introduce themselves as doctor as a matter of course, the only appropriate use is by holders of a MD in a professional setting. Honorary degrees, honors, decorations - Of which honorary doctoral degrees would be listed and which also do not confer any sort of courtesy title such as "Doctor". Professional licenses, certifications and affiliations - For which if there are multiple then they should be listed in alphabetic order. Retired uniformed service 

One piece of advice I hear a lot is that, at the end of a job interview, you should actually ask for the job. It shows your enthusiasm, it helps the interviewer remember you later, and so on. But, as one who's kind of an introvert, I can't think of a good way to actually say it. Do you say "May I please have this job?" Or "Could you please hire me?" They both sound kind of needy. Or am I taking "ask" too literally? Should one say "I'd really like to work here." Or "I'd really appreciate it if you chose me." Also, do ask at the end when I'm shaking hands with the interviewer? Or earlier when he says "Do you have any questions?"? (It's not really the type of question he's asking for.) UPDATE: The interview went well. I took the advice about expressing enthusiasm instead of literally asking for the job. Wish me luck. 

A better question would be "In addition to sending my resume by e-mail, should I ALSO send it by mail or courier (and in the cover letter, make it clear that I also applied electronically")? I don't know if that's necessarily the best approach, but it has all the advantages that the other posters say about e-mailing resumes; plus you get a bit more attention. The only disadvantage is you might still look like a kook.