The context of the statement is critical. What viewpoint are we looking at? To some people, unicorns are literally metaphors for something unattainable. To others, they're literally a horse-like being that probably doesn't exist. And there are probably thousands of other equally-valid definitions. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, so it's almost guaranteed that for any unicorn considered beautiful, another person considers it homely, if not outright hideous. If we're taking the entire set of all things considered unicorns by any person, then asking each person who has considered one of those unicorns whether said unicorn is beautiful, it is highly likely there is at least one instance of a non-beautiful unicorn. Of course, "highly likely" is undefined in strict Boolean-style logic, so your proposition breaks unless it allows for fuzzy truths. (I'll help you out here though: I did not consider the unicorn in Oblivion to be beautiful, which means the above set definitely contains at least one counter-example, so the statement must evaluate to false.) On the other hand, we can apply any combination of definitions of both unicorns and beauty, which means we can come up with sets for which the proposition definitely evaluates true, and other sets for which it is definitely false. At the end of the day, this is one of those many "yes or no" questions for which neither "yes" nor "no" is a valid answer. 

After a long discussion with the author of the question I am going to section off this answer into two parts. The first part deals with the answers to the three questions posed in the body of the question. The second part deals with the answer to the title of the question, which is "Does mathematical logic totally ignore context?" 1 In regards to the first question which asks (paraphrasing based off of our conversation) “In order to answer 'does mathematical logic totally ignore context?', do we need to have a definition of 'context in natural deductive systems?'” The answer to this question is yes, we need to have a definition of context before we can ask if mathematical logic ignores context. In regards to the second question which asks (paraphrasing based off of our conversation) "If the answer to (1) is yes, then what we mean by "context of natural deductive systems" corresponds to "context of statements in the English language? Otherwise logic doesn't capture what human reasoning is." The answer to this question is yes but it is a subtle yes and it only applies to when we are expressing the formulas from our logical system in English. When we make a declarative statement in English we are making some sort of factual claim. However, this may be in reference to many different contexts. This could be in context to the real world, it could be in context to some fictional world from a movie or a book, or it could be in reference to some hypothetical alternate history. So, this clearly shows that sometimes statements in English are true and sometimes they are not, depending on the context we put them in. If we say "he shot the butler" and we are referring to some film wherein a character shoots a butler then that statement is correct. However, if we are referring to the real world and "he" denotes someone who did not shoot a butler, then that statement is false. This is the exact idea of a domain of discourse which I define below. This is where mathematical logic gets its concept of "context" or "meaning." The "context" of a natural deductive system, just like English semantics, changes depending on how we use it. In English it refers to what we are talking about (our planet, some other alternate history, the world in a book, etc.) and in mathematical logic it refers to the model (which part 2. of my answer defines extensively). In regards to the third question which asks (paraphrasing based off of our conversation) "If we assume that the intended definition of context as has been stated in the beginning of the question isn't acceptable (i.e., the meaning of a statement is "different" from its context) then how is it true that natural deduction systems don't ignore context and in what sense?" First, we'll define what meaning and what context have to do with this situation. The "meaning" of a statement in this context refers to its semantic content. In terms of mathematical logic, this means the model theoretic properties of the particular statement. "Context" refers to what specific domain of discourse we are discussing. The context is the actual domain (the real world, or a book, etc..) and the meaning is whatever factual propositions are being asserted about this world. This leads directly into part 2 of my answer which shows that deductive systems on their own do not deal with meaning. In just the same way, English sentences alone do not deal with meaning. If no world exists, if we have no domain of discourse, then the sentence "The cow is happy" has no truth value, because it doesn't refer to anything. Model theory, in mathematical logic, is what gives natural deduction something to refer to. To reiterate a very clear and concise answer to (3): By itself natural deduction does not refer to specific context or meaning, because it is only syntactic in nature and refers to just the deductive processes. The "natural" part of "natural deduction" does not mean "referring to the natural world" (nor does it refer to "natural languages" which may be where some of your confusion regarding English semantics is coming from). "Natural" was used because the inventors of the theory wanted the deductive process to feel more like what the human mind experiences when it does deductions. This says nothing of the context the deductions take place in. To understand the difference between purely syntactical (proof theoretic) ideas and semantic (meaning and context, model theory) ideas, keep reading on with section 2. Only looking at proof theory gives you only half the story. 2 Now we can move on to answering the titular question: The definition of "context" in mathematical logic is given by the domain of discourse that the formulas range over. The definition given on wikipedia is as follows: 

This is false, because the person in the mirror simply reflects the behavior of something else, which is not the behavior of a conscious human, but that of a reflection. Approach 2 - (5) is false. But there's a different way of approaching it. 

I wave at her, and she waves back. I write something on a dry erase board and she laughs. I write something else and she sticks her tongue out at me. She pulls out her own board and we start chatting back and forth. After several minutes of this, I conclude that she must be a conscious, intelligent person. Then the curtain is drawn back. 

Oh no! Turns out I was communicating with a reflection! This must mean the reflection is conscious, right? Well, no. What is really means is that I was mistaken about the exact physical form of the girl I was talking to (guess that cute little birthmark is on her left cheek, not the right), and her exact location. Because really, the signals from my brain were causing signals in her eyes via the mirror, and it was her brain that was processing those signals to communicate back to me via the same mirror. In this case, it could make sense to say the reflection is just part of the girl I was talking to. I wasn't talking to a reflection; I was talking to the girl herself. Example 3 In one of your comments, you say 

There is a point in ethics where the question stops being about "morally right" and "morally wrong" and it turns into "morally obligatory" "morally permissible" and "morally impermissible." Its not that "right and wrong" or "good and bad" don't mean anything, it's more so that they don't encapsulate the entire story just on their own. Morally obligatory means that the action is good and you, as a moral agent, are under an obligation to do that action. Remember that a moral agent is someone who has the ability to make decisions based off of moral reasoning and they can be held accountable for those actions. If someone is trapped under a car and you have the ability to assist them without causing any inconvenience or harm to yourself, many ethicists would agree that you are morally obligated to help that person. Morally permissible means that an action is not outright wrong. Some people make the argument that abortion is morally permissible, that is, it is not necessarily a "morally good" action to have an abortion but it is also not "morally bad". A large amount of people say that abortion in the case of incest or rape, or when having the child would have serious medical ramifications for the child or mother, is morally permissible. Morally impermissible is something that is not obligatory or permissible. Many people would make the argument that as a moral agent, if you went and murdered somebody with no provocation or any sort of rational reasoning behind it, that would be a morally impermissible act. They would argue that you, as a moral agent who is capable of reasoning about the ethical implications of actions, have done something that is not allowed by any rational thought about ethics. You took somebody's rights to their life away, you committed a horrible act and you understood the harm in doing so, so that act is obviously impermissible. There are obvious cases where it would be easy to say "you committed a morally impermissible act and that was morally wrong of you" but there are other cases, like your example with buying alcohol, where the act wasn't outright morally right or wrong, it was just a morally permissible action. As for animals, especially before contemporary thoughts on this subject, most people argued that animals are not rational moral agents. They argued that the animals don't understand what it means to be ethical, they can't reason within an ethical system, so their actions are not made as a moral agent. As such, we can't assign ethical values to their actions. An animal might kill to eat another animal, but most people would argue that the animal doesn't understand the concept of "murder" or "right vs. wrong" so its not that their actions are neutral, its that they aren't acting with moral agency, they aren't a rational agent. We are moral agents, we understand ethical reasoning and we understand, to a large extent at least, what is morally impermissible and what is morally permissible, therefore acting like an animal isn't an excuse to commit morally impermissible actions. A strict Utilitarian view is that we are morally obligated in every situation to do the action that maximizes utility (happiness, well being, or however else it is specifically defined). Again, a strict view would be that if you are given two options and one of them is morally obligatory, it increases utility more than the other action, it would be morally impermissible to do that action. Not all Utilitarians believe in the strictest view and some might see your example of buying beer as a morally obligatory vs a morally permissible action. 

The mirror image is you, and you've already asserted that you are conscious, therefore it's illogical to assert that the mirror image isn't conscious. The Difference The difference between these approaches is simply in the delineation between "a thing" and "its reflection". Neither is more valid, and each is more useful in certain circumstances. Example 1 If I walk up to a lake and look in, I see my reflection. But I say my reflection isn't me because if you punch my reflection, I just get a little wet, but otherwise feel no pain or discomfort. (We could do the same with a mirror, but I'd rather not take you to get stitches or clean up all that broken glass.) I also see that the reflection is distorted by the waves, your angle of viewing, etc., but yet doesn't appear to feel any of these things. In fact, the reflection doesn't seem to feel anything except the things I feel. If I sneeze, my reflection sneezes. If I laugh, so too does the reflection laugh. The reflection's actions are clearly caused by the stimulus acting on me, not it, while my actions are unaffected by any stimulus acting on the reflection. This tells me the reflection is not a part of me, and that it doesn't behave like a human. Example 2 This time, let's say I'm standing near a dark curtain. I look past the end of the curtain and see a beautiful girl smiling at me.