Nomadic warfare constantly changed civilization. The Amorites, Aramaeans, Persians, Sarmatians, Goths*, Arabs, Hungarians, and Islamic Turks had a large impact on society before the Mongols. Nomads made Assyria, Han China, Rome, and Persia fall. Nomads had dominated the known world before. What the Mongols did is they dominated the Silk Road. When civilizations built roads for commercial and military purposes, they provided a way for the nomadic people to infiltrate. By 1200 A.D. there was more infrastructure and interconnectedness that had been built on the revenues of the Silk Road. The Silk Road had brought unprecedented wealth to the Central Asian states. The Mongolian conquest was the culmination of 1000 years of centripetal forces acting on the Silk Road, which was centered on these Iranian Oasis states. The first major step towards centralization was the Turkic and Islamic Empires. The Turkic Empire disintegrated, but the steppe remained Turkicized. I can’t describe all the events here, but the other important people were the Samanids, Seljuks, Qara Khanids, Qara Khitai, and Khitan Mongols. There were also centripetal forces on the Russian steppes that took place mostly under the Cuman/ Kipchack confederation. These events created larger entities that were ripe for takeover by the Mongols. It was also 1200 A.D.; political and military technologies were more advanced. Around 1000 A.D. these conflicts became intensified and constant, and the Silk Road slowed to a trickle. Central Asia suffered economically and this facilitated the Mongolian conquests. Christendom was also eager to have someone pressuring the Turks from the East, and reached out to them on friendly terms. The Mongols were a robust people, and the Mongolian bow was the best weapon of its day. Mongolia was a warlike place and the process of selection was intense. They were the best people for the job, but this did not guarantee their success. Having the last word in the struggle between Arabs, Iranians, and Turks in Central Asia was the key factor.** From this point, with advanced Iranian bureaucracies, they expanded outward to conquer the Silk Road. It was the culmination of Silk Road history; the element which had unified all of Asia. Before this time, there was not the infrastructure connecting all of Asia. There is an old saying; “where goods can travel, so can soldiers”. It took a millennium for these centripetal forces to play out. *Goths adopted the lifestyle of the steppe when they conquered the Sarmatians. **You mentioned the unification of the steppe as a reason. They didn’t complete this until 1241, and it was never fully under their control. 

T.E.D.'s answer is the definitive one here, but the other thing to remember is scalability: it might take a while to set the type for a printed page, but every copy after that first one takes a fraction as long to print because the type has already been set. Copying a page by hand takes just as long the 1,000th time as it did the first, and that's not even accounting for the possibility of errors that would render a page unusable. Thus, printing presses might NOT have been much faster for projects requiring only 1-2 dozen copies, but the benefit would grow proportionally to the size of the project. Printing jobs requiring many, many copies, like the Bible or a widely-circulated pamphlet, were able to reap not only the short-term benefits of printing speed, but the repetitive bonus of cranking out copy after copy from a single design. 

I recently saw a documentary about the Crusades, and during the scene in which Saladin is almost assassinated by the historical order of Assassins, they are portrayed as wearing plain white clothes with red sashes. This is, of course, quite similar to the clothing portrayed in the Assassin's Creed video game series, especially the Crusades-era character, Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad. Is there any historical basis for this clothing pattern or color scheme? It seems odd to have both a video game (which is obviously fictional but which famously includes numerous true-history elements) and a genuine documentary about the period share such a specific trait if it wasn't grounded in truth, but then it could also be an in-joke or a playful nod from the costuming department of the documentary. I can't find anything in my research, but that's mostly because I just end up finding Assassin's Creed-related images and information, not historical. (This is the problem when a historical order has such a generic name.) Does anyone know if the red/white color scheme has any historical basis from the actual assassins of Persia and Syria? Or was that purely a fabrication for the video game series? 

Khazaria was multi ethnic state whose focus was based on facilitating international commerce in the transcaucasus and the Pontic steppe region. Its core was composed primarily of a Turkic, or Turco-Iranian, and Slavic component. The Slavs remained in the region and formed a considerable part of the Russians. Khazaria also ruled over numerous other subject peoples, mostly Turkic. The decline of Khazaria was a tumultuous time in the entire steppe, as waves of Oghuz and Pecheng turks continuously pressed west and displaced others. The successors to the Khazars became the Rus in the west, and the Pechengs in the east. As mentioned, the Rus had absorbed the slavic component of Khazaria, the Pechengs were altogether new invaders, but also Turkic. The decline of Khazaria began around 830. There was a civil war around this time that was instigated by a group called the Qabars, which means rebel in Old Turkic. The Qabars were defeated, and joined the Hungarians in their settlement of Hungary. Also around this time, the Rus Khaganate was formed to the Northwest. Exactly why they had a Khagan, and the extent to which it was influenced by Khazaria, is disputed. Seljuk began his career as an officer in the Khazar army. The names of his sons suggests he was a Khazar Jew. He adopted his grandon Tugril, who founded the Seljuk Empire. 

Ancient and medieval fortifications are often shown to have wooden gate doors in the midst of their stone walls. Now granted, these doors are often massive and incredibly thick, but it still seems like a very risky point of weakness for an otherwise imposing structure. A splash of oil and a flaming arrow seems like it could leave your castle with a giant gaping hole in the wall in a matter of hours. And yet, that didn't seem to happen. Or at least not regularly enough to require a different method of constructing doorways through the ages. Attacking armies often had to bash down the gates with rams, or scale the walls rather than going through the gates at all, to get inside a city, castle, or fort. Why was that? What methods were used to protect the wooden elements of fortifications against fire? I've heard of siege towers being covered by animal skins for that purpose, but never fortification doors. And while thick doors like that would take a long time to burn through, it still seems like it would be vastly easier to splash some oil and throw a torch than to undertake more "conventional" siege methods. Unless, as it seems, that wouldn't have worked? 

Borsippa was a city that was closely connected to Babylon. It had a Ziggurat built by Nebbuchadnezzar II, on the site of an older building. It belonged to the god Nabu. Originally standing at 70 meters, the remains of the ziggurat are now 52 meters tall. Medieval people thought that it was the tower of Babel. Its known as the "the tongue tower" because of its distinct shape. 

I was reading a History of India by Michael Edwardes. It says that by 600 B.C., the northwest had been closed off to invaders. It made me wonder about migrations up to this period. I only know about the Aryan migrations c. 1100. I've read about a few non vedic people in Northwestern and Western India, but didn't keep track. Some might have been located along the edge of the Himalayas, as if they squeezed in along this path. Witzel and a few others questioned if the Sakya of Guatama Buddah were Saka. This was due to their cousin marriage, which Hindus didn't do, their location and their large mounds. What do we know about later iron age migrations into India? Let's say from 1000-600, with an emphasis on the later period. Edit: I found one of the references to a non vedic tribe. I'm not implying they were newcomers, but it is interesting: "The Kurus declined after being defeated by the non-Vedic Salva tribe, and the center of Vedic culture shifted east, into the Panchala realm, in Uttar Pradesh (Witzel, 1995)." Kuru Kingdom, Wikipedia I found out that the Kambojas made it all the way to Cambodia, which is named after them. This was in a different time period, though. 

It's important to remember that the concept of "white people" (or fair-skinned people) as a single, all-encompassing term for Caucasians is a fairly recent development. As recently as a hundred years ago (or even today, in super-conservative areas), "white people" meant Anglo-Saxons, exclusively. People as closely-related as Irish or Germans may not have been considered "white," depending on the speaker and the context. Plenty of empires in the south of Europe, such as Greece and Rome or Spain, held biases against their paler, northern "barbarian" neighbors like the Celts and the Germans. Even today, there are biases against redheads in many parts of the world. Terms like "pasty" and "pale" are almost always derogatory, so from a purely aesthetic standpoint there is a point at which darker skin is preferred over lighter skin in pretty much any culture. If you're looking for a culture that generally believed "the darker the better," you'll need to check the other answers, but there are plenty of periods in which the powerful majority had consistently darker skin than the oppressed minority. Just think back to the Julius Caesar's (Italian) conquest of Britain, for a famous example. 

Norsemen traded with the Thule of the Arctic region, whom they called Scraelings. The Thule (Proto-Inuits) arrived in the northeast Atlantic zone not long after the Norse settled in Greenland. There was a paleolithic, pre-Thule population in the Atlantic region, called the Dorset culture. They were annihilated by the Thule. The Thule also prevented the Norse from permanently settling any further West than eastern Greenland. Ultimately, they drove the norse entirely out of Greenland, so there were no Norsemen in the Americas. (Greenland is considered to be North America.) This left the Thule as the sold inhabitants of the Arctic zone. The Thule came from the Bering Strait. The region was connected with Asian trade, and utilized iron. There was a lot of competition and warfare based around hunting grounds for the bow-headed whale. They had Mongolian bows and Chinese style slat armor, which they made from bone. This made them militarily superior to the Norse. Recent research suggests that Thule migrated from the Bering Strait to the Atlantic because Genghis Khan disrupted the iron trade from Asia. Searching for new sources, they crossed to the continent with dog sleds in under 5 years. Norsemen couldn't have taken Thule women as they pleased. I think that such interaction would probably have been in the form of kidnapping or trade, so the natives would be assimilated into the Norse. If they did have sexual interactions with the Dorset people, it wouldn't have mattered because they were decimated. There were other types of natives in Newfoundland and Labrador, and a few Norsemen reached here. Given the paucity of Norse archaeological sites, or archaeological evidence thereof, its hard to imagine any significant interactions with anyone outside of Greenland. 

In fantasy literature there are plenty of examples of cultures (such as the Dwarves of Lord of the Rings) who favor axes or hammers above swords in combat. Did any historical army follow that pattern? Obviously some people in any battle will have unusual weapons, and an angry mob will grab anything that's convenient. Some armies (like the Greek phalanx) also used pikes or other length-based weapons that reduced the need for hand-to-hand weapons entirely. But were there ever any armies where they fought up close and face-to-face, but where the standard melee weapon was an axe, a hammer, or something other than a straight blade like a sword or knife? I have a distant memory that Bronze Age cultures in the Middle East used some kind of sickle-shaped weapon, but I can't think of any after that. 

It's worth noting that, while Greek and Roman soldiers wouldn't look like the characters in those movies, six-packs and large muscles were definitely in existence back then, and were considered as attractive (and as rare) as they are today. Just look at any number of statues of heroes and gods from the period, and you'll see the familiar musculature of a modern actor or model: 

I made a note about something, but now I can't find it. It was a major shift in the political situation of Europe in the late Middle Ages. Initially one country was the hegemon and the pope organized all of the others against it. Then another country became hegemon, and all of the powers were organized against that one. I think it was Germany, and then France, but I'm not sure when. It was sometime from 1250-1450. I could be confusing it for something much later, but I don't think so. Update: I suspect it may have had to do with the lowland countries, aka Holland, Belgium and Flanders. Western powers were allied against one country to prevent it from gaining control of it, and then against another country. 

I think he's off base about Switzerland, unless he is mischaracterizing the nature of the Swiss confederacy. I'm also not sure what he means about ethnic strife. He's probably talking about the Duchy of Savoy and France directly to the south, and the passes from France into Northwest Italy. It's a strategic point in Western Europe by which France was trying to expand into Italy, at the expense of the Holy Roman Empire and the Italian states. It's importance also made it a point of contest by the local nobility of Savoy and Milan. Ticino is a region in Switzerland that juts into Milan, and was annexed to it in 1516. 

The Soviet Union was a famously restrictive place when it came to news and ideological spin, and obviously their attitude toward the United States was less than supportive and warm. The Space Race saw a lot of competitiveness between the two countries, but when the United States landed a man on the moon, the language they used was very universal. They phrased it very much as a victory "for all mankind," and there was a lot of talk about all people on Earth being "one." Of course, that's easy to say when you just won the race. What was the internal Soviet response to the news? Did the Soviet citizens know it was happening at the time? Was it spun as a victory for humanity, or a victory for the United States, or a loss for the Soviet Union, or what? Was the story reported accurately, or were details changed in the retelling? 

I've been reading a lot about the Byzantine Empire recently, and one of the things I see pointed out over and over again is that "Byzantine" is a term coined by historians, not by the people themselves. If you'd asked a citizen of the Byzantine Empire what he was, he would say "I am Roman." In fact, even the term "Romania," as I understand it, came from these ethnically eastern but politically Roman people. I remember hearing in my youth that the Greeks continued calling themselves "Rhomaios" even after the Byzantine Empire fell, and that they only reclaimed their independent "Greek" identity in the 1700s, as a response to increasing interest in ancient Greece over in England and France. Is this true? When did the Greek (and Eastern European in general) identity finally drop its association with the Roman Empire? The only article I've found (Wikipedia) only covers the earlier period, not that which followed "Rhomaios."