The big hole (notice it is not in the center of the cartridge) accepts the cranks. Depending on the adjustable orientation of the hole you gain or loose a couple inches to the front/back up/down. These small adjustments will tension the chain. 

Fat tires because: You are riding in variable terrain. This is very similar to mountain biking. You want an all terrain tyre. Skinnies will cut through if the snow is loose and the ground is dry. If you have loose over packed or loose over ice you are still at a disadvantage. When you get refrozen slush you will get bucked hard. It's my impression that those who like skinnies are on generally well plowed roads and any snow on the road is new snow. If your local DOT doesn't care to do more than the bare minimum to keep the road open then you will want something a little more robust. For perspective I commute daily in Montana year round. In town our average annual snowfall is north of 100". In our town only major routes are plowed and they aren't plowed flawlessly. 

I am getting a repetitive grinding sound/slight vibration while fully mashing on my Kona-humu single speed. Description of Problem This grinding is more similar to what you would hear from an un-greased chain (maybe clicking is a better term) but much loader. This noise/vibration is also accompanied by a slight resistance. It only occurs during hard pedaling and only during right hand crank input. Attempted diagnosis Since the issue only occurs during hard pedaling I've had a difficult time coming up with reasonable ways to diagnose. After the first 5-10 cycles I am spinning fast enough I cannot provide the needed input to reproduce the noise/vibration. I have tried to use brakes and building to hold me up right and put lots of pressure on the drive train to flex the frame and see where there may be rubbing. This has not produced much. Possible Issues 

There are a number of products that are referenced as "boot dryers" which would serve your purpose. They are commonly used for ski/snowboard boots but will dry any shoe out efficiently. Know that using these will stink up a whole room like a gym locker room, so use them with discretion in your home. 

If it were me I would buy a comfortable steel road bike with fenders and racks. This will give you a bike you can comfortable go distances on as well as practicality for the commute. You aren't racing so you don't really need an extremely expensive, high end road bike and a steel frame will be comfortable and durable assuming you store it properly. When you feel the need to romp around you can take your MTB out. If the road bikes are out of your price range then consider a similar setup with a single speed/fixed gear. Fixed gear bikes will make you pedal smoother but a disciplined rider of any bike can get the same benefits using cadence drills without the added danger of getting bucked by pedals moving faster than you can. 

You can purchase a new skewer or add a ton of washers. There are eccentric bottom brackets you can use to provide chain tension in the absence of a horizontal dropouts. 

The jobs will dictate the need of tools. Look at the hardware you have, and what needs to be turned to perform common repairs and adjustments: 

The brake hoods are part of the brake not part of the handlebar. You should be able to visit your local bike shop and get hood style brakes put in rather than your existing bar top style brakes. 

Lots of great answers already. Every area is different, but if I were building a trail in my locale I would want rudimentary rope kit. That said ropes can be dangerous and the internet isn't the place to learn to use them. That said I would bring a harness, belay/repel devices, rope, anchors and a mechanical advantage system. This stuff will let you safely move around, delimb and build heaviers bridges than you can lift by hand. 

I weigh the advantage of increased control against the cost of snow tires. Studded tires take quite a bit of wear on dry pavement. Each stud type will have a different life span based on materials tire shape etc. My anecdotal experience shows stud life on dry pavement to be about 500 miles. I have done winters without studs because it never reached a consistently icy state. The handful of icy days could be mitigated by route choice (both to avoid dangerous traffic locations in ice, but also to avoid shady spots where ice is more likely). I switch over once it starts reaching 3 icy days per week or a commute route which has over a 1/4 mile of constant snow/ice. My winter commuter is a rigid frame/fork mountain bike with relatively fat tires (~1.75 in) at low pressures (25-30 PSI). It is quite stable and a major contributing factor in holding off on studs until it gets very icy. That said I took 2 falls last winter without studs due to ice. No other falls in the past year. 

My freewheel tarted slipping this week. It slips most from a stop with no pressure snapping to significant pressure on the pedals. Slipping may be the wrong term as it really isn't engaging. Once it "hooks up" and pressure is continuously applied there is no slippage. Bike is a 3 years old, kona humu-humu, and used for daily commutes in Montana. Stored in an unheated shed at night, left out in the elements during work M-F 9-6, a couple times a month year round while out on the town. Past couple months I've been hearing a banging sound out of the rear cog which I assumed was the chain slipping on the cog, but now I'm wondering if it the ratcheting mechanism in the freewheel. Recent weather included a large snow storm which caked the bike in snow/ice followed by a week of sub 0F weather, so the snow stayed caked on. Two days ago riding it home after dark in like roughly -20F temps the issue first occurred. Thinking it was a chain slippage and being very intermittent I brought it inside got the bike warmed up/dry tighted the chain and did some other routine maintenance. Next day, same issue occurs but easier to recreate while off the bike and I can see the chain is fine and the freewheel just isn't hooking up. I have a couple theories but not how likely each is. I'm also not sure how serviceable the freewheel is. Theories: - Water worked it's way into the freewheel and is now frozen inside the freewheel. This is changing how the moving parts operate. - The banging sound was the freewheel and is a sign of or the cause of major wear. The mechanism providing traction now has a loose fit and the extreme low temperatures are enough to further loosen the connection to unusable. - It's too cold for the springs/oil in the mechanism to perform adequately for normal usage - Something else? I need to swing by the local shop anyways as I'm swapping out some parts shortly, but if there are some simple fix ideas I'd love to hear them. EDIT: Freehub not freewheel + Single speed cog. 

Sure would be great to have some more pics of the larger scenario but I'm assuming we are looking at the axle bolt and the wheel is stuck in the frame. Here's some things to try: 

My main issue with the bern's and other snow centric helmets are they are too warm. Most of the helmets are designed for in bounds skiers/riders who exert a relatively small amount of energy on the way down and non on the way up so their body temperatures are on the low side. The bern in particular has always felt way to hot for me even the vented models. For a snow oriented helmet that is compatible with goggles there are a number of other brands which offer adjustable venting and nearly any helmet can be augmented with skull caps to increase the warmth when needed. I bike commute everyday in up to a foot of snow in cold Montana winters and have had great success with my Smith Variant helmet. It provides a good vapor barrier with the vents closed and a moderate amount of insulation with good removable ear coverage. With the vents open there is quite a bit of circulation but you still get good ear coverage. 

Low seats provide clearance for more acrobatic body movements. This is essential for bunny hops and nearly every other trick which builds off of this skill. If you look at trials bikes they similarly have lots of clearance for the rider over the frame and the saddle. Since speeds are relatively low, and long distance riding is not the goal, pedaling efficiencies gained by a higher seat position are much less of a priority than vertical maneuverability. As per Daniel R Hick's comment BMX bikes are also commonly used for children's bike's as they are easy to learn on because of the low seat. In this case fashion follows function. Just because the particular riders you see aren't tricking doesn't mean there isn't a valid functional reason for this kind of setup. 

All things being equal helmets keep you safer. However, things are rarely equal. This Ted Talk about bicycle issues and helmet propaganda and safety talks about increased accidents with helmets on. This may be a result of Risk homeostasis or as others have suggested is a result of increased risk taking on behalf of car drivers. Another point raised by the video shows the type of impact a typical bike helmet protects against is very particular on the crown of the head. Meaning bike helmets are not tested for front, rear, and side impacts. Depending on the accident your particular helmet may provide no, or marginally additional protection over a bare head. On the other hand there are plenty of arguments which state the effectiveness of helmets. The Bicycle Helmet Safety Institute unsurprisingly has many studies on it's site which show how effective helmets can be. This should be expected since any safety device which does not implicitly have additional safety concerns should increase safety. The question becomes more personal in nature when you understand both sides. What makes sense for me? What risks am I exposed to? What risks do I find acceptable and not acceptable? Most people find the risk of walking around without a helmet acceptable. At some point there is a grey area, such as riding a bike without a helmet. Then there is a clearly unacceptable area for most like playing Russian roulette. As mentioned in the Ted Talk the health benefits of riding a bike far outweigh the risks of riding without a helmet. As such compulsory helmets don't make sense. 

Store in a cool dry and dark place. In my other life as a whitewater kayaker I own a drysuit with latex gaskets. The latex is very similar to the rubber on the tire. We use seal saver a silicon gel to lubricate and moisturize the gaskets for longer life. The gaskets go through way more abuse than a typical tire does but the silicon gel works miracles. I think if I was going to store inner tubes for more than a 2 years I would think about applying some before packing the tubes away. 

With any number of brake puller solutions such as this: $URL$ you can have as many levers as you want. Installing an additional lever and cabling isn't hard but if you don't want to do it your LBS will have no problem. 

If you have the former then your bike includes an eccentric bottom bracket, which will provide chain tension; the biggest of the hurdles when converting to single speed. If so you will most definitely be able to make the conversion without much issue. Your LBS will be able to find you an appropriate wheel and sprocket to get you rolling. On the other hand if you have the hanging derailleur model then you do not have the eccentric bottom bracket. You will have a vertical dropout and no simple way to provide chain tension. There are 3 basic methods to deal with chain tension. 

If the brakes are reluctant to move in both directions then it's mostly likely water in the lines. You may be able to get away with bringing the bike inside letting it dry out for a day or two and re-sealing the lines with grease. 

Check the threading hasn't deteriorated and that tensions are appropriate for the pedal/crank crank/chain ring, crank/bottom bracket, bottom bracket/frame interfaces. Grease the bottom bracket/frame interface thoroughly. If all of the above fail to fix the issue the bottom bracket may need to be services or replaced. 

The biggest hurdle as I see is the heat. Perhaps you can pack a change of clothes and some wet wipes and a stick of deodorant to change and freshen up. In terms of route it looks like you can avoid the highway by heading south. The bike track near the river looks like it could have some routes through on your bike that may not be accessible to cars. Same goes for the industrial park. I think the best way to start is use your free time to start scouting out potential routes. You already know the highway won't work for you but other routes look like they have some potential. Also use these non-rush hour traffic periods to develop good road presence. Take your lane and don't be bullied by cars. This will be essential when rush hour traffic is upon you. 

Eccentric Bottom Bracket - The bottom bracket moves inside a casing in an ovular fashion in order to move further away or closer to the hub creating chain tension. Since different models of your frame use this it may be an attractive option. It does require specialized tools and disassembling nearly all of your drive train to replace. Eccentric hub - The hub moves inside a casing in an ovular fashion on order to move further away or closer to the bottom bracket creating chain tension. The main disadvantage with this method is the added cost in getting a custom built wheel. Using a tension arm. In fact some even use their derailleurs although it's a less elegant solution than this: