As a definition of 'possible', if something exists in an extension of our world that is internally consistent, but it is uncertain whether that world is our world, you are certain the corresponding thing is possible. Less evasively, if you establish a strong enough analogy between two things, and there is a role played by something in one of them, things that play a corresponding role in the other one cannot be judged absolutely impossible, without knowing more. There might be a particle for gravity because other fields like electricity are borne by particles. In fact we know a lot about how such a thing would work if it existed. But we cannot find one to point at. This kind of potential existence by analogy has a certain force in arguments beyond the mere imagination rules you enumerate, in that it can debunk incomplete proofs that are pretending to be definitive. A real proof someone thinks they have made, that would fail if such an object exists, is not a actually water-tight unless it also proves the object would not exist. Assumptions about particles that would rule out gravitons are always questionable on their face, even though we are not sure gravitons are real. 

At the start of the chapter of Science and the Modern World where he turns back toward philosophy proper, he comes close to a real characterization, of what he means by rationalism, though not of rational: 

Re Q1: I don't think this is any more of a problem for mathematics than for any other modern discipline. Information overload is the same everywhere. People focus narrowly and try to guess what will and what will not be important to others. There is a basic problem with the acceleration of the accumulation of ideas and the elaboration of nuances, but it is everywhere, not especially here. Re Q2: I really don't think they can, and I really don't think they try. It is said "Logicians are Platonists on Weekdays and Formalists on Sunday." The two positions do not undermine one another. I think what is really going on in mathematics is a kind of poly-alethian compromise, where we have strikingly different standards for truth, and we admit much more is true in one of them than we allow to be true in the other. These are two different 'games' in the sense of Wittgenstein. We know by intuition that we are far enough from the boundary between productive "Platonic" mathematics and the deep "Formalist" concerns, that we can always tell which matters more. As long as that continues to be the case, the games need not converge into a single game. And when they do, I am betting that instead of finding a common basis, we will evolve a third game to decide when one is playing each of them. 

The vaccuous truth of universal quantification over an empty set strikes again. A >--> B because B, being blind, has no accessible worlds, and therefore lacks access to any recourse with which to defend itself. It can supply no information that would keep any proposition in A from being verified. 

Some questions definitely can't have an answer, but this is not one of them. There is a traditional answer that is quite logical: Berkeley-ism. Traditionally, God is a rationale in-and-of-himself. If all things are the way they are just because God wants them to be that way, then asked this question, God can always answer, and be right. No need for regressive shell games. Whims, in particular, need have no traceable cause, or they wouldn't be whims. More generally, a reference is not a containment. I can point at something, like 'The Will of God', and still have it be in the list of 'Causes of Things', even if it is the cause of the list itself, and of each of the things on it. Whatever notion of 'frame of reference' you have seems to omit the idea that references are often circular. You can wish Russel's paradox away by imagining otherwise, but circular references are a real thing. 

I think @virmaior has covered the option of actually consulting Kant on the subject, the alternative is then, to just consider this axiomatically. If we are working from first principles, let's follow his rule as stated, not one of the corollaries. What is the maxim according to which you are considering expecting everyone to live? First of all, the maxim needs to be categorical, so it is not going to apply to money in particular, but would have to be based on something basically human, like need, or reciprocation, that would apply equally to cavemen and any future version of us we can imagine. If we choose the most basic thing, reciprocation, say 'whenever you have more of anything, you should share it' this applies to things like husbands, and I think we should stop there. Humans in general would not want that to be universal, it is contrary to other natural impulses. So we can fall back on need, but we need a concept of need that is not just lack of envy, or we are back in the first boat. So there has to be a level or form of need that is genuine need, and only in reference to that would one have duties. I think that we do recognize that there are types and levels of need that invoke a duty to provide -- childhood helplessness, real starvation, reasonably preventable death, etc. are things we could universally wish gone. But at the same time, those duties themselves can be leveraged by the immoral to everyone's detriment -- I should not save the life of the gunman threatening a room full of innocent people from the SWAT team trying to kill him, even if it were not an unreasonable demand on me to make the effort. Or, at least, I cannot wish for everyone to feel that duty, or we would be awash in mayhem. So even those kinds of need, I cannot wish to be universally addressed in all situations. Again, the distinction has to be something universalizable, and the only thing I can imagine that works is to require cooperation of the person served in some larger context that ensures the use of what I am duty-bound to provide is something also amenable to the same analysis I am make of my own obligations. (I should not give this man his life, so that he can kill with it, but otherwise I probably should.) Do I consider contribution to the maintenance of my community to be an obligation? I think that is universalizable. Then it is duty of those helped, too, and I can place requirements of reciprocation on the help I extend. It seems, in fact, obligatory to consider the use of the help I am extending. I think this contradicts any obligation I might feel to try and purposefully just even out the holding of goods. But it does not let me off the hook, it requires that I justify the use of the goods I hold, and that the difference between my use and their potential use should be limited to a degree of difference I can allow to everyone. 

From a kind of Nietzschean point of view, inspired by the Genealogy of Morals, there is at least one counterexample. So you cannot presume this kind of idea would have either a dualist status, or become aspects of logic, or theories of science. Consider this option: one might base objective moral stances in evolution and a form of human psychology answerable to animal behaviorism. (I think this is the approach to an objective ethics that holds the most hope for eventually becoming real. It would constitute a physicalist grounding of something like Hegelian dialectical evolution. The internal approach, a la Kant is compelling, but lacks real proof you have considered an adequate range of potential sorts of minds -- healthy sociopaths exist, as do functional autistics -- and both seem to have a rather different spin on 'rightness' from Kant.) Even though the standards would be real facts about the world without a physical manifestation, they would be the result of 'standing patterns' that are stable states of historical processes. We could see them coming from a physicalist point of view, and they can then be explained physically without being instantiated physically. At the same time, if they were truly objective, only their source would be in theory. If we genuinely all shared them in a natural way, the moral principles themselves would not be science, because they would not be falsifiable or open to revolutionary restructuring. That gives them something in common with mathematics, but it would still be possible to violate them without being mistaken. So they would have a form different from idealized logical facts, as well, in that they would be possible and not necessary forms.