I will take block to mean "stop him from hitting more people with his fancy sword." Meaning kill the wielder with basic weapons Kamikaze You can't block his sword and he can't block you either. You swing an axe at him he "blocks" it by cutting through it. The cut off segment keeps going and hits him. So he can always hit you and you can always hit him, just rush three guys at him kill him and take the sword. Shoot him if he "blocks" the bullet / arrow it will hit him. The monomolecular weapon may not even harm a human. IF it cuts a very sharp cut with a very thin blade (monomolecual) and moves very fast (the term used was infinite angular momentum which is impossible, but assume fast) the bonds may reseal on the other side with out the loss of blood of damage to the organs. It may be true he cuts you dozens of times to no effect at all. 

"Look out that's a Bundavark. No don't shoot at it! Sure you'll blow some big holes in it, but it won't do any good, it will just make it mad." Bullets are a really ineffective way to attack Bundavarks and its not because the Bundavark are heavily armored. Why are bullets ineffective? The best answers will have the creature that is the most unaffected by bullet holes with the smallest amount of hand waving. 

A Magical virus Magical creatures are especially more powerful and dangerous, they can grow and move faster than normal. What if a virus or bacterium fed on the host's magical energy, to cast spells. It could be freakishly dangerous. Imagine a virus that consumes a hosts magical energy to cast "summon 500 new copies of virus" on every magical being. It could grow at speeds that biological systems have never seen before, infecting and killing all magical creatures on the planet in seconds. Imagine a virus that could cast disintegrate, or fireball, all magical creatures appear to just vanish or explode spectacularly one day. Non/low magical creatures would be resistant, since the viruses in out bodies would have no energy to feed on, they would be no more dangerous then the flu. It would also be odd that the magic civilization's cities would be completely intact since everyone would have died to fast to react. For your setting you can also choose if the virus was created deliberately as a weapon or evolved on its own. A key and scary question for later mages is did any of the virus survive when it ran out of hosts? 

TLDR: The question is to broad to answer in anything less than several books This question is like asking what one or two things makes people die or get sick, except empires of hundreds of humans are more complicated than individual ones. This question encompasses basically the entire field of history like the second encompasses the whole field of medicine. Its an important question but there are hundreds of different causes, we can point to empires that had popular unrest for decades before they fell(like running a fever), and to ones that fell suddenly and violently to outside invasion (gunshot wound). You can't point to a single symptom to say this is what caused every person to die like wise you can't point to one cause for the fall of empires. (aside from birth: statistically most people have been born died and the rest are likely to die in the next 100 or so years, most empires that have been founded have fallen) Worse still there are many empires where the cause is highly debated or the result of many different problems which further slows analysis. In fact the largest collapses seem to be the most murky and complex The right answer would have to be a list of hundreds of possible causes ranging from loss of irreplaceable leaders (Macedonia) Combat with a more powerful foe (Japanese empire in the 1940's) To more murky causes hyperinflation from gathering to much sliver and gold (Spanish Empire) increased reliance on mercenaries/ decadence and waste of the upper class / dozens of important causes I'm forgetting (Rome) Loss of trade route control due to better ships To make things even worse some major empires we have almost no information on why they fell, like the Mayan and Mohenjo-daro civilizations 

We are currently playing one such game. Nuclear brinkmanship / Nuclear Standoff with M.A.D. Rules : Each nation can decimate any other at anytime. Mutually Assured destruction ensures each major player has enough weapons so that even after suffering a complete surprise attack they can still decimate a foe. To go to war against a country with nukes you need their permission. Otherwise they nuke you and you nuke them and everyone dies. Note all players must be Nuclear countries. The idea is that even the weakest of nuclear powers can destroy the strongest. Everyone has an incentive not to shoot because they want to protect their people much more than they want to kill the enemy. General Ideas In general you need to create incentives for both the stronger and weaker country to participate usually by finding common ground. Things like, if we fight I may get some land but we will both lose huge amounts of money from traders who won't come to an active war zone. There can be some groups were there is no alternative to war, because you do need some common ground to make peace. If a foe values your death above their life its hard to think of a way to incentivize them to peace. 

Who are you ... but actually Do you and you twins from different worlds trust each other or commit massive identify theft? Then ask the question again for companies and countries. We could see large scale power blocks as people ally with their twins to do great or terrible things. Who would you trust more than your exact clone, but who knows better how to fool you? It would seem the wining strategy for each cooperating collective of twins is to diversify their choices as much as possible to increase the chance that any one has huge success. This would tend to drive divergent evolution of worlds even faster. We could see huge economies of scale in tec and research as the research from one world can be shared with the others for free, and some planning keeps us from duplicating research. There also would be so much more knowledge available because we could to completely controlled experiments, on whole cities and planets. 

The bounty system really only works in a world where the central government doesn't have enough strength and wealth to enforce the law directly. For all the reasons Francine listed full time soldiers and cops have the right motives and are better trained have better oversight and work together better. How rich or poor are your cities? In the American west bounty hunters where only widespread for around 50 years a brief period where there were some towns in the Midwest but most states had to few people and to little money to mount a real police force. The main advantage of bounty hunters is they are a way of getting a larger police force briefly for one bounty, for a high cost. If the kingdom is having a high crime problem then a standing police force will be cheaper. One of the few ways the modern world used bounty hunters in for people who post bail and flee. The bail is then used to help pay for the person's recapture, either by police or private individuals. This is a method for pushing the cost of recapture on the escapee. 

Marry to survive Dragons would fight a lot, if you have a mate and fight a unmated dragon you have 2 to 1 advantage. This is huge since you are unlikely to cooperate with other dragons, so having a mate is a huge tactical advantage. Gangs So dragon pairs can't cooperate with anyone out side the mating pair, but can they be intimidated by a stronger dragon? Say there is a powerful pair strength 30, they go to a weaker pair strength 20 and say help us kill the strongest pair strength 35 or we will kill you. Together the 2 weaker pairs kill the strongest pair no cooperation needed just intimidation. A dragon that can bring together a gang of weaker dragons to help it in a fight can beat stronger dragons. 

You are deliberately putting your self in the Sahara a long way from anyone who is would buy any significant quantities of any of these things. At first you would have to build hundreds of miles of powerlines to reach cities large enough to use your power. It is very difficult to maintain power lines over long distances in politically unstable counties (the copper wires are stolen) so even if you built the hundreds of miles of power lines there are a number of African Counties that you would not be able to maintain them in, though some you could. Your shipping costs will probably vastly outweigh the value of your products. Yes this would employ tons of people but then it would probably collapse due to lack of profit. 

The creatures are very large targets that are significantly slower than the ones we have today. They have 2x higher blood pressure so they will bleed out much faster if wounded. They are huge targets and will trouble sneaking up on anything. They must eat much more so they cannot afford to stalk or wait long they must attack. 

Via La revolution ... welcome to the oligarchy! So only the poor can vote and the become very powerful, by creating a permanent ruling class. They pass a law that only people who can currently vote and their decedents can vote, a grandfather clause. Then they can give themselves power, wealth, and benefits, think the party elite in Soviet Russia. Edit: It would have to be a constitutional amendment in the US to prevent the supreme court from striking it down. It would still be possible with a majority of the population. This holds true for restricting voting to any minority(subgroup) of the county's population. By restricting voting rights to any minority group you change a democracy to an oligarchy.