The luxury industry boomed with Louis XIV and his heirs. He made it mandatory for the nobles to invest their fortunes in the French luxury industry by following the latest fashion that the king indicated. And manufacturing exquisite clothes, metal and glass objects, fountains, fireworks, perfumes, palaces with outstanding perfection and finish requires precision and new engineering methods, chemical experimentation, search for new materials, better tools. Versailles created a mass market for textiles since people took after the nobles. Lots of second hand was available to inspire it. Even a beggar could wear a very fanciful hat if it were torn. Did Versailles hasten the industrial revolution in Europe? France was indeed ahead during the early industrialization. Are there any specific examples of luxury manufacturing that evolved into e.g. mechanized textile mass production? 

All things asside, but in the interest of correctness, this may not be Stalin's quote How about this one, by Jean Rostand: 

How could something like the Holocaust happen, and could it happen again? I'm afraid to say that I believe it can happen anywhere, and if it were to happen again in our life-time, we wouldn't realize it before it's too late, and even so: few of us would actually have the courage to step up and do something about it. A couple of books that are loosely related, in the sense that they touch on, or identify similarities between nazi- or communist dictatorships and current western foreign policies: Gore Vidal: Permanent war for Permanent Peace William Blum: Rogue State 

The Zimmerman telegram was sent to the German ambassador in Washington, D.C., with instructions to forward it to the German ambassador in Mexico. It was actually sent two ways, both of which were intercepted by the British. The first, as noted by Tom Au and user2448131, was via American diplomatic channels to the German embassy in Washington. British monitoring of the US cable (and their knowledge of German diplomatic codes) allowed them to intercept this. The second was a more roundabout method, making use of Swedish diplomatic channels to South America (with the willing cooperation of Sweden, even though Sweden was officially neutral). (Since Swedish cables to the New World passed through England, the British were also able to intercept them.) In 1915, the British complained to Sweden about the the latter's practice of forwarding German diplomatic messages to the U.S., and Sweden promised to stop. What Sweden actually did was switch to forwarding German messages to the Swedish embassy in Buenos Aires; these messages were transferred to the German embassy there, which sent them on to the German embassy in the US. The British were soon able to identify coding patterns that allowed them to see which "Swedish" messages were actually German ones, which they could them focus on decrypting. The fact that the Germans sent two copies of the same message via different routes, both of which were intercepted, aided the British in deciphering them. In fact, the British also obtained a copy of the telegram sent on from the German embassy in Washington to the German embassy in Mexico City, possibly by bribing someone in (or breaking into) a Western Union office. But this was a slightly later step, based on the knowledge obtained from the previous interceptions. It did help the British disguise the source of their information: by handing the Americans the Washington-to-Mexico-City version of the telegram, they were able to convince both the Americans and (indirectly) the Germans that they had gotten ahold of the telegram in Mexico, and that they had broken it because it used an older, weaker code instead of the more modern code used for the telegrams to Washington. Source: David Kahn, The Codebreakers. 

Back to Göring, though, Gilbert points out a possible flaw in Göring's logic: the fact that a democratic society couldn't possibly elect a gouvernament that institutionalizes the prosecution of certain groups of people: 

Leaders are indeed the ones that make out the policies, both domestic and foreign. It is they who stand to gain from conflict. Economic and geopolitical factors come into play, and quickly overtake humanitarian considerations. As far as the leaders of a country are concerned, human casualties become statistics, and are seen as part of the cost vs benefits analysis. Basically, it's as Joseph Stalin (allegedly) stated: 

In Germany, the people were brought to the leaders' bidding by first: creating jobs, improving the economy, breaking the Treaty of Versailles and reinstating the sense of National pride. Targetting Jews and Gipsies was, in a way, self-evident: they could be the scape-goat and play the role of the enemy that has already infiltrated the country. They were seen as the ones that stole the wealth of the German people. People are worryingly gullible when it comes to things like this as American schoolteacher Jane Elliott's infamous experiment has demonstrated time and time again. Here's a clip There have been many experiments like this, and all of them seem to come to the same conclusion: When people are put in a situation where they feel they have the right to exercise power over another group, violence ensues, and is even seen as justifiable. Ironically, a more recent example of this can be seen in Israel, and the way people treat muslim refugees. They aren't even referred to as refugees, but "Infiltrators", in the same way the Jews were seen as the enemy that lived within back in WWII Germany... 

Mounted soldiers date back at least to the Neo-Assyrian Empire, and were a significant part of Persian armies, who emphasized heavily armored horsemen (including armor for the horse); the general term that gets used for these pre-medieval heavy cavalry is cataphract. It's true that the Romans didn't emphasize cavalry much, but they did end up deploying some heavy cavalry units in the east, against the Parthian and (later) Sassanid Persians; the Byzantines continued this practice in their wars against the Sassanids. The idea of stirrups (which showed up long after armored, lance-using cavalry appeared in the Levant) as a critical invention is generally now seen as an exaggeration. (Stirrups are better, certainly, but mounted warriors were able to brace themselves and deliver powerful attacks using well-designed saddles prior to the appearance of stirrups.) See here for a list of references on the stirrups issue. As for mounted archery: it certainly was a significant advance -- groups like the Mongols and Turks used it very effectively, and tended to defeat European knights when they fought against them -- but again it's something pre-dating the Romans, as Luis Henrique noted in his answer. There are clear records of it from the Neo-Assyrian Empire. If you want a nice illustration of when these things were actually in use, there's the Battle of Carrhae (53 BC), where a Roman army was wiped out by the Parthians using a combination of cataphracts and horse archers. (But note that the Romans also won battles against the Parthians and their successors the Sassanids, so the "cavalry always defeats infantry" argument is clearly false.) 

Did people in socialist East Germany and Central Europe really watch Western television as casually as Westerners did, during the cold war? Were there laws against it? Were TV and radio receivers designed to block "enemy" broadcasts? How did the socialist governments handle the fact that people could see the wealth and freedom of the capitalist societies? Did the politicians really believe their own lies so much that they thought that allowing their enslaved population watching "degenerate" Western media would help their cause? A Romanian friend tells me that it was the soap opera Dallas, with straight talking JR Ewing if you remember, that actually tore down the wall. Access to Western media seams to have had at least some effect in undermining socialist governments' authority. 

There's also the march of the Czech (or Czechoslovak) Legion in 1918, after the October Revolution and the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. The Legion was formed as a unit in the Russian Army composed of Czechs and Slovaks interested in freeing their compatriots from Austro-Hungarian rule. When the Bolsheviks started making peace with the Central Powers, the Czech Legion decided to rejoin the war on the Allied side, which basically meant getting to France. Since getting through the German-controlled Baltic looked dubious, they decided to exit Russia via Vladivostok, in the Siberian Far East. The march started as a retreat in the face of German and Austro-Hungarian forces invading the Ukraine (part of a move to pressure the Bolsheviks into agreeing to the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk), and effectively ended 6,000 miles (9,700 kilometers) later in Vladivostok, which makes it a little bit longer than the Long March. All the same, I'm not sure how much of this qualifies as a retreat per se, since for much of the time they were more on the offensive than anything else (seizing control of multiple cities along the railway route, for example). It's probably more an example of a (very extended) march through hostile territory. 

When you speak of WWII and the Holocaust in particular, it stands to reason that the same "rule" applies: the people aren't actively asking for pogroms. But Göring continues: 

Disclaimer: As I was made aware of this by Drux' comments: my answer may lead some people to believe that I am in some way justifying people not intervening, or even actively participating in the Holocaust. If read the comments below, I hope it is self-evident that this is not the case. Just to be clear: I absolutely and unequivocally condemn any action that discriminates on the basis of religion and or race, be it in the past, present or future. My main interest, as far as history is concerned, is 20th century geo-politics. The question of how could this happen is one that we all ask about every genocide. What I tend to do (and attempted to do in my answer) is to shift that question to could this happen (again) today or is it happening again. Of course, when attempting to apply this very sensitive subject (WWII genocide) to modern-day politics, I recognize the fact that bad choice of words or phrasing can lead to misunderstandings. It also stands to reason that a 1-on-1 "projection" of past events onto the present is, by definition false/flawed. But the cliché of history repeating itself is, IMHO, not all together absurd. Anyway, it is not my intention to hurt people, I am not trying to negate or minimize any of the atrocities that were committed. My only goal is to communicate what I believe are genuine similarities between the rise of Nazi Germany and today's political tendencies/evolutions. And to avoid any further misunderstandings, let's not beat around the bush: I have no sympathies towards anything even remotely resembling fascism or (neo-)Nazism whatsoever. So if you are a neo-Nazi looking to recruit: try your luck at the local asylum, or try reading a book, instead of using it as a hammer. If the contents of my answer below offends anyone for any reason, do not hesitate to leave a comment, and I'll be happy to clarify whatever needs clarification, or edit my answer in accordingly. 

I think you could argue for a fundamental difference in the Spanish and English attitudes toward "colonization" of the Americas, based partly on different historical backgrounds and partly on where they started. Once the Spanish got to the Americas proper (as opposed to the Caribbean islands), they encountered populous agricultural and urban societies, including sophisticated kingdoms and empires (especially the Aztecs and Incas). The model provided by Cortes and Pizarro thus became (crudely speaking): "Conquer the native kingdoms and rule over them (and marry their women). When you want more land, go on expeditions to conquer it." The strong Catholic missionary impulse of the time also meant a strong emphasis on converting the natives to Catholicism, which made it easier for Spaniards to intermarry with them. (Note that both Cortes and Pizarro married local princesses.) This was arguably a continuation of the Reconquista model: conquer the Moorish kingdoms and rule over the (non-Christian) locals as you try to convert them. It probably also was affected by the multinational nature of the Spanish/Hapsburg empire in the 16th Century: if Flemish and Italians and Germans could all be subjects of the Emperor, so could Indians in the Americas. For the English colonists (as well as, e.g., the Dutch in New Amsterdam), the model was more "Buy or steal small amounts of land from the natives to set up your own independent settlements. Don't interact with the natives aside from trade, and when you want to expand, buy or steal more land and push the natives away (or kill them)." Thus, despite the interactions and occasional intermarriage that did take place (and the occasional efforts at missionary activity), English colonists tended to remain segregated in their own societies, building their own towns and gradually expanding at the expense of native populations. Another possible factor: The lands the Spanish conquered included numerous long-established agricultural societies (with genuine cities), which generally meant they had higher populations. This probably ensured that the natives remained relatively numerous compared to the European conquerors/settlers despite the massive die-offs from Old World diseases. The lower population density in most of North America (fewer agricultural societies, and none of them with actual cities) probably meant that it was easier for English colonists to outnumber the natives over time. 

Göring, however, does not see things like this, and actually summarizes the plot of Orwell's yet to be written novell 1984: 

From the off: The phrase "Wir haben es nicht gewusst" is a lie. Many Germans have later admitted that the deportation and mass killing of Jews, Gipsies and political prisoners was a public secret. At first, it could well be that not everybody was equally aware, and yes, the German economy was headed in the right direction, and yes the Nazi regime did manage to create jobs, and instill on the people a lost sense of pride. So it's not unlikely that, at first, people were willing to subject themselves and others to the nasty sides of the regime. By the time the ghastly things that were going on had become this public secret, the Nazi apparatus had managed to infiltrate every aspect of daily life, though. There are recorded accounts of children that got sent home from school, and were expressly prohibited to attend classes until they joined the Hitler Jugend. Though this does not serve as justification, with the rise of fascism, there grew a sense of terror among the population, too: if they didn't contribute, that was seen as a sign of rebellion, and thus they, too, could fall victim. But that's just one of many reasons why the Nazi's could keep on doing what they did, and does not answer your question. For that, we need to go back to the end of WWI. Germany had capitulated, and was heavily punished (Treaty of Versailles). WWI was in part caused by the Germans wanting a part of the colonial pie that the rest of Europe were having (among other things of course) as you may know. While the Treaty of Versailles was said to be about making amends and repaying war damage to those countries involved, it also prohibited Germany to expand its borders (ie: no colonies). Do not underestimate the social trauma a nation can sustain when, already having had to admit defeat, being forced to forego the perks (colonies back then were seen as a nations right) other countries so happily grant themselves. A nation is a mass of people, and a mass behaves irrational and emotional (like a toddler). Tell a 3 year old it's done wrong, punish it and then tell it, it has to watch while other toddlers are eating its sweets, it'll cry, kick and scream. So there was a genuine feeling of betrayal and disgruntlement in Germany. There had also been a long tradition of antisemitism in Europe. Couple that to the rise of Communism (Russian revolution happened during WWI) and you have: Anger, Fear (of Communism) and a not-well-liked minority. That's an explosive mix, no matter how you look at it. All you need is a spark: a charismatic leader, preferable one that also manages to restore some of the national pride that the country in question seems to have lost. An interesting read in this respect is "The Nuremberg Diary". Gustave Gilber, an American psychologist interviewed Hermann Göring and wrote their conversation down: 

"Their point is that no non-violent movement has ever succeeded in a vacuum. There have always been parallel violent movements that essentially scared the powers that be into negotiating with the more moderate non-violent movement." I think that's pretty clearly nonsense. What were the "parallel violent movements" in the People Power Revolution (1986, Philippines), or most of the Eastern European revolutions of 1989 (such as rather aptly named "Peaceful Revolution" in East Germany and the "Velvet Revolution" in Czechoslovakia), or the overthrow of Slobodan Milosevic in 2000, or the 2003 Rose Revolution in Georgia, or the Arab Spring in Tunisia? (For that matter, how was Malcolm X actually "violent"?) On the general question of whether violent resistance is effective, you might want to take a look at the well-regarded study by Maria Stephan and Erica Chenowith on the relative success rates of nonviolent and violent resistance campaigns. You can find the original 2008 study here; it was later expanded into a book in 2011 called Why Civil Resistance Works: The Strategic Logic of Nonviolent Conflict. They looked at a total of "323 nonviolent and violent resistance campaigns from 1900 to 2006". (These were generally independence movements or movements aimed at overthrowing a repressive regime.) Nonviolent movements were twice as likely to succeed as were violent movements. In addition, nonviolent movements were significantly more likely to result in democratic successor states; successful violent movements were more likely to result in oppressive regimes, presumably because groups that rely on violence to succeed tend to continue using the same tactics and mindset after they win. One of their main arguments is that violent campaigns are less likely to get popular support (or international support) and are easier for regimes to suppress without much protest. Put more simply: if your movement is violent, you're less likely to get the general public or international groups to support you, and it's easier for the regime to portray you as illegitimate and too dangerous to talk to, and easier for them to justify and get away with suppressing you. One implication of this is that if the regime can link (legitimately or just via propaganda) a nonviolent movement to a violent group, it can poison the nonviolent movement in the eyes of the general public, making it less likely for them to succeed. (This is in part echoing Opt's answer.)