Identification for better protection. If from a social specie, or at least one taking great care of its eggs, the eggs would be better nurtured. In this case, the bio-luminescence could also be used as a way to communicate the egg's needs (warmth, moisture, etc.). Identification as a warning. The eggs could be highly toxic and poisonous for predators, or have other defense mechanisms (an electric egg ?). This special signature would keep predators at distance, like some animals using very visible colors. Identification as a trap. The eggs are easily spotted by some wannabe-predators, only to see the latter being stick to the egg and dissolve by some digestive liquid dripping from the egg. Or the egg need to be eaten to reach a parasitic form that is an intermediate step in its growth). This could also be combined with 1. where care-taking adults use the eggs to attract preys closer. 

As stated, your target is to organize information. And that is usually not a trivial task : information elements are linked to others, may be linked to space and/or time. So you can have different axis : you can for example use a geographical map to locate things in space, a timeline to organize them in time, some family tree coupling time and relationships between siblings, etc. Depending of the level you want to achieve, it can be quite a lot of information to keep in your head. You may want to use some tools to organize this. It can be simple notebooks and papers, or some software (I can think of the great Tiddlywiki here ; feel free to add suggestion in comments). If you are building this for a world or game, do not push it too much, as the world is mostly a recipient for your story, and not an end by itself. Structure your information around the hero or center of the story. As a side note, you can maybe find inspiration for both content and organization in some gaming systems like Microscope. 

Our species is hard-wired for a lot of things; but one of them, which seems to be irreducible, is the need to be useful. Take that away from people, and you get all sorts of social pathologies: 

@Wick, I suspect many, if not most, of your concerns with respect to the theory and practice of teleportation are addressed in Larry Niven's essay EXERCISE IN SPECULATION: THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF TELEPORTATION. The essay is adapted from a talk Niven gave at Boskone, the New England Science Fiction Association conference which is reliably packed with MIT students. So Niven knew he couldn't get away with non-rigorous handwaving, and had to look fairly carefully at the various scenarios. Since he has a good working knowledge of physics and has read a lot of science fiction, there's a lot of good solid speculative science in it. Among other things, Niven goes into a good amount of detail about the kinds of issues @JonOfAllTrades raises: conservation of momentum and energy. My own favorite zany speculation is the design for the "end-teleport drive", a spaceship that teleports itself onto its own front end. That's just glorious. 

There is one kind of planet on which airships remain feasible and heavier-than-air craft are not: one with an extremely thin atmosphere. This is, at first, counterintuitive: airships rely on buoyancy, so they perform best in very thick atmosphere. However, "best" is relative. Heavier-than-air craft are even more limited by thin air. Consider the Wikipedia article on Flight altitude records: the balloons beat the heavier-than-air craft every time (not counting rocket planes, thanks). It's easy enough to explain that. Consider what happens to a heavier-than-air craft as it goes as high as possible. It starts to mush along, unable to ascend anymore, because its engines simply can't provide the necessary thrust to generate increased aerodynamic lift in the thinner air. By contrast, a lighter-than-air craft that flies too high experiences uncontrolled ascent, because the gas bags expand. If it doesn't have emergency venting capability (which they all do, realistically) it's doomed. The gas envelope, expanding with diminished pressure, will split open - if it's a dirigible, it may damage the airframe first - and the ship's gonna fall out of the sky. I don't know how much better illustration there could be of the superior flight characteristics of lighter-than-air craft on a planet with thin atmosphere. It's a fairly sound assumption that, the thinner the atmosphere, the less likely that a technologically advancing culture would develop heavier-than-air flight in the first place. And that if your premise is that an already technologically knowledgeable group of people had entered the world from elsewhere, they would make the same kind of engineering choices. Now... IF you would accept this as a worldbuilding premise, there'd be a lot of work to do, a lot of questions to answer: 

Assuming that the magical world doesn't have entirely different physical sciences - Get a solar-powered e-book reader, download as many gigabytes of science, engineering and medical text books as you can cram in. Include starter texts as well as intermediate and advanced texts. Might be worth looking up some older texts and history of technology books so that you have some idea of how to transition from their current state of technology to your current technological level too. If you're willing to share it about carry as many additional readers as you can manage. 

A scorpion wouldn't be very aerodynamic and so a thrown scorpion would have limited range (especially compared to a longbow or crossbow). Even if you employed a mechanical device to aid launching (sling, scorpion ballista, etc), it's not going to have the same range as an arrow or crossbow bolt. So you're going to lose in a ranged weapons exchange. Using too much force in the throw could kill the scorpion rendering it useless (espcially if it hit a shield or armor). Docile scorpions (re: easier to tame) that are less likely to sting their handlers would also be less likely to sting their intended targets. Even more aggressive scorpions would not necessarily choose to sting the person they were thrown at but might just flee instead. To be effective battlefield weapons the scorpion venom would need to be fatal (or at least incapacitating) fairly rapidly. If it takes several hours or days to take effect, the battle may be lost before it happens. Since the scorpions are effectively a "use it and lose it" weapon, there would need to be hundreds (if not thousands) of them available for each battle. Finally, a thrown scorpion wouldn't really be like a "handgrenade", which could kill/incapacitate multiple targets at once. It would actually be less effective than a poisoned arrow (which would be easier to handle, have greater range and could kill even without the poison taking effect). 

I especially like the answers from Bokai and Abulafia, who cite Toynbee and Systems Theory respectively. I think those are the most generally powerful and descriptive. To pull it all together, I'd recommend John Michael Greer's posts on the nature of empire. In a 3-piece series starting with $URL$ Greer applies his serious scholarship in both Toynbee's theories of history and Systems Theory, and a lot more besides (such as the work of Oswald Spengler and Joseph Tainter), and boils it down into a very well-written overview. 

The way the question is asked, and the way the overwhelming physical resources of the orwellian systems is framed, it seems that the only true vulnerabilities will reside in 

All in all, I'm starting to have serious concerns about the feasibility of your idea. I think that the fundamental creative vision is (as mentioned above) pretty wonderful. However, strictly interpreted, your particular scenario - lots of very large ships rafted together - seems unworkable. There are some things you could do to fix it from the standpoint of practical shipbuilding and seamanship, if you're willing to relax some of your requirements. For example: Raft dedicated components rather than big ships It's not at all hard to devise modular floating structures that would raft together nicely. Because they wouldn't have the initial design constraints as independently operable ships, they could be incredibly superior for rafting purposes. 

Flying dragons would have a much stronger advantage in tactical mobility than that conferred by Viking longships; and the horrifying effectiveness of dragonfire against agricultural targets would be decisive. As a result, your answer is going to be limited to two reasonable worldbuilding techniques: 

So, there you have it. I stated my constraints at length; thank you for reading them; please treat them as they are. I'm working within them, not building a world from scratch. :-) 

This seems to match the original question's intent. pre-"state" human bands There are basically three kinds of associations in history that predate states and that rely on intuitive, rather than explicit, theories of political legitimacy. These three types of community are fundamentally distinguished by their ecological characteristics. They are: