Leave the power meter completely away from the transmission... $URL$ is a wind-based power meter. I have no idea how it works, but at $300 its also half the price of other power meters. 

Perhaps we need a meta-index, one that searches all the bike indexers in all the countries, then reports on matches based on serial number / brand / engravings etc. Something like a email RBL blacklist DNS searcher, like $URL$ Personally I'd expect the sticker to be one of those permanent ones, or forgo that and use engraving on the steel/alloy frame. Downside is, police don't have a lot of time for low value recoveries like this, so there's no incentive to use these databases. 

Jiggle it, wiggle it, slap it around a little. The latch part is probably not retracting when it should. You can also blast the lock with a penetrating lubricant and repeat the jiggle/wiggle/tap. You could try contacting Rock Bros at $URL$ for advice and possible replacement. Its slightly disconcerting that their email addresses are given as rockbrosbike@gmail.com and rockbrosbike@hotmail.com Is your bike locked up somewhere else? I'd recommend you go and add more locks to it until this one is removed. If you give up, use a grinder to cut the lock completely and throw it away. 

1) 0%. New cassette means new chain unless its got no more than a week's riding or 100 km. Whichever is less. 2) Too variable to answer. I've seen chains at well over 2% elongated still working "okay" because rider was a granny and had little power. 3) Other answers cover this perfectly well. 

I bought one too - on the same idea of having a better way to check for chain/cassette wear. Its pretty useless to be honest. The best tool for knowing how much mileage is on a chain/cassette is a set of accurate records. Cars have mileometers/odometers and stationary engines have hour meters. Sadly bikes don't have the same hardware. So I record every ride on Strava, and religiously use the "My Gear" options to note when things were changed. Works for me 

and some bolts with the threads facing downward. You could use old spokes or other metal wire. Spokes are hard to bent with fingers so pliers might be required. Any sharp end could poke a hole into load items in the basket too. I've got a box of thousands of galvanised concrete reinforcing tiedown wires that can be bent by hand. 

Those are "stem shifters" Problem is its not just a simple bolt. There are washers in there that do the actual gripping and it sounds like they may be dirty or worn to not be holding so well. If you're handy, take it apart completely, clean with solvent or citrus cleaner, and then reassemble in the reverse order. Take lots of photos to assist with rebuilding. If you're after a quick fix, take out the screw/bolt, squirt some "locktite" on the threads and reinstall. Leave it a day to harden and then ride like normal. Superglue (cyanoacrilate) can be used instead in a pinch. 

Overtightning of the cones normally causes spalling (where tiny flakes of the hardened bearing running surface flake off) I've mostly seen this on the cone (the nut that is outermost), not the cup side of the bearing (which is an integral part of the wheel hub.) Good news is that a shimano cone is replaceable, and depending on size should cost between $5 and $25 to buy the cone only, from your LBS. Do replace all the bearings for both side while you're in the axle, they're under $5 a full set. You'll need one maybe two cone spanners of the right size, and a normal spanner, plus rags and solvent like petrol for cleaning. And bearing grease... I just use marine grade tractor grease same as the bearings in my landy. TIP: You may need to take any dust shield off the old cone and fit it to the new one. Use a suitably sized socket to press on the shield but not the cone and squeeze it up in a vice. Metal ones normally work well but I've never been able to remove a plastic dust shield; they just bend. 

I've done something like this. I had a rear wheel with a 6 speed freewheel, and an 8 speed hub and cassette. I simply undid all the nipples and re-laced the new hub to the old rim. Fortunately for me, the old spokes were the right length already If your rim needs a different spoke length then this will get expensive. You also need the same number of rim holes and flange holes. You might be able to unbolt your 9 speed freehub from the original wheel and bolt it to the newer wheel, but there's a very good chance the mountings won't be compatible. There are multiple standards for this fitment and different ways to undo them. So the single easiest thing to do is use the new front and the old rear wheel. 

Is the MTB a 26" wheel? The road bike will likely be a 700c wheel, so different sizes and not swappable. Even if they were the same rolling size of wheel, then brakes are a sticking point. Either both need to be rim brakes or both disk brakes. A road bike with disk brakes would still be fairly new and worth more as-is, not chopped around. You'd have to take the whole front fork from the MTB to the road bike to get the disk mounts, at which point you've made a lightweight frame front-suspension MTB. Brake cable pull will be an issue too - your brifters will pull less wire than the MTB brakes. So rim brakes will move less when pulled by brifters. This means poorer braking and more brake rub because of smaller tolerances. Any fixers tend to be patch solutions that don't address the underlying causes. The general consensus is that a drop bar swap is not worth doing UNLESS you have all the parts, and don't mind losing a working bike. 

Nope. Bar tape is cheap enough to replace every couple years, and makes the bike look nice. Throw your gloves into the wash periodically with your other riding clothes. Sweat is slighly salty, but its not going to harm metal in a bike or human's lifespan. The oils and grease from mechanical parts is more likely to affect paint than sweat. That said, washing your bike is also good. If you're unfortunate enough to live somewhere that heavily salts the roads in winter, then that will rust steel and to a lesser extent stainless steel. A good wash cleans that off and also helps preserve your bike. 

Part of the problem is that you're riding a trike, and that roads aren't flat, so you're continuously on a slight lean. Its totally normal and to a large extent unavoidable. You might be able to fit shims in your seat mounts to help angle the seat away from the camber of the road. The boom might be able to rotate a couple of degrees too, without causing significant problems to the chainline. 

Generally speaking they're fairly corroded over time. The thing labelled Clamp in the diagram is more normally known as a wedge or expander. So you need to get some penetrating oil into the threads in the wedge. This is not possible from above. 

Not really a full answer but I can't post pictures in a comment. Imagine stomping along a darkened rural road at your top speed, and running into this unyeilding mass of sheep flesh. Its totally possible for any domesticated animal to get out of their paddock and stand in the road - they're a bit stupid mostly. 

AFAIK you only need a brake caliper adapter (more weight) and a larger rotor. Your existing caliper should work fine, and the hub bolt pattern should be the same too. You'll need to check that your fork is rated for a larger rotor, and that the rider load limits remain the same. 

If you have a 42mm tyre, and still have 3/4" of clearance at all possible points, then your maximum size would be 42mm +19mm = 61mm. Do check the clearance at the chainstays, the seat stays, and the brake bridge. You imply you have rim brakes, they're often the limiting factor. 

Improve by practising - same as most things in cycling. Quiet ride make sure there are no cars around and nothing coming up that may be an obstacle, and have a sip. Don't guzzle water, it will be bad for your guts and there's a chance of some going down into the lungs by mistake, inducing a cough. I find that I often phlegm-up within 5 minutes of a big drink, so drink less but more often. 

I've done exactly the same - mine's a 10 speed Morrison from the 80s, with suntour components. I did an initial clean and service, and as part of that I rebuilt the rear wheel with ~6 new spokes. I also completely despoked it, washed and scrubbed all the old galv spokes, brushed off all the rim rust, treated the rust, repacked the bearings, and reassembled/trued the wheel. It works passably, but gosh does it look pretty now. Lubing and cleaning everything that moves helped a lot too, along with swapping out the rusted pedals with used but good ones. A clean and lube of the chain helped too. I swapped out the ripped and rotting seat with a modern spare I had, and fitted my long-long seatpole which saved weight. Also I removed the bottom bracket generator and all wiring and lights.... a single modern LED beats them everytime. Finally, the odd ones. I rewrapped the bars with "cork tape" instead of the thin nylon strapping stuff, so there's a nice spongey layer under my hands. I also replaced the brake pads because the old ones looked fine with minimal wear, but were baked rock-hard by 10 years of nonuse. One has a lot more confidence to go when you're happy that it will stop on demand. Unrelated info - the longer head tube of an older road bike is an excellent place to mount a gopro. I also had to buy a special freewheel tool, the old suntour 5 speed freewheel uses a two-pin format which wasn't in my generic kit. Was worth it because spoke replacement would have been impossible without the tool, and my homemmade effort was quite inadequate. 

Another option is to fit additional threaddd mounts to your frame. This works fine if your frame is steel, but I wouldn't try this on a carbon or aluminium frame. The threaded insert is called a rivnut or a nutsert and looks like this: 

I wear cheap white cotton gardening gloves on my hands, while biking - they started white and are now a light grey from oil and exhaust fumes. Only cost $2 at the local hardware store. The other thing is to look for full arm length high-vis jackets or overvests with reflective piping on the arm. Orange is considered better than grellow for night-time visibility. And ride like they haven't seen you, because they probably haven't. 

And further notes on saddle fit $URL$ After that comes saddle fit on the bike - you want it flat and roughly centered, but different people need different adjustments. That's a whole new question though. 

View from left hand side of bike, so trailer would be to the right of photo. I have a 20" folder and it has an inordinate amount of grit and dirt and dust from the chain. So putting the QR on the drive side would expose the cam to a lot more contamination. For my trailer, I mount the towball on the left-hand-side and have the QR pointing forward. The safety cable goes around the main spar and back to the trailer draw-bar. There's no way the QR could be opened by any part of the trailer - its more likely to catch a stick or some vines or grass. So you do whatever works for you on your bike. 

If its brand new and under warranty, don't mess around with it... take it back. Your freehub should have pretty much no discernible play, and adding a cassette on top just makes it look worse. As for fixing the freehub yourself, I don't know because I've not yet had one that needs repair. 

NOTE the only bikes that are zero-maintenance are rentals/bike loan schemes, and race bikes that come with a team mechanic. Both cost money. Items reputed to increase maintenance requirements 

In some places, the painted centerline may stop the vehicle from being allowed to pass, so you might be wasting your time if the road is narrow. Your other options are to get going faster, or to time your descent so it starts at the end of a car column with a space behind you. This can be aggravating if the line of cars is slower than your descent. HOWEVER... At all times be safe on a descent. Don't feel you have to push and outride your comfort zone/speed. There's a lot of kinetic energy when descending, and if that transforms into friction or a sudden stop, then its a bad day. 

EDIT now I see that the bike has cottered cranks and a highly raked fork, puts this bike solidly into the 70s. 

After that, you can look at getting more aerodynamic, but at some point you have to stop spending money to "put makeup on the swine" and start saving for a road bike. As motivation, consider a lot of lighter road bikes have a maximum rider weight of 90 or 95 kilos, so consider setting this as a target weight before buying a new bike.