This is extremely embarrassing. In the last moment he looses faith, thinks God has abandoned him, and dies with a whimper. Even Jim Jones or David Koresh did not lose faith like this! And people around him does not understand what he is saying and are making fun of him. Now consider the later account in Luke: 

Regarding claim 3, this seem to be a misunderstanding of the hypothesis that languages evolve words for colors gradually and in a universal order. The claim is not that on a specific day, languages around the world invented a word for "blue", but rather that "blue" will typically be the sixth color term to appear in a language (after dark, light, red, green and yellow). This hypothesis is controversial and some counterexamples have been found, but it is not totally ridiculous. The answer by March Ho examines this in more detail. 

After pro cyclist Ryder Hesjedal crashed on stage 7 of the 2014 Vuelta a España, something odd seemed to occur with his bike: the wheels kept spinning. See the video here. Now the cycling media is in an uproar over the event, with French newspaper L'Equipe and Cycling Weekly asking whether Hesjedal is guilty of "motorized doping." Bike Snob, a prominent cycling blogger, says yes: 

Walking through Chinatown, I occasionally notice men whose faces appear shaved except for a collection of uncut hairs sprouting from a facial mole. I don't know what came over me today, but I decided to Google this phenomenon, and I stumbled upon a blog post at a site called "Ask A Chinese Guy Girl". 

Regarding claim 2, this is actually contradicted by the article you link to, which states that Egyptian was the only ancient language which had a word for blue. But even this claim is wrong since we specifically know ancient Latin and Greek words for the "Egyptian blue" dye. 

This is quite different and does not match 9/11 very well. 9/11 did not happen in Rome, and it wasn't just three walls the fell that day. And neither the ruler of Rome nor the ruler of New York died that day. And if you starts to read the surrounding context, they don't fit very well either. For example a star with seventy flames was supposed to be revealed on the firmament on the same day and then disappear again after seventy days. I don't remember this happening. I don't know Hebrew so I cant say which translation is most correct, but from the given I strongly suspect the prophecy only vaguely fits 9/11 if you create you own biased translation and crop the context. If you read further in the bloggers analysis of the passage, he posits that the prophecy refers to Osama bin Laden hiding in a cave, from where he will detonate a nuclear bomb, escape in a plane, and become ruler of the world. It did not exactly happen like this... Btw. the footnote in the above book states that: 

The video title suggests he attributes the heightened radiation to the nuclear disaster at Fukushima Daiichi. Is his reading accurate? Is there evidence to suggest the radiation results from the Fukushima Daiichi disaster? 

The New York Times today published an article in which senior Taliban commander Wali ur-Rehman claims the Taliban now uses camcorders to scan cars and other potential drone targets. 

In a book distributed on the Internet (since taken down), high-ranking al-Qaeda official Abu Yahya al-Libi claims the US is using 9-volt infrared flashing beacons as homing devices for drone strikes. Wired published photos of the devices provided by al-Libi, and cites an admission of US military use of the devices: 

Now, not only does Jesus bravely accept his fate, it actually turns out it was part of the big plan all along! And the sponge-guy is not taunting Jesus anymore, but rather offering the sponge as an act of grace. The whole scene is just so much more dignified and meaningful. It is quite easy to see how the narrative could have developed like this. First the crucifixion and the pitiful death of Jesus is an embarrassing fact. But over the following decades (it is assumed to be about 40 years between Mark and John) it is re-interpreted (or spun as we would say today) to actually becoming a meaningful event which shows the greatness of Jesus, and was planned all along. Now consider if it was a fictional account. it makes no sense to make up such an embarrassing end for Jesus (which the Christians later had to spin heavily), if the point of the story was to convince people that this guy was God! The case for the purely fictional Jesus simply does not make sense. Tl;dr: Jesus most likely were a real person. 

Can basic camcorders be used to find these infrared devices? Are the Taliban & al-Qaeda using these readily available consumer goods to stymie drone strikes? 

"Recount the election!" is the 4th most popular petition at whitehouse.gov. It has 69,588 signatures (as of Jan 30, 2012). As justification for the petition, the creator writes: 

This reasoning seems questionable. Does ethyl alcohol -- not to mention Purell's other ingredients (Isopropyl myristate, in particular, is concerning) -- not apply selective pressure to germs, killing off those most susceptible to Purell and thus clearing the way for the proliferation of competing "superbugs"? Am I misunderstanding antimicrobial (antibiotic) resistance? 

Bottom line: People throughout history have been able to perceive and distinguish colors we would call blue. But they would not necessary have a word directly translatable to "blue". 

Almost all reputable historians believe that Jesus did exist. Why they believe this I will explain below. To be absolutely clear, when we say Jesus did live, we are not saying that everything or even most of the things said about him in the Bible is true. Even ignoring the supernatural elements, the gospels contain internal contradictions, so we are absolutely sure they are not 100% reliable. What we say is that the myth of Jesus originated from real historical person. Kind of like the myth of Santa Claus originated with a real person, the bishop Nicolaus of Smyrna which was later sactified as Sct. Nicolaus. Compare this this to say Jupiter which we consider a purely mythological figure. The outlandish claims regarding Jesus (walked on water, resurrected the dead etc.) cannot be taken as evidence that he is fictional. If we take Alexander the Great, multiple legends grew up around him - he was the son of Zeus, his sister was a mermaid etc. This just shows that when a figure becomes revered, legends will form. No historians in their right mind would deny that Alexander was historical. Stripping away all the legends around Alexander there is still a historical core which is more likely to be true than to be made up. I'm going to explain why historians consider the same to be the case for Jesus. So what evidence is there for Jesus as a historical person? We have no first-hand or contemporary sources to the life of Jesus and we have no archaeological remains to prove his existence. And this is not surprising - this is the case for the vast majority of pre-modern historical figures, including people who was much more famous in their own time than Jesus. Take someone Alexander the Great again, one of the most important figures in History. We have no first-hand sources and no remains. The best sources we have are written hundreds of years after his death. Even then, given the available historical evidence we assume Alexander existed, since a lot history is impossible to explain otherwise (and his invention would have required a vast conspiracy among historians in antiquity). There are a few references to Jesus by historians independent of the Bible, but they are not first-hand accounts, and basically just states what the Christians of the time believed. The most important is the Jewish-Roman historian Josephus which have two passages mentioning Jesus, although one of them is generally agreed to be a fabrication inserted by later Christian scribes. The other passage (which is generally assumed to be authentic) states: 

Several news sources reported that 3 men were deported from Saudi Arabia in early April because they were "too handsome." Now "fashion photographer, actor, and poet" Omar Borkan Al Gala is reported to have been one of the individuals kicked out of the country. Was he really deported for his good looks? 

Also included is a full index explaining each mole's significance. For instance, a mole at location 21 correlates with: 

Where does this mole map come from? Is it authentic? What's really up with the cultural practice of letting mole hair grow long?