top my list of insane energy producers. Then the magical robots have a gravity-to-energy converter. Gravity isn't an issue because the converter basically consumes it during the conversion process. Robots powered by micro-singularities would be awesome! 

Radar, even from close orbit, won't detect something a mile underground. Neither will a camera for that matter. Even if close range radar could detect an underground facility, you would have to know where to look. The larger the scanning "beam" the lower the sensor resolution will be - so you have to figure out what your lowest acceptable resolution is. For pinpointing targets from orbit, you're probably talking about a beam size of 1-mile diameter or less (guessing). For a planet the size of earth, using naive math, that's a surface area of 4.92403 x 107 (e.g. it will take longer than you want to scan for the target). Like I said, that is naive math (surface area of a circle with an earth-like diameter). But a planet is a sphere so the farther from perpendicular to the surface you are, the more distortion you will encounter. That means you have to constantly be readjusting the position of the ship. Burying facilities is how governments today hide things. At long range, see #1. At short range, precise targeting becomes an option. We like to imagine that the modern media's claims are true that a simple green laser pointer can blind a pilot in an airplane. Imagine what a relatively low-power, planetary wide, laser grid could do to an approaching ship's camera systems. The effects could be anything from a simple obscuring (blindness) to destruction (burning or overloading the sensor). Artificial methods of obscuring a target, such as chaff in the air, would just be a beacon. "Look! Something is hidden over here, don't look over here." 

Question: Is it possible or likely possible to measure pain scientifically (including assigning some numbers/unit with the same seriousness as length, time, etc.) and build machines doing that with today's technology? My starting point: Wikipedia writes "Pain is a distressing feeling often caused by intense or damaging stimuli." It lists different types of pain: "Nociceptive" (pain is "detected" by sensor cells), "Neuropathic" (pain as damage to the nervous system) and "Psychogenic" (basically emotional pain). Wikipedia further writes "A person's self-report is the most reliable measure of pain." and quotes Margo McCaffery: "Pain is whatever the experiencing person says it is, existing whenever he says it does". It also has a long list of pain scales which are in most cases not further explained. Wikipedia also provided scales for humans that can not communicate pain, e.g. this one. However, I don't want patients telling their pain, but measuring it independently. I image something like this could be archived with brain activity per second or something like that, if there is a pain part in the brain. Wikipedia briefly reports on that too in this section. However, the linked FMRI page doesn't contain the word "pain" and the 3 references in the section I just linked are all from 2011 and I'm not a physician, so I dare not to judge if they are affirmative to my question or just wishful thinking. I also don't know if these can measure all three parts of the pain or not. If someone with a medical background could give some evaluation on that point, this would be great. Other insightful answers to the question above are appreciated, too, of course. Background, if you need one: While I think my question above (without looking at my own research and ideas stated thereafter) is specific and general enough to be on-topic here, I'll give some background that brought me to the question in case someone is interested. I insist that this is additional information not needed for answering the question, but some may find it interesting nevertheless. Feel free to edit this part out if it isn't in the spirit of the community. In my story there is a magic that is defined to inflict the utmost pain possible on individuals, and it is of course regarded evil and forbidden. Then there is this villain (basically evil incarnate) who, as part of that universe, cannot now that this magic is per definition the worst, so he tries to beat it with other means. Cruelty ensues, but the maniac takes a scientific approach and tries to measure just how bad he can be. When the heroes finally stop the villain on his never-ending conquest, just looking at the tip of the iceberg of what he has done disgusts them so much they destroy everything without a second look. The end. (Or is it?) Sidenote: Of course I can do the measurement magically, but it seems more evil to me if the maniac actually uses scientific methods. EDIT: I decided to move further on-topic discussions to chat. 

Eventually, speech and pictures edge out text as a way to communicate. Kids don't see the point of learning how to read and write so it becomes lost art over a few generations. Eventually, written word dies out completely. As for examples on what I mean by the last bullet point, consider various forms of written word you encounter while driving: 

Establish Teleportation Through Fiction If teleportation is entrenched in the public mindset through well-loved fantasy and science fiction settings — in particular, as a 'normal' thing without raising questions about the subject's identity — the general public will have no qualms about teleportation. The 'crazies' who point out that this kills the originals won't gain much traction unless you botch the PR job. Naturally, you need to plan ahead and do this before people catch wind of emerging teleportation technology, so they don't drum up the opposition early enough to take. 

Because of the Economy of Scale The larger the scale your economy works on, the more effective it becomes. Smaller industries can be optimized to maximum efficiency, and larger industries become cost effective. Miraculous feats like performing stellar engineering or running an unobtanium manufacturing plant may only even be possible on the scale of an entire civilization. The reason to build colonies is logistics — e.g. you would colonize a star system because you're mining it for raw materials and its too expensive to bring the civilization-ship to the star. But if it's not too expensive, then you don't need to bother. 

(disclaimer: I am not an astrophysicist, so take the accuracy with a grain of salt) While the black hole will have gravity on its own, the real effect of its existence is that there will be a region in Jupiter's core that can no longer support the planet above it, and so Jupiter will begin to collapse under its own weight. Now, Jupiter is really big, and the black hole is a tiny target — while the core will probably be compressed into the hole, the outer layers will most likely fall and "miss", forming a hot dust cloud orbiting the hole with jets of high energy gasses ejected. In the worst case scenario, the pressures nearest the black hole are enough to ignite fusion, and the continued collapse makes Jupiter go supernova. Now I too am curious about what could really happen. 

Because of a recent question I ended up reading through the Painkill-discussion on meta and in the linked question the_OTHER_DJMethaneMan wrote in a comment 

What defines a human? When someone lost both arms and legs and get them replaced with prostheses, he still counts as human, no? But what if he gets replaced more, so that only the head remains? Would that still count as human? Surely many would say "He is just a head!" (as they said earlier "He is just a cripple!"). Are additions to the human make the humans inhuman? When a third arm is inhuman (and people grow third arms occasionally), why isn't the sixth finger on a hand (this also happens, humans are weird)? 

Given all the examples above, as a human, a simple thought comes to mind: "Wouldn't humanity be better of without magic?" Currently I think "Wouldn't humanity be better of without nuclear weapons?" This is a clear yes, but even if I would be able to make nuclear weapons undone, there is no way I could prevent people of inventing them AGAIN! Now, assume you live in a world where real magicians exist, but you don't know how they work, physically. It is not unreasonable to assume that magic may came from somewhere, but since then was genetically embodied in people. So if you would kill all people which show signs of magic, wouldn't you be able to remove magic from the world? If faced with no consequences, people can do bad things to people of other factions they don't like. If you, additionally, have no idea what magicians are capable of, you could be really worried about your world. Fear about getting attacked can make you want to attack first. So finally, in a world where magic is not widely understood and where magicians are not organized, it is likely for them to be prosecuted and blamed for all the bad things, because that's sadly how humanity works. They have to hide to survive. In other scenarios, it could work out better, as the examples above show. 

Historically, text was basically the only practical medium available to record and transmit. But in the real world to today, that's no longer true; audio is becoming increasingly available for this purpose. And there is a culture readily embracing this; I'm honestly mystified by how often it seems that peoples' first choice for delivering a sequence of words is via a video of someone reciting them rather than written text. Audio is also becoming increasingly available as an input medium as well; e.g. verbally asking your google assistant to perform a search, rather than typing things into a text box. So, a possible path towards a loss of the written word is to exaggerate these phenomena: 

Use a knife to stab the energy being. Physical weaponry works against material beings by disrupting the body. A priori, there is no reason why energy beings should be immune. Do walls pose an obstacle to your energy beings? Does the ground support them? If you answered yes, then your energy beings ought to be vulnerable to physical weaponry as well, since they work on the same principles. Commonly, the "immunity" to physical weaponry that exotic beings enjoy is simply due to a lack of optimization. The weapons you use to kill a human are designed to cause the sort of damage that impairs humans. E.g. a stab by kitchen knife can puncture organs and cut blood vessels, leading to organ failure or bleeding out. However, stabbing a water elemental doesn't sever anything important and does little. Slashing with a larger knife, though, could separate a limb from the main body, and thus rendering it inert as it no longer has the currents that carry the magic animating the elemental. The cutting board the knives were lying on might make for an even better slashing weapon. OTOH the reverse can be true as well, where the physical being is the one with 'immunity'. Whacking a human with an antenna probably wouldn't do much more than cause pain and make them angry. But it could cause critical damage to that lightning elemental by forcing its way into the circuitry of its body and siphoning off some of the electric current. Since it's your universe, you get to design the biology of your beings so that they are vulnerable to the things you need them to be vulnerable to, and resistant to the things you need them to be resistant to. 

In conclusion it seems like if you want to hide something on a planet from being observed by a ship - choose a location where it is often cloudy and dig a big hole. Let math and physics handle the rest. 

What if Fran were a water-based creature with either some control of her physical structure or some kind of inherent structure. All her sensory organs are inside her outer boundary, including her "eyes". The eyes see everything in a 360-degree disc (or possibly 360-degree sphere). Possibility 1: Her locomotion is fluid-like.. so a flowing mechanism. Traveling "downhill" is quite easy for her. Traveling "uphill" is easier than side to side because she leaves a moist trail in her wake. Traveling over moist surfaces is easier for her than dry surfaces. Possibility 2: Alternatively, because of the nature of her sight, this liquid-like creature only perceives the world as "forward". So while Fran can move as easily as you or I on a two-dimentional plane, whatever direction she's traveling is always forward to her. There are many ways to structure a city for this kind of Fran. If you go this direction I'm sure you will have fun exploring the possibilities. 

Just to answer part of the question - shielding - as other's have stated, shielding an entire planet is not practical. Also, you only describe the technological level of the sensors, not the defending planet. That could make a huge difference in how shielding is handled. Also, others have mentioned that cameras and radar are the most likely candidates for sensors. I agree. Here's a couple extra thoughts... 

Funny. If that would work for people, our governments would be run by scientists instead of people which most powerful weapon is phrasing things and dodging questions. But aside from that, there are several reasons why magicians would not do that. Which apply depends on the setting and working of magic. Examples 

Conclusion As you see, there are a lot of settings where magic, in one form or another, is known and accepted. People grew up with it in some cases, which is the easiest way to install acceptance. In other cases, magic was to big to ignore. In some cases, magic is just too strong to allow a long lasting society, if it isn't watered down in some way. 

The problem is more of a philosophical one than a legislative one (yet). If all atoms in your body are replaced one after another (this actually happens over time), are you still the same person? If your "native U.S." atoms are replaced with "non-native U.S." atoms, are you not a native U.S. citizen anymore? That would mean a U.S. citizen who lives most of his/her time out of the U.S. would at some point become non-native. While I believe that some people really think that way, this isn't currently the shared opinion in court, as I believe. Now what happens if you replace the atoms faster or larger chunks at once? Does this change the reasoning. If so, then there must be a line. The court will have to draw the line, if necessary, but it is really a blurry thing. For example, you explicitly wrote