I'd qualify myself as a "skilled" cyclist. I would not say that I only use the front brake 95% of the time. When riding in a peleton it would be very dangerous to make any kind of sudden stop as you cause alarm and possible collision with people behind you. If i do need to slow in a group, I use only my back brake. It allows a far more gradual slowing and better "feathering" of your braking. I use my front brake if I know I'm going to be fully stopping, such as at a stop light or intersection. I also use it in emergency situations - if there's a crash in front of me at a race or something darts out in front of me like a squirrel or something. In a race, I rarely use my front brake. I almost exclusively use my back brake aside from a crash avoidance situation. On a casual solo ride, I can usually plan ahead enough that I don't need to use my front brake, but I'd use it if necessary. 

Just trackstanding on a flat road, mountain bike or other regular situation, just use the foot you feel most comfortable with in the forward position. The real key to performing a good, solid trackstand is to find a balance of forward pressure with your front pedal and resistance with either your brakes or your rear pedal (if you're riding fixed gear). Another key to help out that I've found particularly useful is to try to keep the balance of the bike so that you can turn your handlebars in the same direction as your lead foot. This helps equalize the forward/backward pressures. Additionally, it helps prevent a tumble due to toe overlap, which isn't as big a deal on mountain bikes as it is on track bikes and road bikes because the front wheel is further out in front of the bike. If you're trackstanding on an actual track in track racing - like a match sprint race - you'll want to have your right foot forward and turn your bars to the right. This allows you to use the banking of the track as your reverse resistance and your lead (right) foot as your forward pressure. Doing the opposite will make it much harder to control as gravity will want to pull you down to the middle of the track. This same school of thought can be applied to a hill or other grade when mountain biking. 

They aren't necessary, but they are a great help to properly aligning your wheel in the dropouts in an efficient manner. If these screws are adjusted correctly, you'll be able to just put your wheel in, pull it all the way back and tighten your axle nuts and your wheel will be arrow straight in the frame. If not, You'll need to manually align your wheel each time you take your wheel off to change a tire or do maintenance. To solve your chain problem, you can either adjust the screws out so you can get your wheel further back in the dropouts or you can remove a link or two in your chain. Either way, you want to make sure that the axle nuts have a good bite on your dropouts. This means that the entire nut is in contact with the dropout (save for the portions that are aligned with the openings) 

Yakima and Thule and probably most other rack companies have top tube adapters. They all recognize the need to accommodate the sloping top tube/y frame/children's bike market. They will all function relatively the same. Unless you have an ultra lightweight delicate carbon frame/seatpost, which I don't believe your bicycle qualifies for that, you should be fine. Most of them are adjustable so you can make them fit snugly and securely. 

Wheels Manufacturing has a feature to search by brand for their hangers. Just one company of many that produces replacement hangers. $URL$ 

You'll need a freewheel removal tool like the Park FR-6 $URL$ You can attach that to the freewheel and then use a wrench to remove the freewheel. 

If you're getting new wheels anyway, I'd just get tubulars for cyclocross. I don't know anyone that would recommend tubeless for 'cross. With tubular, you'll get the advantage of running low pressure that you are after. There are also a wide variety of tires that will be suited to your needs. They might not be perfect for your commute, but if you prep them with some sealant you should be fine. 

It's not for hand signals. "Left hand only" signals were originally designed for cars. You couldn't use your right hand out the window, so you could only use your left. Using both hands to properly signal on your bike is far more clear. It's used on motorcycles due to the fact that the throttle is on the right hand, so you want to keep that engaged at all times. Reversed brake routing (front on the right, back on the left) is called "moto" routing and is primarily used in MTB and cyclocross bikes. On a CX bike, it's done so you can have greater controlled braking with the left hand on the back brake while your dismounting your bike for a barrier and your right hand is on the top tube. The front brake offers more power, while the back offers easier minor speed control while approaching a barrier. To answer your initial question, there is absolutely no reason the brakes cannot be switched on your bike. Either the mechanic is lazy or doesn't know how to work on hydraulic brakes. In either case, you should take it to another more capable shop. 

It's not really "padding", although it does offer a cushion. It's a chamois, which part of its purpose is to absorb moisture and wick it away from your skin which helps reduce friction. This is aided by creams that condition the chamois. and +1 to @Matt Adams answer. 

Adding a hill repeats workout to your training routine is the best way to increase your climbing endurance. See this video on one way to do hill repeats. Find a hill with a good grade in your area. Basically, you warm up and get yourself loose and ready for an intense workout, then ride up the hill making sure to time your effort then use the same amount of time to go back down the hill and recover then repeat. Start off with a few reps and build up. 

Even their own study and material showed no significant difference between the Z crank and a normal crank. The "perceived" notion is flawed because it is not a blind/double blind test. 

There isn't really any reason you can't stand while pedaling. If your drive train is not adjusted properly then they will experience skipping or mis-shifting. That's an entirely separate issue from being able to stand up and pedal. 

You shouldn't need too much adjustment in your FD via barrel adjustments. If your cable is stretched or your not getting clean shifting just readjust your FD, it doesn't take that long and there are a lot of tutorials out there: $URL$ 

There aren't many options out there for cranks shorter than 165mm. Your best bet is to buy a set of longer crankarms and get them shortened at a service like Bikesmith Design. Also, if you are legitimately having knee problems, I'd suggest that you find a professional fit service in your area and have a fitting done. The length of your cranks may not be the issue, but it may be the size of your frame, position of seat, etc. Online calculators can be good, but a professional service will certainly address these issues in a more targeted way and perhaps save you from spending unnecessary money, modifications to parts and perhaps save you a lifetime of pain or discomfort. 

You'll need an allen key - probably a 6mm one to take off the stem, which is the silver part that holds your handle bars. If you loosen the bolt and it keeps coming up, hit it with a plastic mallet to knock it back down which should loosen that. Once the stem is off you will need a headset wrench, probably 32mm. Having 2 helps because it's basically a double nut that holds the stem on. The lower one holds the stem in place and the upper one locks it into position. If you've stripped the nut, I would take it to a shop and they'll have to do some additional work on it and most likely replace your headset. If you were in a crash, I'd have a bike shop inspect your bike front to back. A crash can do a lot of damage that the untrained eye will not be able to spot and you could be riding a cracked frame or otherwise dangerous bike. 

I've found it courteous to come up beside the person and ask permission. I usually say "how far you going?" or "mind if I join you?". The real key is to take turns drafting. If the person says yes, I usually take the first pull in front just to show them I'm not a wheel sucker. As an avid cyclist, I've found very few things more annoying than riding for a good chunk of time, only to look back and find someone just sitting on your wheel with no announcement or indication that they are there. 

It sounds like you need something like a handlebar bag or a rack trunk like these: rack trunk handlebar bag The rack trunk would require adding either a seatpost mounted rack or a full rear rack. Either one would allow you to move to panniers in the future if you needed to carry more goods like a laptop or a change of clothes, but a full rack would be able to handle more weight and is generally recommended for stability and versatility. The handlebar bag may or may not require a front rack, depending on how big it is. Some come with enough of a mount that you don't need anything additional to support the weight. 

Whenever I do longer morning rides or races, I make sure to eat oatmeal that morning, it's got lots of carbs and provides me with enough energy (non-sugar energy) to make it to our destination where i can have an energy bar/muffin/whatever to refuel for the ride home. Definitely look at your nutrition in the evenings too. Carbs that you eat will carry over to the next day as energy for sure. +1 for Daniel's answers as well. 

They should be fine. There are a lot of people that ride "road" wheels for cyclocross. Unless you have some dedicated tubular wheels with wider and shallower glue beds to accommodate cross tires, you're probably riding "road" wheels with cross tires on them anyway. I'm currently using some Mavic ksyriums on my cross bike as training wheels and they work out just dandy. Make sure you check the spoke tension often as all the jostling and off road riding will tend to loosen the spokes and throw your wheel a bit out of true quicker than road riding. 

Adjust the inner legs so they sit on the "step" of the bumper. Adjust the outer legs so they rest against the back window - this makes them almost parallel. Place all straps in the appropriate locations Tighten down lower straps Tighten upper straps Tighten side straps Repeat all tightening. done. 

It's possible that you just need to adjust your front derailleur a bit to accommodate your new setup. There are many threads here and videos online about how to do this. The crank may not be the exact same distance from the frame as your old one, but that doesn't mean it doesn't work. 

You could run a bar end or downtube shifter in friction mode to accommodate a triple. You can run a sram shifter with shimano FD, but they only work for double as you suspected. For the most part, FDs are dumb, it's mostly just the shifter that has all the smarts. 

Kibbee's suggestion is a good one. You should feel comfortable on a fast group ride...one that has a pace range of 35-40 kph. YOu should also be able to handle surges in speed and intervals of speeding up and slowing down. You should feel comfortable in a group of riders. I'm not just talking about being able to ride in a paceline, but also feel comfortable with 5-10 riders in close proximity to you - elbows almost touching, handling corners, etc. Find a moderate roadie group ride and go out with them a few times, you'll soon find if you are cut out for racing or if you need a little practice. Talk with the guys/ladies on the ride and learn all you can. Experience is invaluable. Fitness is definitely important, but handling skills are often overlooked with new racers. It's both for your safety and the safety of others that you are able to hold a line, know pack etiquette, and are not going to be jumpy or make lots of wild riding or erratic moves. A common issue with riders coming from the TT world is just that. They are fit enough, but they are used to riding by themselves and not necessarily drafting or riding with several people around them. 

Are you positive it's coming from the handlebar to stem interface? Creaking sounds are notoriously hard to diagnose. It's highly possible that the noise could be from the stem to steer tube interface or your headset or the spacers on your steer tube or topcap or another source, while it may sound like it's coming from your handlebars. Also, be cautious with making things "as tight as I can make it" as you may risk over-tightening the part and risking more damage to your bike and/or components. If you are unfamiliar with how hard to tighten bolts, you should consult your owner's manual, the part manufacturers technical documents or simply take your bike into a reputable mechanic to properly tighten everything.