This is not that hard for someone with a lot of riding experience. Often times you can tell the gear a rider is in from the TV. Then you can see the rider's cadence, and the road grade is often given. So it's fairly easy to guess the speed to +-2 mph. Plus, on a mostly flat road, the peleton will be riding at somewhere between 24-27mph, unless they are trying to chase down the lead group. If the lead group is gaining on the peleton, you know they are riding somewhere north of 24-27. And the opposite would be true. At the end of the sprint, the lead riders will be somewhere between 30-35. Given all this, it's not hard to fairly accurately guess the pace of any individual rider, at any given time. 

I currently have a Garmin Edge 200, which I like quite a bit. But I would like a GPS that has mapping capabilities. I don't need the training features. I'm curious about the quality of the maps in the Garmin Touring. It looks like they are based on some sort of open source maps. Does anyone have this unit and can comment on the quality and accuracy of the maps? 

I am 53 years old, 6'2" and about 220lbs. What has really helped me become a better rider is riding with a local group. A group will typically push you harder than you will push yourself. I ride with a group three days per week. Our Monday and Thursday night rides are 25 miles and typically average 18+ mph. Saturday rides are longer (40-60 miles) and a tad slower. Not only has riding with a group made me more fit, it's improved my bike handling skills. Granted, you can't just go from 2 miles to 25 or more, but you can work up to it. And, many local cycling groups have "starter" rides to build up your miles and confidence. Eating is also critical. If you're serious about getting fit, you must give up a normal junk food diet. Especially junk food / empty calories at night. I try not to have any carbs after 7pm. I try to focus on protein only (I've just started doing this). It makes a big difference (at least for me). Finally, others have said it, and it's true. Ride as much as you can, and rest often. 

bTwin is the bike brand from the big French multisports chain Decathlon. Their bicycle sales are quite big in France, Spain and Belgium. Rockrider is the name for the MTB line. Usually there are numbers attached to indicate its rank. From your picture it is probably their Rockrider 5.2. This is an entry level type. It dates from 2005-2010. 

I have had a couple of times that an inner tube blew up while the bike was parked in bright sunlight. It seems that high temperatures are a contributing factor, but overpressure? I never pump my tires close to the maximum pressure, mostly the pressure is in the lower half of the min-max range. The pressure of compressed air increases proportionally to the absolute temperature, i.e. 273+T ; T in degrees centigrade. Hence an increase from 95F (35°C) to, say, 140F (60°C) will result in an increase by only 8%. I don't believe this itself is causing the blow outs. More likely the blow outs are due to an undersized inner tube in combination with a high temperature. Rubber is a material that behaves elastically in a limited range. Beyond a point it starts a plastic deformation. I guess that this point drops with higher temperatures. Most inner tubes are specified for a certain width range, e.g. 18<-->23C for road bike clinchers. The remedy is to buy an inner tube that matches closely with the tire width. 

There is probably no damage. In wheel-building, one of the ways to relieve torsional stresses in the spokes is to lay the wheel flat on the ground, so that it rests on the hub. While you press the rim on the ground at the 6 o'clock position by your knees, you put all your upper weight via both arms on the rim at about the 10 and 2 o'clock positions. You feel the elastic deflection, which depending on spoke tension and number may be about 1 cm. The spokes on the de-stressed side are able to unwind the torsional stresses. You rotate the wheel in small steps on both sides. There is no damage to either rim or hub. Look how this process was cleverly implemented on a luxurious wheel truing stand (at about 2:10) 

If you wanted to start with a bike that's really close, the Breezer Uptown 8 or Downtown 8 come with 8-speed hub gears and hand brakes for both wheels. You could purchase the coaster hub and have a bike shop rebuild the wheel, keeping the rim, shifters, cog and chain wheel. I wish I could say that you could just buy a kit to convert from one type of brake to the other, but to my knowledge, the hubs have different internals. Current cost would be a $600-800 bike, $200+ hub, plus labor. You could probably sell the old hub and get a little bit back. Another option might be to get a cruiser with an 8-speed hub and add a disk brake, but this would require replacing the fork and front wheel. Probably more cost-effective but more of a challenge to find a compatible fork. Too many variables to estimate what that might cost. Good luck in your search. 

One of the crank arms is loose or cracked. This is the most dangerous, since a failure at the wrong time could cause you to lose control of the bike. A bearing is loose or worn out in either the bottom bracket or one of your pedals. A pedal could also fail catastrophically, though it's unusual. The chainring bolts might be loose. The bike's frame might be cracked. Unlikely, and worth checking only after other possibilities have been eliminated. 

You can also call up a pre-generated route and turn off the turn-by-turn directional functionality, thus just showing your location and relationship to the route. This has worked reasonably well for me. 

"Road Bike" is a pretty broad term, but let's assume we're talking about a bike designed for long-distance road riding and not criterium or even road racing—a category used to be called "sport touring," but is now referred to as "endurance racing." Current examples include bikes like the Trek Domane, Giant Defy and Specialized Roubaix. Also, it depends somewhat upon what you mean by "gravel racing." If you're referring to short events like Barry Roubaix that are at most a couple of hours, then a cyclocross bike would fit the bill as well as anything, especially if you already own one. The downside of using a cyclocross bike is that most are really designed for short, fast, off-road races and don't necessarily lend themselves well to all-day comfort or long, 40-mph descents. There are a few cyclocross bikes that are designed to be less aggressive, and those are the ones that tend to turn up at gravel events. Current examples include the Trek Cronos and Boone, and the Surly Cross Check. The Niner RLT9 is marketed as a gravel bike but has a design that fits better into this category. My experience with this class of bike is that they require more effort to arrive at a good fit, and can feel more exciting than necessary on fast downhills. "Gravel" bikes aren't all alike either, but the ones that are different than cyclocross bikes feature a longer head tube (for more upright riding position), lower bottom bracket, more fork offset and slacker angles. The best current example is the Raleigh Tamland, but the All-City Space Horse is pretty close too, despite not being marketed as a gravel bike. To me, the best thing about "gravel" bikes coming into style is that they're actually good for a very wide variety of surfaces and emphasize comfort over raciness. Not limiting a ride to one specific type of road opens up a lot more riding opportunity. 

Schwalbe's Q&A Which rim tape should I use? advises a tape that covers the rim bed over the full width. According to the pictures, only the floor of the bead area should be covered. I guess this is in agreement with the ETRTO standards. 

Although it is difficult to read the type on your slightly fuzzy picture, several details suggest that it's an enduro or downhill type Specialized: massive frame, fairly long front travel, big brake discs, rear triangle that allows big swings. Searching for Specialized and enduro produced a nice survey suggesting that it dates from 2005-2006. $URL$ 

There is a book written by Frank Berto titled The Dancing Chain - History and Development of the Derailleur Bicycle. The fourth edition was updated in 2012. On page 368-369 he discusses chain design and chain types. Apparently, the 1981 Sedisport chain was the first bushingless chain. Its main feature was that it shifted better than bush-roller chains and also better than the Shimano Uniglide introduced in 1976. At the time, I guess 5 gear sprockets were the rule. With increasing number of gears over time, the bushingless chain took over from that point. 

As long as you keep within the elastic deformation range, there is no damage. The characteristic of the elastic range is that the wheel returns to its original shape if the force is removed. 

It looks to me that your tire is not properly centered on the rim. Probably neither the rim nor the tire are faulty, but they require more effort to center the tire. The first thing you should check is whether the rim tape is well-centered. One of the main reasons why a tire cannot center on the rim is that the rim tape has creeped up at some points towards one side of the rim. 

A coaster brake is really your only option for foot-operated braking, and most complete bikes sold with coaster brakes have the coaster as the only brake. My experience is that mixing hand and coaster brakes takes some getting used to, and most people don't want to bother. This limits the selection of coaster brake bikes to mostly cruiser and city bikes. Most of those are single-speeds or 3-speeds. Both Shimano and SRAM offer 8-speed internally-geared hubs with coaster brakes, but I don't know whether any current production bikes come with 8-speed coaster brake hubs from the factory. If you wanted to have a more versatile bike with a wide range of gears and a braking setup that includes a front brake, one way would be to have a rear wheel built using one of the 8-speed hubs. The considerations for that include: 

Probably. Depends somewhat on whether the shifter is compatible with the derailleur (Shimano 8-speed shifters generally will work okay with 7-speed derailleurs, but you can't usually do a Gripshift with a Shimano derailleur, to name a couple of examples.) You'll have to adjust the limit screws and barrel adjuster, but you would have to do that any time you install a different derailleur. 

The Surly Ogre has the same geometry as one of the original rigid 29ers, the Karate Monkey. The complete version with 3x9 drivetrain is at the top end of your $1000-$1500 price range. 

The real issue with ice is that it has a very low coefficient of friction, and weight distribution won't change that enough to make a difference. Tires with a soft compound and a lot of siping help somewhat, but the best solution is a tire with metal studs. 

I don't know what you consider a "long ride" to be but I just did a 77 mile fund-raiser ride yesterday in Ohio. I averaged a little over 16mph for the entire ride. About 50 miles of the ride was into a 10-15 mph head-wind. During the ride, I probably went through 10 large bottles of water and Gatorade, a dozen energy bars, a couple brownies and a Subway sub. The temperature was in the mid-80's with a little humidity. Even with all that, there were times I was a little light-headed and got some chills (almost a sure sign of not enough hydration). So on rides like this, you almost cannot drink and eat enough. It's very important you try though. If you don't, your body will let you know it, and you won't like how it feels :). You don't necessarily need the pack to stop just to hydrate and eat. Most cycling jerseys have enough pockets to store a lot of energy bars and bottles of water. And you can probably include two bottles on your bike. 

I never really concerned myself with questions to ask a bike shop before buying a bike. Competition in most places is far too keen for a bike shop not to bend over backwards to assist you if you have problems. On the other hand, I do pay close attention to the attitude a LBS takes on letting you test ride bikes. Some shops don't like the idea but allow it. Some encourage you to do so. I'll always take my business to a shop that encourages me to ride the bike as long as I want. The shop should also offer to do a fitting, to make sure the bikes fits you perfectly, after you buy it. 

I suggest to avoid Switserland, except for a small corner, because it is horribly expensive and boring. Stick as long as possible to Italy, my favorite biking country. I also suggest to do a couple of legendary passes that you could skip if you followed the line of least action, but that will give you lasting memories of the riding Italy's backcountry. Here is my recommended route, all done myself, but not in one season: Bormio - Grosio - Passo di Mortirolo - Edolo - Passo Aprica - Morbegno - Passo San Marco - Lenna - Passo San Pietro - Lecce - Como - Biella - Aosta - Col Grand Saint Bernard - Martigny - Col du Forclaz - Chamonix - Col des Aravis - Annecy. All in all 700 km and 14000 meter elevation gain. See $URL$ 

When the rim tape is centered, you can put the tire and inner tube back on. Center the tire roughly with your hands and check that the inner tube is nowhere squeezed between tire and rim. Pump the inner tube to the maximum pressure indicated on the outside of the tire. You will probably hear some plops. At the maximum pressure the circular rim line on the tire should be at the same distance to the rim everywhere. If so, the problem if solved. Now reduce the inflation pressure to a value more comfortable for riding. If it is not, there is a final trick. Release the pressure and wet both the outside walls of the tire and the rim hooks with a solution of a detergent using a cloth. A few drops of dish washing liquid in about 100 ml of water is good enough. Apply it generously to all surfaces without splashing it around. Now again pump to the maximum pressure. The soap should facilitate the tire beads to slide into the hooks of the rim. See also "What can be done if the tyre cannot be centered?" on $URL$ PM. For a 622x21C rim, the 21C stands for the rim width, not the minimum tire width. According to Schwalbe's "Which tyre fits which rim?" the minimum tire width for a 21C rim is 35 mm. See $URL$