Ok this is type of thing is symptomatic of a disorganized small company with an autocratic boss. Your situation might not be fixable. But as @RomanMik and @ChrisLively say, you need to take charge and start standing up for yourself. You might well have some issues yourself you need to identify and sort out. My comments: 

tl;dr not being challenged is not necessarily a disqualifying character flaw as the others seem to think. Depending on the circumstances, it could be a very good sign or a bad sign. Rather than use the b-word outright, which would come across as slightly unpolished, you should use the vernacular which is 'lack of challenge' (EDIT: in US resume/interview culture). Try to have a couple of specifics: did you want to build a product/ an API, lead a team, solve a specific problem...? And expect that they'll (explicitly or implicitly, at some point in the interview) counter with "Why should we expect you won't get bored here?", and be prepared and able to turn that around into a constructive and relevant list of things you can do for them, which is where you show you've done your homework; this is often a very good way to redirect the conversation back to learning what their priorities are (or aren't). (Caveat: don't do this when applying for a junior job or a genuinely boring job, obviously.) PS: I've also interviewed quite a few people. Like most technical types, I appreciate people being clear, honest and cutting the crap, just as long as they keep it upbeat, constructive and truthful. So, if you aren't challenged, don't be afraid to admit it. Sometimes you can tell just from the resume, or their personality, or their current employer and title, whether they're not being challenged, before you ever meet them in person. The last thing I want to hear is fluffy stuff like "your company will give me opportunities to grow". There are different types of boredom. If you are doing a task that is repetitive, I want to see if you can script it, automate it, parameterize it, generalize it, propagate that methodology to other people or tasks. Whereas if you want to move from level-1 customer support (email/phone) into presales AE, or testing/QA, or devops, or development, or whatever, most rational people can get why you would be bored. (Some roles even come with the expectation that you will learn everything there is to know about the role in 18 months; or burn out within 18 months; which is to say if you didn't get bored within 18 months, there's something wrong with you.) 

Good communication and transparency are keys here. I would recommend you have a private conversation with your boss when both parties are calm. Explain to him / her what your intentions were in your communication and you apologize if what you said were interpreted as a personal attack. Saying something similar to the following should work: 

I work as IT Security professional. This is very shady behavior by your employer. At all the companies I worked at, all require that individual accounts be used to preserve non - repudiation, such that the user cannot later deny that he / she is non accountable for an action due to his / her login having being used. If your company is of a decent size and well run, there should be a detailed IT incident response plan that should outline what the user is to do when a breach is suspected, as in this instance. Follow what is outlined in that document, which most likely involves reporting to IT Security, if that functions exists at your company. Your IT security team may not even be aware of this potentially malicious activity occurring. Even if this your employer legitimately monitoring your activity, which I doubt, there should be procedures outlining which employees are authorized by company management to monitor employee network activity. So if even if done by an internal employee, if he or she is not authorized to monitor traffic, the IT Security function should know, as its unauthorized activity. 

Err, they're not asking you for any follow-up ("Thank you for your thank you/rejection...?"). If you want to send a brief email or note is fine. Unless they're idiots they already totally got that you're able and interested in their consulting division, and after some deliberation they decided to pass on you for now. 

It's not your %#@& job to. If you must, be very oblique. Just offer them a higher-productivity alternative, and privately walk them through it, only if they show interest. Then if they still insist on doing it themselves, then let it be. They may have some unresolved identity or competence crisis; if so, don't force it. 

EDIT: this answer as written when OP's original version implied they were an individual contributor, before the crucial detail that they are a manager managing a team of 10, which completely changes the question. Moreover this makes the boss a level-2 manager, which is a different situation. 

Frees up time for you and your peer IT staff to work on other tasks rather than working on manual access management. 

First its good that you realize your problem in the company. Your desire for continuous learning is commendable as reflected by asking this question. Having said that, this sentence does not is a poor action on your part: 

This is the problem. He will not know that this behavior bothers you unless you make it known to him. I suggest you discuss with him what this signs means and what you wish to happen when you have this sign up on your door. If this does not stop his intrusions, discuss with your manager as one of your manager's responsibilities is to remove impediments interfering with you getting your work done. 

Below is my attempt to answer this as currently asked. It wastes a lot of everyone's time trying to identify what, if anything, specifically is being asked. I see a very vague title "How to approach a boss who doesn't take full responsibility for his mistake?", no statement on the first line of any specific question, two paragraphs, and still no statement of any specific question. After digging into this for 15+ minutes so far, my best guess is "Missed my contract renewal deadline due to boss misstating it in email, how to respond?" 

In general this is ok as long as company policy allows it, you pay all your separate leisure expenses, and you take any necessary PTO (although some or all of Friday(/Sunday in lieu) would already have been dedicated to traveling anyway). So, if your company culture and policy allow it, no it wouldn't look bad; if they don't, it would. Now from the cost point of view, if you need to make the case to management or the accounts dept for allowing this, one good technique used is to print off the airfares for a Friday and Sunday return and show them how much $$$ you're saving them. The Friday one will almost invariably be a lot higher, due to demand and the airline industry's trusty old Saturday-night-stay price structure. 

I work in IT security profession as an IT auditor working in a lead / mentor role for my team. Sometimes, one may not have sufficient concrete evidence to come to a conclusion such as regarding whether fraud is present or not. However, with intuition derived from a combination of experience and training, one can often tell more likely than not whether an event is legitimate or suspicious / fraudulent. For example, in a batch of similar items, one might have a significantly different date much earlier or later than peers in the same batch, or transaction amounts just might be too "round" How can I develop the intuition of team members to pursue deeper investigations in these types of cases? 

How do you track what changes have been made to the software, especially in the production environment, if one exists at your company? Given no change logs are used, how will you trace a change made and determine whether the change is authorized and not malicious? How do you trace changes to the users that made them, because if you can't do so, no one person can be held accountable if a changes breaks critical functionality. People remove code rather than deprecating old code. This is a very bad practice as you suggest. What happens if a release fails and has to be rolled back? Without old working code to revert to, there is the risk of business disruption due to inability to recover from a failure / disaster. 

It's common to take time off, assuming you can comfortably afford it and are employable. But you can kill two/three birds with one stone by planning an interview tour, catch a couple of conferences (offer in advance to volunteer at them to get free/discounted registration), meet people in your target field, make contacts, still do lots of travel and relaxation, maybe even get prospective employers to pay for your interview-related travel :) Consider that as an objective (maximize both the fun component and professional benefit, while minimizing your cost), if you like. Some/most of that travel may even be tax-deductible (keep receipts and do your homework in advance). Utilize multi-city or open-jaw plane fares, to maximize the number of places you can visit, then you could ask each company you interviewed with to reimburse their leg of your itinerary. In the extreme case, I knew one guy in the US who after graduating set up a multi-city interview tour which went something like Honolulu-Texas-Yellowstone-Chicago-Virginia/DC-New York, with an interview in each major city and managed to get reimbursed. Make lists of friends/ relatives/ tourist spots you want to visit. You could throw in e.g. Vancouver, Cancun, New Orleans, Miami, Macchu Picchu. And/or take train/ coach/ rideshare/ one-way rental car ("drive-through") on some legs, so you can see more sights. I know you're in the UK, but look for cheap offpeak travel deal, airmiles special deal, airmiles accumulators, consolidator/student specials, round-the-world tickets e.g. JetBlue used to sell a one-month unlimited "All You Can Jet" pass for $599 in September, and also buy a month of wifi). Also shop around for introductory credit-card offers. You can also throw in a week or three of voluntary work; they may provide accomodation and meals and you get to do something useful and interesting. You can also keep a travel blog as you go, and that solves explaining how you gainfully spent your time, while also staying in touch with people and connecting with people, and maybe gives you positive SEO for your career. You can also interview now then ask for a deferred start date. This is common in the UK, especially when NCG/RCG hiring intakes typically happen in Sep or Jan (each country may differ). Then you still get to join with a batch of new employees, get the same new-hire training, househunt for shared accomodation together etc. 

No, the password should not even be in the email in the first place. At my place of work, one tells the login ID to a user and requests the user to call IT to obtain a temporary password. There are some other security considerations to think about. 

As a recently graduated graduate student, I can attest to the importance of internships. Its much better for you to be referred by a trusted insider within your target company than it is to submit a resume / coverletter to the hiring manager as a complete unknown stranger. You are competing for one position and depending on prestige, company etc, you could be a nameless face in a sea of applicants. Think of it of this way - what is there to distinguish you from your fellow competitors other than the information contained in your application materials? Very little indeed. Your friend is a current company employee whose character (presumably) management trusts and respects. By having your friend vouch for you, you gain another voice on your behalf and this fact increases the chance of a successful interview offer from the company. Having said all of the above, you have already submitted your application. Henceforth, I advise against getting a referral. Having a duplicate application makes you look sloppy and unorganized, a turnoff for most hiring managers. Still, I would reach out to your buddies and ask whether they would be willing to serve as a reference in case the company asks for them during the hiring process. The chances of them doing so is much less than for a full time position, but it can't hurt to be diligent in your preparations. 

Yes. As long as you supply the guidelines above about how to approach it and what is being looked for. Not just treat it like some binary pass/fail filter with undefined criteria. 

Memo in writing the terms of contract they verbally agreed with you, and the date they verbally agreed. If they said "medical, pension and stock vesting start on day one", then say that. Include numbers and detail (how much pension? etc). Then you at least have a written agreement of what was agreed. Also document on your memo that they promised you a written employment contract to be signed on you first day. Have all your interactions with them in writing, preferably by certified mail. At this point they're just playing you, and pocketing your $$$ premia and laughing at you. Maybe they will suddenly come up with a written contract if you quit (and maybe they won't), but it's your call whether to put up with that. You could quit, and if they then give you the written contract, ask (again, in writing) for retrospective payment for the period.