You just connect directly to its name or IP address and log on with a local account. Of course, if all you are doing is joining the computers to a domain, you could just skip the remote desktop junk and use . 

This is as shipped. Check to make sure it wasn't altered. In my own PHP scripts I take a very simple shortcut to check if it was a POST request: 

nginx will fetch the file from upstream instead of from cache, and then cache the result. If you are willing and able to use third party nginx modules, you can also use the cache_purge module. It seems rather poorly documented, though. 

There's no option for to implement the behavior you describe. Your application should not return an if it couldn't actually process the request. Have the application return a more appropriate error, such as or . 

Being a Network Solutions customer, I would guess you want to delete the two register.com nameservers. 

You do not need to specify this variable at all, nor should you be attempting to use it in the other playbook. By default the playbook will run for all hosts that it specifies. So don't do this, and just write a normal playbook. 

IPv6 TPROXY support was added in RHEL 6.1. You are running 6.0 for some reason (and shouldn't be). To resolve the issue, register your system and then fully update it. 

Go to Administrative Templates/Windows Components/Windows Error Reporting. Find the policy Prevent display of the user interface for critical errors. Here, the Local Group Policy Editor is shown. You may also use Group Policy Management if you are in a domain. 

First, let's consider why we choose a particular distribution or package set. Either we value stability over the latest features, or we value the latest features over stability. It's not generally possible to have both in the same distribution, as stabilizing software requires time to fix bugs, and adding new features introduces bugs, thus instability. As a general rule I want the operating system on which the application runs to be as stable as possible, but with a reasonably modern feature set. Thus I'll choose CentOS 7 over CentOS 6, which is rather old at this point, and while it will work, it doesn't have as much time left in its support lifecycle, so I won't use it for a new project. However, I then ran into the issue that the version of nginx included with CentOS was too old and did not have some required features and bug fixes. Thus I went searching for alternate packages, and found that nginx.org distributes their own. I switched to them almost immediately and have found them perfectly stable over the long haul. Then there is PHP. I know from history that the version of PHP shipped with CentOS will be the only version it ever gets, and will only get security updates; no new features or bug fixes. Thus, once it is out of support upstream, I am eventually going to be unable to run modern PHP web applications if I use those packages. Thus it's necessary to replace these as well. From long experience I've learned that it's best to track bugfix releases with PHP, not simply to freeze at one point release and take only security fixes, as the web applications I run will also be updated and will need those bugfixes. So after evaluating many different sets of PHP packages, I settled upon remi's pacakges. Remi happens to be a Red Hat employee and is also responsible for the PHP packages in RHEL/CentOS. So I know his packages will be high quality, and they have been. They are drop-in replacements for the system packages and work perfectly. Finally we get to MariaDB. You can choose to keep the system packages here and suffer no ill effects. I chose to switch to MariaDB's 10.0 packages (and soon will go to 10.1) to take advantage of TokuDB and some other performance enhancements not available in the 5.5 version shipped with CentOS, and that it will never receive major upgrades for. 

Note that it actually opened . But your nginx configuration and systemd unit specify to open , which is a different path. My first thought is that you probably changed the path in the systemd unit, but haven't run . Any changes in your systemd units won't take effect until you run this (or reboot). Therefore, I would have systemd reload and then try restarting gunicorn. 

I'm setting up a FreeIPA domain. In my lab are three virtual machines: the domain controller , and two clients and (creative, yes, I know). All three VMs are running freshly installed CentOS 6.4 (FreeIPA 3.0.0). I've installed the IPA server, creating a domain which we'll call here, with DNS service and automatic DNS updates enabled. I've successfully joined the two VMs to the domain. But the dynamic DNS updates are only putting AAAA records into the DNS. No A records are ever inserted. 

Your configuration line doesn't contain the expected hyphen (). It instead contains an en dash (). It looks similar, but it's a completely different character. In fact, it appears both of them are en dashes. This can happen if you copy and paste from a web site which has unhelpfully changed hyphens to en dashes. To solve the problem, replace both of the en dashes with hyphens. 

will bypass the nginx cache and pass the request up to your app if the argument is present in the query string. 

In no case should you ever use the original disk again. Replace it (under warranty, if it is still under warranty). 

A few clients won't request compressed data, and if you force it on them with they might not understand it. To ensure that the file is always found, and the request isn't passed upstream to Rails or being caught by the 404 handler (the possible bug). One of which is probably what's happening. Having nginx compress or uncompress the file at runtime means it must do so repeatedly, eating up valuable CPU that could be used to run your application. It's much less CPU intensive to simply send a static resource. 

If you aren't (yet) using try_files, then convert soon, and in the meantime use something like this: 

Funny, I just happened to reboot a CentOS 7 system last night, and so I have a nice log of just this to look at. In the case of a crash, obviously nothing is logged between the time of the crash and the system restart. In the case of a reboot, it is pretty obvious, as you get a log of (nearly) everything systemd is doing to shut down the system. One such log entry you aren't likely to see in any circumstance other than shutting down or going to single-user mode is: 

Those logs are showing your own requests to the web server. We see from your comment that you said you added to the Windows hosts file. Unfortunately, you have Apache configured to do reverse DNS lookups on IP addresses before logging them. Somewhere in your Apache configuration is: