It was challenging to get the lower nut onto the end of the bolt, inside the horizontal hole. To do this I wrapped some tape around the end of the screwdriver, sticky side out. I used this to position the nut at the end of the bolt, while I tightened with the socket wrench. When I discovered that the horizontal hole was too small to get a wrench on the end, I jammed the screwdriver between the nut and the edge of the hole and managed to keep the nut from turning while I tightened the bolt. Step 1 was by far the most time-consuming for me. An experienced wood worker with better tools might find this easy, but it took half of my construction time (1 of 2 days) to figure out how to do this and bolt the fenceposts together. Step 2: Nail the two pieces together using 36-inch 2x4s. To hold them in place during assembly, I leaned one of them against the wall, and tied the other one to a ladder using some old inner-tubes. The result resembles a long, narrow table 6 feet tall. I put one 2x4 at floor level, another 2x4 in the middle, and a third 2x4 on top of each end of the horizontal beam. The lower 2x4s go on the inside; if the long diagonal went on the inside it would create more interference with the bike that hangs next to it. Step 3: Nail a diagonal 6-foot 2x4 cross brace across each of the narrow ends. This increases the stiffness of the frame by a surprisingly (to me, anyway) large amount. Step 4: Nail a horizontal 2x2 at floor level to connect each of the legs for stiffness in the long dimension. Originally I used 2x4s here, but they interfered with a couple of my very long wheelbase bikes. The 2x2s provide just enough clearance for these bikes. 

Converting to a straight-up mountain bike would be hard. Converting a road bike to a 650B bike capable of handling dirt trails and gravel is a pretty established practice, mostly entailing swapping the wheelset and brakes: $URL$ It's more usually done on older frames, but nothing necessarily precludes doing it on a newish racy frame. However, a narrow chainstay/seatstay/fork gap may make fitting fat tires difficult. However, you'd be able to pick up a decent used mountain bike for the price of a decent 650b wheelset, especially if you'd be fine with a rigid bike. $125 or so can get you Tange Prestige with early 90s Deore LX and the like. If you want a project for your R300 frame rather than selling it cheap, there's always a singlespeed conversion (the Wabi wheelset is great for the price). 

So far, I've come across one bike with a broken pedal, and one with a seatpost stuck at minimum height. So eyeball the pedals. In other cities, it's apparently become conventional to put the seat backwards on broken bikes. I've seen it occasionally here, as well. 

My first bike rack design (see my other answer to this question) was easy to make and held a lot of bikes. It was also free-standing, which is a necessity for those with no available wall space. Still, there were two problems. First, it took a lot of floor space in my garage, 6 feet by 11 feet. Second, there wasn't a good way to use the air space above the bikes. Therefore, I built Bike Rack 2.0. The basic idea was to design a free-standing frame upon which to hang the bikes vertically from hooks. A roof would provide space for boxes of bike parts, wide enough for two copier-paper boxes to fit across the top yet not be so tall that the boxes hit the roll-up garage door. It had to be easy to make by a not-very-skilled carpenter like me. 

The larger the effective radius of your turn the less sideways force your tires' friction needs combat and the less you will need to lean, the two culprits for having your bike go sliding sideways from under you. If you're on a path just cut as close as you can, assuming no one else is in the way. Hit the far side of the path going into the turn, turn gradually but aim to pass close to the corner, and follow that arc through to end at the correct angle after the turn on the far side of the path as well, where you can leisurely adjust yourself. You'll find many bike paths are planned for this and are already widened around the turns (or unplanned but use has increased them there). If you're on a road just shift to the far side of the traffic lane before the turn, as a bike you've plenty of space. Although it may be more important here to note where car traffic has been heaviest and avoid the compacted icy parts. 

Now drill a vertical 1/4" hole through the top beam and the end of the vertical beam. The hole needs to end up intersecting the horizontal 3/4" hole in the vertical beam. Having the horizontal hole already in place gives you a target to aim for when you make this vertical hole. Using a long drill bit makes it easier to aim. Counterbore the hole in the top beam. Insert the bolt with a washer. On the other end add another washer and nut. 

Begin by using the spade drill bit to drill a horizontal 3/4" hole a little more than half way through each vertical 6-foot beam, centered 2 3/4 inches from the end of the post. Use the chisel to square off the side of the hole that will receive the lower washer. 

Step 1: Make two large frame members, out of the fence posts. The 8-foot long post sits horizontally on top of two vertical 6-foot posts. Join them using draw bolt joints, as pictured here: 

Tires can crack or dry rot and fail when pumped back to pressure, especially gumwalls exposed to UV-heavy sunlight. This is more likely in the 2-year timeframe than 3 months, but a common issue on old bikes donated to bike coops. 

Bottom bracket compatibility is usually determined by the crank— the manufacturer will specify a length. You can run into clearing issues using an MTB crank with a road bike or vice-versa, but that's not an issue for you. However, if you're using a road double crank converted to a single, you won't really be in the normal usage spec of the crank, and exact BB length will likely be best determined by trial-and-error. You probably will want to use a shorter BB than what's specified for double use, since the specified BB length is generally designed to put the midpoint between the chainrings at the middle of a cassette. Best to buy your BBs from REI or another company allowing easy returns. 

This rack (barely) stands up by itself, but becomes stable when you have at least one bike inserted into each side of the rack. 

Step 5: Attach the hooks to the bottom of one horizontal beam. I put the first one 5 inches away from the end, and then spaced them 10 inches apart. This was wide enough for me to hang my bikes without bumping, as long as I alternated one with the front wheel up and the next with the front wheel down. Step 6: Attach the hooks to the bottom of the other horizontal beam. Place these hooks so the bikes on this side hang between the bikes hanging on the other beam. For me, the first hook went 10 inches away from the end, with the remainder spaced 10 inches apart. A 7/32" drill bit makes the right sized hole for the hooks to go in snugly. Step 7: Add the planks to the top. I just laid them on top, where by accident they fit snugly between the two 2x4s that are nailed across the top beams. If the planks move around when I'm getting boxes down from there, I'll glue them in place. Because I used lumber on hand, the cost of materials was about $12 (mostly for the hooks). Then I spent $18 more for some spray to treat the termite-infested end of the fencepost; if I did it over again I'd probably ask my neighbors to see if any of them had an old fencepost that was pest-free. Oh, and though I forgot to mention it earlier, you should wear safety glasses before pounding on things and maybe a dust mask or respirator if you're going to drill pressure-treated lumber or spray bug killer. 

I ran into this exact problem. In my case, it was buying 9-speed chain for an 8-speed drivetrain— I didn't realize backward compatibility was an issue. 

As long as the bike paths and roads you'll be traveling along are reasonably well cleared of deep snow, this would be no big issue. You can order basic Schwalbe Winter studded tires cheaply (around 40euro a pair) from Bike24. You should probably be able to find a basic used bike for 110 euro. Studded tires aren't strictly necessary for winter riding, but they do provide peace of mind on days with a freeze-thaw cycle. 

A commodity security seatclamp, like Fortified, just uses a security bolt, which is still good enough to have kept my seatpost in place permanently on a bike that's regularly parked on the streets of New York: 

Not inherently, but hydroformed tubing has more possible shapes and distributions of material, and potentially allows the bicycle designer to design a lighter bike of the same strength, or a stronger bike of the same weight. Or maybe the bike just looks cooler. 

Unless the bike was very cheap, there's nothing that would break from that. The crunch of the chain on the rear gears and even the chain coming off are possible. You can just pop the chain back on the gears in the back. Over time this can cause issues, but unless you ride a lot and do this frequently, it would be a very long time. Mountain bikes especially are meant to be tough. If his brand new bike's gears broke he ought to be headed back to that shop for a refund. And in the meantime, don't stop from messing! Get on that bike and ride around, mess around with it! If he did buy a very expensive new bike ask to ride his old one, or get yourself one for $50 on craigslist. You'll learn fastest by doing, and you'll make some mistakes, but the bike will forgive you. If you do something that makes a lot of noise, don't do it again :). Just keep yourself safe and have fun! 

There are essentially no rides that are 'unimpeded by pedestrian or car traffic' around Brooklyn, because Brooklyn is on a densely-populated island adjacent to another even more densely populated island so there's no nearby countryside, and we still use our rail lines very heavily so there are no rail trails. The 30-miler I've found with the most 'open road' feeling is heading to Breezy Point on side streets through Flatbush— take something like E. 35th Street down to Marine Park, then take the bike trail along Flatbush Ave. to the Marine Parkway bridge and Rockaway Point Boulevard. There are very few lights between the Flatbush Ave. bike trail and the tip of Breezy Point, so about half of the ride is unimpeded. I usually loop back via the Belt Parkway bike trail and take Bedford Avenue back north. Basically, something like this: $URL$ But if you want easy access to 'real' road riding from the city, you'll probably want to live in Northern Manhattan or the Bronx.