In this specific case, I'd suggest avoiding taking it on yourself. Instead, simply acknowledge that it needs to be corrected. 

No, you should not bring this up. You are correct that it could be an issue, a liability, but it's never good form to be intruding into your co-workers' habits. You don't know if he has an arrangement that allows for this, and you are not his boss. It's offensive when employees try to clock other employees. It's never productive, and it puts you in the position of judging someone else's work habits. Unless it -directly- affects you, stop watching the other guy, and just make sure you do what you are supposed to do. 

Another way to look at it is to consider whether that activity might be something you'd want treated as a business if it's profitable. You can't deduct your hobbycrafts costs if it's just a hobby, despite being required to report the income; if you want to deduct the costs from the income, then you have to define it as a business. The same applies for those selling on Amazon: to deduct the costs of doing business from the income produced, you must file the very form that acknowledges it's a business. When working for others (such as a non-profit) as a volunteer, it becomes an "occupation" if you have identified responsibilities, a consistent role, or any of many other aspects that show that you function as regular employee (even if unpaid and part-time.) But when in doubt: Ask the other party. They might even give you permission to do something outside of the contract terms. 

Ok, depending on the norms and law, you CAN really question this in some parts of the world. But i think there is not much hope to get good out of it. You cannot really fight to get the job back - but you can ask for compensation, certificate or even joining bonus if promised. TIP: Since it's only been 1 day for you, it doesn't look like a big gap, you can just forget about it and join some other organization quickly. 

More or less, you should remember is just try to be yourself. This means be cool and de-stress yourself. That is the most important preparation. In terms of being able to answer well, you should try to pick up best of your projects (that he/she might inquire about) - and study concepts deeper related to the same. The important part is that instead of focusing on a lot of details you should be able to articulate key achievements, important concepts and theory/reasoning behind those topics. Last but most important point -prepare a lot of questions. This really looks good that you care about the position, role, job profile and work culture you are going to join. 

You have a tough job in your hand. And as far as i understand there isn't straight forward way to go! But change you need. And it can only be through a tough perseverance you can get. 

There is not as much to expose as you think there is. You are too close to the situation to see it in a detached way. "Whistleblowing" is all about companies doing illegal and/or dangerous things; this is about the simple art of deception, which many people feel is part of being a manager. The press is not going to be interested. Even your co-workers in other departments aren't going to pay attention to it. They will all assume that it's just "sour grapes" for you, and part of being in the business world. The reality, anyway, is that it's all about who you're listening to, who is making the statements you suggest were made. That's not the "company", it's individual managers who clearly can't be trusted. But you don't even know what pressures those manager were under to cut the people they cut; all you do know, at this point, is that they said they were sure that certain people would be retained who were not, in fact, retained. You don't even know for sure whether they believed themselves what they said at that point. For your own sake, just let it go and start looking for another job. No job is safe at that company, from what you describe; even your boss's boss may end up being replaced in such times. Get your mind off it and get your life away from there, because clearly anyone could be let go, and if the company is possibly on the verge of shutdown, it's going to be one of those that doesn't say so, that you'll find out on the day you come to work and all the doors are locked. 

I would agree with raise as suggested by others. Because they will have aspirations to grow. However, in my view that is not enough. There are several other factors that motivate people - specially the tech oriented ones- 

Establish, the overall expectations - what you should have been doing, what; what is the critical evaluation of the work or what is the success criteria. Seek evaluation and feedback of work. What do they think of what you have done, what is the impact of that in business. What is the end value. Seek and agree on mode of reward - if only step 1 & 2 seems positive. Justify and speak for what rewards you expect or you think is fair. What you established in step 1 and 2 works well. 

As a candidate, i would always keep GradePoint/UniversityScore in the resume. You never know what is in the mind of recruiter. I don't quite rule out the possibility that some recruiters will find it important. However, as a recruiter, i personally don't care much. There are times when people don't quite shine in university system but do exceptionally well in the practical outlook of the problems in real world. So in general, grade point becomes least criteria and work experience matters much. However, when you are a fresher, probably there is no other measure (job experience) is available. So grade point does become the primary (if not ultimate) criteria. So it is most important. 

Your odds of getting a job that would bring you to the US are pretty low. But if you are already in the US, you have a few options. First, I'd suggest substitute teaching; it doesn't pay great, but technical types are always needed badly, and it would give you an entry point. Second, internship or entry-level jobs may work out if they're for an organization that will eventually have a paying job up your alley. Third, you really need to get back to school and refresh your background, if you can possibly afford it. There may even be special scholarships or funding for someone returning to school at this point in life. The most important thing I'd stress is that you need to show that you are keeping up with the times and are eager to learn. I'm older than you, but I get along with my highly-technical colleagues because instead of thinking "I'm too old to learn all that", I am eager to learn the latest technologies and hone my expertise. The hard part for you, I suspect, is that what you did academically is irrelevant, as is the last 20 years. It's going to be all about what you can do now, what you can contribute and what you can learn to do well that is relevant to today's world. Use all your energy to get started on it right away. If you need to go into a new field, well, there are a number of areas of software engineering that are always short of capable people; there are especially areas of web development that involve programming that's in demand. But don't go to a community college for "web design"; that will be useless. Instead, find a way to develop websites, even if you have to do it for free for a while, just to show off skills, and focus on programming -- Java first, PHP, Ruby on Rails, etc. -- see what's in demand. Thanks to the fear that companies have about discrimination lawsuits, if you can actually do the job, you are likely to land an interview if only as an "alternate" candidate. But you can't do it based on your past; you have to become a "now" person who is useful in 2013. Short of that, you probably could get a job at McDonald's, or something even less desireable. 

This is a question that applies to all people not just interns. I am here putting up the basic thought process and then going on to your specific case. 1. Nature of reward: You may ask for reward in general - reward may include, "one time incentive" or bonus, "increase in fixed pay", "increase in variable pay", "ESOP", or "equity". Understand that each type of rewards has consequences for the company as far as current as well as future payout is concerned. So it is not at all obvious which way the company would agree to reward. Equity might be an easy bid when start up is close to day 1 and there is hardly any investment or revenue in place. However, otherwise the equity is something might be preferred last. Even to many employees ESOPs are given rather than direct equity. So in all, this boils down to the founder's or managements comfort on how they want to reward. Be open to the mode they are willing to work on. 2. Amount of Reward: What is also important is to establish how a 'given work' has implication to longer term earnings of the company that would justify the amount of reward. Given this, it is important that candidate's perception matches with that of managements. It may not be obvious that what you think might not be their top priorities. Put other way it is also important that you seek feedback about the effectiveness of the work -and quality of work- before talking about rewards. If they agree that your work has really shaped some strategic problems or is valuable in someway - then asking for reward becomes next obvious thing. if they don't quite think so, you know what to expect when looking for reward. 3. When This is critical. Great ideas seldom makes money. They become instrumental when the real products meets real markets. And there are lot of things that need to go right. Not to disappoint, but what is important is that for you to maximise your possible reward - or to make it easier to get through, it makes sense to put across at right time. Typically, it means things are 'complete' in some sense, some 'real feedback' of trial is available or some results are proven in some manner. Given all of the above: Here is what I would suggest: 

Many companies in the US do not freeze hiring. 1. Well -of course- hiring varies by industry and arena: You don't really think that construction is busy hiring in December, or retail sales in March, do you? Take a look here for historical numbers by month: $URL$ The differences are easy to spot when you look at, say, Jan 2012 vs Sept 2012, even though the general patterns are similar. There's a nice analysis on monster: $URL$ 

You'll also have to consider the company's arena and their fiscal year; for example, a company that survives through online sales is likely to add staff some months before the holiday sales hit, to tweak their site for the reality that most retail-type sales occur during the 6-week holiday period (this year, it's down to less than 4 weeks, though, which should make for possible poor retail performance. Companies will also hire for the coming fiscal year, which often means that opening are approved in December -- but so few people are in the office in December that the hiring usually starts at the first of the year. In addition, it's very likely -- but not guaranteed -- that when a company is adding jobs in one area, they're adding in another; i.e. expanding IT jobs will usually suggest expanding accounting, sales, marketing, etc. More to the point, though, you're going to find that this isn't consistent even with a given company; it depends on more factors than can be generalized. But you can view a few years' worth of job creation history, by segment, at $URL$ ========= 2. I suggest you do not send your resume during a hiring freeze. Resumes tend to get "stale" and once they have open positions, they will tend to look at the new resumes first. There are some exceptions where companies will enter resumes into a database, and actually search the database when they have open positions; however, that's not as common as you might hope, and almost all new positions are going to be advertised in some way. If you do submit your resume to a company rather than for a targeted job, do so during the start of one of the more likely hiring periods ... i.e, the first few weeks of January, and right after Labor Day, can work well if new jobs are being created. After Labor Day, you'll also have the advantage of any summer hires going back to school, leaving openings in companies that hire students and new grads. Oh, and while you're waiting for that optimal time to submit your resume, look for specific job openings, and get your on-line info up-to-date and appealing; as a contract worker, I get a lot of contacts from linkedin and careerbuilder, without much extra effort, mostly because my particular work experience contains the right keywords. 

To be honest, many people have started saying "Objectives" are not out of fashion partly because too many people began writing many "useless and vague" objectives and it started looking like a copy paste job. I say this from my experience of being a recruiter and going through 100+ resume before filling up a position. I wrote about this in my answer here so not elaborating job. In brief, the objective should be crisp qualifier to see if you will be willing to take a job under question. If I see your resume, I find you are fit but if you yourself are not willing to take up that work; it is futile to shortlist you as a candidate. If you have been a project manager, it is likely to see you qualified for another such job. But if I say, I want to do "something else..." tells me not to invite you for jobs which you are not going to like. Alternatively many people have multiple industry experience at various different positions - and after looking at the resume I would rather ask "So what do you want to now?" is a very natural question. And that question is what objective should answer - because none of your past can answer that! Now, coming to your question, I think you have done a pretty good job at identifying few specifics: you want to work * at a "restaurant" (do you prefer not to work anywhere else?) * as a receptionist (qualifies you well as other works..) * work in night shift. Now like many resume "...to greet your guests, and treat every and each of them with distinguished hospitality, to satisfy and assert the relationship and confidence with the clientele" ... is not BAD but generally useless. If you are a restaurant receptionist, you better do that. In fact this kind of language is used by almost every one which gives 'objectives' as a bad name. So in essence you can briefly outline in not more than 5-7 words what makes you think you make a good choice, or why you want to do this. Regarding your question on "should we mention night shift". If this is a special constraint (and not a preference) you invest a full statement for it instead of mixing it between other long sentence. for example: "Want to work as a receptionist at restaurant (or 'generic' term) using my past experience (or any other reason). I am requiring to work on Night shift as due to my reason X". Constraints that you make you look for a specific job is always respected by recruiter. And is important to mention. For example a mother of a new born who is fully qualified to do desk job or field jobs, but she wants to work from home, she should mention this. If you can work only in specific city, times, or need any other aspects make sense to list down. And it should be said without getting messed up in "type of role". However, if work-from-home, working-only-in-the-specific-shift are a mere preference than it is not objective. Any factor that you don't want to be the reason for being disqualified upfront by a recruiter is not objective. Ask, if a recruiter who is willing to give you a "day-shift" job should give you a call or not? Objectives should serve very critical purpose and perhaps, in my view, the most important thing it tell about the candidate irrespective of its past experience and her talent. Specifically, it tells you,