A worldly person does many thing habitually. Though habitual action is at the pre conscious level they have karmic potent. So if you develop wholesome habits this definitely would be a bonus for this life and after. In absence of weighty and near death Karma, habitual karma decides the next life. Also see: 

Madhu,piṇḍika Sutta Continuous thinking leads to an avalanche of thoughts about the past, present and future. 

Calm down the verbal and metal fabrications by trying to bring your wondering mind to a chosen object Look at the sensation in the body (mainly around your head) the thought proliferation has created. (Tightness, heaviness, depressed, happy, excited, passionate, etc. - also if you look deeply these are combinations of the Elements) due to thoughts. This will calm any bodily fabrications. Also pay attention to changes in breathing. If breathing becomes fast. If breathing has stopped does it start again. Also you pulse. Identify if the sensation is due to a mental reaction due to perception and see perception creates misery also and dilute these perceptions. 

Different schools approach this in different ways. The best method of teaching is by example and by teaching what you practised and have verified at the experiential level / empirically. First you should practice and then teach what was beneficial to you and what you have verified 1st hand. Through your practice there should be a visible change in you to inspire other. When you have experienced the benefits 1st hand you should get inspired to share this with loved ones and friends. Sharing the benefits and experience should be the motivating factor to teach. 

Buddhism is by practice. There is no conversion. When you take refuge in the Triple Gem you take refuge in the qualities of Buddha, Dhamma and Sanga through this now has turned into a ceremonial outlook. You can call your self a Christian, Muslim, Hindu, etc. but still practice Buddhism as at the core of the Buddhist practice is Vipassana. This can be done by any one. 

Source: The mind-body relationship in Pali Buddhism: A philosophical investigation, Peter Harvey The quoted Sutta is: Mahā,nidāna Sutta 

To start the practice of Vipassana you do to believe in the teaching of rebirth if you subscribe to another line of thought: 

Let me put it this way. If you steal, you temporarily get ahead in wealth, but if you get caught you are looking at some jail time and returning what you stole, legal fees and all kinds of other headaches in the process. This would means you are worse off than before on average for thieves. Like wise this extends to many other situation where you can temporarily get ahead in life to fall back to worst situations later on. Also some may get away but if you look at the average over a majority you take one step forward and then two steps back in many of these situations. 

When traveling the path you should abandon the world or look internally. The implication with this is you cannot concern yourself with what is around you and to some extent other beings. Hence this can be viewed as an selfish path since you always look inward than outward. 

Attachment is due to build up of perception. Your perception builds a mental model of relationship and expectations around the perception of a person or entity. You have to tackle this in 2 fronts. 1. Contemplate the nature of existence and relationships to reduce your polarity 2. Do Insight Meditation to rid your self of erroneous perceptions 

1st of all Buddhism does not prohibit or have anything against being gay. But Hethorosexuality is unwholsome as it is rooted in desire, though lay people may engage in such activities, within Sila. Homosexuality activity needs to have stronger attraction than is Hethorosexual avtivity, which is more unwholsome. When engaging in any sexsual activity if compaired to a fall, Hetrosexuality say is a 3 foot fall, hence you get hurt in the long run less, Homosexuality is a 6 foot fall, which you you are likely to get more hurt by this in the long run than Hethorosexuality, as weight of attaction is stronger between partners. Incest is more grave like say a 9 foot fall. There will be future society when this also may become accepted, according to the quote below. In each case the attachment is relative. Also historically hetrosexsual people have been less liberal, but current liberal practices have more attachment than in the past so more unwholesome mind moments. Any form of sexual attraction including being gay is based on desire which is unwholesome and result experiences which are painful in the future. Buddhism deals with correcting you metal tendencies by getting rid of the roots which creates misery. This is done through practicing Vipassana and is a gradual process. Through Vipassana you can transcend any sexual preferences and orientation. To get more insights into this it is best you take a course at: $URL$ or $URL$ See: Saññoga Sutta Homosexuality is considered a deviant practice. This is rooted in excessive lust. 

The 1st Noble truth is called Noble because once you start observing Dukkha objectively this leads to you becoming Noble person free from any form of suffering. This is perhaps what you are experiencing. 

Yes and no. Certain hand gestures cause better energy flow through your body and vibrations. These vibration can be some times an aid in dissolving pain and also fabrication. If you get attached to the vibrations and gestures this will do more harm than good in your progress. So my advice is do not bother too much about these as their contribution to your final goal is marginal or non existent through it might give a mild boost to better practice in certain situation is making you conferable to be seated for a long time by creating Piti which is one of the enlightenment factors but keeping in mind you cannot bake a cake with one ingredient and attachment to the feeling or creating view and perception around the gestures will hold you back 

Vipassana is training to handle such life situation. Associated with each life interaction and though is a sensation. You can look at the arising and passing away of the sensations with full equanimity. In generally what happens is when you come in contact with vicissitudes of life you react with clinging and craving on how you Perceive the sensation hence creating fabrication. You can think and ponder on the matter in hand. This is in fact verbal fabrications. Thinking and pondering will create other sensation. Most prominent even in no mediators are like happiness, depression, anxiety, anger, hate, etc. which also has feelings associated. In general thinking things these can also be neutral or very subtle. In the process of Thinking and Pondering again look at the associated sensations arising and passing away. 

With regard to sleep deprivation try Metta Bhavana. One benefit of this is you sleep easy. Also remember pain is not pain unless you make it your pain. There is the physical sensation feeling and the mental cognising that this is my pain. The latter is bigger than the physical pain hence try look at the pain as mere pain. See: Vedenaupassana in Satipatthanas. You may also try taking a course at: $URL$ 

the aggregates (khandhā) composing a particular “person” are “internal” to them, and anything else is “external”; the sense-organs (ayatana) are “internal,” but their objects—which may include aspects of the person’s own body or mind, which are “internal” in the first sense—are “external.” 

A being's subconsciousness and most of the conditioning during a given alife is decided by the regenerative karma, which is past Karma. Natural order (Niyama) of all being are only partly affected by Karma. Complex interference of the other factors may negate or even enhance some effects of Karma which some experiences may have nothing to do with Karma and based solely on one or more of the other factors. A person with negative Karma has the possibility that this last thought not being good hence a possibility of a lower life. Karma is complex and only fully comprehended by a Buddha alone hence it is difficult to answer question on Karma with definiteness. 

develop and increase qualities Metta break barriers thereby you consider some people of class of people more favorably than the others 

As for books for a beginer see: Recommendation - Book for beginner With regard to thoughts and meditation see this answer. Can our minds ever be so still to the point where no thought will arise for blocks at a time in order to be fully present? This is also possible but not a recommended Buddhist practice. You have to increase wholesome thoughts and decrease unwholesome thoughts. 

As long as what you are doing is not immoral in my case I would go along with what the others are doing. Main point is by doing this you should not accumulate more fabrication. One way is to reduce contact through it is not very effective, which you are trying now. The more effective way is to go along with the crowed but what every you do be mind full of the sensation and its impermanence. It is reaction of clinging or aversion to the sensation created when you come in contact with something which causes fabrications. This is what you should actively avoid. Though you might not chase sense pleases you have to go with the flow in social contexts if you want to be a householder. 

When your mind wonders away be extra mindful when you bring your attention back. Look at a few breaths with sustained attention. Do a few body scans with sustained attention. When your mind goes you bring your mind back to an object. Similarly even when your mind is on the chosen object you can repeal the re direction of the mind to the object continuously as if when initially brining the mind to the object. This practice will help make your mindfulness stick to the chosen object. Also as a mode of preliminary practice you can: 

Age is not barrier. You can start at any age. Maybe you can use a chair to sit if you find sitting difficult. Also double check with the centre about stairs and slopes. If you mention before hand about your age and if you do have any difficulties then you might be able to get a convenient location with less stair or slopes to climb. 

There are 3 main thing I gather you are asking. Love - this is the people who you have immediately when expanding the spear of me and mine hence tremendous attachments arise. This it self gives a heap of experiences which are pleasant, unpleasant or neutral. Raising a family does have a lot of these experiences. This can be a blessing and a bondage. As bondage because you can't practice seriously at a beginner or intermediate level. For a advance meditators this can be a blessing since the diversity of experiences can keep your defilements on check which otherwise you will not realise that are there. Past Karma - this only decides part of the experiences which are either pleasant, unpleasant or neutral. The way out of misery is to objectively observe these sensations and realized they are unsatisfactory regardless if they are Karmic results from past action or not. Karma as a bondage - Yet again past Karma is the vehicle to study these experiences (Karmic results are in directly linked to the Karma giving rebirth) and get your mind free from creating new Karma. You past and present existence and the experiences that come with it gives you the the opportunity to study the workings of Karma by removing the roots of ignorance, greed and aversion. All this you can be experienced and dealt with within the framework of the body. What keeps you bonded in Samsara is not being able to learn the path of liberation for some and when you get the chance not practicing seriously. In the latter it is choice or become of oneself this happens. Since having the opportunity to learn the Dhamma the ability to break free from the Fetters that tie your to misery is in your hands. Use this opportunity to break free from this bondage than having doubts about the ability to do so due to Karma. The doubt can also set you back in your practice. 

The sensations are decided by the motivation of volition behind "non action" which on its own is an action. Diminished volition can occur in a Vipassana partitioner who is seeing sensations arising and passing with no clinging or aversion hence not creating Fabrications / Formations / Sankara. This on its own right is wholesome hence this produces Piti followed by Passaddhi which is generally initially pleasant (Piti) and then more neutral (Passaddhi). 

Source: Dhammapada Verse 2 Matthakundali Vatthu Following highlights no external agency can affect Karma than the mind itself: 

This is the stage of Piti or less likely but another possibility is some past fabrication surfacing. Generally practitioners to not get Piti stage quickly, hence take this as a something positive, due to your past practice you have got this easily. Having said this this is something like a double edge knife. If you get attached to it then you regress in your practice. (In your case it is something you are averse hence this is something you have to drop and accept it.) Use this as a tool: