The wheel should attach to the new fork with the current hub. You just need to match the tube diameter and height. You need to match the height for a bike designed for shock. Like look at a Salsa Vaya compared to Fargo. The Fargo comes with solid but can take a suspension. You did not post the size of the wheel or fork but this is an example of fixed fork that replaces a suspension. OrgeFork You need to match brakes. Often they will support more than 1 brake type. That Orge supports disc I think - most 29" most do. And checked used. Most people go the other direction (solid to shock). You also posted a question on mounting a rack. Look for fork with mounts for fender and rack. Why did you decide to not put a rack on the suspension? As for if you are on a budget should you go ahead and put a rack on shock? I would say yes use the shock and put the money into a nicer rack and/or nicer bags. A decent set of bags is $100. Put your lighter stuff up front. A mountain bike with shocks for a road touring is not ideal but that is where you are. As for a point of failure I would not worry about that unless you have an indication you shocks are failing. If you can find a used solid fork with rack mount for $40 and can install it yourself then I would do it. There is a Salsa Fargo fork on ebay right now that multiple attachment points. If it fits your bike it would be nice. I don't know how much of a budget you are on. 

How do I train / fool my body to go anaerobic for intervals? I entered my first cyclocross race a couple weeks ago and have since been training on the course. What I found during the race and my training is I get gassed (can not even talk) on the first lap but after that I settle in and breathing is just heavy. But my times lap to lap do not change. Day to day I will get different lap times as I am trying out different set ups and the ground may be softer or harder but in a session in the 6 laps the times will be within 3 seconds. I am in a health study and take a treadmill every 6 months. At a certain level the Dr will tell me this is your target training level and it is not very hard. I have trained my body for that level and it is kind of stuck. They did not tell me I could not train at a higher level - just train at least 50 minutes at that level of higher. Dr told me he would rather I went with perceived exertion rather than heart rate. Also I live in a large flat city where I don't have road routes that I can readily do interval type training. We have some bike paths but with turns and other riders it is just not safe to ride full out. At the gym in a kick boxing class of other interval type training I do gas out. On the bike I seem to have some type of governor. Lets just start with the last lap. How do I train / fool my body to go anaerobic on the last lap? 

Add a strap or remove the toe clip. For the most part they have been replace by clipless pedals. That is why clipless is called clipless as there is no toe clip. 

Unless you have the spare parts laying around build-outs are expensive and always labor intensive. It is not worth spending money on a frame the does not fit you. Road versus trail the fit is not that different. The frame fits you or not. I had mountain bike that the shock wore out and bought a better mountain bike. I put a fixed fork and tires on it to use it as a city bike and still had to think about it. I am good with that decision but the frame fit me and the conversion was $200. 

Rotating the post should not be a problem On the saddle there is a range on the rails that you may be past Often the range will be marked I had a rail break but I was too far back Avoid aluminum rails as aluminum fatigues 

As usual Sheldon Brown has an answer tire sizing Look for the section on rim and tire width On an older bike if you need new rims you might as well go with the whole wheel. 

Lock the front brake and put the other hand on the bottom of the headset and fork. Rock the bike back and forth and see if there is play. If so tighten the headset. Riding with play can harm the headset (in the extreme the frame). 

Bike I got used and happy with the price for frame alone but I don't know the history. Kris King hub with significant drag. With cassette off and just a rim if spin it hard I get 5 revolutions. I have a backup wheel and if I spin it hard I get 50 revolutions. I can feel a lot friction in the hub. What should I do? It is laced up to some nice Velocity rims. 

Not much difference in ride from carbon to Cr-Mo. Over 13km not much of a factor. The carbon is going to be lighter, more expensive, and less durable. Same bike on a budget I would go Cr-Mo. You list two different styles of bikes and a purebred road bike in a comment. Pick the style of bike first. I don't think purebred road bike is the right bike for that picture. I personally think drop bars are more efficient and comfortable for paved commuting. And on a budget used might be more cost effective. 

You should accept the answer from OJS but this is too much for a comment. SPD is the format of the attachment from Shimano. They have a patent on SPD - if it includes the shape of the cleat I don't know. Even if so a patent does not stop copies. The shoe just has a hole pattern that will accept a number of cleats. As much as stuff changes in bicycles the SPD has been around for a while. As beat up as that pedal is I think I would try the existing cleats first. Like I said in a comment try a day of penetrating oil. You could even cut the cleat out of the shoes and soak the whole thing. Not sure if that is worth saving like $13. If you replace the pedals they will come with cleats. Those cleats are not in terrible shape (well compared to the pedal). And that looks like an original Shimano to me. That looks like the original M737. 

Brake not break. A disc brake kind of violates the whole minimalist single speed karma. That said front disc brake is not a frame thing. Just install a front fork that will take a disc brake. Doubt anyone is going to have an off the rack that way as it violates the karma thing. It is a money thing as it is (likely) a custom build. You are going to find SS disc in cylcocross (CX) as there is SS heat and disc is common in CX. You will get a bike designed for CX with front and rear disc, knobby tires, and geared for CX. It can be a nice commuter bike but it will not be the same geometry as a street fixie / SS. You are not going to find many CX bikes under $1000 new as they are selling to the racing crowd. If you really just want disc you are seeing them more and more on street bikes but you are not going to find (many) SS (outside CX). Look at something like a Salsa Collosal. You won't find disc on race bikes as UCI does not allow it. You will find disc on cheaper mtn bikes as mtn bikes are pretty much expected to have disc any more. On road you are not going to find disc on cheaper bikes as disc is not the standard. 

Not the same beast as bicycle chain. I don't even think there are rollers. Bar lube is more viscous than bicycle chain lube. Bar lube does not need a long life - it is going to get thrown off. There is an excess of bar lube and big gaps compared to a bicycle chain. The chain itself only needs to last longer than the cutting teeth. Yes they are both chains but that is about all they have in common. It is a bar lube. I would chose 3 in 1, motor oil, or transmission fluid over bar lube. Yes I would use bar lube on my bicycle chain if I had nothing else in the shop but I would not use it just because it was free. I would even use WD 40 for a single ride and get chain lube the next day. Not a great lubricant but WD 40 would not gunk up the chain. You pay $20+ for a decent chain. Why would you skimp using a product not designed to protect the chain? A good chain lube is not very expensive and goes a long way. 

What is your basis for not trusting it? That bolt has rust do you not trust it? Really how do you know that surface cracking is a structural integrity problem? Stand on it and see if it breaks. If it breaks try a tire and frame dealer. 

A tube will have a range. Most likely the original range of that tube did not include 28. Small tubes are usually sold as 19-23. Yes the rubber would probably stretch to 28 without bursting but it would definitely be weak. If you are going to spend money on new tires then spend money on new tubes. Even same size I put new tubes in new tires. Save the old for emergency. Better yet save the old tires with tubes for emergency unless the tires are just plain shot. 

If you are out of shape now and the most of have done is 80 miles getting ready for 175 miles ride in 3 months is probably not realistic. You don't just tune up and ride 175 miles. 175 is up there with elite riders. Elite riders start out elite riders and they are in the saddle 20+ hours a week to stay elite. Two 40 miles rides during the week and an 80+ mile ride on the weekend and some light rides in between. 160 mile at 15 mph is about 11 hours. You might scale that back to one 80 and one 40. You body can easily take two hard rids a week. If you have a regular job then just fitting in the training hours might be hard. In WI at least you have lot of daylight hours in the summer. If you can ride 80 miles at 15 mph take one day off and come back and ride 40 miles at 15 mph then you could probably gut out 175 miles. Start with some 40 miles rides and get your speed to 15 mph. An 80 mile ride at 10 mph is not a good use of training times. Anything over 80 miles is not a good use of training time - that is 5 hours and you can do it without stop. Use 15 mph as your base line and see how many miles you can build up to. 15 mph alone will be more like 17-18 in a pack. If you cannot hold with the pack you are toast. 

A question on a bell had a lot of comments on how to notify pedestrians. How do you notify a pedestrian you need to pass? How do you notify a bicycle you need to pass? I imagine this will be region dependent so please state your region. This is getting a bit of response and it clearly varies by region. I will give it a couple more hours and just award the answer to the most votes.