There are many white rocks so it is not unbelievable to say your moon just happens to have an abundance of them. 

how good a shape are you in? a 2500-5000 gallon plastic water tank could be buried(yes you will have to bury it and not just for radiation shielding) on the moon to provide a airtight chamber, -300-800lbs respectively. you will need to double check it for a airtight seal on lid once buried, and you may need to reseal it with epoxy. Then you need co2 scrubber, an oxygen tank, a regulator, and cot. Keep in mind you will have no airpock to you will have to teleport inside. also keep in mind the first time you go to sleep and your calculations on the regulator are wrong you will not be waking up. 

I also remember an adea about having the outer cylinder all habitats and have an inner cylinder that becomes the "sky" that is one endless LCD screen, so you can have moving day and night. 

Don't give them anyplace to hide marks. The less a card has on it the harder it is to hide marks. most marking relies on hiding in the pattern on the card, no pattern no place to hide. Go with a flat white back or any solid color for that matter. Remember to work marks have not visible from a distance, the most subtle marks only work for the dealer becasue they require direct handling to feel. You could even make most of the card transparant making it even harder to mark. Both make creases, marks, and scratches very obvious, clear ones also stop rubbing since they will stop being clear. There are even plastics that will change color when stressed, so even bending the card to curve it will make it turn from clear to white. to stop counterfeiting you just use a plastic that can optically or chemically checked. works even better if you add the checking system into the shuffling machine. For more standard anti counterfeiting you can also make the face symbols complex and unique becasue marking that will not matter. A tougher plastic will also have the advantage of being difficult to mark in the first place, you cant scratch it away with your fingernail. you could also combine this with Alfy's answer and give them completely blank unmarked transparent cards that just act as a stand in for a digitally tracked system combined with something like google glasses. 

Silphium was a medicinal plant whose resin had supposedly effective contraceptive properties along with a list of other possible effects. It was valuable enough that its likeness was used in coinage and was likely harvested to extinction mostly becasue it could never be cultivated outside Cyrene. If the plant had survived this could have offered what you need. If this is a fictional planet or setting simply having something like silphium and a greek level medical knowledge may be enough. The Greeks also recorded various other concoctions with contraceptive properties so again if these documents survived "likely in Islamic libraries" they could offer what you need. Modern studies of these methods confirm a surprising portion were actually effective so it is certainly possible for you to have one for your story. Although keep in mind some prevented implantation or ovulation like modern pills (contraceptives) and thus are fairly safe, far more induced spontaneous abortion and could be far more hazardous (abortifacients), and of course even more methods that did not work at all. They did however have access to mechanical abortion so there is that, although again high risk. As a note the people at the time do not seem to be able to tell which are effective and which are not, a lack of modern scientific methods more or less meant no test for effectiveness happened, it was all up to an individual's impressions. 

The placement of your settlements are not bad considering the location of features, but your features have major issues (see below), and the number of settlements is fine considering the size of the map, although Ash Island should probably have some cities on it, volcanic ash makes for incredibly rich soil. The country density is comparable to europe, so unsettled land should be fairly rare. Well first you have a large desert with no mountainous border at the same latitude as several gigantic marshlands, that makes no sense. Deserts are generated by latitude or terrain, this one appears to be made by neither. It also seems to have a lake in the center of it with no source for the lake. Second you need more forest, early civilizations and cities that do not have a steady source of timber don't survive for long. Deforestation is probably the second leading cause of city collapse after warfare. third many of your rivers appear to start near the coast and flow inland, without the coast being mountainous this makes no sense. The Jiazhi area appear a particular offender. 

Not from simple hunting, we couldn't even wipe them out by trying to do only that, not without taking a large part of the biosphere with them and even then its not a guarantee. We have been actively trying to exterminate them for decades in some places and can't manage it. They breed to fast and are too hardy. Human over hunt megafauna, things that breed slowly and are fairly easy to find, or things that have a weakness we can easily exploit like the swarm breeding passenger pigeons or immobile clams. 

Scale is going to be really important, "Island" is not a unit of size. This map is great for something the size of Hawaii or England and relatively poor for something the size of Africa. 

Instead of stealing bodies pay people for use of their body after they die, that alone will go a long way to a better image. Or if he can talk to the dead he can negotiate for after their death. "20 gold pieces to my family who live here, and you can have my bones." Play it up as service to the community and you may even get volunteers without payment. Taking the time to bleach bones and clean off the rotten flesh will help too, so they are not a disease ridden mess. Make it a point to keep a signed contract for your undead, or come up with a guild that regulates it with some kind of badge or stamp certifying legal necromancy vs grave robbing assholes. As long as he is taking them against their will it's no different, for the moral perspective of most of the populace, than taking slaves and forcing them into your army. 

Short answer it would have very little effect other than requiring the resizing of tools and buildings. people might live slightly longer but the effect is minor. land use would be the same, you could build houses shorter but the floor area would be the same. 

you need to train dragonslayers, make it a noble endeavor, make sure they know it corrupts them, you create zealots who only want to killing dragons or die in the attempt, who will kill themselves if they survive because they will have been taught for decades that they will become monsters. basically you're creating a cross between fire fighters and suicide bombers. compensation to the family should be a given, but honor, and service will be the real motivation. 

keep in mind your space ships are going to be cylinders or rings, in which case truncated cones pack fairly well, also consider packing efficiency will be less important than minimizing material used, which those old capsule designs do. The more you change that shape the more shielding you need, and the shielding is all cost. Of course they could be a squat cylinders (more or less) on launch/release and end up as a rounded truncated cone after they drop the small rockets that get them to the atmosphere. You also may want to look at the old Shenzhou and dragon reentry capsule, they are a lot closer to a cylinder in shape. Put a detachable* extension on the top (that would house the parachutes) and it gets even more stable. *detachable saves space, store separately then just attach prior to drop 

keep in mind computers have shown a steady trend to use less power not more, by creating higher and higher efficiency. but really fats contain the same energy density as gasoline so it's not that unlikely. there is already research along those lines, specifically enzymatic biofuel cell here is a great review of current work for laymen ,$URL$ they even have a cell powering an ipod for a nice visual. One of their goal is small implants to power medical bionics. Microbial fuel cells work even better and can use a wider range of fuels but the bacteria would not make good implants, engineered human cells might work though. 

easy, just make magic dependent on a mind. make a specific type of personality or mutually exclusive ways of thought one of the factors in making it work. if magic cell phones only work when nihilists build them, and magic railroads require a driver who is a go with the flow person, but the engine has to be built by a stubborn angry person. Then magical tech will be mysterious to most people even if they understand how they work. Or maybe working magic requires a specific natural talent, but using a device they create does not, most people won't learn how they work because they can't do anything with the knowledge. ohwilleke's idea of having magic tied to spirits or elementals that must be persuaded works well too, anyone can understand the machine but only a few people will know how to communicate with the thing that makes it work. 

Not very efficient, internal digestion evolved because surrounding the digesting material is faster, yields more resources, requires less digestive enzymes, and does not require you to stay put while digesting. External digestion is a really bad choice if you are a creature that moves around. Amoeba don't actually digest things like this they envelope the material they want then digest it internally (phagocytosis). Note there are mobile organisms the eat in the way you want, but they have to be extremely thin thinner than a sheet of paper to have enough surface are, a mouse could rip one apart with ease. the first thing organisms that want any thickness do is develop a mouth of some kind. 

You simply can't build a creature like this that will work, the human breathing system is mammalian, and the mammalian breathing system has to have a rigid rib cage to generate negative pressure to inflate the lungs. so your creature cannot breath and that is just once function of one organ, before you get ot the issue of holding itself up or eating. 

Mostly cooked tubers or cooked fruit, along with cooked meat/fish. This is becasue the biggest necessary evil they will have is cooking food, especially tubers, meat, and certain fruits. Basically all other uses of fire, save perhaps pottery, is more of a convenience than a necessity. Let's compare studied human forest living cultures both are primates so this is a decent comparison. Mostly cooked tubers or cooked fruit, along with some meat/fish and occasionally some honey and nuts. They will not be able to store food effectively in a tree top mediterranean climate. The have no salt for salting (forests tend ot be very salt poor), no grain for dry storage, it is a warm climate, and forests keep the air humid so the worst possible conditions for storage, so then need food continuously, thats fine thats true for many cultures. These cultures solve this by cooking what they do have, cooking food will let them get a lot more out of the food they have. Starches, fats, and protein availability are all greatly increased by cooking, to the point it is argued humans did not develop our large modern brains until after the invention of cooking doubled our caloric intake. Chemical storage (pickling, sulfuring) is not an option on a large scale without a preexisting food surplus to fuels the chemical creation. Smoking is one of the few storage techniques available but you need fire for that. More importantly cooking is a big necessity in forest cultures. Grains are basically non-existent in forest ecosystems, tubers instead make up the dietary staples. Many forest organisms(especially tubers) develop toxins to protect themselves. Root vegetables like Cassava(Manioc) are famous examples, and the staple food of many forest/jungle cultures. Cooking destroys those toxins, making them safe to eat and greatly increasing what things CAN be eaten. Any forest living culture is going to see the value in this and exploit it immediately after discovery. NO religion will be able to suppress this, since any clan that does cook their food will be able to field many many times more fighters in any conflict or just grow way faster than everyone else. The advantage is just too large to get around, many more foods, and many more calories from the food you do have is like having firearms when everyone else has stone tools. Now let's work on how to minimize fire use. Likely they will use a single communal cooking fire and, depending on village size, may all eat together (hunter/gatherer bands do this partially to ensure food sharing) but it also takes less fuel. this will let them minimize fire use. the single communal fire will likely have a large smoke rack hung above it and may have a kiln dug below it. It may even be built like a large kiln with mud brick or dirt walls to protect the forest. The more they can get out of the one fire the better. The only other option is very small fires in small ovens in each home. Community size is an important thing to consider. The bigger the community the less hunting and gathering will be sufficient to support it. To get medieval levels of population density they are going to need large scale farming or livestock. You may want to use the Yanomami are considered one of the higher standard of living forest horticulture cultures and their diet is mainly cooked manioc and plantains, with some meat, fish, landcrabs, grubs, fruits, with nuts, honey or rare fruits as treats. They also grow a lot of tobacco as well as various medicinal and hallucinogenic herbs. They use slash and burn agriculture but there is no reason you have to. just for an idea this is manioc and it can be made into bread, soups... basically anything you can do with a potato you can do with manioc.