So you told him he should at least write a complimentary email to share with the team and he did not send an email. You did not ask - you told him what he should at least do. You talked to your boss and he wanted an email. So you called the guy back and told (not asked) him to send a complimentary email. You ask nicely once and if you don't get it then let it go. 

It is OK to mention "short commute" - yes - but when and where Also you are mixing relocation with short commute. You would prefer not to relocate but if you do relocate you want the option of an affordable short commute in a neighborhood you desire. "Short commute" would mean very little to most business - yes we have housing within 10 miles. On your LinkedIn or CV I would say no. It is easy enough to filter. For a recruiter yes tell them. Have them focus on local jobs but not ignore others. On a cover letter yes if it is a local business. And you don't need to be obvious. "I am local and can come in for an interview at any time". If you have the qualifications they are going to think let's check him out. Clearly you are more likely to accept a job offer than someone from out of state. If they pay relocation expenses then you save them money. Also maybe skip the recruiter for local jobs and apply directly. You know the local businesses. The business can avoid recruiting fees. Don't be obvious you will take a low offer - but if you get a fair offer just take it. In the interview yes mention you live close. 

I don't agree with the do nothing answers. What you think you heard happening is not appropriate work place behavior. Report it to your manager or HR them them decide what to do. In my mind you are not a snitch for reporting something that you heard if it is what you heard. If you wait for it to happen again they will ask why did you not report it the first time. I know a lot of people are going to say this is not the same but if I saw bruises on a child's back I would report it to child protective services. The coffee tastes strange every once in a while is also vague unsubstantiated complaint but it happened and they put a camera on the coffee pot and a disgruntled employee was urinating the coffee. 

I am not an attorney. Do not take this as legal advice. This happened to me. I filed with the state employment commission and they said unless the contract states a cash equivalent for a vacation day then there is no cash equivalent. Easy. Take your vacation time and THEN in turn in your notice. My mother is a teacher and teachers don't get vacation days. They do accumulate sick days but only are supposed to take them when they are sick. In the contract a sick day was 1/3 day pay that she collected when she retired. 

If they don't have a policy then shame on them. Some managers would be OK on day one and some would want 3-5 years. I think you should wait 6 months just so it is not so obvious. 

Unless the position would be reporting directly to you then there is no reason to mention it. Even if the position is reporting directly to you then you should still not disclose you are leaving as it is not good for the company. If the person does not accept an offer based on that information the company is harmed. Even if you are not leaving you could be transferred or promoted. The candidate should not have an expectation he would be working for you. 

Yes "misses me daily" is a bit awkward but it could have just been an awkward use of words. So far it is a one time thing and the correct response is no response. You worked for him for 1.5 years and I assume you had no problems during that period. Don't avoid him but maybe in the future have structured to semi structured business meetings. Make it clear the meeting is not an excuse to talk to him. Politely avoid going to the canteen for tea after. The guy may have a crush on you. Avoid situations that could become awkward. If you do encounter more awkward conversations or actions in the future then be prepared to respond "That could be taken a few ways and I trust you mean on purely business level." 

If they go into why was such and such not considered. If you have an answer then respond. If it was not considered then just say so. If they press then ask them how the option is better. One of my favorites is "why could it not be done with such and such?" My response is "a lot ways it could be done." I am techy that works with a business design team and they think the are software designers. We have competitors that have unstable slow products that don't scale. They will give me functional designs of it need to look like this for almost every feature. And I have told them like at least 100 times but because of the design it does not scale and is slow. We have to try and back into a functional requirement and let me do the design. Even if they do let me lead they expect a design decision then and there and I may need to looks at bringing in 3rd party controls or utilizes. 

You need to talk to a lawyer. If you are not a full partner an equity position can be dangerous. You would also have that X of the debt but not in a position to make company decisions. The founders could pay themselves a very high salary and have the company make little or nothing. It would be better to structure a bonus or stock options. 

It doubt is rises to legal libel. Might be legal to record a conversation. Not the same but as club member one the instructors was just plain hostile to me and other member. Her group of friends would vouch for her. I recorded her, played it to the manager, and he fired her. 

Unethical may be a little strong but that is certainly not what I would call forthcoming. If they told you 10 vacation days and 5 holidays the total is 15 If you are forced to take 4 at Christmas then it is really 6 vacation days and 9 holiday and the total is still 15 You get the same amount off but lose some flexibility of when They should just call any forced days a holiday Or call them forced days - just tell you up front If I had planned a vacation for like spring break and this was a surprise December 1 notice that left me without enough vacation days for my planned vacation then I would be pissed. If you had know at the beginning of the year then you may have moved that vacation trip to Christmas. If this got sprung at the last minute then I would say unethical but still probably nothing you can do about it. If this was a short notice scheduling problem then a more fair approach may have been to split it and pay 2 of the days or at least pay Christmas Eve. If it really happens every year then basically now you know. 

I would answer this with: How does vendor code solve the support issue? What if the vendor goes away or does not perform? The fact is we have many vendors that don't perform. You already have a number of programs written by me that will require support if I leave. Not have me write code is not going to solve the support issue. I would argue that you are much better off with me and small development team. If I leave you sill have the development team. 

I agree you need to collect data. You may even go as far as getting a backup of the database. But that may be stealing. You need to consult a lawyer. You don't have a lot of outs: