Don't give a range. If you give them a range, they know you will happily work for the low end you give. And if they offer your low end, you can't argue with them for the high end, because you already said you would accept that amount. It's really no different than asking for the lowest value in your range. Find out how much you are worth, then ask for that. 

You are completely misunderstanding what religious discrimination is. A law against discrimination means you can't treat people differently for being religious (or make rules that conflict with a faith just for the sake of it). It does not mean religious people can do whatever they want. A good litmus test for whether something is religious discrimination is to ask yourself "would I still be doing this if the person weren't religious?" If yes, then it's probably not religious discrimination. So let's take this example. If Helen hated gay people just because, and happened to be an atheist, would you tolerate this behavior? What if she constantly made fun of his clothes and haircut just for fun? Surely you would immediately force her to stop, and fire her quickly if she refused. Her being religious should not change that. Let's also consider whether it's discrimination to force her to work with Mark. Are you forcing her to work with him because it's against her religion? Presumably not. If she were atheist, would you want her to work him? If yes, then it has nothing to do with her religion, and so it cannot be religious discrimination. The fact that her religion causes her to dislike a job duty is irrelevant, the same way it'd be irrelevant if she were against working with computers, or inside an office, or with men, or obeying a manager's direction, or anything else required for her job. It is unacceptable to let any employee treat any other the way that Helen is treating Mark. You need to put a stop to it immediately. Her reasons for doing so are completely irrelevant, and you should tell her as much. 

I've been in the exact same situation as you. I'm a software engineer, and my internship was with a large company that was not in the software industry. They also had me working on Excel macros my first few months, and it got old pretty fast. (You haven't said it explicitly, but I'm assuming the company isn't a software company, or people would write their own macros. Please correct me if I'm totally off base.) Your biggest obstacle is that most people don't know how a programmer can help them. They don't know what you're capable of, or that they're doing things inefficiently, or what a more efficient way even looks like. They're having you write Excel macros because that's the only way they know to do their job. I promise you they are using Excel for all sorts of things that it's terrible at. You need to find those inefficiencies yourself, come up with a better solution, and then pitch it to any stakeholders. Here are a few suggestions: 

Some of these projects will be more interesting to code than others, but the most important things you'll learn will have nothing to do with coding at alk. You'll learn to identify problems, design solutions, convince people to buy into your idea, gather requirements, and build relationships. That last one is especially important. As you build trust, people will let you in on what they're doing and will be more likely to take your ideas seriously. Don't disregard small tasks just because they are easy; if you write a small script that saves someone from doing a monotonous task every day, you will become their hero. Build that good will every chance you get! You may be thinking at this point, "That's great, but how do I figure out what they need help with when no one will give me the time of day?" That is indeed the tricky part, but there are a few ways around it. One option is to chat with people when they are getting their coffee or heating up their lunch. Tell them you're an intern and then ask what they do. Most people are happy to talk about themselves. Show your interest by asking follow-up questions. After they've talked a bit, tell them you've been tasked with making people's work easier, but you don't know where to start. (Don't say more efficient; you don't want to imply that people are working inefficiently.) Ask them if there is any task they have to do regularly that is tedious or if there is in-house software they use that frustrates them. If they seem very receptive, you could even ask to shadow them for half a day to learn more about what they do. You may not get a lot of suggestions at first, but they'll probably come up with ideas over time, so talk to the same people repeatedly. Another option is to sit in on group meetings, especially if they're working meetings. This is a great way to get to know both the business and the people in it. It's tough to find the right meetings, but again, talking to people will help. Find out what projects people are working on, then try to get in on the ones that sound interesting. Most people are happy to help an intern learn more about what they do. You just have to tell them you're interested. The last option is to offer to take out the people to lunch that never have time to talk. The feasibility of this one will obviously depend on if you're willing to spend money to get a chance to talk to someone, and maybe the company culture. I think most people will still be flattered that you think they're experts with knowledge worth sharing, though. **In summary, ** nobody is going to give you an interesting task to work on. You need to be proactive by talking to people and building relationships so that you can find opportunities to show off your skills. Prove that you can be helpful, and you will have people knocking down your door with work. This can be a real opportunity if you play it right. (I'm now a full time employee at the company I interned at, and I have my choice of interesting projects to work on.) Good luck! 

Don't give them your current or expected salary. Have them make an offer first. Companies want to pay you the least amount possible, and companies always ask for the prospective employee to give a number first. This is not a coincidence. Think about it: if you give a number lower than they are expecting, they will happily take it. If you give a higher number than they want, they'll just offer lower. If it's way too high, then they might rescind the offer entirely. This can't benefit you. Say something like "I'm happy to hear you wish to extend an offer, and I'm really excited at the prospect of working for [company]. However, compensation is about more than just salary, so I don't feel it's appropriate to name a number before seeing the rest of the compensation package. I am confident you will make a fair offer and that we can come to terms. When can I expect to see your offer?" They might push back. Hold your ground. They don't need a number from you to make an offer. 

I recently switched to a new laptop at work, so IT had to set it up for me and move my files over. The problem is they asked for my password to do it. I balked, and after some hemming and hawing on their part, they agreed to attempt it without the password. It seems like this is their standard practice, and I got the feeling I'm the only person that has ever not provided their password. I work for a very large company, and they are concerned about security. This isn't some rinky dink operation, so I struggle to believe that it is corporate policy for IT to ask for passwords. I suspect it's a practice specific to the local IT at my office, and that corporate wouldn't be too happy about it. So my question is, should I report this practice to someone higher in the food chain? I'm sure IT is just trying to do their job effectively, and I don't want to get anyone in trouble for that. It'd also be obvious who made the report, and I do not want to get on IT's bad side. It seems like a terrible practice to me, but they presumably do it for a reason, and I may do more harm than good (especially to myself). Should I say something about them requesting passwords or keep my mouth shut? If I do report it, is there a way to minimize the concerns outlined above? I don't want to get anyone fired, and I don't want to make any enemies. I just want my local IT to use good security practices, whatever that is to my company. Note: I'm not asking if this is a reasonable practice, or if I should give them my password. I know I shouldn't, and I didn't. 

If it is a privately owned company, then you will probably have to talk to someone at the company to find these things out. You said you're being recruited; can you meet with the person recruiting you and ask them these questions? They probably won't know all the details offhand, but they can give you a general idea of the answers and get further details to you later. Also, some of those things you're looking for might be considered confidential. For instance, the company I work for would never, ever tell a prospective employee who our clients are. Even when we've decided to hire someone, they don't get told that until they officially start and sign nondisclosure agreements. I suggest you think of ways to get the information you're after in a more general sense, in case they won't give you specifics. 

It's easy to ask to leave this until the end. Say something like "I admit that I was hoping for a number closer to the one I gave, but I'm willing to negotiate if the job is right." You could (and should) mention that you're unwilling to take it if the pay is $x/2 and it's part time, if that's the case. But that's not the question you should be asking. Your real problem is that you don't know what you're worth. It doesn't matter if your expenses require you to make $x to cover them. If employers are only willing to pay $x/2 for your skills and experience, then that's all you're ever going to get offered. They don't care about your expenses; they care about the value you provide to the company. So, instead of picking a wage based on your bills, do some research and find out what a competitive wage is for the job you're seeking. That way you'll know if the wage they're offering is fair or if you're likely to be able to do better elsewhere. If the going rate is 2x, then you can confidently respond "No, I'm not okay with that. Your competitors are willing to pay four times what you're offering." If they balk, then you can walk away without any doubt that you did the right thing. However, if it turns out that $x/2 is competitive, then you know that turning down that wage will leave you perpetually unemployed. Either way, you'll know what your response should be, so you won't feel the doubt that you did in your last interview. That will solve your real problem. As for how to find out how much you're worth, there are lots of sites that list salary information. Glassdoor is one example, but a Google search will supply others. They let you filter by title, experience, location, etc. You might even be able to find reports from the company you're applying to. You can also network with people in your industry and ask them. You might be surprised at how many people are willing to tell their salary to help you find out what is fair.