It may be clearer to restrict the concern to Plantinga’s “naturalism” which implies a belief that there is nothing “God-like”, that is, there are no agents and everything is the result of event causation. See Plantinga’s Evolutionary Argument Against Naturalism (EAAN) in Where the Conflict Really Lies. The problem of evil may challenge not just a certain group of theists who believe in an omnipotent, omniscient and omnibenevolent God, but it also challenges this naturalism. The problem of evil has four premises assuming the concurrent existence of both a particular type of God and evil: 

Advocating a universe that is not random is advocating for an orderly universe. Order can come from either event causation or agent causation. It does not come from randomness. It was argued in some of the answers that claiming God does not need a cause because God is eternal is a kind of “special pleading”. However, it is hard to see how that argument makes sense. The Rational Wiki “Special Pleading” article might provide some clues. It has this: 

-- Physics, after the SEP Purpose - telos - is presented as a cause, because it determines what means are undertaken, in order to reach that end. Ends may be objective - as one's health is - but what makes them ends is subjective choice. We can easily conceive someone who wishes to be unhealthy (for example, a child who does not want to go to school). The reasoning followed here may be captured by the following syllogism: Pma: There exists a possible future state S, that I find desirable, Pmi: Action A will bring state S into realization, C: I will perform action A. The purpose of action A is to bring state S from potentiality to actuality. State S is known (and judged) a priori and action A is predicted to result in the realization of state S. This is how the end may be seen as a cause of the means leading to that end. Therefore, we can define "purpose" as meaning "in order to" - an exercise in prediction. What about the word "reason"? We can look at reasons a posteriori, namely: Interaction I has brought about effect E. The combination of n interactions In leading to the combination of effects En has resulted in state S. The past existence of interactions In is the reason for the present existence of state S. Following the practice set out above, we can define "reason" as meaning "because of". In practical terms, the difference may be demonstrated thusly: the reason I have a busted knee is that I fell when ice-skating. However, I did not fall down while ice-skating for the purpose of having a busted knee. Having laid out the difference, we can see how it applies to "objective". Reasons can be objective, provided we are prepared to accept causality. Continuing the above example: I lost balance, which caused me to fall, this placed a strain on my knee joint, which resulted in an injury and now my knee is swollen and hurts. None of the above effects were chosen by some actor (as far as we know). Instead the entire causal chain consists of interactions between non-volitional elements (including natural forces, such as gravity and physical constructs, such as the human body) that lead to effects determined by the properties of these elements. We can look at past interactions leading to the present state and identify why they brought about the present state. The difference between the aforementioned and what we consider purpose, I would argue, is in that purposeful action involves present decisions, based on predictions of future states and judgements of possible future states. In other words, "purpose" must necessarily be subjective. It must be someone's purpose. To further highlight the difference we could see the purposeful actor as identifying a desired future state and then "backtracing" the reasons for the existence of such a future state (note that this is still a predictive exercise, because the reasons for the future state have not yet come to pass) and finally acting to bring the identified reasons to existence, in order to bring about the desired future state - the purpose of the actor's actions. Let us, lastly, consider a purposeful model of everything there is - namely: Divine creation. Under such a model, everything that exists has a purpose - a reason for existing that was identified a priori, by God. Even under such a model, the purpose of everything is subjective - it is God's purpose. Following the standard theistic approach of assuming that God was free in His creative decisions (omnipotent), and able to predict their outcomes with perfect accuracy (omniscient), we must necessarily assume that whatever effects those creative decisions have were seen by God to be most desirable - through His subjective choice. Any other tack (as through the second prong of the Euthyphro dilemma) requires us to abandon the omnipotence postulate - by saying, for example, that God is incapable of doing the impious. Very strong notions of determinism may, indeed, not only remove the notion of our own free will, but even God's (He created the only universe it was possible to create). If we assume such strong determinism the very notion of purpose becomes meaningless. There is but one possible outcome and everyone is simply going through the motions. Addendum: the "is-ought" problem Addressing doubts raised in the comments, I thought it useful to add a short examination how the foregoing ties in with the "is-ought" problem. We might say "the purpose of physical laws is to hold things together", but then we must be really careful as to what it is we are actually mean by it. We might mean "the laws of physics hold things together", which is an "is" observation. If we lived in a different universe (leaving aside the question of whether this would be possible) they might very well not do so. We can consider the laws of physics as just a feature of our universe devoid of any special meaning. If we want to invoke the weak anthropic principle, we can say that they are the reason it is our universe (that is: one we can exist in), but no more. There may well be other possible universes that do not have the laws of physics working as we know them to. However, we might also mean "the laws of physics ought to hold things together" (purpose), but that is equivalent to saying "there ought not be a universe where the laws of physics do not hold things together". We are postulating a choice between two kinds of universe and saying only one of them is correct. When we do this, we must (even if unconsciously) postulate someone making that choice prior to the existence of the universe. That choice is a subjective decision made by that someone. If we say that universes where the laws of physics don't hold things together are simply not possible, we're back to an "is" observation: that's just the way universes are. In that case, "purpose" becomes meaningless because there is no other possibility - as in the case of strong determinism, mentioned above. 

Which is the most likely given Ockhams? It's option 1 of course. The more assumptions you place in your statement, the more unlikely it becomes. The second statement has twice the number of assumptions! It's not about having a definitive answer, it's not about proof, and it's not about belief. It's about common sense to recognise what's the most probable answer. No-one will ever know for certain because science will always discover more unknowns, and religion will always hijack those unknowns to argue a prime mover. Footnote: The infinite regression isn't just about stepping back in time to understand the sequence of events for creation and evolved of the universe.. it's also applicable to the logical argument of who created the prime mover, and who created the creator of the primer mover, and who created the creator of the creator .. etc. This is where the requirement for a prime move is equally illogical, irrespective of whether infinite regression is possible or not. 

Here is a definition: A natural number is called a prime number if it is greater than 1 and it cannot be written as a product of two natural numbers that are both smaller than it. $URL$ Since 2 cannot be written as a product of two natural numbers that are both smaller than 2, 2 is prime by that definition. Note that the definition explicitly excludes 1 although 1 has the very property, that is, 1 cannot be written as a product of two natural numbers that are both smaller than 1 because 1 is the smallest natural number. One wants to identify the primes because any natural number can be factored uniquely into primes outside of order. That is why 2 is needed as a prime. It allows us to factor the even numbers. However, if 1 were a prime the factorization would not be unique since 1 or any power of 1 would be a prime factor of the natural number. It is 1, not 2, that presents a potential problem. We have to deal with it explicitly and so exclude it from the set of primes. 

The word "objective" is a minor fly in the ointment here and in order to address it, I propose to look at the definition of "purpose" more closely. Specifically, I wish to decouple it somewhat from "reason", because different considerations may apply. When speaking of "purpose" we usually invoke an agent, or actor, that makes a choice of action. This is exemplified by Aristotle's fourth or "final" cause: 

TLDR: No, because "purpose" is necessarily subjective. If we are to preserve the distinction between purposeful and purposeless, we must be able to differentiate between them. The causality evident in both cases is insufficient for this - the same chain of events could be triggered by happenstance (purposeless) or intention (purposeful). The intentionality criterion must therefore be our differentiating factor. All inentionality is subjective, because any specific set of intentions is unique to a subject. 

Being causally closed simply means being “subject to no outside causal influence”. We can assume systems are causally closed to simplify an analysis of them. We don’t know that any systems are actually causally closed unless we have set them up that way, such as computer programs or experiments. 

I can think of two arguments against two kinds of actual infinity. First, if the universe contained infinitely many stars eventually their light would reach us and the sky at night would not be dark. This is known as Olbers’ Paradox. If the universe were infinite in this way, we would not be here. Second, the cosmic microwave background puts a limit on how far back in time we can see. So we cannot see infinitely far into the past. Couple this with some gravitation theory and an expanding universe and one gets a beginning when the expansion started. 

I've read a few of the answers and have to agree that it can be a complex issue. But, I take note of your question. You've asked someone to highlight the main differences between the three. That means avoiding all the various in-depth explanations that cut across political science, sociology, and economics. Disclaimers :P However, before I give you my simple solution I'd like to provide some caveats and assumptions: 

Most of the upvoted comments are quite good, so I'll just add my ten cents that hasn't already been covered. Assumption underlying your query - maybe you're not an atheist To have originally come to your query, you must have made some assumptions that your dualistic experience, being a consciousness beyond the material body, is supernatural. More than that, supernatural in the sense of a traditionally understood immortal soul. If what you are suggesting is that your consciousness resides in a traditional soul, then I would argue your atheistic leanings are contradictory to your dualistism. Alternate assumption - maybe you can still be an atheist However, if what you're eluding to is that your consciousness resides in a non-material component of your being, which you are not defining, then this does not contradict atheism. For example, consciousness is believed to be an emergent property of the brain. It's not material but is an effect of all the activity and cannot be pinpointed to any specific parts of the brain. However, you are probably no longer an atheist if.. I would personally argue that there are some limits to how far you can argue this duality and still remain an atheist. The purpose of atheism isn't just to deny god, but gods, spirits, and the supernatural. It's to say, there are natural explanations for the human experience and our natural world. Some of these natural explanations might end up being bizarrely magical in appearance, maybe our consciousness resonates on some quantum level and exists in multiple dimensions, maybe there's an untapped sensitivity in our brains that reacts to the universe. Who knows. But as wild as these possibilities get, it's important that we don't simply replace one type of superstitious gobbledeegook, with another set of gobbledeegook. If you are starting to believe in a model that your actual consciousness does not reside in your brain but resides in a spiritual realm, then your beliefs are moving away from atheism and towards ietsism. Maybe you are an Ietsist ($URL$ ;) 

Whitehead in Science and the Modern World compared what happened to Galileo with religious conflicts at that time. $URL$ 

If one accepts socionomics, negative social mood caused these wars along with their alleged causes. In other words, the wars and the believed causes for the wars had a more fundamental, non-deterministic but hard to resist, holistic cause that is not apparent, appears to be an effect rather than a cause, which can be traced and even predicted by looking at social, in particular market, behavior. Social mood, however, is not well defined except to say what it is not. It is not the market changes themselves. It is not political decisions. These are all effects. So, ontologically, it is not clear what social mood is. What makes it worth considering is that socionomists claim they can assign likelihood to future changes in social mood that affect changes in political, social and market trends by studying patterns of social mood displayed in "sociometers" such as market charts. The reason market charts are useful is because of the large quantity of data available that appear patterned rather than random. The market patterns socionomists value are called Elliott Waves. The efficient market hypothesis (EMH) provides an opposing interpretation of these market charts by calling them random walks. For EMH social mood is an effect, not a cause. If the EMH is right then social mood would not help in finding the causes of the world wars. However, assuming socionomists are right, and they do show enough success in market predictions that traders are willing to purchase such predictions and learn the patterns themselves, socionomics or Elliott Wave analysis could provide a way to predict when a future war is likely to occur as well as why the world wars in the past occurred. To see how such analysis might help explain world wars, here is a video showing a socionomics analysis of Korean politics and the KOSPI (Korea Composite Stock Price Index). Although political changes in Korea and the market chart are compared, both the market and the political changes are assumed to be caused by a holistic cause of something called social mood that changes in a patterned manner.