Absent it's supernatural qualities, I'd be pretty skeptical that something like this is literally possible. But as as science fiction element, there are plenty of examples of creatures that live in space. I wouldn't worry about plausibility, as you're likely past that right from the start. Ancient and unimaginably excellent design will do the trick, but will defy your efforts to explain the organism in much detail. And with its supernatural qualities you can just assert pretty much whatever properties you want, in which case plausibility is a non-issue. 

If people are essentially trading experiences, would one person care about having the experience itself (a lot would be essentially duplicates, at least in any meaningful way. How many bowls of soup would a person want a record of eating?)? In at least some cases the experience would be rare and interesting, but the vast majority would be minor variations on common experiences. Because of this it seems clear that there would be no fixed value to a quale. In this case supply and demand forces would be odd, because an original core experience would be much more valuable than a common one, and the validation mechanisms shouldn't be able to enforce a common value of any individual quale. Would some people try to monopolize experiences of a given type, and sell them at exorbitant prices? Would there be a thriving rental market? Do people lose qualia in a transaction, in exchange for something new? If so, how would peoples' identities handle the constant shifting of remembered experiences? Would they cling to their own subjective ones, regardless of market value (like remembering the birth of your child, or an intimate moment with a loved one)? Would people work in exchange for customizing their remembered experiences, essentially valuing the person they want to be vastly more than the "balance" of qualia in their accounts? And, importantly, if the qualia are intrinsically valuable, how does the market react to inflation? Can my subjective experience of a quale on Tuesday be traded to you on Wednseday, generating a new "echo" quale of your experience of my experience? What would the value relative to the original be like? Could it be more valuable, if something about my own experience is different, adding to the original experience? Can people assess the quality of a quale before completing a transaction? If not, what opportunities for fraud and deception exist, and what mechanisms exist for protecting against them? As time passes, even rare qualia will be more or less duplicated, diluting their value. I imagine there would be a major drive in society to mint original qualia, riding ahead of a wave of ever-inflating and ever-less-valuable existing qualia and their derivatives. How easily can meaningfully novel qualia be produced, and how much ability does the average person have to produce them? Relating the value of qualia to physical goods or services also seems hard. How many experiences, and of what type, would a farmer be willing to trade for a discrete, physical potato? If the amount of meaningfully distinct experiences is relatively fixed, at what point does a farmer have enough experiences to not be willing to engage in further transactions in exchange for production of physical food? If the qualia are simply tokens of exchange, you retain the issues of varying quale value but don't have to deal with the identity crises. It becomes essentially a fiat currency, but one that would probably experience ever-increasing devaluation. As tokens, you can hand-wave away a lot of implementation details (why do we use qualia? Well, if you want to buy something, that's what you have to spend. The rationale isn't so important when you need to buy groceries). In thinking about these questions, a couple of your goals for the currency seem to be shaky to me. I'm not convinced that qualia can be: 

I get a value for the mass around $2.719 \cdot 10^{30}$ kg, or around 135% the mass of the Sun. The distance from the star, therefore, would be somewhere around (using the expression substituted for $r$ and this query string), 

The rings around the stars are actually optical defects, so I'll ignore that. But the thing which makes the entire area blue is not anything to do with the stars. Rather, it has to do with the dust which reflecting the blue light coming off from the star itself. This, due to radiation pressure from the star, cannot last for long, but like the Pleiades, the stars could be travelling through a particularly dusty region of the galaxy which provides the dust necessary to explain such scattering. Secondarily, one should also note that this solution wouldn't make the star blue (it would still be blue-white). But rather, it would make, for a planet inside the cluster, the entire sky have a faint blue glow. 

Argue that the junta regime is the best option in a field of terrible options. Basically, this junta you're talking about, per the fact they are selling oil, is going to have some friends – maybe that's generous – trading partners. So, conjure up some bogeyman, something far worse than what the junta is, something which must be stopped at all costs. And then, sell this narrative along with the oil. It is easy for the junta to covertly support radical no-chance rebellions to launch attacks on the oil supply (also, since this is the most important source of revenue, any rebellion group would be launching attacks on this supply), which will infuriate foreign buyers. The foreign buyers want their oil supply to be reliable, cheap, and dependable. This threatens those interests. So, the radical terrorists which are attacking that supply (who may or may not be funded by the regime) are threatening the global order. These terrorists are trying to sow discontent and destroy the state from the inside. They are the evil ones. Nothing the government is doing is cruel... it is what must be done. The government simply needs to paint itself as the well-intentioned extremist. Then issue propaganda like this: 

Now, let us examine the change in those factors given some massive change in the amount of gold. First, the money supply. This is going to be constant given a massive influx of gold, because nobody is on the gold standard anymore. If you want an increase in gold to affect the economy, you would have to set your story in a world with the gold standard — where the amount of money a government can issue is tied to the amount of bullion it possesses. Second, output. This is going to increase, marginally. While it would marginally increase due to cheaper inputs, which would then lead to a fall in price levels, the impact of this is very small. From the US Bureau of Economic Analysis's commodity-by-industry direct requirements table, around 1.8% of the computer and electronic products sector's output is derived from all primary metal products. As a back-of-the-envelope calculation of the cost savings, I am going to pretend that gold makes up 100% of primary metals, ignoring the fact that there are other metals like rare-earth metals which also go into production (or aluminium, which is increasingly used in laptop cases, etc). I am going to then pretend that transportation costs do not exist. This massively overstates the size of the impact. Even so, as 1.2 per cent of the economy is derived from the entire computer electronics industry, this optimistic estimate of cost savings would be somewhere around 6.7 billion dollars. That sounds like a lot, but recognise that is across the entire industry. 6.7 billion dollars in cost savings is somewhere around one-tenth of Intel's gross revenue. Then recall that Intel is one firm in an industry of thousands of firms. I cannot overstate how minimal the cost savings are going to be in a major economy. Third, interest rates are also mostly unchanged, as changes in the amount of gold don't really affect global credit markets. However, another answer did talk about the fact that people who have their savings in gold will have their savings wiped out. However, this effect is also going to be quite small – the Census reports that the majority of people's net worths are in their homes and interest bearing accounts, not bullion. 

I'm working on creating a race of humanoids with "hollow" bones like birds (they have criss-crossing struts for internal support). They are short - an individual is unlikely to top five feet. Would this species be significantly more prone to injury than regular humans? Could they still participate in athletic activities? Also, would this bone structure have an effect upon their culture? 

I have an alien species that while similar to humans in many ways have mouths that are closer to muzzles. In short, they do not have cheeks like humans do. I realize that this will effect the sounds they are able to produce and thus their language. Most of their speech will be translated, but I want to know what English language sounds they would be capable of making so that I can give them semi-plausible names that won't baffle English speakers. One sound set that has already occurred to me is "p" and "b" - both are created largely with the lips. What other English language sounds would not be possible for a species without cheeks? Note - the species does have vocal cords and tongues. The only major difference is lack of cheeks. 

The exact method of translating would be the issue - most (or probably all, at least as far as I know) animals don't have a spoken language like we do and rely more on body language combined with scents and noises. There are a few animal species that we can communicate with - dogs and other domesticated animals can learn and respond to basic words. Great apes can be taught to communicate with humans through symbol books and sign language. Presumably the "translation" you receive would have varying levels of refinement. In all likelihood you would receive mainly emotion words: hungry, scared, happy, ect. That's not the say that animals aren't capable of more complex emotions - for instance, elephants have been known to touch the bones of their dead in a way that may be their version of grieving. Mammals such as dogs are certainly capable of feeling love. One thing I've seen in the other answers and comments is the idea that animals aren't capable of abstract thought. This is not entirely true. There are a few important measures of intelligence that involve some form of abstract thought which animals pass - recognizing yourself in a mirror is one. Elephants, dolphins and great apes can do so, so they'd likely be the species most effected by your machine. Creating tools is another (both dolphins and chimpanzees do so). A note on dogs - While intelligence levels vary, they are not at the level of the above animals or humans. What dogs are really good at is communicating with humans. As an evolutionary tactic, they basically outsourced their brains to humans. So while they may be communicating to you very clearly what they feel and be able to respond to you, it's more a sign of how close they are to humans than how intelligent they are. That being said, there's occasional dog who's been breed to think independently (border collies are an example) that will be unusually intelligent. For the species effected, I think it varies how much will change. Laws may be enacted to protect these species, although some already are protected in some way. I doubt that their lives would be considered equal to humans, but they would probably receive special protection. Elephants would still be killed by poachers. Given all the terrible things humans do to each other, people probably wouldn't stop hurting intelligent animals. One thing that might change is using them as test animals in labs (effects mainly great apes). This may be banned or may become more tightly regulated. On the whole, I doubt much would change. Humans still don't always treat humans who are different from them well, and I doubt that they'd treat animals much better. Besides, we already have a fairly good grasp of animal intelligence levels, that this wouldn't be to new. Possibly there would be more public support for animal protection? Or maybe people will doubt the data of your machine. How widespread your translating technology is will also be important.