It depends on the circumstances. Equipment, training, tactics, situation (e.g. pitched battle or raiding), terrain and weather. It also depends on what you mean. I think tactically there is a significant difference in the situation with armored knights as opposed to light cavalry. For the strategic decision of what forces to bring to a major set-piece battle, generally one would and did bring whomever one practically could. Even so, common infantry would not generally become equivalent to heavy elite cavalry, as they did in a 19th Century situation when they dismounted and fought with rifles or carbines. So I would tend to say mostly yes, particularly for most examples where a major battle was occurring. In that case, having more men and more types of forces is likely to be an advantage. In particular, with most ancient cavalry which usually dismounts to fight like infantry anyway, there is a clear tactical parallel. I would tend to say no for a force of mounted medieval knights operating independently for raids and smaller-scale operations, because they do fight while mounted, generally have superior armor, training, and are considered by both sides to be the strongest type of combatant, and aren't generally countered by most foot units. Trying to coordinate with a foot unit outside a major battle would mean the cavalry need to forfeit most of their mobility advantage. However, your example of using infantry to block a pass would in some situations be a great complement to an independent cavalry force, since they would not need to move together and places with restricted access could be defended by the foot units, particularly against forces which might pursue of flee the cavalry unit. At Alesia, I definitely think an infantry assault was called for, due to the extensive walls and earthworks encircling the city. Superior numbers of infantry could in theory have overwhelmed the walls and been too much for the German Cavalry to stop. 

Yes. Generally foot have the advantages of tending to be more numerous, requiring less supplies, and so being good to win pitched battles, hold ground and protect supply trains. The combat advantage infantry have over cavalry tends to be because there tend to be significantly more of them. 

Yes, if your infantry can out-fight the cavalry, say due to superior numbers and being a match for the cavalry. If the cavalry is similar in numbers or better individually, they may just stay and defeat the infantry. I'm not sure why cavalry would tend to choose to stay in trees / bush terrain though, as it's not generally not good mounted terrain and staying put removes their mobility. 

In short...when you are facing wooden walls and lightly armored horsemen that aren't aware you are coming, horse archers do amazingly well. When you are facing an enemy with stone castles and heavy cavalry, your horse archers have little they can do. After these changes were made, engagements between Mongols and Hungarian soldiers were solid wins for the Hungarians with heavy losses to Mongol forces. 

You are correct, the Turkish National Movement heavily resisted treaty of Sevres which culminated in the Turkish War of independence...the treaty didn't last long. 

I need to challenge that line as the answer here is...they weren't. They had an extremely easy time dispatching Hungarian and Polish defenses in their first round of invasions/raids, however Hungarian and Polish forces were mainly light cavalry and not what we would call 'knights'. Knight orders actually fared decently vs Mongol horse archers. The first defeats to the Mongols taught Polish and Hungarian leaders a couple lessons, in particular that "Two elements of the Hungarian defense had proved effective, however: close combat with mass armored knights and stone fortifications"." $URL$ 

Fire arms have a certain shock and awe to them that bows lack, which give them a psychological edge in a battle. The first 'Gatling' style guns were nearly unusable due to the rate they would fail, however they were still deployed as they were scary regardless of functionality. Guns also fair a bit better in poor (windy) weather and cut through obstacles more readily (especially in a jungle). Archers tend to be best in favorable weather conditions, which couldn't always be counted on in a defence scenario. 

Not quite sure if this is a full answer to the question, but will try anyway. Iran has an interesting position in this war as they were kinda neutral yet pro-german at points...both the Soviets and British had identified the chance of a pro-german coup in Iran. Baku, an oil field in present day Azerbaijan, was actively sending fuels to Germany prior to the war. However in March 1940 the soviets launched a full scale invasion of northern Iran and took Baku and it's oil fields. The British also invaded (potentially with the support of the US) and attacked Iran, seizing the oil fields of Bander-I Shahpur and Abadan, destroying Irans fleet and air power in the process (The Shah in Iran compared Germany/Russia invasion of Poland to what the Allies did to Iran, the invasion was rapid and the spoils were quickly divided). I assume these are the oil fields you talk about to the south of the Caspian. Not sure on how accurate this source is here, but it will suggest that Russia and the Allies nearly went to war themselves over Iranian oil. $URL$ 

Fantasy fiction, art and films tend to over-emphasize swords, compared to what was historically used, as they both take more effort and metal to make, and more skill to use properly, than spears, clubs, maces, axes or polearms. Even contemporary art depictions of battles tend to overemphasize swords for their symbolic value and because they tend to focus on nobles rather than the common levies. The most common pre-gunpowder weapon was probably the spear, and not necessarily a particularly long one. Pre-gunpowder cavalry tended to use spears or lances as their main weapons. Also common for medieval armies would be a mix of whatever men had, and most common men often did not have swords, using instead spears, maces, clubs, polearms, or weapons which were also their daily tools, such as axes, pitchforks or other various farming poles with metal heads. They would use what they had, and for medieval levies in particular that would tend to be a mix of types. Some uniformly-armed groups of professional warriors also used weapons other than swords or spears. Famous examples include Anglo-Saxon Huscarls with two-handed axes and Swiss Halberdiers. Norse warriors would use axes and spears, in addition to those who had swords. Even princes and wealthy nobles often used weapons other than swords and lances, particularly after heavy full-body armor made swords less useful. Maces, picks and axes tend to be more capable of hurting a man in full plate armor than a sword. 

If you have two eyes, it doesn't interfere with vision very much, and you can get used to it. The point is that many of your opponents would be using swung swords, axes or clubs (or hafts of other weapons that nearly missed with their head) coming at an angle and so, like the hilt of a sword, many such blows might well fall on the nasal and be deflected, instead of blinding you and/or cutting into your face. It could also help against something like a shield bash to the face. The importance of a nasal is about covering the last remaining uncovered places. It's not usually the only protective gear a fighter would use. If you were wearing such a helmet over an armored hood, most of your entire head, neck and shoulders would be well-protected from most attacks other than a thrust from the front. Compared to the same coif and helmet without a nasal, the nasal might be considered to protect against most attacks that would otherwise encounter no armor, so it's a significant enhancement. Warriors contemporary to nasal helmets (late 8th Century to late 12th Century) would also tend to fight in an armored hauberk and carry a shield that would tend to be near the lower part of the face as well, so aside from a spear jab or arrow, such a fighter was very thoroughly protected. The nasal thus offered important protection for one of the few vulnerable spots remaining. You're right that nasals like that were added to earlier helmet designs which tended to just be like the helmet shown without the nasal. There weren't many other types of helmet in use when nasals were added, so before about the 13th Century, there wasn't a typical mainstream alternative helmet that was heavier than this, again because the helmet was generally combined with an armored hood. 

Because nobody said about naval battles, here's some nice (I hope) examples, sorry for citing Wikipedia only. In 1178 BC or 1175 BC during the Battle of Delta distance attack was performed by Egyptian archers. 

In Poland it is always said that it is a White Eagle. This is mentioned in current Constitution (translated by me): 

In popular culture Christians were being killed in the Colosseum because they did not want to accept the Emperor as a god. An example can be Quo vadis novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz, who won the Nobel Prize for this. The Colosseum is Catholic sacred place, however not because it was used to kill Christians, but because many people died there. The Jews for example had never accepted Caesar to be a god and nothing happened. The Greeks had their own Pantheon, very similar, however different. How (in reality) did Roman Empire treat people who did not want to accept Roman gods? Were they killed or punished (eg. with a fine)? Or it was just not important to anyone? In Wikipedia an article (with a "citation needed" remark) states: 

In Polish there are two words which can be translated to the same English "real socialism". The first, most commonly known, is "socrealizm", which in fact is "socialist realism", a trend in art (whatever "art" means). The second (the one you ask about) is "socjalizm realny". The Polish Wikipedia says the term was introduced in the USSR in 1970s. by propaganda. This 1970s. seems to be good beginning. The "real socialism" was created in the moment when it was clear that communism is no longer acceptable. First of all, consider the communist eras (since the end of WW2, as they are common in all Soviet Bloc): 

As ship's bow is designed to break the waves, the physics (something like hydrokinetics) makes it should look like a wedge. And it really is, if we look from above. This should be also kept if look from side. This is a picture of the bow of a modern ship (let's call it a 7-shape): 

The Sigismundus III Vasa's reign was also strongly influenced by his Swedish claims, and considered protestant rulers of Sweden illegal. This however had no impact on Polish common tolerance policy. My question is where did this religious tolerance come from? Why were there no fightings in this multi-religion state? My assumption is that the Commonwealth was since its existence multi-cultural country. There were Polish, Lithuanians, Ukrainians, Germans, Jews etc. There were Catholics, Orthodox and Jews who (probably) made good businesses with one another helping them to find common factors. So when Protestants came, they were just another group of many. Or, referring to "good business", it was just not profitable for anyone 

(This answer isn't very historically rigorous, as I wrote it thinking I was on Worldbuilding.Stackexchange where citations and rigorous detailing aren't expected, but I think it is worthwhile here because it adds a different perspective which I would say is valid overall, and seems needed to me to relate the question to historical cosmologies instead of only looking from modern cosmology.) I think the nature of the shift in relationship towards the universe is slightly different than you describe. One very rough but interesting perspective is that pre-empire cultures (before pantheons which had a dominant head god such as the sun god the Aryans had showed up) tended to relate to the world rather inclusively. We were part of the whole universe and everything in it was all a big cycle of death and rebirth. The religious, ethnic and imperial conflicts that then arose, and the Aryans and other sun god worshippers, tended instead to cast their male sun god as superior to others, and humans as separate from the world and from spirit. This shift carried through into Judeo-Christianity and Islam, where we have these religious texts telling us what to believe, what's right and wrong, about how separate we are from spirit and how death is permanent etc., and a lot of that basic separateness of identity carried on into scientific thinking. So people before all that history would tend to see an actual space alien as just part of the universe they hadn't met before, and would be interested but wouldn't necessarily think of it as other than of their universe and akin to themselves somehow. Even in, say, ancient Egyptian or bronze/iron-age Greco-Roman cosmology (and probably many other pre-"Enlightenment" cultures), the underworld and the planets and so on were semi-metaphorical and unfamiliar from direct experience, but weren't conceived of as weird bizarre ooh from outer-space kind of things, because there was no such distinction in their cosmologies. They had plenty of imagination of other worlds and dimensions and the creatures in them. The ancient Egyptian underworld was far out, complex, and full of all sorts of interesting creatures etc. The concept of "space aliens" as we now use it requires a cosmology akin to what we have now, and the expectations of strangeness or sameness that go along with it, which means you need to go to like 18th Century Europe at least before that's going to make any sense. Even so, it takes a long time before popular thinking or even sci fi writers are getting very "alien" in their thinking. e.g. Star Trek and Doctor Who are still full of "space aliens" who are Earth-like humanoids behaving more like Westerners than anything else. So I think it's pretty hard to define and accept or reject any story as being space alien or not without some definitions, so it becomes fairly arbitrary depending on what you really want to know.