The word riot itself also appears to have an interesting history, again noted by the Oxford English Dictionary, 

Dave Ramsey, an American financial author and radio host, recently made the following claim on his 6 December 2013 radio show (at 5 minutes into the show) when discussing holiday shopping in the United States (i.e. Black Friday through Christmas), 

Also, modern cans are now lined with a water-based epoxy, i.e. bisphenol-A, to ensure that the beer does not interact with the can itself. This does lead to other arguments against canned beer on the grounds of bisphenol-A leeching into the beer; however, that does not appear to actually affect the taste of the beer itself. So in summary, there are some scientific reasons why canned beers might taste better than bottled, namely by preventing UV light exposure which can lead to skunking of the beer, but beyond that there shouldn't be any reason why the same product would taste noticeably different. When beer is poured and drunk for a glass, as generally recommended, any issues with smells coming off the container would also be avoided and you should be unable to tell the difference, as hinted at by the Huffington Post article. 

In this situation I couldn't find much in the way of recent research that definitively showed a correlation between aptitude tests and employee performance. Much of the literature specific to programmer aptitude tests is either focused on predicting academic success which has already been discussed. 

This similarity is noteworthy, but killed by enemy fire is a significantly different bar to meet compared to "attacked by the enemy." If this is the origin of the statement in the question, then it is much easier to to check. As of December 22, 2014 there were 110 female deaths as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom, while 143 reports of sexual abuse were made in Iraq for 2008 alone. 

"Shihan" is effectively the highest rank you can make in aikido and isn't given out very often. The current list of aikido-ka at this level is very short. Pressure points is poorly defined at times and in this context I mean weak points in the body that you can manipulate via joint locks or just the application of pain to encourage someone to move differently. 

With regards to the legality of the business in terms of their use of Starbucks logo and fair use, Starbucks says that their name cannot be used, 

Since Zipf's law plays a major role in their argument, it bares noting that, as succinctly defined by the NIST, Zipf's law is, 

This statement was made in the context that shopper aren't good at controlling their impulses and marketers are very good at getting people to spend money since the holidays are when retailers make their profits for the year. Is this statement in fact accurate in the sense that retailers either make all of their money for the year from holiday shopping or that they don't turn a profit until the holiday shopping season? 

A riot in the modern sense of a violent disturbance of the peace by the crowd, no. However, with that said, it is important to remember that the meaning of words do change with time. If we look at the aforementioned Oxford English Dictionary we note the following: 

The figures reported in the news can be traced back to work done in part by the Department of Defense Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office who have been producing annual reports on military sexual assault since calendar year 2004. The quote itself is also remarkably similar to a statement made by Representative Jane Harman: 

All of this means that ultimately, without an actual court ruling, whether or not the store is legal from a trademark fair use standpoint is at best unresolved. Although, The Guardian did make the following summary which is worth keeping in mind, 

Thus, a significant amount of the argument by the authors that there is likely a genuine message in the book is due to the fact that the "words" behave in this manner which would be difficult to accomplish using a stochastic process unless you were already aware of Zipf's law. Furthermore the authors also note in other parts of the article that: 

This strikes me as a very bold claim and as such, is it generally accepted within the peer-reviewed anthropological community that there are no matriarchal human societies either now or in the historical record? Conversely, is there any strong support from researchers of feminist theory to refute this claim? 

Arsène Houssaye’s, Des destinees de l’ame (FC8.H8177.879dc), bound in human skin. So in theory at least, a properly tanned and preserved leather artifact could survive for a very long time in remarkable state. In fact there is at least one instance of a 5,500 year old leather moccasin-like shoe that is remarkable shape. 

Most of these articles and research indicate that those surveyed are either unaware or deny the extent of their fatigue so it is reasonable to conclude that those experiencing it are unaware of the event. Furthermore, the research cited into local sleep demonstrates that in rats it can occur even when the subject appears awake. To further expound upon the question of if people are aware of micro-sleep episodes, the following discussion was found: 

So with regards to aptitude tests indicating academic success, there doesn't appear to be strong evidence that programming aptitude tests are useful. This brings us to the question of the use of aptitude tests as a prediction of employee success. For the purposes of this answer, I'm going to assume that you are not referring to tests such as the Oracle Certification Program which tests candidates on a specific topic, but rather more generic ones such as the Walden Programmer Analyst Aptitude Test which attempts to 

The moral of the story being to double check your work and make sure you factor in all variables; however, has this ever actually happened? 

Thus, while a very compelling case can be made for Hopper being at least in part responsive for the widespread adoption of the terms "bug" and "debugging" in the software industry through her work on the Univac documentation, evidence exists to show that the terms were already associated with programming the Harvard Mark I prior to Hopper's arrival at Harvard in July of 1944. So, as the question is phrased, yes the term "bug" was used to refer to errors in software prior to terms being popularized in the the early 1950's; however, the extent of the usage appears to be limited with the strongest case only being made for the term being used at Harvard University and by those associated with those projects. 

One of the interesting things about this list is that there are a number of cases where an stomach ache might be a temporary or transitive symptom. In which case the use of essential oils might just be coincidence as the symptom is going to go away regardless meaning that confirmation bias can play role. Fevers Fevers are another tough one to follow-up on as they can fluctuate throughout the day which means that confirmation bias can play a role again if someone sees a fever break following the application of an essential oil. Also, if other forms of fever management are being used in additional to essential oils then the other treatments may play a larger role as well. Lavender commonly gets mentioned as a treatment for fever, but it has the problem of being combined with other common treatments for fever and it's effects, if any, are not easy to isolate. Immunity This is a very interesting as Tea Tree Oil is known to be an effective treatment as an antiviral, antibacterial, and antifungal. It has even been shown to be effective against MRSA. So this is an area were we can give a firm yes to the effectiveness of an essential oil; however, this applies to a specific oil in much the same way that willow bark can be effective for aches and pains: individual oils may be effective, but as a whole you cannot just randomly select one and expect it to be effective. Summary It is already well know that various scents can have an effect upon a person by siring up memories or having an affect upon your mood. This means that some essential oils may help in some situations just by virtue of changing your mood giving you a more positive outlook. As shown though, some essential oils can have effects; however, in most cases they are unlikely to have an effect or their application might have a greater effect than the oils themselves. 

In short, while there is no evidence to support a riot in the modern sense of the term; however, as the word was understood at the time, the rowdy behavior of audiences very well could have been called a "riot." 

This gives us about 4,651,200 sq.ft. (432,110.62 sq.m) for the 5 zettabytes figure normally given. Even storage of a single zettabyte using the systems appears to be outside of the bounds of 100,000 sq.ft. for the data halls that the Utah Data Center will have let alone the 1 to 1.5 million sq.ft. size given for the complex as a whole. Based upon this, the claims that it will be storing five zettabytes of data is dubious; however, these calculations are based upon a commercially available system so it is possible that they have a smaller footprint for what they are using. That said though, even storage of a single zettabyte is likely an extreme stretch given what is on the commercial market. However, in 2010 IBM Research announced a new record in tape storage with a potential capacity of 35 terabytes of uncompressed storage per cartridge. The current high-end offering from IBM is the 3592 Tape Cartridge which stores up to 4 terabytes. The aforementioned TS3500 Tape Library holds up to 225,000 tape cartridges so if each of the cartridges was capable of 35 terabytes the total TS3500 complex storage would be about 7.51 exabytes of storage. If we apply these updated values to the previous calculations,