For a being that desires to help humanity grow and not subject us to trickery, it has a very funny way of going about it. Growth and development are inevitable assuming we survive, so the offer of the wish with all it's ensuing disruption and conflict is counter productive. 

Personally, I would simply wait out my initial 30 days. I have absolutely no desire for immortality, I'm a gay man, and I've survived sexual assault and am therefore rather touchy about sex under duress. Death seems very much preferable to living in this scenario. 

The reaction would be panic, chaos, and confusion. To the extent that the wish would quite possibly never be wished because there would be no consensus on what it should be or who should wish it. As for the wish, I would suggest something like 

As far as I understand the local time is slowing down for the traveller when travelling at near light speeds. So we could imagine circumstances at which possibly the time could be speeding up for Earth, but slowing down everywhere else, like for some reason the rest of the Universe was going near light speed and our patch somehow managed to slow down. Otherwise, as others said, we wouldn't have a frame of reference against which to see if things are happening faster/slower. However the implications might be unsustainable for life, insofar as we are talking science-based. I rather think time might be somewhere inside the fine-tuning constants, whose current values are what is permitting universe to exist in its current form. If speed of light alters, for example, the universe may just collapse. Or explode. Same about speed of chemical reactions or other things. 

I think that sentience would be neither more nor less likely. It would all depend on how much thinking is needed to get food and to avoid being food. Dolphins are pretty smart and sharks are pretty dumb but sharks have been around a lot longer than dolphins because they are so good at getting food and not being food that they don't have to be smart. Technology (at least as we see it) is unlikely for aquatic life. Where do they learn chemistry by burning things? Where do they smelt and work metals? Where do they melt sand into glass? 

Make men resistant or immune to magic Create something that only men can do. Men can, if they choose, act as a lens for the magic to either make it stronger or to add finer control. Accept that men, in that society, are only useful for initiating the baby process. Design a culture around that. 

I was reading about the rogue planet PSO J318.5-22 which is thought to have molten iron rain and things like that, and I vaguely remembered from uni that almost all iron mixtures have a slushy eutectic phase. So I got to thinking, could you have life based on the impurities and crystal structures in that phase, with iron as the solvent? Different crystal systems can seed each other and self-replicate that way, different metals and metal complexes have various catalytic properties, and so on. I don't plan on mapping out the details of that kind of biology, just want an opinion on whether or not it's vaguely plausible. 

I have some aliens. They look a bit like giant land-squid, and they have two very interesting characteristics. First off, their central nervous system never stops growing, so intelligence and age are well correlated, although in extreme old age when the brain has grown beyond the body's ability to support it dementia and death are inevitable. Second is their reproductive cycle. Beneath their mantles they have three "bud sites". If left vacant a new bud containing the individual's haploid genetic material will form. A bud kept in a bud site will stay viable for years, but without a host they only survive a few hours. They swap buds with each other, and when they're ready they close up their mantles and the three buds, as well as the gestational parent's own contribution, merge together and a baby thing is formed. So there are no distinct sexes, and everyone has four parents. As I imagine it, this makes reproduction like a gigantic trading card game. Individuals are constantly swapping buds (not necessarily even their own) to get desirable combinations of characteristics for their offspring. Offspring are raised by their gestational parent and may not even know who the other parents are. As an extension of all this I've imagined that their culture is based primarily around games and strategy, and historically their societies tend to be gerontocracies (although the age-intelligence correlation makes the distinction between gerontocracy and meritocracy rather fuzzy). My question is what happens to their society when their technology advances to provide for life-extension, intelligence augmentation, and the ability to store and preserve viable buds outside the body? More specifically, I'm thinking that their biology has given them a fairly natural social setup, but what sort of society might they end up with once those biological factors are mitigated by technological progress. If they're anything like us different groups will seize the opportunity to push for greater rights and equality, but on the other hand even though any natural reasons have gone certain things will be deeply embedded in identity and culture. I have some ideas, for example that success in games will become a more important factor than age in power structures, but I'm going all over the place and struggling to get much that's coherent so I wanted some fresh perspectives. 

The main issue is maintaining secrecy. Therefore, whatever they do, they need to acquire enough knowledge of the external world to safely pass routine communication and inspections in their chosen area. The obvious job would be the courier service regarding which I only have a couple notes in addition or what others have written: 1) I disagree that they should go into bulk transportation - it would still probably pay more to deliver confidential documents or expensive items rather than go for bulk items. 2) Their main benefit is not speed because they can't deliver faster than it is physically possible using fastest normal means without endangering their secrecy. Their main selling point is security during transportation. Apart from the courier service one of the more interesting things they could do would be precision teleportation, which doesn't care that much for distance, as much as for the ability to place the right thing inside another solid thing at the right place. For example, think correct placement of remote explosives in mining operation, or similar. If they gain enough knowledge of geology and mining operations, they could literally save millions of dollars by teleporting stuff inside mountain without drilling hundreds of meters of rock. For majority of operations though, they would have to educate themselves to a quite high level. 

Recruit some humans to positions of power. Giving humans power over humans seems to work pretty often. Promote them based on how how well the other humans under them thrive. If you do this well, you could be seen as a benevolent dictator. Give them control of small squads of zombies. Given that the zombies are, ultimately under your control, they can be used to turn on your people who turn against you. You are giving people a tool that is both a carrot and a stick. Use the zombies to help stabilize the situation. They can clear rubble, carry supplies, etc. Try to get the people to start seeing them as useful tools rather than monsters. Make cremation illegal. Start a religion that features zombies as a higher state of being. Give zombies different jobs based on how they acted in life. Someone who was a good citizen gets to be a royal guard or firefighter. Someone who was a scum bag gets to clean the sewers. It makes no difference to the zombie but it might influence the living. 

This would very rapidly take humanity to a much higher female:male ratio. Since sex with pregnant women counts less, you need at least five women for every man, probably considerably more. It is quite possible that one sex will make a commodity the other. Certainly sex work will have the biggest boon in human history and become legitimate, since access to sex becomes a survival necessity. I wouldn't be surprised to find brothels in every supermarket. Effectively you're keeping women perpetually pregnant, which results in a massive population growth. You'd get about 60% increase globally every year: even converting all available land to high-intensity agriculture and the entire population living on GM rice, we'd exceed the Earth's total ability to feed us within a few years. To manage that I would expect the immediate, total and compulsory use of non-barrier contraception. I would think everybody would receive contraceptive implants, and probably some license system would be used give people a break from them and have children. Back of the envelope calculations suggest that there would be no stable population level, and humanity would be condemned to boom-bust cycles. The loss of barrier contraception would also massively increase the prevalence of STIs. That could cause people to form closed networks of sexual partners, with strict rules on health and fidelity, which in the long run could displace the family. Health, particularly mental health, will take a massive hit. LGBT people will be especially badly affected for obvious reasons. Monogamous relationships will effectively become impossible. People will become traumatised by the necessity of involuntary sex. Mental health problems will also suddenly carry a huge risk of death, since both problems and treatments are strongly associated with sexual problems. Last, but certainly not least, our concept of sexual consent will probably go out the window. An act is not a crime if it really is necessary for survival, so committing rape about one a month would be a valid lifestyle choice. 

It depends on what type of prosthetics those are. If we are talking about prosthetics (as opposed to enhancements) similar to today's and yesterday's ones, which while helpful, still mostly leave person less able than one with all limbs, then one of the answers can simply be cultural bias together with government policy. For example, a very real case. When the Iron Curtain fell, many of my countrymen, as they went to West Europe for the first time, were surprised to see on the streets lots of handicapped people. In the USSR, you could see them in public quite rarely. It was not because there were less handicapped people in the USSR. It was because there were no facilities anywhere that enabled them to move around easily. For example, the USSR never thought to provide street curbs in its towns with ramps. The only places where you could find ramps where at hospital entrances, where they presumably were installed for the benefit of stretchers and ambulances. There was no overt discrimination of people with disabilities, but they did usually only got the means to scrape a living, not to lead as full a life as possible. One of the side-effects of this was that since people with prosthetics and in wheelchairs were a rare occurrence, most people on the streets didn't feel comfortable around them and didn't know how to react to them. So they were ignored a lot -- a hurried glance that skips over and pretends to watch something else. 

You could build a small flux-compression generator into a bullet, possibly replacing the explosive charge with simply the impact force. That would give you the combined effect of an hollow or explosive round with an electromagnetic pulse which I imagine would be quite good against cyborgs. 

First question is jurisdiction. Is this an independent colony, under it's own sovereignty, or is it a colony of an Earth based nation? If the former, then it's really a question about international human rights conventions, if the latter then it depends on the nation. Either way, the defence is basically quod est necessarium est licitum, that which is necessary is lawful, and for the premeditated killing of hundreds of people ... well, no amount of rationalisation, no matter how foolproof, is going to get you off completely. It's politics as much as justice. Let's face it, we in the developed world like our killing to happen in small, regular, impersonal batches. There's a lot of other factors which will affect the outcome, but I doubt things look good for our poor governor. He better hope that he's tried in EU jurisdiction where there's no capital punishment, because he will be tried and it could easily go either way. 

All the below assumes a somewhat humanoid anatomy. As sphennings said, a relatively light suit with plastic hard panels would work. It is possible that they would only need the panels around the head, neck and torso. It really depends on how fragile the flesh on their limbs are and if they will be able to circulate blood to the limbs against the pressure. If they are from a low G world as well as low pressure (such as Mars) they may leave the pressure protection off of their lower legs anyway to help pump the blood back up to their heart. The suit would also have to be sealed. I would imagine that the O2 in the air would be damaging to their skin even if they don't breathe it.