(b) Turn into grass, ditch, etc. When you're bicycling along out of control, with no or insufficient brakes, it's usually easy to pull off into the ditch (unless you're in the city), and the grass will slow you down. As you are coasting along in a ditch, you might be lucky enough to encounter a driveway which will slow you down really fast, although possibly not as fast as it slows down the bicycle. It's not too bad to bump into a chain link or privacy fence, but barbed wire should be avoided. You can also turn uphill sometimes, if there is room, and trade speed for elevation. (c) Jump off (if necessary). I have actually only jumped off in out-of-control situations rather than brake failures, but it does a nice job of stopping the bicycle driver if not the bike itself. This is difficult to do if you have your feet clipped into the pedals, and is not recommended at high speeds unless it seems really, really necessary, as in the case of a rapidly approaching cactus. I have tried all of these. 

To me, gravel bikes seem mostly like cross bikes with a bit more money they can take from your wallet. 1) Road and mountain shifters and derailleurs don't play nice with each other at 11 speed, so this question is moot. If you want to check a particular crankset on the bike, look at the width and the type of BB setup. I don't see why you'd want to switch to a mountain drivetrain in the first place. 2) If a wheel is 700c, you can technically mount any tire on it thats 700c (though you'll have problems if too narrow or too wide). If you look at the width compatibility chart from Sheldon Brown, you'd want a rim with a smaller width. Since you're upgrading, may as well buy the right width. By running this, you increase the risk of pinch flats/rim damage over a more well matched width. 

(a) Drag your feet. Dragging your feet works nicely in snow, when your brakes are frozen up and stop working. However, you have to dig in really hard to get much friction. On dry pavement, this is not so good because you feet get thrown back. On gravel and dirt roads it works well, but is a little hard on shoes. 

If you prefer the cushion of the seat post, you could request a new one, especially if it keeps coming apart. It should be covered under the warranty. If you don't care about the spring support, a simple seat post will be more sturdy. 

A USB battery pack works well, and can be charged with a solar charger on a multiday trip if electricity is not available. $URL$ 

A regular road tire will work fine, but you should keep it inflated and not press the roller bar up against it overly hard. But there is no disadvantage to getting a really cheap tire and using it on the trainer -- it will work just as good as an expensive racing tire. 

Another reading of your post suggests that the splines on the bottom bracket (thing the crankset goes onto; contains the spindle which the crank arms rotate about) may be worn (is this what you mean by shaft?). In this case, you'll need a new bottom bracket and crankset. I'd leave this work to a shop if you don't want to buy the tools (bottom bracket tool, big wrench, crank puller, etc.). 

While we don't do product reviews, note that puncture resistant doesn't mean puncture proof -- with any air based system, you're going to run the risk of cutting the tire and tube and getting a flat. Some tires are better than others in terms of puncture protection, using things like kevlar belts. The tires you bought trade off for some more the weight and handling performance versus durability to road hazards (by fitting a kevlar belt rather than whatever lighter thing they put in there) so that you have less protection from road hazards than say, a Schwalbe Marathon Plus. Don't ride through glass and in general avoid road hazards is the best thing to do. 

I've had a couple of non-folding mountain bikes on a sailboat for 5 years. I opted for smaller frame non-folding bikes for performance, and there is a hatch they barely fit through. Of course, rust is the major problem. Banging around in the waves and in the process of storing them is a potential problem. Because of this, there are no drink holders, speedometers, or other extra snags on the bikes. Regular chain lube helps a lot. The cables rusted enough to require replacement once. There are a few non-stainless bolts and nuts on the bikes (a Specialized and a Diamondback). They're easy to spot and replace or grease. The stainless steel material holds up well. Unpainted aluminum is corroding, but not to the point of failure. The good thing is that although the bikes ride, shift, and brake very well, they are really ugly from rust and corrosion, so we don't have to lock them up when we use them -- nobody wants to steal them. 

Looks like the two pieces on the left screw into both places where the skewer passes through, then the hanger is replaced as well. You can see this video on how to install it. It also looks like you need a particular thru axle specifically from Giant due to threading; it looks like its a re-badged DT Swiss thru axle, so maybe they have something compatible. 

For the rear, a 9 speed Sora brifter will be fine -- 9 speed cable pull is the same between Shimano road and mountain. For the front, the bike has a Shimano Altus front derailleur. You'll need to swap a road triple front derailleur for that (make sure to check the spec sheet to ensure your crankset's chainring sizes are within spec (not a problem) and the difference between the largest and smallest chainring are within spec (can be a problem) ) -- the bike you have has a tooth difference of 22t for the crankset, which is slightly higher than the 20t that the Sora FD-3403 or FD-3503 is rated for. There are triple front derailleurs (e.g. Microshift R539) which will have the right front tooth difference though (comes in braze-on and band mounting, depending on the type of mount on your frame). 

It depends on your definition of first aid. How long will it take you to get to a doctor in an emergency? If it's only a few minutes, you need something to stop bleeding and close a wound. An hour or two, and you need disinfectants, something to clean the wound, and maybe personal medications. If you're several hours or days from help, the bare minimum list gets longer and more controversial. I joked about a cell phone, but if you ride where there's cell service, you're crazy not to carry one. 

REI and other outdoor stores sell Sea to Summit lightweight dry sacks. They're similar to the rubberized dry bags used in kayaking and diving, but they're made of light weight nylon. They come in several sizes. They're a little more reliable than zip-locks and trash bags, which can mysteriously acquire holes and tears. There are probably other brands too, but keep in mind that ordinary stuff sacks are not waterproof. 

You might not have one. Check near the place where the cable exists the front shifter or on the cable, but on a BSO like this, you most likely don't have one. Your options are to install an (inline) barrel adjuster or just do the adjustments without the barrel adjuster (which just allows for fine tuning, really -- you can do all the adjustments without it, but they will be finickier). 

Generally, the tire pressure range marked on the tire is somewhat loose - the marketing department wants a big range since it will sell better, the legal department wants a small range so liability is lower and the engineers have something probably bigger than whats marked on the tire as safe. Your tire pressure should be high enough that you don't get pinch flats but not give a harsh ride. The links in the recommendations show roughly what tire deflection should look like. Note that lower pressures are generally more comfortable. 150 kg on a bike is a lot - most companies will mark this as higher than the max weight for their non-touring/cargo bike models (so you're on your own legally). That being said, I have carried a lot more on bikes marked significantly less, you're on your own with that. As for tire pressures which are best, you have to find this out on your own - its dependent on terrain you're riding over, your daughter's stomach, etc (and the best tire pressure (which is largely subjective, hence why I'm voting to close the question) will depend on the load on the bike so if you wanted one pressure, you'd have to trade off between the no daughter and daughter rides). There are some recommendation charts and manufacturer recommendations to start with - tweak your tire pressures to your liking. 

Range depends on fitness and training, of course, but the actual mileage depends on the bike, the terrain, your speed, and how many breaks you take. One way to increase your range is to put forth more effort into your ride to work by going faster. Another way is to gradually increase your distance per day. In addition to fitness and training, you can increase range by moving to a more efficient bike and/or tires. For example, you may be able to add more air to your tires, move to thinner or smoother tires (from 2.25x26 to 1.75x26, for example), keep your chain lubed, or even move from a mountain bike to a road bike. As you get into longer rides, you can extend your range by taking occasional breaks and maintaining a comfortable speed. On a multi-hour ride you can pace yourself properly and go a lot farther. 

If your chain is too short, you can jam your RD in large-large. If your chain is too long (as in this case), it may droop a little bit in smaller cog+chainring combos, but with 1 or 2 links too long, it will likely be insignificant (and occur in combos you don't use anyway). 

It will fit. If you need references: If you look at the Shimano Tech Doc, it suggests the Shimano BB-UN26 (which you can find that you can fit it in that version). 

This link says the frame has the necessary cable stops for a front shifter and front derailleur. You'll need a new crankset (you can find 9 speed+ triples or doubles pretty cheap these days). This may require a new bottom bracket as well, depending on which crankset you choose (I'd guess whats on there is just standard square taper) and the chainline required. You'll also need a front derailleur. Front derailleurs come with a slew of selection criteria: top/bottom/dual/side swing pull (the cable comes from the top/bottom/top or bottom/ side), where the derailleur is mounted (top swing (the derailleur swings above the clamp), bottom swing, direct mount/e-type variations, braze on, band clamp) and if its designed for a double or triple crankset. Then, you need the derailleur to have the appropriate chainring size constraints. There's a good overview here of types of front derailleurs. The mount type necessary is dictated by your frame. You'll also need compatible shifters (I'd suggest buying a front shifter from the same manufacturer and mountain/road type; They get a bit weird with these 11 speed-intended FD's though). As mattnz pointed out in the comments (thanks!), you may also need a new rear derailleur (which has to be compatible with your shifter), in order to have the capacity for the chain in the new chainrings. I'd suggest heading to your bike shop, and having them determine what kind of FD goes with your frame at the least. You'll need a few specialty tools for this -- bicycle cable cutters, a crank puller and possibly a bottom bracket tool.