No it's not a cheap trick if you want to understand whether something is true or both true and provable. For example can you prove that you don't have a proof? If you can then you have a proof and the proof is false. So it might be true that there is no proof though if you try to prove it it's proving the opposite of what you want to prove. But yes it's a cheap trick since consistency not is a sufficient feature. Consistence very well could be a necessary feature but you can make a counterexample which disproves that being consistent is enough information. Consistency only seem to mean that you can't prove a false statement and that what you prove must also be true. Proving yourself to be a liar by not telling the truth is an old paradox that defies the law of the excluded middle and one solution to self-references is to avoid self-references completely so that everything true can be proven and vice versa everything provable is true. For example a tautology is true (A=A is true) but a tautology doen't prove anything. So A=A is true and doesn't prove anything. Therefore typically false statements ("Peter is not being himself" is like "A is not A") can be more provable than exact truths (A=A) due to similarity instead of equality. 

Proof sketch is assume that something exists, deduce a contradiction and you've proven a non-existence. So I agree that non-existence can be proven e.g. "There is no possibility that the statement A is false" and statement A is: "Paris is the capital of France" we can assume there is a possibility that the statement A is false and soon we find that the negation is true and a logical consequence You just use existance elimination. Assume ∃x, derive a contradiction and you're done. It leads to the conclusion ¬∃x(¬P(A)) which is a negation that there exists an x such that there is no probability for A, since assuming ∃x(¬P(A)) leads to a contradiction that P(A) could be false when checking with reality the simple fact that Paris is the capital of France it logically rules out all other cases. Hence: All other cases have been proven non-existent and non.existence (¬∃x) has been proven. 

The example I read about went something like: "I'm afraid that the communists are taking over the power and I'm not afraid that the communists are taking over the power." It was Baudrilliard who wrote it in Simulacra & Simulation is some exmple of postmodernism and you can research it more if you find it interesting. In classical logic, arriving at a contradiction proves that the assumption is false. In intuitionistic logic you can't remove a double negation so if everything is expressed in negations it might be undefined what is meant be negating a negation if not the negation of the negation. You could also investigate statements such as "Heterological statements are heterological statements." which possibly is true by defintion and false by meaning. 

You can't disprove an axiom, and Peano's axioms state that 1+1=2. Context switching, in boolean logic + means something else and 1+1=1. 

It's unlikely that there could be a thesis that also is its own antithesis. Similarly, a formula usually isn't the "opposite" of itself if we use well-defined terminology. Somehow I have a notion though that there could be statements or descriptions that also are their own opposites and maybe not even contradictory. I don't have a very good example but maybe there was or I can make a good example later that is formal without raising question of definitions and also without self-referential statement and also not being a metatype. The idea, if possible, is similar to words that are true about themselves compared to other words and the paradox that might infer. 

For example to avoid damage you may tell a lie. You should not lie but it is OK to tell a lie being asked by a bank robber whether you know the combination to the vault. 

I read that the viewpoint of nihilism denies the existence of objective values and meaning. But does it also say that the values never existed, never can or will exist or just that these values don't exist now? 

4 basic rules of logic are ∀x (introducing true for any x) and ∃x (introducing true for an x) and the 2 corresponding elimination rules when you eliminate ∀ or ∃. 

"Osant intygande" - "Untrue verification" e.g. false and fabricated Ph D diploma or similar "Oriktig uppgift" - "Not a real piece of information" e.g. registrering with the authorities that your address is somewhere else than you actually reside 

I studied logic and found no category for statements that are not impossible but never true (e.g. "The earth is flat.") to differ them from statements that could be true ("I'm wearing blue shoes.") or that were or are occassionally true ("I drink beer."). Why not? Wouldn't it be hepful to classify not only what is necessarily true and false but also what is or was always or never true or false? I don't think it's the same as a contradiction (e.g. "The small house is larger than the big house.") since a contradiction is false in relation to itself and per definition false whereas a statement that was never true is not impossible and could have been true of another world ("The stock market gained 500 % today"). 

Isn't the most logical conclusion that the most certain conclusion you and I can make is that questions exist? I could have made a mistake reasoning somewhere when ruling out that I don't exist and in fact my conclusion that I exist could be wrong. I don't deduce a contradiction from assuming that I don't exist but I do deduce a contradiction from assuming that questions don't exist. If questions don't exist then logic can't exist. Ergo: There are questions that exist with greater certainty than I do. 

Searching for a proof (e.g. inductive proof or a constructive proof) Providing a counterexample (which proves a "nonexistence" of the consequence so the assumption must be false and both proof by contradiction and proof of negation are these types of proofs) 

How can we easily explain what Russel might mean about Aristotle's logic? Did I understand correctly that, loosely speaking, if we have a statement in Aristotle's logic for example: 

Here is another question I didn't get a clear answer to when the term "consistency" is applied in philosophy, logic and computer science. Is always lying consistent since we know the statements are false? For example please assume that some person or system always makes false statements. Knowing this I could deduce everything from false statement e.g. getting the false statement that bird can't fly I would conclude that since the system or person is always lying then I just know the negation of that information is the truth. But isn't it contradictory that a system that always tells me a lie is a consistent system? I can deduce truth and evidence from the system knowing that it is always false, so is it my interpretation that makes the notion of consistence combining the knowledge that the statements are false and therefore making false statement is indeed inconsistent and it's only applying the logic that the statements are false that makes the notion of consistency when the statement are true? Thank you for any comments and/or answers