This concept HAS been applied for use in the context of weapons of war. Final Thoughts In many areas, a "first order analysis" can give you a very good understanding of the overall problem. However, in matters of armor and defensive systems, this is not really true. There's much to consider and even the equations involved don't give the researchers and engineers enough information to design these defensive systems. Most of what we now consider "the best solution" has been found by trial and error rather than theoretical work. 

Your question doesn't provide a bunch of very important bounding parameters about the size of the thing to be destroyed, the level of destruction required, the composition of the thing to be destroyed, the proximity of things to not be destroyed, what level of "untouched" is really required, and how much time we're allowed to take. So I'm going to provide you with several answers. I hope one satisfies your needs. 

Caring for humans will be a hobby, interest, research project, or mental stimulation. Think the reverse of Tamagotchi toys. At first glance, keeping humans happy is simple, the AI just need to fulfill Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs for humans. Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs: 

Space travel is hard. Interstellar travel takes a long time. Chances for a successful trip and colony becoming self-sustaining are not considered super high. 

It might make an interesting blood for synthetic biological organisms (like the one found in the movie Aliens)... Chloro-carbonyl-bis(tri phenylphosphine)-iridium An Iridium (one of the Platinum Group Metals) ion based molecule that is yellow when oxygenated and dull orange when not. It provides the additional capability of serving as a hydrogen transport molecule too - which might make for interesting biology on a gas giant planet. The organism would require a biological/chemical pathway to generate oxygen from chemicals found in the environment and then transport that molecule to the cells that needed energy. Perhaps the oxygen circulatory system and hydrogen circulatory system would need to be separated? 

Sugars As mentioned above, both Sugars (the chemicals used for energy transport and storage) and amino acids (the chemicals used for cellular structures) are chiral (meaning they have left & right handed types). Use the above answers to see what handedness matters. At the worst, the odds of using the same sugar chirality is 50% (some experiments have shown a preference for one handedness over the other in some reactions). If non-terrestrial biology uses sugar in its energy storage and transport mechanisms and we share chirality, then we should be able to absorb and utilize the sugar from non-terrestrial organisms. Amino Acids Another aspect of amino acids is that I read somewhere (but can't recall where - so no reference) that terrestrial biology uses 47 of the 50 amino acids most commonly found in nature. Meaning it isn't a stretch to suppose that other biospheres using amino acids in its biology will likely use most of the same amino acids. As above at the worst, the odds of using the same sugar chirality is 50%. If they also share chirality, then we should be able to break down and absorb at least some of those amino acids. Nucleotides Terrestrial biology uses DNA and RNA to store and transmit genetic information. In terrestrial life, DNA uses 4 nucleotides and RNA also uses 4 nucleotides. However, RNA uses Uracil in place of Thymine in DNA. That means terrestrial biology uses a total of 5 different nucleotides. I'm not a biologist but I assume that other nucleic acids would serve the same purpose, however, those used in terrestrial biology out-competed all other methods of storing and transmitting information over the last 4.3 billion years. I assume this is both due to it's ability to preserve that information as wells as providing an extremely small probability of mutation (which gives the species a chance to adapt to other environments). Other Stuff Let's assume chirality isn't a factor and the non-terrestrial biologic uses at least some of the same sugars and amino acids. There are some other interesting things to explore. One that I found fascinated was the fact that much terrestrial animal life uses a protein analogous to hemoglobin to transport oxygen. In octopi and horseshoe crabs, this protein is called hemocyanin and uses copper instead of iron as the critical metal ion. Other metals used in hemoglobin analogs are vanadium and manganese. However, all three of these analogs are much less efficient than hemoglobin (<1/4 for the best). Another thing to consider is that terrestrial life develops to survive in a specific environment. Freshwater fish can't live in sea water (it's too salty). Salt water fish can't live in fresh water (not enough salt). Organisms which consume plenty of a vitamin through its diet, lose the ability to produce that vitamin (e.g. human bodies can't make vitamin C). Elements become toxic to organisms which are unused to exposure to that element (e.g. the arsenic comment above). Putting it together No one knows what alien life will be, how it will function, what chemical processes it will use, and whether that chemistry could digest ours. However, if the non-terrestrial life uses process similar to that of terrestrial life (which isn't entirely improbable) then we can make some guesses. If we both use sugars and share chirality, then terrestrial and non-terrestrial organisms can digest each other's sugars. Otherwise we can't. If we both use amino acids and share chirality, then terrestrial and non-terrestrial organism can digest each other's amino acids. Otherwise we can't. Organisms from one biology are unlikely to be able to co-opt, infect, or otherwise bother the cellular operation of each other directly (no viral cross infections). However, organisms from one biology may happily set up shop in the body of organisms of the other biology (e.g. alien bacteria living in our mouths). It may take a long time for our own immune system to adapt a response to shutdown those opportunistic colonies. For planets with different elemental abundances, we may find that common composition of the organisms contains enough of certain elements to be toxic to the other. I would expect that in most but not all cases, this would mean the toxicity goes both ways. However, in certain special cases this might not be true. So if you're writing a story of the type you outlined, then you could sprinkle in some of these factoids and then make comments that it is highly unusual for two biologies to have an asymmetry in toxicity like the one you describe. Even if it turns out to be unlikely it's certainly possible and know one knows whether it is truly plausible or farfetched. 

Colonist "buy in" on decisions. Ensure critical colony functions are always performed. Encourage colonist creativity in finding new ways of becoming self-sufficient. Encourage colonist creativity in finding new ways of developing export trade ideas. Investors want to use this colony to develop more investment in other colonies and encourage other people to become colonists. 

Yes With several caveats. Volatiles As @Saidoro mentioned, you need to introduce all the volatiles required for life. This includes atmosphere, hydrosphere, and Nitrogen. It's easy to find enough water and oxygen in the various ice moons and comets throughout the Solar System. However, compared to the amount needed, nitrogen is pretty rare. You'll need to expend some thought about how to get enough. Longevity As you can tell by looking at the Moon, the volatiles won't stay around the Moon over geological ages. So if you do provide the Moon with volatiles, how long can you expect them to stick around? There are many Atmospheric Loss Mechanisms. Unfortunately, only one of these (Jean's Escape) is easily calculated. Wikipedia has an excellent and scientific chart showing different body's ability to retain an atmosphere over geologic ages. 

1. Causality, 2. Freewill, 3. Time Travel (or 4. Parallel Universes) You get to pick 2 of the bolded OR you must have #4 if you wish to remain consistent with physics as we now know it. One Universe explanation If you want your Time Travel to occur in the same time line, then you must give up either causality or freewill. The problem is that physics as we understand it right now assumes both of them to be true. If I had to pick one, I'd pick causality and state that what we think of as freewill is simply our conscious rationalizing after we act that our actions were made by our choice and not predetermined. Time loops in this setting are set in stone. If you travel back in time, you perform the same actions that you performed in the previous loop. Whether by choice or seemingly "random" chance, the Universe or you will always choose to take the same action, even if you promise yourself to not do it in future loops. Putting it another way, if you used a hammer on "Big Bad" the first time through, something will always convince you to bring back a hammer in all future loops - because it has already happened. Parallel Universe explanation Alternatively, if your story must have the first three, then to remain consistent with physics as we know it, the parallel universe interpretation of Quantum Mechanics must be invoked. Each decision we make is unique and causes a calving of Universes (think of Stephen Baxter & Neil Gaiman's Long Earth). Traveling back in the timeline and changing a decision (or causing someone else to change theirs) leads to that timeline tracing out a new path into the future than the one originally taken. This sort of time travel paradigm leads to a chaotic future. Each loop alters the Universe in unpredictable ways. Putting this another way, in your first loop you bring back a hammer and defeat "Big Bad" but something happens that makes you wish you had sent back the laser instead. The next time through you send back the laser - but that flips you onto a different & divergent Parallel Universe. This will ultimately disrupt your time travel plans altogether. Another thought Time lines which develop time travel and possess freewill will ultimately loop into extinction. Consider the following: TT (time travel) inventor, goes back in time to alter the past and make it easier to invent time travel. His actions cause unforeseen side-effects. Each time he invents time travel he goes back to "fix" those side-effects. This happens in each future as long as time travel exists. Changes to the time line stop being made (which "sets" the time line making it permanent) only when one of those side effects is failing to create TT. In all cases eventually, TT + freewill leads to no TT.