Semaphore has effectively already answered the question in the comments: the 'Star of Creation' (as it is known in a Christian context) was a symbol used by Christians as well as Jews. That said, it is somewhat unusual - I couldn't find any examples of 16th century jewellery with a star based on a quick Google ... But there is absolutely no question of any Jewish connection. All Jews were expelled from England in 1290 after period of anti-semitism, persecution and massacre. Between then and 1655 there is almost no mention of Jews in England and it would have been simply unthinkable to openly display a symbol that identified one as Jewish. Rather, the point is that Judaism was so little known or understood in early modern England that a six pointed star simply would not have been considered as inherently 'Jewish'. There's a slightly larger image here: $URL$ For what it's worth, I don't think star contains a crucifix, but it does seem to have a vertical bar down the middle of the design. 

Samuel Russell's answer is good. I'll just add the following. The title of the question is "What do historians do when there are no sources?", the answer to which should be "give up". When there are absolutely no sources, guessing is not a valid option. I'm including archaeology and any other fonts of evidence here in the sum total of potential source material. In this regard, the distinction between historians and archaeologists or anthropologists is artificial. They are all people who hope to understand the past by understanding historical sources ... they just specialise in different types of record. However the OP is more to do with "What do historians do when the sources are insufficient". That's a very different story, and one that Samuel Russell ably addresses. The real skill of being a historian is largely contained in one's ability to understand the limits of evidence and build tenable conclusions without entering into the field of guesswork. 

I'd think the story is highly dubious, and is the sort of 'origin story' that many families concocted over many generations. That said, James I of Scotland was forced to flee the country and took refuge on the Bass Rock in 1406, before attempting to seek safety in France. However I doubt there were goats on the Bass Rock. It's more famous for gannets. 

In the absence of evidence, you can't rule something in or rule something out. All you can say is something is likely or unlikely. It's highly unlikely that Alfred would have been able to access Frankincense, although not impossible. If he did access it, nobody thought to write the fact down, so we'll never know. We therefore have to make a judgment on the balance of evidence and probability. It's extremely unlikely, and there's no evidence, and therefore it's not something that a historian could ever suggest too place. History is not scientific, but it does depend on evidence and judgment about the balance of probabilities. In this case, we can be as close to certain as makes no difference that Alfred would not have used Frankincense. 

To an extent it still isn't entirely 'out of fashion'. You can find people who do it, or something very similar, such as implying that "Person X will have thought Y" or "Person A must have said B", but they'll tend to be purveyors of 'popular history' rather than academic historians. Many people claimed over the century only to write history based only on 'facts' - in other words, 'what really happened'. In reality, they invariably fell short of that mark. Important and respected figures in the development of history such as David Hume still used invented speech in the 18th century. The turning point when it became professionally untenable to deal in fabricated speech can be dated from the 19th century and the career of Leopold von Ranke. Ranke stressed the need for history to be based entirely on verifiable sources, and brought about the transition of history to a professional academic discipline. Previously it was in essence a literary pursuit of amateurs and chroniclers who were permitted (or permitted themselves) great poetic license with what was said. This was considered acceptable in the pursuit of what they would have deemed a 'larger truth'. 

I can't give you a definitive answer here, but I think the explanation is that the government of the day was swiftly moving away from emphasising government grants as being the sole method of providing funding to students and researchers, and towards a mix of methods of funding, and clearly had an interest in enabling the introduction of student loans. The wording of the original act ($URL$ is very clear in avoiding overuse of the word 'grant' and suggesting a mix of funding methods, and also emphasising that the staff of the new council are "to have experience of, and to have shown capacity in, industrial, commercial or financial matters or the practice of any profession". Furthermore I would suspect that the new body was designed to improve the degree to which government power over higher education was not mitigated by an intermediary body. That's a suspicion based on the generally centralising role of the Thatcher governments towards any entities that wielded a degree of independent power. That said, the UGC had acted as a tool for the first round of cuts to higher education, so that point should not be overemphasised. There's a good article here with a view of UGC from a university perspective in 1984: $URL$ My recollection as someone who went to university in 1988 is that the writing seemed to be on the wall for student grants. And certainly by late 1989 there were major protests against the intention to introduce loans ($URL$ There seems good reason to believe that the abolition of the UGC was intended as a precursor to the introduction of student loans. Therefore the fact that the Student Loans Company would not be established until two years later in 1990 does not contradict the fact that this change was largely about the abolition of grants. 

To be honest, this is a question that can be answered with a quick look at Wikipedia, which appears reasonably well sourced, and probably as reliable as any answer you will receive here. $URL$ To summarise Wikipedia ... there were an estimated 3000 Jews in England in 1278. 500 died at York in 1290, 300 died in London in 1279. The source for the London massacre of 1289 (Roger of Howden) does not mention a number, but it seems to have been a major incident in which many houses were burned down in the belief that the king had ordered the massacre. Here's the page for Vol 3 of Howden's chronicle giving the account of the London massacre: 

To address Mark C Wallace's point, being ethnically Arabic and speaking the Arabic language are not the same thing. Arabic people existed long before the language we now call Arabic developed, albeit we tend not to refer to them as Arabic until the era of the spread of Islam and the Arabic language. This is not a detailed answer, and it relies on Wikipedia ($URL$ But for what it's worth: The predominant languages spoken in Syria before the conquest by the Arab Rashidun army in 640 was Greek and Aramaic, reflecting the influence of the Byzantine empire and Byzantine Christianity. With the conquest, Islam became the dominant religion at the same time as Arabic became the dominant language. The second part of your question I am unclear about. "Are there any resources show what is the percent of Arab in that region as well?" Do you mean the percentage of the population that spoke Arabic before the conquest? Or today? Or are you talking about people of ethnically Arabic origin? If you are talking about medieval Syria, my guess would be 'no'. Detailed statistics for medieval history seldom/never exist. My best guess would be that Syria before the conquest was already ethnically 'Arabic' (except in this period what today would be called 'Arabic' was called Assyrian, Phoenician or Persian), but linguistically and culturally Byzantine. The Ghassanid Arabic group emigrated to Syria and the Levant in the 3rd century. In other words, the ethnicity that today we call Arabic, is simply the modern term for the same ethnicity that was called by a variety of names before the advent of Islam. After the conquest it became linguistically and culturally 'Arabic' too. But I am far out of my area of expertise. So in short, the answer to your question 'how popular was Arabic in the Levant before the conquest of Islam' is 'not very'. 

It's possible because Frankincense was a well-known and highly valued substance associated with Jesus Christ. But it's extremely unlikely - vanishingly unlikely - because Frankincense was probably not available in Europe at all at this time. Wikipedia claims that it was 'reintroduced' to Europe by Frankish crusaders returning from the Middle East, and the First Crusade began in 1095, almost 200 years after Alfred's death. We do know that Alfred got advice on remedies for digestive tract ailments from Elias of Jerusalem (a part of the world where Frankincense was available), and we even know what Elias recommended. But it wasn't Frankincense. Instead it balsam, marking the body with crosses, and drinking 'petroleum'. Here is the extract of the partriach's advice (taken from Medieval and Early Modern Sources Online, where Leechdoms, Wortcunning and Starcraft of early England: History of Science before the Norman Conquest, vol. 2 (500-1066) is available.)