In the following analysis of the actual divorce rates, the respondents are divided into three groups: A: the woman does most of the work B: the work is equally shared C: the man does most of the work The divorce rates for these groups are found in table 9.2 (page 207). Group A: 3.1%, group B: 4.6%, group C: 5.4%. The numbers were then corrected for several factors, which have known impact on the breakup risk: 

The average global land temperature has indeed been relatively stable for the last 10 years or so, but I cannot explain how the journalist claims this to be true for the period 1997 to 2003/2004. Perhaps if you play enough with the smoothing algorithm and the confidence intervals, you might be able to get similar results. The numbers from the Hadley Centre are relatively consistent with other regularly published data sets, e.g. the GISS Surface Temperature Analysis from NASA. 

If we look at the statistics from "Brottsförebyggande rådet" (BRÅ), the actual number for the entire country are as expected quite a bit higher. In the first 7 months of 2013, there were in total 3,426 reports on rape or rape attempt. In 1,133 cases, the victim was below the age of 15 (1,004 girls and 129 boys). The most recent statistics on crime among immigrants seem to be this report from BRÅ, dated 2005. The report does not quote any absolute numbers, but on page 42, the relative risk of being accused for different kind of crimes is listed for the three categories "born in Sweden, both parents born in Sweden", "born in Sweden, at least one parent born outside Sweden" and "born outside Sweden". For rape and rape attempts, the relative risks for these three categories are 1.0, 1.8 and 5.0. Now, looking to find the percentage of the total population falling into each of these three groups, "Statistiska centralbyrån" offers the numbers for the year 2008: Born in Sweden, both parents born in Sweden: 75% Born in Sweden, at least one parent born abroad: 11% Born abroad: 14% With the known risk of correlating three different statistics collected over a range of 8 years, the number of perpetrators in each of the three population groups (considering their share of the total population and relative crime risk) should be approximately: Born in Sweden, both parents born in Sweden: 1557 Born in Sweden, at least one parent born abroad: 415 Born abroad: 1454 Summing it up: Of the 3,426 reported rapes or rape attempts in the first 7 months of 2013, some 1900 can be assumed to have been performed by a perpetrator born outside Sweden or with at least one parent born outside Sweden. This is where it seems impossible to get any further with the analysis. There are no public statistics regarding the religion of the foreign-born population and also no crime statistics with a more detailed breakdown of the nationality or religion of the crime suspects. Even if the Swedish Radio news report is misquoted and there are no further backups for the claim, it is not completely unrealistic, that 1000 of the assumed 1900 foreign rapists are Muslims. 

Magicians could be using aides, but they really aren't needed. Humans are fundamentally wired to respond in certain ways, which has been shown to be accurate over and over. As a stage magician you can take use of techniques such as cold reading, suggestion, hypnosis and even the natural desire of people to want to please. This is much the way that sociopaths work ironically, except where a magician is out to entertain a sociopath is out to get their way. For more in depth information into how this works check out the following resources: $URL$ $URL$ "The sociopath next door" by Martha Stout $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ (for the bio of Milton Erickson) 

Short answer, no there is no direct proof of negative effects. Long answer follows. Well, strictly speaking BGH or bovine growth hormone is definitely a bad thing, but not in the way that most people mean. Bovine growth hormone, known commercially as Posilac, increases the yield of dairy cows, but comes at the price of higher infection rates and pus content in milk. To combat the infections dairy farmers are forced to put more antibiotics into the cows to keep them healthy. Some of this filters in through the milk, which in turn can lead to resistant bacteria, which is a definite health concern for humans. However, the FDA has found no significant difference between rBGH and non-rBGH milk, Canada banned it's use for it's detrimental affects on animals, but also said that humans have no noticeable detrimental effects from rBGH milk. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ For beef cattle the issue remains the same the FDA has found no link to any sort of health issues related to using either natural or artificial hormones. One study found that women who ate beef with the growth hormone produced sons with lower sperm counts, however none of the men in the study were unable to conceive normally. The EU health concerns leading to their ban of any natural or synthetic hormones is related to the improper administration of the hormones in doses above the approved safety standards by EU member states and the US was not found to be in violation of any approved levels considered safe for human consumption. 

I've heard the claim often myself, but it is not easy to find any backing research or statistics and I would assume that there will be great variations in the answers, depending on which country or geographic region you look at. I managed to find statistics from the last parliament election in Norway (2009), where voter's education and political preference is examined closer. The relevant data is found in the second block of table A.1, page 28 (Utdanning). The level of education has been split into three groups: 

If we follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's definition of chronic fatigue syndrom, a CFS diagnosis requires the following (among other) criterion to be fulfilled: 

The political parties (R, SV, Ap, ..., H, FrP, Andre = others) are roughly arranged from left to right in the same order you would arrange them on a political left/right wing scale. If we first take a look at the most leftish and rightish parties, your claim first seem to be backed up by the statistics. At the far-left, we find The Red Party (R) and the Socialist Left Party (SV) with a much higher support among the better educated voters (0/1/2% and 4/5/12% for the three education level groups). At the far right, we find the Progress Party (FrP) with a much higher support among the less educated voters (31/26/9%). If we however look at the two larger "traditional" left/right wing parties in Norway, the Labour Party (Ap) and the Conservative Party (H), the distribution is opposite (46/35/32% for the Labour Party and 7/17/27% for the Conservative Party). The last three parties, the Liberal Party (V), the Christian Democratic Party (KrF) and the Centre Party (Sp) are usually categorized as centrist parties without any clear left/right wing classification. If we group the parties as well in left wing (R, SV, Ap), centrist (V, KrF, Sp) and right wing (H, FrP), the support cross-referenced with the education level group adds up to 50/41/46% (left wing), 11/16/18% (centrist) and 38/43/36% (right wing). Even if these numbers indicate a slight skew in one or another direction, they can at least not be used to backup your original claim. If at all, they seem to indicate the well-educated people tend to prefer centrist parties. 

In a more recent decision you can find blunt Anti-Israeli claims, with expressions such as continuous storming of Al-Aqṣa Mosque/Al-Ḥaram Al-Sharif by Israeli right-wing extremists and uniformed forces. I think this claim is Anti-Israeli whether or not it's correct (they could use neutral language, such as "repeated entries by Israeli citizens, despite the Waqf's objection, accompanied by Israeli security forces"). The resolutions contain many references to other documents. Perhaps reading those can reveal the intention behind the vague texts, and whether they blame Israel. Is this a bias against Israel? UNWatch claims that in this period, only one resolution was made against another country (Syria). It's much easier to verify the existence of resolutions than their absence. In the resolutions I read, very few refer to a specific country, and I found no criticism in any of them (admittedly, the way the resolutions are written makes it hard to spot criticism). It does seem that UNESCO deals with Israel/Palestine disproportionately - much more than countries that are larger and suffer from more severe crisis. 

One may assume that since Israel controls Jerusalem, it has the power to do either good or bad, so concerns are probably meant toward it. But that's reading between the lines. In some cases they criticize Israel more directly: 

Yes, they are. The Indian Licence Agreement for Provision of Cellular Mobile Telephone Service states in section 42.1: 

There are several studies examining the intake of glyphosate, in many cases even deliberate intakes as a method of suicide. Most of these studies are not freely accessible (behind pay-walls), but in the abstract of the following study, you can find some numbers: Acute poisoning with a glyphosate-surfactant herbicide ('Roundup'): a review of 93 cases. 

First, it is important to remember that food labeling is not a particularly exact science. Unless completely artificially manufactured, most food is anyway subject to regional or seasonal variations in energy content. Food labeling regulations usually define carbohydrates and protein to have an energy density of 4 kcal/g and fat to have 9 kcal/g. The US regulations can be found here, the EU regulations is here and other countries are likely to operate with the same numbers. Assuming that "storage fat" in your quote is a colloquial expression for adipose tissue, the next important question is the fat content of adipose tissue. The exact composition of adipose tissue varies significantly between persons, but I've often seen the number 87% be used for the average lipid (fat) content. This number is e.g. used in Wikipedia's article on adipose tissue, it's also used in this book and this article, but without any reference to a source for this number. When examining scientific research, most publications quote much lower numbers, e.g. George L. Baker: Human Adipose Tissue Composition and Age, finding the lipid content to be between 40% and 75%: 

Let's break down your question one at a time. Oxygen is not flammable, it's an accelerant. You would have to be pumping dangerous amounts of oxygen to the person's health to increase the fire risk and it would have to be produced offsite and transported in liquid form to even approach the amounts needed for this, you'd see a very large white tank fenced off, that was getting filled every day or two. Check behind hospitals to see what I mean. They use a lot of oxygen and it is very expensive in heavy usage. Also the alcohol usage of people in the casino would lower the effectiveness of the extra oxygen. The typical outpatient I serviced as an Oxygen Delivery Tech received a dose of 2 liters per minute. A patient who was in excruciating pain and in the process of dying would receive up to 10lpm for short periods of time. An oxygen concentrator that people typically use instead of liquid oxygen pulls oxygen from the surrounding air and only improves the patients airflow roughly 6 lpm by being directly injected into the nose through a cannula or mask, in some cases through a bipap or cpap machine, especially in the cases of sleep apnea. Too much oxygen can actually be detrimental to your health and cause euphoric like effects, along with other affects similar to oxygen deprivation. While liquid oxygen is stored cryogenically the only affect that would cause you to wake up is the affect of being surrounded by the cold. Oxygen dries you out and if you don't need it and take too much can harm you. There is no way that this is happening. Cost wise it's also cheaper to get people drunk than to give them oxygen. From personal observation, the smoking areas in many nursing homes and hospitals I service happened to be right next to where the oxygen tanks were stored or filled. The process for refilling certain portable tanks requires that you vent the pure oxygen gas while you put the liquid oxygen into the tanks. I would have these vents pointed away from the smokers, yet without fail they would walk right into the oxygen vent stream with no deleterious affects. We even had a patient who would use his oxygen tank as an ashtray. @Brian Knoblauch - typically we charged about a dollar a pound for liquid oxygen, if I remember correctly, it's definitely not cheaper than alcohol. 

According to Wikipedia, Japan has embassies in many Muslim countries, including Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Sudan, Tunisia, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and many more. I'm not sure what is meant by "Islamic" countries, but Iran and Saudi Arabia surely qualify. I didn't find such clear reference to contradict other claims, but this example clearly shows that the author didn't bother to check his claims. 

The article you refer to seems biased and misleading. It quotes multiple serious-looking papers, then reaches a conclusion not mentioned in any of them. Several articles (e.g. this and this) claim that anti-depressants are not so efficient in curing depression - after you stop taking them, depression often returns. One article reports a correlation between depression and later dementia. It doesn't mention anti-depressants. The nearest thing to brain damage I could find is claims that anti-depressants cause the body to build tolerance, so after you stop using them the depression may be worse than before. 

UNWatch have their facts straight, but their interpretation can be debated. The number 46 seems correct. But whether the decisions are "against Israel", and whether this indicates an anti-Israeli bias is a matter of opinion. Did UNESCO pass 46 resolutions regarding Israel in 2009-2014? I'll ignore, in this section, the question whether these resolutions are against Israel. UNWatch's fact sheet, provides this data, with references to the actual resolutions - 10 decisions in 2009, 10 in 2010, 12 in 2011, 8 in 2012 and 6 in 2013. This adds up to 46 (without 2014). Since they provide references, you can verify these numbers. For example, the fact sheet claims that 8 such decisions were taken in the 181st session and 182nd session. The 181st session's sections 5.III, 12, 47 and 59, as well as the 182nd session's sections 5.II, 15, 54 and 55, discuss Jerusalem, Gaza and/or Palestine - my count matches the claim. In addition, 182ex section 52 is about accepting Palestine as a member, and 181ex section 17.I is about establishing a BIOmics training center in Israel (part of a list of different centers to be established aoround the world). These aren't counted among the 46. I did not check all of the data, readers are welcome to verify further. Are these decisions against Israel? Here it becomes a matter of opinion, not fact. The language used in UNESCO resolution uses many words to say very little. For some resolutions, it's hard to say if they're against Israel: