Knower knows knowledge in the sense that what all is known or is knowable by knower is the meaning of knowledge. Knowing is both by perception and hearsay. Information is the term generally used to denote or connote what is communicated or is communicable, referred to as hearsay or viewsay or audio-visual-say. For knower to have and hold knowledge, information and communication, clearly it is necessary that the person has a mind, an intellect, a memory and is a 'self aware knower'. In addition the self aware knower needs to identify with a body with its brain and sense organs. But body, brain and sense organs are known similar to objects of knowledge such as of the world. They can be analysed separately from the person. Whereas, the mind, intellect, memory and 'self aware knower' are inseparable integral part of the concept of person. Knowledge, information and communication are also like objects and are analysable separately from the person. But nothing which is separable from person exists without the person who is inseparable from mind, intellect, memory and 'self aware knower. Separable knowledge and information include what is communicated or is taken in as information by person. They appear only in mind of person, but can be represented by names and forms of objects by apparent separation from the person in the mind of the person. Visual and audible names, and forms that are used for representation of knowledge and information are called languages. They include morse code and binary digital language. Actions to create, communicate and know such languages require predisposition and latent tendencies in persons. Communicated visual forms and sounds of communication develop by habitual actions of body, brain and sense organs. The names and forms held unknown in communication are known only in mind and not outside it on blackboards, computer screens or TV monitors. Communication requires mind, intellect, memory and 'self aware knower' developed by habitual actions of body, brain and sense organs from childhood on. Such actions are generally termed training and education. The training and education needed to create missing predispositions and latent tendencies of the 'self aware knower' may take more than one lifetime to form; even though the self aware knower is unaware of his continuity over many lifetimes. The question about limits to representation of knowledge and information in binary language cannot be answered in any philosophy lacking a fuller understanding of the person and his or her predispositions and latent tendencies. 

The reality in human nature is 'I am". 'I am that I am' is the meaning of 'Yehowa' the term for God in the old testament. Only after 'I am' appears in mind as the known does and known object appears as name and form with meaning in the mind. What appears in mind as consciousness is what 'stands under' the knower and all the known in mind. 'Understanding' is like super-consciousness which understands mind creation with knower and known in the mind. Super-consciousness is the sole reality. One knowing that reality is the realised, the saved by the Lord, the salvation. Purpose of human birth is that realisation. So say the Masters. 

Sri Ramana Maharshi said, the world is said to be a reflection in the mind as it does not remain in the absence of mind. If the universe is a reflection, there must be a real object known as the universe in order that it might be reflected in the mind. But, truly speaking, there is no objective universe. To explain it the dream illustration is set forth. The dream world is created with some mental impressions. They are called predispositions and latent tendencies. They are subtle. Just as a whole tree is contained potentially in a seed, so the world is in the mind from subtle predispositions and latent tendencies. Then it is asked: A seed is the product of the tree which must have existed once in order that it may be reproduced. So the world also must have been there some time. The answer is, No! There must have been several incarnations to gather the impressions (predispositions and latent tendencies) which are re-manifested in the present form. I must have existed before as I do now. Admitting the existence of the world, I must admit a seer who is no other than myself. When I seek the Self and abide as the Self there is no world to be seen. Reality is the seer only and certainly not the world. Such being the truth the man continues to argue on the basis of the reality of the world. Whoever asked him to accept a brief for the world? Sri Ramana Maharshi also said the whole universe is full of life. Being cannot be other than consciousness. Otherwise you cannot say that you exist. Consciousness is the reality. When consciousness is associated with limitations you speak of self-consciousness, unconsciousness, sub-consciousness, super-consciousness, human-consciousness, dog-consciousness, tree-consciousness and so on. That, which rises and falls, is the transient ‘I’ consciousness. Permanent consciousness is ‘I-I’ continuously. There is no difference between matter and spirit. All matter is energy; it is power or force. All are resolved in the Self and the Mind. Body is found because there is body consciousness, arising from ‘I-consciousness’ which again rises from consciousness. What you are now considering to be body-consciousness is due to superimposition. There is only one consciousness, called also body-consciousness, Self-consciousness, etc. They are relative states of the same Absolute consciousness. Without consciousness, time and space do not exist. They appear in consciousness. The objects arise from where you (knower I) rise. Know the subject first and then question about the object. The subject comprehends the object also. What is not in you cannot appear outside. There is no difference like external and internal. Mind is consciousness with limitations. Unlimited consciousness takes on limitations and becomes the mind. 

The self-aware knower “I am” appearing in consciousness is the 'Person'. People experience themselves as persons. This experience is also of the person as the 'knower'. A 'knower' in the mind, same as the person, is ignored in bio sciences. Life is the source of knower-person in the mind. Mind is consciousness. Knower, person, consciousness and mind are not accepted as primary existential concepts in the sciences. In physics and in bio-sciences the primary focus is on a permanent world of objects outside the mind. This view is the legacy that Descartes gave to the sciences. Starting with the duality of mind and body, the primary nature of the material world which is of the nature of body, was formalized by Descartes. Still, this primary reality or truth is based on false logic. The world is secondary to the knower of the world. But in a democratic brotherhood of scientists, the right of the majority of persons to vote for primacy of matter cannot be denied. In his 'meditations' Descartes stated that the brain, the body it is in, and the world of objects in which the bodies are, have all been created by God. That world exists independently of its knower and outside the mind. ‘I think, therefore I am (COGITO ERGO SUM)’ was his phrase that downgraded supreme truth "I am" below the thought process called mind which then could be shown to be dependent on the material world as the source of thoughts. Mind was with a knower “I am” in it. Descartes argued it was the first part of a dual reality; the mind and body. They both existed independently and yet, as a duality. The thinking mind does not have a physical extension. The body has an extended presence but does not think. The ‘I’ is distinct from the body and has the ability to exist without the body. But, it can turn to the body by conscious choice. This is how Descartes argued to himself in his meditations to promote body to primacy to which conscious 'I' can turn. Descartes argued, it may be said that the mind has an existence no less valid than material existence. The mind is called mental phenomena. It is distinct from physical phenomena by quality of abstractness in place of the quality of materiality. The faculty of the mind which is the core of an individual person is located in consciousness. Or mind can be located within the body which is conscious. In the body the mind goes into brain of the body. When current day scientists say brain produces the mind they reduce the dualism of Descartes to monism of matter. Richard Dawkins wrote “a dualist acknowledges a fundamental distinction between matter and mind. A monist, by contrast, believes that the mind is a manifestation of matter and cannot exist apart from matter. A dualist believes mind is some kind of disembodied spirit….. Like most scientists, I am not a dualist… I have learned to be an intellectual monist….The idea that there is a me,… is deeply ingrained in me and in every other human being, whatever our intellectual pretension to monism.” (Dawkins, 2006) Instead of material monism, if mind is created by Life, the mind consists of forms in consciousness. Body and other objects are forms in the mind with material quality. They are projected outside the mind and withdrawn, by life in every present moment. The material projections are withdrawn into abstract mental memory at the end of each present moment to make room outside the mind for the projection of the next moment. A new altered world of objects, is the projected in every next present moment, outside the mind. Descartes did not focus on the logical necessity of keeping the outside of the mind clear. Clearance is necessary so that, only the projected world of objects, of the present moment, exists outside the mind. The experience of all persons is only of the world of the present moment. An object is nothing but objectification of the form created in the mind with attribution of material quality to it. No one perceives past states of the world outside the mind. The past is withdrawn into memory for recall from memory. The knower “I am” in the mind, is the prime truth. The projected world appearing outside the mind in every present moment is secondary truth. This view corresponds as well to the duality formulated by Descartes. The logical necessity to withdraw the projection of every present moment into memory was a third truth which was overlooked by Descartes. Memory resides in the mind but is correlated to neurons of the brain. Only in the mind can the present moment and the past which is recalled from the memory co-exist. Outside the mind only the present moment exists. This fact is self evident to human beings. Still, the Cartesian illusion of a permanent world outside the mind persists as a logically impossible illusion in physics and in bio sciences. Further, the world is said to be a God created permanent world outside the mind wherein past and present of matter coexist simultaneously. This illogicality was highlighted by mathematician Sir Michael Atiyah. According to mathematician Sir Michael Atiyah , all physical models since Newton, including quantum mechanics, assume one basic premise. It is that the model enables prediction of the future from full knowledge of the present. Knowledge of the present and also of the past is necessary to predict the future. That requires that memory of the past of the universe comes into the present. For example, velocity of an object is said to be its property in its present state. But, to measure velocity the position of the object ‘now’ must be known and also its position a moment earlier. The knowledge must come from the past moment into the present moment. Otherwise velocity cannot be measured as distance over time. It is in the “knower I am” that the past and the present come together. Mathematics used in physics assumed that knowledge of the present suffices. But, retarded (or delay) differential equations would become necessary to bring data from the past into the present. If we do not have complete knowledge of the past, uncertainty would arise, otherwise. The agency for an act, as the “doer I am” in the “knower I am” is attributed to a human identity (called a rational agent in Economics). But an agency is not a concept of action in physics. Matter and energy act by themselves according to laws; they are entities altering or acting by themselves. Concept of agency would fall into psychology and not into natural sciences. Past comes into the present in the actions of inanimate objects studied in physics. Its models are based on an illusion ‘of the past in the present’ according to Atiyah.