This sounds like a great idea. Wild camping is permited under the Land Reform Act. Outdooraccess-scotland have put together a useful summary of how it relates to your access rights. Key points from which are; Does it mean I can camp anywhere? 

While exercising you are not actually getting stronger you are damaging your body, but your body will adapt to the stress of training by getting stronger during the recovery phase. As the diagram above shows your fitness will peak for a period of time after the initial stress, provided the intensity was not too high or low. What you need to do is find out what the correct amount of stress is for your body and by which point your recovery has peaked. 

I think the best thing you could do would be to borrow a smaller pair from a friend next time you go climbing (or rent a pair) and see what works best for you. some general guidelines; 

Just face the pointy bits towards each other and wrap the webbing around the bundle to keep them together. I then just chuck them in the bottom of my bag if I know I don't need them or in the top if I know I will. You could pad them with a hat, spare socks or what ever if you were worried about other more delicate items. Also even if they start out sharp once they've encountered a small amount of scrambling or walking up some moraine they're unlikely to be sharp enough to damage something unless you're being very forceful in your packing / unpacking. 

To best assess the likelihood of a tree falling or a large branch/limb take the following considerations: 

This might seem obvious but actually take a close look. Does the tree look like it is in a good upright position? Does it sway wildly with even the slightest breeze? Do the roots appear to be fully in the ground? Does the outside of the tree look like it is leaking any fluid? If so, does the area around it look normal (i.e. no blackish areas or cracking)? These are important factors. A tree that leans to one side obviously has it's center of gravity offset. This could lead to the tree uprooting itself. If the tree is very bulky and doesn't allow the wind to freely move through it, this can drag branches and limbs, which may result in a limb or branch falling off. Walk around the tree and ensure there are no roots that appear to be coming out of the ground. I don't mean ones that you simply can see in the soil, but if it appears the roots are literally rising up out of the ground, this can be a bad sign meaning lots of erosion and loose soil. Finally, if the tree looks like something may be eating it or that it might have a disease, avoid this. These things can make the tree weak at its joints. 

Stainless steel reinforcements to high friction areas; Added anti-panic handle; Internal components made of a different, higher friction material - this makes it possible to build a larger chamber, which should (in principle) decrease the friction when paying out slack; Casing improved in order to cover the whole interior of the brake - this should keep dirt out; Petzl finally addressed a very serious problem with Grigri2: the stupid, sharp, wrongly placed casing's tail; 

C1 sets off with R1 and R2, same way as before; C1 arrives at the belay, fixes R1 and pulls up R2 and two other ropes, R3 and R4. R2 in this case will be a very thin, 7mm zip-line; C1 fixes R1 and R3 and sets a pulley system for R4; C3 starts jugging R3 and leader starts hauling from R4 at the same time. C2 immediately sets off to clean the pitch; After C3 gets to belay and helps C1 with the hauling, he or C1 can already start leading the next pitch; 

I'm off this weekend for a three-day big wall with two other friends. I read "Big Walls", by Long and Middendorf, but the book is too old and doesn't really mention strategies for a three-member crew. For a two-member crew, the strategy is quite standard: 

This isn't really a clear yes/no sort of question, I'm also pretty reticent to tell someone what would be best for their child. Aside from that hopefully someone will provide some information that will make your decision or others thinking of doing the same easier. My first suggestion would be to work out which huts you are thinking of staying at or around and ring the guardians who are usually very helpful/knowledgeable! I don't know how much you know about huts in the alps but some things to consider; 

I think It would be as possible as belaying one leader using double ropes. You would need to take in slack at different rates, as apposed to give it out and prepare to hold a fall with either rope. (in case it isn't obvious) You would belay from your rope loop/belay loop instead of off the anchor as there is no 'guide mode'. Where you would run into trouble would not being able to take in slack for one second while holding the fall of the other. For this reason I would avoid doing so. One alternative is for the first second to trail a rope and instead of cleaning the route unclipping to pass protection, then clipping the trailing rope back in for the second-second(third?) to clean/be protected. 

Mosquitoes thrive in warm and humid climates. It's extremely important to not allow stagnant water near your home. This aids in the reproduction cycle for mosquitoes. If you like to keep bins of water outside to collect rain for your plants, don't do this as the still water is very enticing. I sort of broke off on a tangent there. But back to the question. The climate you want is a very dry climate or very cold. Mosquitoes can't thrive in super dry climates. The reason being there is no area to lay their eggs. During stretches of very dry and hot climates mosquitoes will bite less. The female is the only one that bites, because the protein helps develop the eggs. But in dry weather being hard to find water to lay their eggs, their is no reason to feed on blood. So the biting is much less. But that doesn't mean you will find zero mosquitoes. From here: 

Have a quick look around. Does the area look like it is prone to things falling off the tree or actual trees falling over? If so better find a more suitable area. If the area looks clean and maybe only leaves have fallen around, you're probably safe. 

So far I've far avoided needing to make such a repair but most of the repairs I've seen in the wild have either been gaffer tape or a patch of fabric stuck on with seam sealant. Sometimes if its a small hole just pinching it together and covering with seam sealant. Six Moon Designs has a useful guide for which sealants are best for which materials and a recipe to make your own. I'll summarize below encase the link becomes dead. silnylon use McNett's SilNet Polyester Fabric use McNett's Seam Grip or McNett's Seam Sure Cuben Fiber use McNett's SilNet or McNett's Seam Grip DIY seam sealant 

As most people have recommended Training for the new alpinism is a very comprehensive sports science book on exactly the subject your interested in. It covers much more than a stackexchange answer could expect to. From said book, 

This will a bit of a more general answer because I don't run 10k but... Peak fitness is something you aim to hit at a certain point in time and is not something that can be maintained for a great period of time. Expecting to perform your best every time will likely lead you to be disappointed. That's not to say you're not capable of running 10k faster than your current best every day, just not yet. 

Edit: At first I thought attaching directly to the rope from the middle wasn't a good idea because it would occupy too much space in your leg/waist loops and maybe burn the rope, but after thinking a little and actually trying it at home I see there's nothing wrong with it. Tying in from the middle using a backed up variation of the bowline or a figure 8 knot seems ok for me. 

Column 1 (and the ones before it also) is the one that will experience the most unidirectional (mostly horizontal) rope slippage, and will acquire holes due to it. Column 2 will also suffer similar effects, because after the anchor the rope's movement is also unidirectional. The following columns will have no holes, since the rope has again a free angle to move until the leader places another anchor - that is, the rope will dangle and scatter the snow in a uniform manner. This is in agreement with the picture and the video I attached shows pretty clearly that the quickdraw moves up and then, when it reaches a maximum angle, the rope is constricted to move in a single direction. After some meters I'm pretty sure the little hole it opens at each time it does that is already large enough for it to enter it completely. Edit 1: the situation where the holes are inevitably dig is quite possibly when the leader ends the pitch and begins retrieving the excess rope for the second climber to come. This creates constant, fast rope action against the columns. Edit 2: view from above added for clarity. 

By matching the peak of your recovery with your workout you will be able to increase the intensity of your training and gradually increase your performance. This will be quite personal and should be determined by logging performance over time. Your experience of decreasing personal bests being a good example of feedback that your over-doing it. Diagrams from Training For The New Alpinism, probably not the best book for running. 

I'm not sure that anyone can give you a specific number that will suit your needs. Its worth bearing in mind that the temperature ratings on sleeping bags are created using a somewhat arbitrary test involving a dummy with sensors read more. The good thing about this test is that it creates an objective position from which to judge a sleeping bags insulation value. The down side is that human experience of warmth is massively variable. Are you the type of person who puts a jumper on while your friends are still happy in shorts and t-shirts or visa-versa? I would start by borrowing a couple of sleeping bags and trying to sleep in them at a range of temperatures you expect to face. Failing that simply using them and seeing if you find the ratings to be conservative or generous. This would then give you a suitable reference point when deciding what you need for a sleeping bag for your trip. Many other factors apart from the sleeping bag will affect your temperature, fitness, body fat, calorie intake, fatigue, exposure to wind or rain, insulation from the ground, adding additional insulation while sleeping e.g. cloths. 

Although rain and storms can happen at a moments notice, before you go camping take as many precautions to avoid high winds and rain. Probably pretty obvious this one. 

At this point it's simply gambling, which is your choice. Again scope out the area. If it looks like trees all fall in one direction, think about where you could place your tent. If in the case a tree does fall, where would you be safe? Is the wind moving in the same direction that it appears the trees fall? That probably means it gets pretty windy and the wind has the ability to push trees over in that direction. The area you are looking in is certainly beautiful. If you decide to camp here, just try to be cautious, scope out the area, and then make a strategic decision. All of my tips are just measures to take, but no guarantees. Sometimes trees will fall over no matter how good they look and how good the soil is around it. Try to find the area with most space and clearing around it. If you decide to camp, hope you have a great time! 

If one or more of these factors still doesn't affect you, where can you place a tent with the least likelihood of a tree falling? 

Shouldn't be less efficient at all - or at least, approximately as efficient. Solar panels generate energy utilising the band-gap structure inherent to semiconductor materials. This means that, to generate current, you need to dislodge an electron from the valence band to the conductor band, and the laws of quantum mechanics state that this can only happen if the photon that hits the electron has an energy of at least the band-gap potential. There's also an upper limit, given by the scattering amplitude: if this photon has too much energy, then the probability it'd "hit" an electron is very very small. In English: solar panels work with light that's in the middle of the spectrum (between UV/gamma and radio/infrared), which includes what we call visible. Windshields are transparent, which means they filter almost no visible light (otherwise they'd be black). In a word: your solar panel behind a windshield glass is as efficient as your eyes behind a windshield glass. Edit: thanks to ChrisH's comments, we can quantitatively have an idea of this small efficiency loss. Due to optical scattering effects, your sight is probably 5~10% worse behind a windshield, which means your solar panel will also be 5~10% less efficient. 

P.S: As always, another rope can be carried by C2 to help him clear the pendula and lower off the pigs.