Imagine you sit down to play a game of chess. If you've ever played chess, you know, for example, that the rook can only move in a straight direction parallel to one of the edges of the board. Nothing physically prevents you from moving the rook in ways that violate the rules, but if you do, you're not really playing chess any more. From my point of view, that is the sense in which God is "bound" by the physical laws of the universe. 

This is one of the chief topics of the existentialists: I would recommend Kierkegaard, Fanon, Sartre, Camus & DeBeauvoir. In general, the existentialist answer is that we are the choices that we make. (It's a topic I have a particular interest in myself, but I'm pretty sure self-citation is frowned upon here!) 

The argument in red cannot be deduced validly from the argument in green. All they have in common is that they're both arguments with two premises. To answer the question in the title, every conditional sentence (i.e. any hypothetical proposition) has a logically equivalent disjunction wherein the protasis is a negated disjunct and the apodosis is not a negated disjunct. "If P then Q" means "Q or not-P". In conventional notation of symbolic logic, P→Q is a hypothetical proposition that is logically equivalent to the disjunction Q∨¬P. Therefore, modus ponens has the following form: 

By 'empirical', Popper means 'a posteriori'. By 'logical', Popper means 'a priori'. The distinction between a priori and a posteriori is a distinction of kinds of truth/falsity rather than kinds of propositions. On the other hand, the analytic-synthetic distinction is a Kantian distinction about the subject-predicate relations of propositions. Examples of all of these will depend on the particular philosophy. First, I'll give examples distinguishing a posteriori (i.e. empirical) from a priori (i.e. "logical"): 

Arguably, formal definitions --ones that are strict and unambiguous --are foundational to mathematics. To phrase that in another way, mathematics IS formal definitions, and the relationships between them. We can see why if we take a look at your proposed definition: 

The reason for this particular Platonic anomaly, and generally for all Platonic anomalies, is that he used commonly understood ideas from the cultural storehouse of his time as stand-ins for the often quite different concepts that he wanted to illuminate. Platonic Truth, like all Platonic ideals, is a perfect, unchanging, eternal "entity" that exists outside of ordinary reality. It has only a loose relationship with regular, ordinary, small-T truths, which are always changing. This can be seen clearly in Plato's idea of the noble lie which is, in his view, a big-T truth despite being a little-f falsehood. 

What is the name of a/the metaphysic that affirms the reality of all worlds including impossible worlds? Actualism denies the reality of all non-actual worlds, possibilism affirms the reality of all possible worlds, and anti-realism denies the reality of all worlds (including the actual world). 

In response to (2), "The definite integral, from x=a to x=b, of Euler's number multiplied by itself x-number of times" is not a sentence, but rather is a predicate term when combined with a copula. Therein, it can be a word as a propositional term that is a referent of the aforementioned predicate term. It is a word to the extent that a predicate without a copula can be a word. It is a predicate because it refers to the properties that are in the extension of that mathematical function. To equate the function to something is to create a sentence wherein "equals" is the predicate's copula. For example, "The definite integral, from x=a to x=b, of Euler's number multiplied by itself x-number of times equals the number Z", in first-order logic, has the following form (wherein P is the predicate term "is equal to the number Z" and wherein Q is the predicate term "is equal to the definite integral, from x=a to x=b, of Euler's number multiplied by itself x-number of times": ∃y:Py∧Qy. Whether or not the categorical proposition is true is another matter entirely. It's possible that ∃y:Py∧Qy is false such that ∄y:Py∧Qy possibly is true. 

Without the complete article, it is difficult to understand exactly what is meant by the statement your "I" could be an illusion. However, the concept that consciousness is an illusion is generally called epiphenomenalism. The best way I know to describe the idea is by analogy to watching a movie. You might identify with the main character, even to the point of nearly experiencing what the character experiences. But you actually have no impact on what the character does. I personally find this view difficult to make coherent. The explanation of any seemingly conscious activity --posting on stack exchange, for example --is necessarily more complex to explain without consciousness than with it. 

Your assumptions are wrong. 1) Music does not have a set grammar --different musicians and musical traditions innovate their own rules, which then are quite often broken. 2) While arbitrary meanings could be assigned to musical phrases, that does not make music itself a "language." By analogy, it is quite possible to assign meanings to gestures, we call that sign language. But the gestures people make naturally do not constitute a language, outside of those few gestures that have universally understood meanings. In general, while people find music meaningful, they do not assign the same meanings to the same music --the meaning they draw from it is personal and idiosyncratic. And while music can be a form of communication, the things it communicates are often things that are arguably difficult or impossible to express in language. 

A category mistake is when, for the ontology of any particular domain of discourse, an element of a set is unjustifiably excluded from the set. An obvious example of this is the statement, "It is a time before time". Time cannot be before time because the extension of time includes the extension of every statement of something being before or after something else (i.e. every B-series statement) such that "a time before time" falsely excludes "time" from the extension of "time". A less obvious example is the statement, "It is before time", however this statement has similar problems to the one before because it is to say, "It is at an earlier point in time than time." This falsely excludes a point in time from time, which is false by contradiction. 

This isn't a question with a single, universally endorsed answer, but one with a long history of debate. The field that encompasses study of knowledge is called Epistemology. One of the most foundational definitions of knowledge, credited to Plato, is that knowledge is "justified, true belief," meaning that you believe something AND the something you believe is true AND you have a good reason for believing it. If you accept this, then you know you know something when you have a justified true belief that you have a justified true belief about something. This definition has often been challenged, however, see the above link for more info. 

Perhaps not surprisingly, different philosophers disagree. Kant centers aesthetics around the judgement of the viewer. Beardsley focuses on the artistic experience. Danto considers aesthetic quality to be a function of social context. Bell focused on formal properties of the art object. Art is a subject with very little consensus in philosophy. 

There is an important difference between the paradox of the heaps and the fallacy of the heaps. The former also is known as the continuum paradox or the sorites paradox (from σωρείτης), and the latter also is known as the continuum fallacy or sorites fallacy. (soros, from σωρός, is Greek for "heap".) The paradox of the heaps is the paradox described in the prompt-question of this thread. A man was once a boy, but the instant the boy became a man is equivocal. The continuum of a lifetime seems to make arbitrary any rigid designations of time distinguishing childhood from adulthood. Nonetheless, it would be fallacious to argue that this, on its own, implies that a lifetime either is entirely childhood or is entirely adulthood. It is a fallacy of the heaps to argue that the fact of continuum precludes any meaningful distinctions of regions along a continuum. For example, amounts of heat vary on a continuum, and water boils/freezes when it becomes sufficiently hot/cold such that, on a heat-continuum, there are meaningfully distinct regions. Therefore, it is not true that, for every continuum, there are no meaningfully distinct regions. Of course, there are some continuums in which there do not seem to be any meaningfully distinct regions. For example, the real number line, as a continuum of 1-dimensional space, does not seem to have any meaningful distinct regions, although it has meaningfully distinct subsets (e.g. the set of integers, of irrational numbers, and of natural numbers). 

The most dangerous statement in your question is "I think one is biased towards the last sentence because it says something that is more or less true." The meaning of a sentence is never based on its truth value in logic, rather whether it is true or false is based on its meaning. If you allow sentences to have their most favorable meaning, you'll quickly run into trouble. It's always tricky and often ambiguous to translate natural language into formal logical sentences, but in this case, I think the only appropriate translation for "Only those who ignore the facts are likely to be mistaken" is "All [Likely to be Mistaken People] are [Those Who Ignore the Facts]." "All [Those Who Ignore the Facts] are [Likely to be Mistaken]" seems plausible from our real world knowledge, but it doesn't actually capture the stated meaning of the original.