All a quilt is, is a sleeping bag without a zipper. I have a down barrel sleeping bag rated to -10°C that is advertised as being useful as a duvet/quilt in summer months. You can use a quilt in any situation you would use a sleeping bag, but you're more likely to feel a draft if you don't tuck the ends in just right. 

I think that these days people are simply a lot more careless in the backcountry than they were in days of old. New technology like waterproof Goretex and breathable moisture wicking Polar Fleece make it easy for people to expose themselves to the elements without having to worry about moisture control as much. I think people were somewhat smarter and a lot more careful back in the day when the World was a lot bigger, the backcountry was a lot further back in the country, and people couldn't rely as much on technology to protect them. The biggest killer in the backcountry is bad decision making. Letting yourself sweat or otherwise get wet when exposed, going out into the storm, taking short cuts, going outside your field of experience, and taking unnecessary or foolish risks are more likely to kill you than your choice of clothing material. 

What you want to do is use a directional piece, but I would not recommend including this piece in your belay anchor. In option #2 up there you're going to switch from a 4 piece anchor to a 2 piece anchor as soon as the rope is weighted. Remove that piece, and place a bomber piece below your belay anchor, so that the redirected force is pulling down on your belay anchor when the rope is weighted. Like so: That extra quick draw is there to help keep the carabiner on your directional piece in place while you're belaying. Make sure you use a dynamic piece of pro for your directional piece, you don't want it to pop out. If you have enough gear, you may even consider using several pieces and make a second anchor for your directional piece, using at least one piece to counter your directional anchor and keep your master-point in place. 

We have lots of yarrow where I'm from, so it's always the go-to plant. You need to learn how to prepare them too, so that you can take advantage of their useful properties. Yarrow is easy, you just crush it up with a little bit of water and apply the paste, with stings and bug bites you can just chew it to make a paste, but with burns, saliva is one of the quickest ways to introduce bacteria into a wound. Teas are good as well, they aren't as effective as placing an ointment directly to the wound, but drinking teas made from plants with antibiotic properties is kinda like taking penicillin, it puts those antibiotics into your bloodstream. Making tea is also a lot easier than preparing a salve or ointment, less risky too, an inexperienced medicine man could do more damage than good playing witch-doctor in the woods with rudimentary tools. The best piece of advice I can offer you is to BE PREPARED before going out into the woods, and bring what you would need in your first-aid kit to treat a bad burn should anything happen to one of your company. 

The answer is usually no, but there may be some restrictions depending on exactly where you're going. Most logging roads are on crown land. The use of forest roads is managed through road abandonment, road decommissioning (making it impassable) and road access controls (i.e. signage, gates, etc.). In Ontario, public access to Crown land is restricted for a variety of purposes depending on the location and the priority of land use values in those areas. Restrictions to Crown land access are often used to protect the remoteness of an area for resourcebased tourism, for fish and wildlife management, for species-at-risk protection (i.e. woodland caribou), as well as due to liability concerns and budgetary restraints.1 The Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry provides an online crown land use policy atlas. So you can go online and see what the policy is for whatever land you plan on going on. CROWN LAND USE POLICY ATLAS 1 Public Land Access in Ontario Q & A 

At first I was just being cheap, but then I discovered that one of the merits of using crazy carpet plates is that they aren't rigid, so the snow can't get packed up inside your crampons as well because the "plate" deforms slightly with each step, dislodging the snow. 

Plan Ahead and Prepare Travel and Camp on Durable Surfaces Dispose of Waste Properly Leave What You Find Minimize Campfire Impacts Respect Wildlife Be Considerate of Other Visitors 

Carrying perishable foods is not practical, but it is doable. The only way to do it though is to keep your food cooled, and the easiest way to do that, when it's hot out, is to carry a cooler, which I have definitely gone backpacking with before: 

So pen launcher bear bangers have apparently been around for quite a while, the training video for Truflare looks like something from out of the 90's, but they don't appear to be very popular, and I don't hear many people recommending them as an alternative to bear spray, despite the fact that they're much cheaper than bearspray. The smaller flare cartridges below are classic red signal flares, the larger cartridges are the bear bangers, which have a delayed explosive charge that makes a really loud bang. 

I've had other types of water bladders though that you had to fold the tops over and slide on a top piece. These types of closures are not as user friendly, but apparently leak less, and are able to hold back a lot of pressure which is why they're used on the fancy Geigerigs: 

It isn't unheard of to get off a boulder by down climbing a nearby tree, or even using a rope. My climbing club in university had a retired rope they tied into a rope ladder like this: Rope Ladder Knot: 

You asked specifically for climbing with dynamic ropes, but I figured I's show the cheap and easy method for single rope rappels too: I use a Spirol Rope Protector and I really like it, it's flexible but very durable rubber, and it wraps around your rope. 

Yes! But don't take my word for it, see for yourself: Stan Lee's Superhumans: Deadly Shot This guy is a real-life Hawkeye, he very matter-of-factly states that if he can see it, he can hit it with his bow and an arrow. And if you watch the video, you'll see that it's true, he hits everything, including a tiny pill flicked up into the air. Then there's Lars Anderson, if you think Katniss is dangerous, this guy is real, he can shoot 3 arrows in 0.6 seconds, he can shoot incoming arrows out of the air, or he can catch incoming arrows and shoot them back. I'm waiting for the next cinema archery hero to emulate the styles of archery Lars has resurrected. It won't be Lars though, he's kinda goofy looking... Legolas woulda been 1000 times more intense if he shot arrows the way Lars does. 

I was out ice climbing with a group today and they were using three-point anchors using two vertical v-threads (abalakovs) with one backup ice-bolt. They said the vertical v-threads (one hole over top of the other) were superior and stronger than the horizontal ones (holes side-by-side). How much stronger are vertical v-threads compared to horizontal ones? V-Thread: Source 

Where I'm from the water is clear enough for you to simply look over the edge and visually check if it's safe, you can see at least 30-40ft deep sometimes if not all the way down to the bottom. The occasions where you need to check depth around here are when you're by a waterfall and your vision is obscured by all of the bubbles. Swimming around the bottom is one way to check depth, but often you don't dive as deep while swimming as you may go after jumping. It's more effective to tie a rock to a long rope and drop it in the spots you're thinking of jumping into. If you use a heavy enough of a rock, you'll easily be able to tell when you've touched bottom, and you'll be able to hear it hitting other rocks as well, the vibrations travel back up the rope and make a deep clunking sound. You only need about 10-15ft of water to jump in depending on how high you're jumping from, less if you've got a soft or sandy bottom. 

In cold weather, I'm the guy that always has way more layers on than everyone else. I don't let myself sweat though, I just suck at retaining body heat. Sweating is the primary reason for not over-layering, but aside from hypothermia the only real danger presented from excessive sweating is dehydration. Sweating uses up fluids, and if you're not replenishing them as fast as you're losing them, then you can end up in real trouble real fast. Other than that, there are a couple less serious drawbacks: 

Even in an overcast jungle, the sun still cast's a shadow, they'll just be more diffuse and not as ray traced, but if there is light, it is possible to determine which direction it is coming from. The only caveat being at high noon right on the equator during equinox when the sun is literally directly overhead. Having the sun directly overhead doesn't help you, but even then, only 15 minutes later you can have your bearings. Use a tree, or use a stick planted in the ground. A clear floor of any size will make things easy for you, plant your stick, then look for whatever you might think looks like the darker side of it. Mark this with a stone or leaf or something. Wait 15 minutes, then do the same thing again. You'll have two different points, and easily be able to determine which hemisphere of the sky the sun is in. 

I have ruined more than one hatchet in my lifetime trying to split large logs in half. The trick is to not try to spit them down the middle as you would with an axe, but to chop around the edges of the logs and split off smaller pieces all the way around, making the log smaller and smaller as you go. One technique is to make "helper" chops in the top around the edges, along the radius of the cut in the log, to sort of pre-split your wood. Make your helper chops no further apart than your hatchet blade is broad, then chop into the top perpendicular to them and use your hatchet as a lever to pop the chunk out of the side.