Well, the main advantages of tubeless is that you can run lower pressures (which comes with better shock absorption and thus control) with less risk of flats (though you should always carry a backup tube). I'm not entirely sure on where the truth is in regards to weight, but I don't think its important. The disadvantages are still having to carry a backup tube and the extra complexity of installing the tire. In any case, if you have tubeless ready rims, its relatively cheap to try running tubeless on your own, so I think giving it a shot is the best way to convince yourself that its worth it or not. 

They're standardized between different types of cranksets. One piece cranksets use 1/2" x 20 tpi. Three piece cranksets (most bikes) use 9/16" x 20 tpi. Old French things use something else, but these are rare (and instead of being marked with R and L for which pedal is which on the spindle, it will be D and G). If you want, you can measure it like any other bolt. Or, take the pedals to a bike shop and compare them to another pedal. You find one piece cranksets on some BSO's (i.e. bikes you get from places like Walmart), children's bikes and very old American bikes. Otherwise, you should have a 3 piece crankset and use a 9/16". 

Gravel tires are normally a little knobby: versus completely smooth for a road tire. One strategy is to run a gravel or combination tire in the front and a road tire in the back. A combination tire is one which is nearly slick in the middle with knobs on the sides, so you might want to try one road tire on the back and one gravel tire on the front. Combination tires aren't great at road or off road, but they're passable on each. Certainly will be an improvement if you're running big knobby tires on the road, but not as much of an improvement as if you went to complete slicks. Two combo tires might be more durable than a combo/off road tire and a road tire though. The main issue is that gravel is sharper than asphalt, so you'll want a bit tougher of a tire. On the other hand, if you're mostly on the road, knobs are bad. So you'd have to play around with it to some extent. For what its worth, I currently have an old mountain bike with Geax Evolution tires on the front and back (they're combination tires). If the gravel is packed enough and you're not overly zealous, they seem to work fine. The rolling resistance on the road isn't bad either (though they are a bit noisy, and you'll want to play with tire pressures for gravel and road). Another good option might be something like Kenda Kwick or WTB All Terrain or Specialized Burrough (all slightly more expensive and not exactly equivalent, but the idea is there). 

If you're using SPD-SL, cleat covers or insertable seem to be the only "nice" ways to go. [I use Look, so I'm in a similar boat.] However, if you switch to SPD (which requires different pedals), there are plenty of shoes (and sandals) which have recessed cleats so you can walk around without damaging anything and wear all day without problems. And a lot of people use plain ole' SPD on the road. 

For most things, you can just wipe the bike down with a wet towel or sponge and it will be about as green as you can get and adequate (well, as green as you get would be to leave it dirty). Some dish soap and a hose (on shower setting, not jet or super soaker or whatever) if its really dirty. Don't use a pressure washer or something since you might get dirt into bearings or crevices. If you want to use degreasers, citrus degreaser should be biodegradable depending on what brand you get for the chain. Park Tool among others make a convenient little thing you clamp onto the chain to clean it. One link to look at is Park Tool's guide. 

10 speed cassettes in a 9 speed system introduce another level of complication since the cogs are a different distance apart, and would require a different adjustment to cable pull. It'd be like you cascaded a JTek Shiftmate 2 and 6. 

You probably can't get a safe mount for that type of kickstand on that bike (and likely not any kickstand - the space is just too small). In general, kickstands on good new frames (even touring frames like the Surly LHT) are tricky since they stress the frame in ways the manufacturer did not intend. See this page from Surly, for example. You may want to try a kickstand which doesn't attach to the bike, such as the Click-Stand. 

Assuming your rim is drilled out for a Presta valve, this tube should be suitable. If your rims are deep (you would know if you had them), you may need a valve extender. If you have a rim drilled for a Schrader valve (kind on a car tire), it is not recommended (if you want to use it, you should use a valve grommet as noted in this answer) since the larger hole may allow for some damage to the tube, or better yet, buy a tube with a Schrader valve. A Presta valve rim is 6 mm, Schrader is 8 mm. 

Generally, the weight distribution of a rider on a bicycle is something like 40 - 60 rather than 50-50 (front to back). This contributes to increased rear tire wear (along with rear wheel drive) causing front tires to sometimes last three times as long as rear tires. Skid stops (such as on a fixie) can also increase rear tire wear relative to normal stops. An aside: You don't need to run your tires at equal pressure - in fact, in most cases, the rear tire is about 10% higher than the front tire. This will make it deflect a bit less. 

If you want to go from Shimano 10 speed road to 11 speed road, you'll need a new cassette, new shifters, a new chain and a new rear derailleur, since the cable pull ratios have changed (again). Zinn also notes that 10 speed FD might not shift as nicely as 10 speed FD with the 11 speed shifters, so may as well throw one of those in. So, in the drive train, essentially all you'd be wanting to keep is the crank if you want to go from Shimano 10 speed road to Shimano 11 speed road. 

I'd guess the big apple will make it tight depending on what you lock to. Certainly the long shackle variants or standard shackle variants will fit around this. I have a Kryptonite New York Lock in a long shackle variant can fit around pretty much anything. When you get the bike, you can easily measure the width the lock needs to have along with the length of the shackle to lock around what you need to lock to. I carry one New York Lock Long Shackle and 1 Fahgettaboutit so that I can lock in tighter places (and lock both the front and rear wheels with U-locks). I'd think even if the mini isn't suitable for locking ot something, it would be good to lock a wheel to the frame (and use another U-lock to catch the other wheel and whatever you need to lock to). 

The part of the rim you're talking about is a brake track or braking surface (the silver colored thing in this picture): 

I think a bike fit is in order at your LBS. You may need to adjust the saddle height, saddle of appropriate width, saddle angle, stem height, stem length, handlebar angle, figure out if the top tube length is appropriate, etc. Saddle discomfort is not isolated to just the saddle, but also geometry of riding. Most road bikes force you to sit on your "sit bones" rather than a plush cruiser seat where the weight is suspended by your sit bones and whole rear end (which is fine for short rides) which can be somewhat disconcerting at first (you shouldn't be bolt upright for example). But some women's specific saddles may be helpful. The issue of tissue compression does affect women as well to some extent but shouldn't be an issue with appropriate saddle and handlebar adjustment provided the frame is an appropriate size. 

What you need to do is buy a new compatible derailleur [e.g. whatever was spec'd on it before] (and possibly a derailleur hanger as well). Then you need to get the hanger alignment checked out (using something like the Park Tool DAG-2). Then, get the spokes checked to see if they have taken any damage and have adequate tension (you will likely want to ask a bike shop about this). It looks like the protector disc (plastic) is still in tact without any damage. 

That being said, you shouldn't worry if you want to just keep things working at a comparable level -- innovations from higher group sets do trickle down to lower ones. So, next year's 105 chainrings may be essentially identical to your Ultegra rings, for example. You could also mix with the new Ultegra (or other sets) where possible. It isn't the end of the world to not have a full set of one kind -- you'll be able to find parts in other group sets or manufacturers which are compatible (especially for things like chainrings). And if you really want a full set of one kind, well, you might end up ponying up for the new one in the future if its that important to you! Of course, there are exceptions to the prior statement, when Shimano introduces a big incompatibility (e.g. mixing pre-97 ish dura ace with anything requires some trickery, and the Dura ace 7800 had extra tall splines making some compatibility issues for people; price of being on the edge, I suppose0. 

This is normally specified by the brake manufacturer, not the fork manufacturer. A summarizing table of common torque values provided by Park Tool is here. For Shimano, they recommend 70-85 inch-pounds, 90 inch pounds for Campagnolo and 68-72 inch pounds for Cane Creek. However, it wouldn't hurt to check with the fork manufacturer and the brake manufacturer's documentation. 

Unlike on a car tire, the sidewall isn't more important than the rest of the tire, really [ on a car tire, if the sidewall goes, you're going to blow out]. This link from Sheldon is good reading: "If you are mainly concerned with safety/function, there are only two reasons for replacing old tires: 1) When the tread is worn so thin that you start getting a lot of flats from small pieces of glass and the like, or the fabric shows through the rubber. 2) When the tire's fabric has been damaged, so that the tire has a lumpy, irregular appearance somewhere, or the tube bulges through the tire." I'd probably use some adhesive on it to seal it up unless going on long rides often.