If you consider writing the hard and unpleasant details, Homo Sapiens triumphed over the other ape species by four (although not exclusively those) characteristics: 

Indications of Early Advanced Civilizations The concept of Ancient Astronauts indeed claims that there were 'visitors' of highly advanced civilizations. Their claim is that many of the architectural constructions of the Ancient High Cultures (like the Pyramids for the Mayan Godkings and the Egyptian Pharaos) could indeed have only been built with higher technical sophistication and therefore evident of higher technological culture present on the planet at the time. Source:$URL$ Going back further in time, if a civilization of intelligent living beings had existed for example during the time of the dinosaurs, by now one could reasonably assume that due to the geological changes in particular, all traces obtainable with our current available means would be destroyed. Telltale Signs of Real Early Advanced Civilizations The most telling marker of an higher developed culture present on our planet would probably be finding traces of artificial radioactive elements (such as Uranium-235 in higher than its natural distribution) that would give away beings akin with nuclear technology. However, the presence of a higher concentration of such elements is not limited to civilizational activity, it can under certain circumstances as well occur in nature: Further Reference: $URL$ Paradox of looking for clues The biggest paradox encountered when looking for signs of Early Advanced Civilizations on the Planet would be the absolute unfamiliarity with their culture, and hence their cultural symbols. If intelligent life has developed before the advent of the Homo Sapiens, its cultural relics might not be perceivable for us due to our inherent anthrophocentrism. While we might attribute a cultural meaning to a well preserved stick (i.e. Wizard staff) we might be totally oblivious to the artifact value of for example a perfect sphere of stone, which we might consider a freak of nature, while its attribtues might have served as the whole underpinning of spirituality for a civilization that consists of Myriads of Myelin cells interactinv to form a 'fungal consciousness' on a planet. Point given though, the presence of a giant intelligent fungus on our planet would have probably left traces, but my point is, if there was such a civilization before us and they had artifacts, we might not be able to distinguish them from natural objects due to our limitation to our human heritage. 

Distribution by Air Suppose there are no air-filter masks and own stashes of oxygen allowed in your arcology, the continuous circulation of oxygen through a living organism (the cessation of which meaning it has expired) would make the perfect medium for distributing the drug. Psychoactive Drug creating an Illusion It would be perceivable to let the consumers of the drug be influenced by its effect to cause them hallucinations and illusions they consider as real. That could be used to make them use other ways of taking in the drug and wanting to do so by their own motivation, or even obscuring they are taking a drug at all. If driven to the maximum, parts of the population could be induced a halluzination that makes them participate in spreading the drug by simple means , spraying it in the air with dispensers for example, while being unaware they do so. Cultural Reference This concept (which adds Hallucinations to the universal drugging) has been described in vivid detail in Stanislaw Lem's Novel The Futurological Congress, which by the way has been made in to a movie just last year. While not too close to the original book, its endscenes give a good idea of how a overpopulated hive full with drugged humans looks like. Reference: $URL$ $URL$ 

I assume two to three antagonists (on the planet) of approximately equal military potential, located on separate landmasses, in possesion of nuclear weaponry assuring the certain destruction of all in the case of heated escalation. A. Radio Broadcast Message The antagonists are jamming all radio-wavelengths and filling the channels of communication with white noise. Broadcasting on all radio-bands, even to the point of increasing the power of the signal to the level that it would damage the receiving equipment, was tried, but the antagonists on the planet did not answer. The increase of emission of several large broadcasting stations, whose broadcasting now resembled more chaos or a special code resembling chaos, was observed when the aliens set on to the journey from home planet to the planet of the antagonists. B. Reason for Journey The Journey was undertaken as an expedition from the planet of the aliens. THe planet travelled to showed civilizational activity due to its output in the electromagnetic spectrum, position to its Star and so forth. Hence it was determined that in the time needed to reach the other planet, the civilization would still be there to contact. The actual travel was accomplished due to time dilation utilizing a massive black hole, but that will be another question. Unfortunately, the resource consumption for the journey was prohibitive, so turning back is considered, but ruled out repeatedly by the crew and finally the captain of the expedition. C. Reason nut Nuked each other yet On the planet there are several underground rocket silos, highly camouflaged and hidden in mountain valleys and underwater ridges. The communication between the headquarters and the weapons over close ranges is possible by cable, however atmospheric transmission of signals is highly disturbed by the antagonists broadcasting stations. While the antagonists could launch (maybe not all but at least some) of their rockets, they instead only keep jamming the antagonists broadcastings from ground stations and satellites. Z. Assumptions Assume that our (the aliens) sending of probes, the signal emission—the delivery of the mail has successfully occured. The antagonists have received the codes transmitted and have mastered them. Now assume we can send both sides the identical request for contact, either with a guarantee of neutrality which is genuine, or with a guarantee of exclusive support which is false. That means we tell each side that we are addressing the other at the same time, or else assure it that we are approaching only it for contact. We are not allowed to unnecessarily risk our own lives by falling into a trap, nor are we to provoke the two blocks into an all-out war that would wipe them out. Which type of message send to both antagonists would have a a higher probability of (successful) contact? 

In the novel 2061: Odyssey Three from Arthur C. Clarke in the end there is the consciousness floating to the surface of jupiter and saw clouds who couldnt make fire and hence were compelled to stay on a nomadic civilizational status. This was taken into consideration when deciding whether to deploy the monoliths on that planet. 

Counter Strategy Alchemists As they cannot see the future, they can be taken by suprise. I assume the beasts they created have some kind of handler, or some other form of restraint which is released when they are deployed in battle. Even if there are genetically engineered to be controlled by special trainers and otherwise leave the rest of their population in peace, this controls must be broken. If the Chimeras can be roused to go on rampage in the Alchemists staging posts, outposts or even in their cities, soon they would either stop deploying them for the sake of their country or would start an all out assault, which might prove to be a costly mistake for them. The Chimeras would be produced somewhere, or breed somehow. As their breeding program would have to be maintained developed and guided by specialists, subverting, kidnapping or assasinating those specialists would prove very beneficial in the struggle for supremacy in the realm. Counter Strategy Scholars As they can see the future, raids and betrayal wont work on them. However, one doesnt have to stage an attack to gain the upper hand. The secret lies in stealth, secrecy and sabotage. Their airships are their biggest asset, and yet their biggest threat. For one, if instead of an all-out attack, agents and spies are send into their airports, it is unlikely they will be detected from the seers. They therefore would be able to either sabotage the airships, that they might not deploy or do a forced landing upon deployment. Another target for sabotage would be the ammunition and bombs stored in the airships and in ammunition depots. If fire can be set to either one, the result will be a blazing inferno that might even spread into the city itself. The advantage here is, that even when the seers are able to detect the impeding attack, without their fleet they will know just as well that they don't have anything to throw against it, rendering their skill useless. Alternatively the Engineers who built develop and maintain the airships are vulnerable to attack. If the lead researcher in their airship program is assassinated (which can be done with something as simple as a piece of cloth, twisted and with a knot in the middle to form a Garrot), it might throw them off balance. Also, airships are hungry beasts when it comes to supplies, as the bigger they are, the more there is on them to break and the more high quality goods they need to keep them running. Starting to attack, disrupt and destroy the production and delivery of for example the cloth they use to make the balloons that keep the airships afloat can reduce the deployment time of a fleet considerably, so that they will wreck havoc for shorter periods and over shorter ranges in ones own territory than initially. Counter Counter Strategy Scholars As the Scholars are able to see the future in form of impending attacks, the sabotage missions can be timed to coincide with another event: The attack of the Alchemists on the Scholars. To be able to get to this point, one would either have to infiltrate the ranks of the Alchemists and make them believe that the Scholars have developed a new super-weapon able to undo the balance of forces in the realm (perhaps a dirty bomb or something). If Infiltration or double agents are not successful, the Metallurgist might come out and tell them, well, we're sorry for the experiments we're conducting on humans and animals to make something better (gently mentioning that their Chimeras are actually what they strive for), but however the Scholars definitely pose the bigger threat, due to their new super-weapon. Then a temporary alliance should be formed, but that is not even necessary. It would only be required to make the Alchemists mistrustful enough to increase their surveillance of the Scholars territory. Agents there could be used to conduct activities and drop clues (perhaps even a hijacked airship that is doing target practice with a new shiny bomb, whose powerful visual effects mask its uselessness) which would eventually make the Alchemists launch an attack. Once that is known, the agents in the Scholars territory would have to activated, as by then the seers would definitely focus on the imminent (and real) threat of an incoming Alchemist attack and concentrate their air fleets on staging points and airports. This way concentrated, they would be much easier to be taken out, as they are either on the ground, or docked and receiving maintenance. The Metallurgist might even be able to sneak people onto their flagships which despite the sabotage might still be functioning, and murder the captain or sabotage the ship while in enemy territory so their captain falls to either the Metallurgist of the Alchemists, who would then have quite an upper hand in a bargain with the Scholars. General Combat As in all wars, infantry would be involved to take land from the enemys forces and to guard it against them. In ancient Japan, Shuriken were dug into the land around the fortress. Infiltrators and Samurai, usually only wearing sandals, would step into them and cut themselves. The cut itself might not be fatal. The tetanus infection they would receive almost certainly will be. Same goes for the projectiles hurled at the Alchemists Beasts and soldiers from both sides. During European Medieval the usage of poisoned arrows was considered unknightly. However British Longbowmen stuck their arrows in front of them in the ground when firing (for easier reload) hence infecting the once hit with Tetanus. Alternatively a plant like Hemlock can be used to poison the arrows of the bullets. If all that is not an option, and dirt on the bullets would make them misfire, one might just dunk them into poo. This will also ensure an infection after the projectile penetrated the enemy forces. This would allow your bullets, which already can pierce the Chimeras outer layer, to penetrate deeper and deliver the payload of those deadly little helpers. Advantages No Calculations necessary! The game of treason with the two factions might be complicated, but as long as they don't get wise and launch an all-out assault against the Metallurgist, it eventually would roll their way. Due to the possibility of an all-out attack, a group of infiltrators should be stationed in the Enemy Factions Capitals, to unleash Chimeras in the Alchemists from Control and set fire to Bomb Depots in the Seers realm, in order to have a counter strike in such an event. Such an attack at any rate is more unlikely, due to the fact that committing considerable resources to attack an Enemy that is strong on the defence (The Metallurgist and their superior structures) would leave them themselves vulnerable for a strike from the other faction. This is why it is so important to sow distrust and suspicion between the two other Factions, that they might never get wise and team up against oneself. Not recommended It is not recommended to take down all infrastructure and population centers in the other factions territory. Doing so might yield a small advantage initially, like burning down a village here or razing a city and a fortification there. But not stopping at that and rounding up and decimating the population, or destroying the life supporting infrastructure thus forcing them to flee, would fast backfire as the reputation of the Metallurgist as a bloodlusty pack of Barbarians would make them both much more unpopular in the land they try to conquer and it might also convince the two other parties to work together to do a joined attack against the metallurgist.