Figure 1. Marginal tax over time. Labels: Percentage, year. Red: Marginal tax. Blue: Marginal tax including payroll tax (employer's contribution). Source* 

The information in the video is incomplete, outdated, and the cited journal is not popular among neuroscientists (every publication in "Cognitive Neurodynamics" gets cited close to 2 times per year. The impact factor is 1.828 according to the publisher: $URL$ The first citation of the quote has only been cited 7 times. The second citation only refers to that the visual system has been thoroughly mapped. Although the latter is true, the author is making a sweeping statement that 

—Wrocklage, 2006/2015, p.5 These signs were carried by the SA, Sturmabteilung (lit. "Storm Department"), the paramilitary force of the Nazi party. While this is an example of evidence for the perception among minorities, let us consider other Germans during this time. The German freedom of press was severely limited on January 30, 1933, according to a journalist who attended the national media conferences between 1919 and 1944 (Wrocklage, 2006/2015). The manipulation of the people was intentional and the source of information was centralized and uniform due to state control (Wrocklage, 2006/2015). Was the census an instrument of realizing the holocaust? Yes. Has it been used in accounting for how many Jews lost their lives during the holocaust? I will leave the latter answer as an exercise to the historically informed reader. As a German resident I can say that it is indeed illegal in Germany to downplay the extent of the atrocities. Questioning the authenticity of such official reports is a practice that I condemn. Were the Germans being fooled by the Nazi government? Yes, but there were exceptions and most likely among "the minorities". 

Sweden had at most a record of 89.4% marginal tax in 1979 (Figure 1), the same year the Swedish author Astrid Lindgren wrote her fictional essay (in which the calculations do not add up because the protagonist cannot count). Her essay prompted a change in government. Hence, the observable peak in the graph below. 

* Except for the numbers after 2014, the source for the figure is based on Gunnar Du Rietz, Dan Johansson and Mikael Stenkula - Swedish Labor Income Taxation (1862–2013). 

Sources Das Bundesarchiv (2011). (Nicolai M. Zimmerman, Ed.) The list of Jewish Residents in the German Reich 1933-1945. Retrieved from $URL$ version: $URL$ Das Bundesarchiv (2013, July 15, 12:20). Responsibilities. Retrieved from $URL$ version: $URL$ Das Bundesarchiv (2016, April 27). Gedenkbuch. [Memorial Book]. $URL$ Wrocklage, U. (2006). [Media Portrayal around 1933. Continuity or break?] Presse und Bildberichterstattung um 1933. Kontinuität oder Bruch?, in: Ulrich Rüter (Ed.), "Think while you shoot". [Martin Munkacsi and the modern picture journalism] Martin Munkacsi und der moderne Bildjournalismus. (pp. 74-85). Hamburg: ConferencePoint. Reprint in: [Studies in Contemporary History] Zeithistorische Forschungen (Eds. Sabrow, M., & Kleßmann, C.). (2015) $URL$ 

So this is a warning against all those predicting the future without the aid of God, whether they use mathematics or not, and in particular warning against those who make accurate predictions. 

This review "Medical issues associated with commercial flights" from The Lancet in 2009 covers most of the points. The most substantial issue seems to be cabin pressure, causing fatigue, headache, lightheadedness, and nausea, and other more serious problems for those with certain medical conditions. The review then goes through other issues such as venous thromboembolism risk, cosmic radiation, jet lag, and infectious diseases. My impression is that these may be in the authors' view of the order of significance. On air recirculation, there was a 2002 study not suggesting there is extra risk, though there have been many cases of infection traced to aircraft; there clearly is the general issue that in an aircraft you are more likely to be sitting next to somebody with an exotic foreign disease than if you are in your own car. 

To show flutterby is the origin of butterfly, it would need to precede it in time. With the OED pointing to Old English versions of butterfly, and Shakespeare using it several times, perhaps best known in King Lear Act 5 Scene 3 

So they seem to claim that it could reduce allergens from mite excrement, but seem to deny claiming that it "eats germs". 

suggesting that being moderately overweight is not in itself unhealthy, but being underweight may be. 

Silver has been known to have antimicrobial properties for since at least Hippocrates (300 BC) used it for dressing wounds. It is still seen as significant anti-bacterial agent as well as having antifungal and antiviral effects. Medical usage is typically with microparticles or as silver salts. I don't know how much impact a solid spoon would have. 

So what you need to do to test the proposition would be to compare couples who cohabit at age X and marry at age Y with couples who marry at age X not having previously cohabited and are still married at age Y (you also have the added complication of different ages of the man and woman in the couple). This requires a rather more complicated analysis of the data than that anything quoted above. Another issue which would affect analysis of the statement "Cohabiting couples more likely to divorce" is to look at cohabiting couples which split up before marriage, and to try to calculate how many divorces might have occurred if they had instead married: I suspect that USCCB may dislike divorce more than they dislike cohabitation. 

Now, to some extent this is true. A single region of the brain is an unlikely candidate for a complex phenomenon such as subjective experience. This is an old idea, dating back to at least Decartes, who guessed that the soul was seated in the pineal gland, at the very center of the brain. However, one needs to take into account the entire brain, which contemporary theories of consciousness also do (see Dehaene and Naccache's paper from 2001 also listed below, which has been cited more than 1800 times). Regarding the details of the paper from 2013, the evidence for phase coding is more limited than for frequency coding, so perhaps the model in the paper should be taken with a grain of salt. In addition, the model is fairly abstract and lacks biological detail. The paper does try to explain binding with the help of neuronal activity. Today, neuroscientists can stimulate the motor cortex to cause reflex-like movement of the arms. This is done using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Even subjectively, but not "objectively present", experienced phosphenes can be induced by stimulating visual area V1 using the same technique. There is more to experience than the processing in the visual cortex. For example, in front of - anterior to - the occipital lobe, activity in the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) has been implied in various processes. In addition, activity in early visual areas have even been linked to basic semantic processing. Activity in the prefrontal cortex has been associated with short-term memory and planning, including prospective memory. The hippocampus, a subcortical structure, has been strongly implied (since 1957 and onwards) in memory, spatial navigation, and pattern related processing. These are just some examples of areas that are involved in our day-to-day moment of what it is like to be. In summary: 

The Federal Archives of Germany have published an official document called "The list of Jewish Residents in the German Reich 1933-1945"*. The document states verbatim: 

Notes *Concerning the title of the document, it is not to be confused with the list itself. It provides a detailed description of the register, its sources, and its purpose. Concerning the author of the document. Nicolai M. Zimmerman refers to an employee at said institution. The document properties state the author as "Das Bundesarchiv" and the document is issued by Das Bundesarchiv. "The Federal Archives have the legal responsibility of permanently preserving the federal archival documents and making them available for use." (Das Bundesarchiv, 15.06.2013 12:20) 

Many plants are photosensitive and the phases of the moon marginally affect light (though by an extremely minor amount compared with solar seasonal effects, cloud cover or shading), so you might expect a very small effect in some plants. A principle of statistical sampling is that with a large enough sample size it is possible to find statistically significant results which are robust to repeat testing (as opposed to the 5% of experiments which produce apparently statistically significant results simply by chance) even if the effect is not substantial enough to affect behaviour in the real world. There was a study "Effects of Moonlight on Flower Induction in Pharbitis nil, Using a Single Dark Period" by Kadman-Zahavi and Peiper in 1987. The abstract says 

It was pointing at a recent article "Life cycle air quality impacts of conventional and alternative light-duty transportation in the United States" by Christopher W. Tessuma, Jason D. Hill, and Julian D. Marshall in PNAS vol. 111 no. 52, 18490–18495, doi: 10.1073/pnas.1406853111, which included the following chart 

So it looks like a combination of different income tax treatment of different types of incomes and gains, together with non-progressive Social Security contributions. My guess is that given Warren Buffett's charitable donations (e.g. he is giving over $1 billion a year over 20 years to the Gates Foundation), a modest amount of tax planning could reduce his tax rate to almost nothing. 

Most commentators believe that frozen vegetables (especially peas) are better and have more vitamins than "fresh" vegetables picked more than a day earlier, and much better than canned vegetables which are cooked as part of the canning process. This article quotes from Deutsches Tiefkuhlinstitut 

Probably not. Here is evidence of a 1948 attribution to Churchill in Parliament, though it had previously appeared in 1942 as an anonymous statement and the Churchill Centre and Museum concludes it was 

which suggests an increase in "Debt Held by the Public" of almost $440 billion and "Total Public Debt Outstanding" of almost $415 billion in those two months The position is slightly confused by different parts of Government holding public debt (think Social Security etc.) leading to a difference between "Debt Held by the Public" and "Total Debt" which might make the point slightly arguable, and in any case the debt is not really controlled by the president (Congress decides taxes and spending) and is barely even influenced by an incoming president, but the numbers in the claim are not unreasonable 

Quite the contrary. Current neuroscience research aims to build models of cognition, including consciousness (subjective experience, awareness, wakefulness, etc.). To some extent, sensation has been dealt with, but perception is more complex and cognition even more so. 

It is true - the process is called habituation. It depends on how frequent (odor exposure [or sniffs] per minute) a smell is registered. Habituation can last from less than ten minutes up to at least 30 minutes (Chaudhury et al., 2010). As mentioned in the link, different parts of the olfactory system appear to be involved, but it is mainly explained through receptor activation on the cell membrane of neurons. There is a limited number of receptors that wait for signaling molecules or odorants (odor molecules) to attach, much like the game musical chairs. Habituation is thought to be more a product of receptor activity at neurons that transfer the information than sensory neurons that receive the odorants. With time, receptors go back to their original states. Whether this differs by scents depends on several factors. There is great variation in individual scent acuity (see Kandel et al., Principles of Neural Science (5th ed.), ch. 32) from human to human, but frequency of exposure is a likely candidate, as well as salience - how strongly a smell affects us. We are more sensitive to smells that provide an evolutionary benefit by promoting survival, such as the smell of a burning forest. Perhaps habituation is less likely if it does us more harm than good. 

—The Federal Archives. Henceforth: Das Bundesarchiv (2011), p.3 I interpret the second question as asking "Did the minorities believe that the intentions of the Nazis were sincere?". As I alluded to earlier, the 1933 census form uses the classification of Jews based on religion. This is in no regards different from the 1925 census (Das Bundesarchiv, 2016, April 27). One is then left to consider, that the only observable change for a person, belonging to a minority in Germany in 1933, concerns the impression of the government at the date of the census: June 16 (cf. Das Bundesarchiv, 2011). In no uncertain terms was the persecution of Jews a covert procedure. Pictures from Berlin on April 1, 1933, show German-English signs with the words: