Obsolete Awards He doesn't seem to have been eligible for any of these. Nor for any of the recognised foreign decorations. Oswald's Sharpshooter badge seems to have been all he earned. 

The ships were certainly steam-driven by the 1890s. For a rough calculation, figure a day from London to Calais by train and ship, then 200 miles per day by train from Calais to Leipzig. There were plenty of trains. A comic, but basically truthful portrayal of middle-class travel at the time can be found in Jerome K Jerome's novel Three Men on the Bummel. 

Friedländer is talking about a specifically Nazi aspect of anti-Semitism. That's the belief in a racial hierarchy, with the "Nordic race" at the top, and "the Jews" at the bottom. It holds that everything wrong with the world, and everything wrong with people, is a result of the malign influence of "the Jews." It never goes into details about how this happens. According to this idea, exterminating the Jews will prevent them corrupting the world any further and will allow it and its peoples to be redeemed and purified. The Nazis did seem to believe in this. Notably, they carried on transporting victims to extermination camps when the German transportation system was breaking down under bombing attacks in the winter of 1944-45. Stopping the transports would have freed transport capacity that was needed for the armaments industry. But they carried on. 

This is a common pattern in towns that have grown around a fortress, in many cultures. The fortress is placed on a hill, since that makes attacking it harder. People migrate to the area, since anyone who can build a fortress has money, and get jobs there, or run businesses that sell to the fortress inhabitants. A town gradually appears, but there isn't room for it on the hill, so it is on lower ground. Hence a "Lower town." Edit: The same process also happens for un-fortified towns built on hilltops. It is a bit slower, because the town tends to grow incrementally down the hill, but you still end up with upper and lower parts of the town. 

The usual method was to build a cairn of large stones, rather than a hut, and put written messages in watertight containers into it. This doesn't require transporting materials to build a hut to Antarctica, and is much less subject to being blown away by storms. Source: practices of the Franklin expedition to the Canadian Arctic. A flag semaphore point would have to be manned, and that would have added considerably to the manpower and supplies required for the expedition. 

It was conceivable that the fairly friendly relations between the US and UK that had existed during the early twentieth century and WWI could have broken down in the negotiations in 1921-22 over the Washington Naval Treaty. This did not happen. Studying a conflict with the UK would be a good example of how to fight a naval war against a powerful opponent, which also has a land border with the USA, via Canada. So it's a good exercise for the planners. There doesn't seem to have been any realistic expectation of war. Relations during the inter-war years were pretty good, but not perfect. The UK abandoned its alliance with Japan in favour of good relations with the US. The reason that the plan stayed classified for so long can be attributed to the "paranoid tabloid" school of British politics. There are several British newspapers, currently most notably the Daily Mail and Daily Express, whose appeal seems to be based on sensational and frightening stories. I have no doubt that in 1974 they made a great fuss along the lines of "American Plans To Attack Us!" The fact that there were outline plans for wars against all the great powers of the period would make no difference to them. Reasonableness and insight are not what they are selling. In the UK, TV has obligations about fairness and balance, and newspapers do not. I understand it's the reverse in the USA. 

There is an extensive Wikipedia article on the details of the selection process. Truman had become a national figure through his chairmanship of the Senate Special Committee to Investigate the National Defense Program which had saved $10-15 billion of the cost of WWII, by preventing inefficiency, waste and profiteering, at a cost of $360,000. It was clear that Truman could get things done, and with Roosevelt ailing, that was a valuable quality in a Vice-President. 

It was often the case that Canadian forces during WWII were included in formations described as "British," because they were under British command. However, there don't seem to have been any Canadian units in XXX Corps at the time. It's important to understand that the composition of British corps, divisions and brigades was not fixed. Units could be and were re-assigned as the higher commanders saw fit. This was quite different from American practice, where divisions had a fairly fixed composition. For example, the Guards Armoured Division had had seven changes of the higher formation it served under between D-Day and Market Garden. Starting off in VIII Corps, it had changed to XII Corps, Second Army, back to XII Corps, then VII Corps, II Canadian Corps, VII Corps again, and then XXX Corps, where it served from 28th August to 12th December. If you have a source that expressly states that Canadian forces were in XXX Corps during Market Garden, please cite it. If you're basing that on a list for a date outside the Market Garden period, it's likely wrong. 

Most people who worked on Enigma code-breaking didn't know the real name of the system, or the scale of the effort being made. That contributed to the secret of the breaking of Enigma being kept until the 1970s. So "appearing less threatening" is a non-issue. The few nations who know, already know, and have better cryptography. Nobody else knows. The information really was tightly held. A USN submarine officer, John P. Cromwell, deliberately went down with a sinking submarine to avoid capture by the Japanese and possibly being forced to reveal the secret. The Allies sold captured Enigma machines to third world countries after WWII, because they were widely believed to be secure. This is a normal level of dirty tricks for this field. The amount of material from the new Enigma users was going to be much less than from Germany during the war. Most of the bombes were not going to be needed. If you destroy most of them, or even the whole lot if there's a better replacement, then if the secret leaks, you have a credible claim that you can't read that code any more. You also avoid the costs of guarding and maintaining large, complex and very secret machines. 

We can't know for sure, because our information is so scanty about very early civilisations. The two obvious possibilities are: 

The NOAA Commissioned Corps descends from the Coast and Geodetic Survey Corps. Before the USA entered WWI, the Coast and Geodetic Survey was a Federal civilian organisation responsible for surveying the USA's coasts and interior. They were needed to do surveying for the war effort in WWI, and the Army and Navy officers normally seconded to the Survey had been withdrawn to do military duties. If civilians were captured on the battlefield doing surveying, they could be shot as spies, so the Coast and Geodetic Survey Corps was organised by commissioning the civilians. And it's stayed a commissioned organisation ever since, although the name has changed, as have the scientific fields they cover. The USPHS Commissioned Corps descends from the Marine Hospital Service, which was first set up in 1798 to provide medical care to seamen, including naval personnel from 1799. In 1870, it was re-organised as the Marine Hospitals Service, whose first chief was Dr John Maynard Woodworth. He wanted his doctors to be a mobile work force, to be stationed wherever they were needed, and mandated uniforms. As a federal health-care organisation, the MHS' remit expanded in many cases where the federal government needed to provide medical services. Since their hospitals were in major ports, they became responsible for quarantine and other public health functions. In 1912, they became the Public Health Service. Their hospitals began to close after budget cuts during the Nixon administration, and are all gone now. The Commissioned Corps has survived as a public health organisation, and as a provider of medical staff to the other uniformed services. For both organisations, their advantage is that it's easier to integrate their officers into the larger uniformed services than civilians. This is useful in wartime: essentially, they provide reserves of scientifically trained officers for the military. Other countries use more normal military reserve services, or commission civilians when necessary. The drawback is that the government can't get rid of them so easily as civilian staff, when it wants to. 

Some certainly did, including Waffen-SS personnel, who were often party members, unless they'd been conscripted into the SS. The party had 8.5 million members by 1945, and they could not all have dodged service. It would also have been grossly hypocritical for them to do so, given that Nazi ideology stressed that the individual's highest duty was service to the racial state. That didn't keep thousands of senior party members, often called "Golden Pheasants" after their smart brown uniforms with golden badges, from dodging service, which created the image. 

One example of a clear and decisive European defeat is the Battle of Isandlwana in 1879, during the Anglo-Zulu War. The British started taking the Zulus a lot more seriously after that, and won the war. 

The transition process was long enough to give plenty of time for retraining. The WRAC association website is less detailed, I'll keep looking. The WRAF seems to have been more integrated with the RAF from its foundation in 1949, with about 80% of trades open to women from the beginning. The first female aircrew were in 1962, and training was fully integrated by 1970. Operational female aircrew happened in 1990, and the services merged in 1994. Again, there was plenty of time for retraining. Medical staff were special cases. Female medical, dental and veterinary officers always had full commissions in the men's services. Chaplains were another special case, complicated by different religions' rules on female ministers. Each of the British services also has an associated nursing organisation, whose personnel are mostly female. 

The United Nations grew out of the organisation of the Allied side of the Second World War, who were formally known as the United Nations from the beginning of 1942. To join at that stage, a government had to sign the Declaration by United Nations, and declare war on the Axis powers. The declaration had been drafted by FDR, Churchill and Harry Hopkins, in December 1941, so US influence was present from the beginning. The five permanent members of the Security Council are the five major Allied powers of WWII: the USA, the UK, France, the USSR (later replaced by Russia) and the Republic of China (later replaced by the PRC). 

Timothy P. Mulligan's Neither Sharks Nor Wolves is an academic study of U-Boat crews of WWII, published by Naval Institute Press in 1999. He describes the rank structure of the officers as: 

In English, nobody has the power to decide which words get used. It's purely a matter of what people decide to use. Textbook authors have a bit of influence, but only a bit. The Wikipedia page reckons that Imperial Japanese Navy special attack units were called shinpū tokubetsu kōgeki tai (神風特別攻撃隊, "divine wind special attack units"), where Shinpū is the Chinese-based pronunciation of the characters that are also pronounced "Kamikaze." I suspect, but cannot prove, that "Kamikaze" got used because it sounded more interesting than "Tokkō". It's also more obvious how to pronounce "Kamikaze" to English-speakers, who are often uncertain how to treat unfamiliar accented characters. This is because English has loanwords from lots of different languages, with different pronunciation rules. 

Yes, this is quite a small scale of bombing compared to Allied bombing later in the war. The Luftwaffe really wasn't organised or equipped for strategic bombing. It is not clear why there are no figures for June or July, but there are references to parts of the records of the German Air Fleets being lost, which would have been the primary source for them. If the figures for incendiaries seem low, that is likely because of an easy error to make when reading Luftwaffe statistics. They reported HE bombs in metric tons, and incendiaries in terms of "containers." Those held 36 incendiaries, each weighing 1kg. The number of containers of incendiaries is of the same order as the number of tons of HE bombs, and it is easy to mistake it for the number of tons of incendiaries. The number of containers for the three months in question is: 

It has been claimed that this general was Sir Launcelot Edward Kiggell (1862-1954), but there seems to be a lack of evidence. Kiggell was Chief of Staff to Douglas Haig, and another of Haig's staff officers, John Humphrey Davidson apparently claimed that it was himself. The descriptions I've read of the conditions at Passchendaele make it seem plausible that several generals might have said something like this. 

It's a mistake to consider this a diversionary attack. Hougoumont overlooked a narrow valley which was sheltered from the British artillery fire. If the French had taken Hougoumont, they would have been able to get round the adjacent flank of Wellington's army in safety. In fact, the ridge Wellington had chosen to defend was untenable if Hougoumont fell, and this had been clear to Napoleon as well as Wellington. So Wellington had to hold it, which was why the Foot Guards were there in strength, and had been through the previous night, preparing to defend it. One can argue that the French should have given up on trying to take the position, but that's not clear for most of the battle. Wellington's troops on the ridge grew gradually weaker as they fought off French attacks, so rolling them up from the flank became more and more practical, if Hougoumont could be taken. Source: The Battle of Waterloo, David Howarth, p53. 

Well, if it was found in Constantinople being venerated as a relic of the Holy Blood, that would have been quite good enough. The events of Christ's life and the legends surrounding it were very immediate and personal for many Crusaders, and there was an expectation that traces of them would be found. If it was presented by Baldwin III of Jerusalem, that would again have been more than good enough. He was King of Jerusalem. If anyone would have such relics, he would, and there was an expectation that these things would exist. Yes, these beliefs could be exploited by the unscrupulous. There are beliefs that can be exploited at any time in history. It's a human characteristic. 

The source for this is Ian Kershaw's The "Hitler Myth": Image and Reality in the Third Reich, Oxford University Press, 2001. 

The Allies were fussy about the schedule for Normandy for a combination of reasons. They wanted a full moon to make night parachute drops easier, and a landing shortly after dawn with the tide half-way in. That would minimise spotting of the arriving fleet, and make the obstacles on the beach easier to see and avoid. The tide and time-of-day conditions coincided twice a (lunar) month, one instance of which would also have a full moon. The next opportunity was 18-20 June, without the full moon, then there would have been one at the beginning of July with the full moon. But there would have been no question of putting it off until 1945. They'd have accepted less than optimal conditions first. Operation Sealion wasn't planned in nearly so much detail, so these issues may not have emerged. The German paratroopers don't seem to have been set up for night drops, which would be rather dangerous given the unconventional single-riser parachute they used. There also weren't nearly so many obstacles on the beaches of southern England in summer 1940 as there were in France in 1944. However, the German landing craft would be much more vulnerable to bad weather and high seas. Sealion would have been dependent on good weather, the defeat of the RAF, and after that would still require Alien Space Bats to get rid of the Royal Navy.