The Cuban revolution was won by only a few hundred revolutionaries. But to run a state, especially an undemocratic one, you need to have control over the monopoly on violence. But enforcing a monopoly on violence in a country with several million people can not be done by just a few hundred revolutionaries, so Castro must have gained control over the military and police rather quickly. It seems unlikely to me that the military and police would just unquestionably accept Castro's authority, especially when he quickly stopped all process towards public elections. So I wonder how he gained this control, but I have not been able to find any sources on this. 

There have been several travels in boats reconstructed from the relevant times. One that I can find good records of is the boat known is Aifur. It travelled in 1994 from Sigtuna in Sweden to Novgorod. This took 41 days. 

You firstly have to know that the major reasons her predecessors didn't win their battle against the trade unions was that they never actually had a battle. Her immediate predecessors were Labour, and hence did not battle the unions as both the Labour party and the unions were a part of the same workers movement and to some extent was made up of the same people. The previous conservative prime minister was Edward Heath. He did end up in a conflict with the unions, and called an early election in an attempt to face them down. However, it failed since Labour won, so that battle was lost almost even before it started. So what made Thatcher succeed then? Well, I think there were two major reasons. The first one was that she actually remained in government. This in turn have two reasons: 

Søren Norby was the Seignor of Iceland 1515-1517. However, I can't find any information on whether he actually ever visited Iceland, had any actual powers in this role or if the position was a sinecure. 

As a result, he might have actually thought "I wish manufacturing technology meant I could make cars more aerodynamic", while if he was shown a modern car, he might have realized that he actually had the technology. So why weren't early cars more aerodynamic? Well, here I can only speculate. First of all, a Model T's top speed was 40-45 mph, so the benefit of aerodynamics was limited. Secondly the roads were not good enough to allow that top speed anyway. And thirdly, as seen above, they probably thought aerodynamic cars was harder to make than was the case, and this means they didn't even try. The first company to use wind tunnels to try to make an aerodynamic car was allegedly Chrysler in 1930, which resulted in the 1934 Chrysler Airflow. And lastly and most importantly, people expected cars to be horseless carriages, and look like carriages and have the same sort of comfort as carriages. That meant cars were tall, with high straight seats. Today when we sit in a car we sit down, and expect to lean back and have our legs forward, and not sit like you sit at a dinner table. If you introduced a car that is styles like a modern car on the market in pre-war US, it probably would have been an utter flop, because people would not know what to make of it, and they would have found it strange and uncomfortable. And indication of this is that the above mentioned Chrysler Airflow that indeed was lower than most cars at that time, also was a commercial flop, although the design was hugely influential. 

Of course, a couple of hundred years later it was well known, at least amongst Greek philosophers, that the earth was round, and Eratosthenes calculated the earths circumference. This didn't stop the use of maps that made the earth look like a disc, though. So called "T and O maps" was often drawn as philosophical representations of earth, throughout the middle ages. These may have helped fuel the idea that people in the middle ages thought the earth was flat, but that was not the case. These maps are just representations in principle of the earth, and should not be seen as actual maps. That also means that even the 6th century BC map above may represent a round earth. There was attempts to make real maps fit the T and O perspective, but even so this should not be taken as a belief that the earth was flat. 

The last major pagan group in Europe was the Sami in northern Scandinavia. Although missionaries traveled north and churches were built aready in the 16th-17th century, the sami were predominantly pagan until forced christianization that started in the 18th century. (1720 in Norway, late 18th century in Sweden). Although officially Christian since the 18th century, the Sami didn't really take to christianity until the 19th century with Lars Levi Laestadius' revival movement. Further reading. 

The main significant contribution to map making before satellites were triangulation. The first world maps that I would call reasonably accurate turn up at the beginning of the 19th century, like this one. Even then you have small problems (compare the shape of Norway, for example) but there are no huge mistakes that jump out at you immediately. At the end of the 19th century maps are beginning to get accurate, probably as a result of large scale triangulation of most of the world. Here is one example from 1897. Triangulation relies on you being able to see fixed points, so it doesn't work on oceans. There you have to rely on measuring the longitude and latitude, where longitude is the difficult thing to measure. At the end of the 18th century this problem was solved to an accuracy good enough for navigation. This must have helped improve the accuracy of the distance between various landmasses as well. 

The boring answer to that it the rather simple: It didn't. The economy of both Germany and France were devastated by the war, the UK and US economy much less. Germany and France both recovered quickly, and Germany, France and the UK ended up with very similar levels of prosperity. Germany's industry was of course in a much worse state than France and UK's, but they were able to rebuild it to a large extent thanks to economic help from the victors. As you see the US beat all of them, and the other major victor, the USSR of course never reached levels of prosperity close to this, but that's because of socialism. 

Generally the Ruthenians is seen as the people of all the Kievan Rus, and indeed the original source of Russian, Russians and Russia. 

"The white mans burden" is the idea that white people are superior to other people and therefore responsible for them and has a duty to take care of and educate others. It was used to justify imperialism while keeping an air of morality to imperialism’s oppression and exploitation by painting non-white people are poor, childish subhumans. 

Not that I'm aware of. In the past, if this situation would have arisen, at it possibly did with Edward IV, it would simply be hushed up and ignored. Today with democracy and mass media this would be much harder to achieve, but should it be discovered somehow that somewhere in the line between Sophia of Hannover and Elizabeth II there is an illegitimate child, nothing would be done about it. The monarchs since then were all accepted as legitimate, and therefore they are legitimate. (As a side note, Richard III was able to get Edwards IV's marriage to Elizabeth Woodville declared invalid after Edwards IV's death, which meant that Richard III became the new king, instead of Edwards IV's son Edward. Of course this just happened because Richard III had the practical power and support in the parliament at that day, and he also had Edwards IV's young sons killed. So if Tony Robinson want to find the actual "real king" of England he should look amongst Catherine of York's descendants, but I think that line might have died out, making for a boring TV program. But it's an example of what might happen if you decide that someone is not legitimate.) 

There is only one account of Vikings tying boats together in battle, and that is in the battle of Svolder. The boats were not burned, so there are no records of this Vikings burning a "ship island". That's the actual answer. The rest here is a somewhat speculative expansion: Tying your ships together is a defensive tactic, used because you can in practice only board a ship from the side. By tying his eleven ships together side by side, Olaf Tryggvasson in practice only needed to defend his two outer ships, evening the odds when you are at a numerical disadvantage. But it also leaves you in the situation that you can't move and attack your ships. You can not therefore, as you seem to imply, have two sides each with a "ship-island". You would end up with two un-navigable islands, and it would have been hard to attack each other. :-) So if an attacker finds itself unable to make any inroads onto this island of ships, why don't they just burn it down? Well, there are probably several reasons. One is that putting a boat on fire isn't that easy, there is plenty of water around to put out small fires after all. That's why Huang Gai uses fire ships. This means that to burn the enemy, you have to in practice set fire to one of your own ships, and somehow sail it into the enemy fleet. That requires that you fill a ship with kindling, and is nothing that is done in the spur of the moment, but need to be prepared beforehand. The second is that the ships are not actually that much more susceptible to fire because they are tied together. I can't find any reference to that any boats were tied together in the Battle of Red Cliffs, for example. The problem is rather that they aren't ready to sail away, and so have no means to avoid the flames and sparks. But this is difficult in a sail ship at the best of times, even for the attacker, so there is some risk that you put your own ships on fire, unless you withdraw completely before you bring in the fire ship. But then you give the enemy room to untie the ships and sail away, or worse, turn and attack you. So while putting the enemy fleet on fire have been successful in some cases, I don't think it is a common defensive move. 

Although this question probably can't be resolved without years of comparative study, a quick indication of the answer can be done by looking at the current GDP of the countries as a reasonable measure of "stability and success". The cases are also very different between different continents and times, as colonization changed a lot during the period. Therefore I have looked at African colonization only, as this was done during a relatively consistent time, during the late 19th century, and ended at a relatively consistent time after WWII. It was also a similar type of colonization, with little settling from the colonial powers, with the exception of South Africa and Egypt which both had very different colonial histories (and therefore are excluded). And the only conclusion that we possibly can draw from that is that Belgium was singularly bad, as all of the countries Belgium colonized has remained impoverished, although two of them were German colonies until 1918. Congo is still very poor, and this is perhaps not surprising, considering that Belgian colonization was extra-ordinarily brutal, but on the other hand, this is just a question of one (or possibly three) countries, so one should be wary of making any conclusions at all from that. Italy, Spain and Portugal all have one rich colony, but Italy and Spain also have one poor and Portugal three poor, so no conclusion can be drawn there either. Then remains British and French colonies, and there the numbers are quite similar. The average PPP GDP per capita in British former colonies is around $3.300, while in French former colonies $4.000. The richest former colonies have in both cases a GDP/capita of $17.000 and $16.500 respectively, and the poorest $400 and $580. That's not enough to claim any reasonable difference. Hence, it is impossible from this to tell any reliable difference between different colonies, and it is certainly impossible to claim that Britain was a better colonial master than other countries, which the OP suspected. Source data: $URL$ Germany's colonies was generally split up between France and England after WWI, so I have skipped those, and I have also skipped all other colonies who doesn't have a clear major colonizer. 

Genealogy is family history based on records. There exists no such records that far back in time, so the question is not answerable. If we widen the question more, some sort of answer is possible however: People having been living in Arabia since the first humans migrated out of Africa, and as pretty much everywhere in the world, they have moved in and out of the area and mixed with neighbors. The Arabs are both genetically and linguistically a semitic people, as are the other peoples in the area. It is therefore highly likely that the first Arab settlers in Yemen came from Yemen. 

The figure is Bringhi, who refused to worship Parvati/Gauri and is an important part in the legend of Ardhanarishvara, and is often depicted with Shiva: 

The great civilizations of Eurasia has mostly risen up around rivers that go through big fertile plains. This is true for the Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Indian and Chinese civilizations. Europe's only candidate, the Eastern European plains, with Volga, was too cold and had too harsh winters to allow a big Neolithic/Bronze age civilization. As such, Europe was not a candidate of unification at this time, and the ability to keep a European empire together without one big river as the heart of the communication probably didn't arise until the Renaissance. That Europe therefore has not become united until the last few decades (and even then it's rather split in two: Russia and EU) is hardly surprising from a purely geographic perspective. Europe is a "peninsula of peninsulas" and there are no geographic features to grow a civilization around. A harder question is why only Rome succeeded in unifying the Mediterranean.