This bears similarity to Kierkegaard's idea of "in despair not wanting to be oneself" (Anti-Climacus in The Sickness Unto Death). Also: 

When interpreting any author, it is crucial to understand his terms. Reading The Book on Adler (sometimes titled Concerning Authority and Revelation), I have come to understand that the essentially Christian (which I take to be equivalent to "the essence of Christianity") is a key phrase for Kierkegaard. But what does he mean by this? In which of his books does he discuss what this means? Many people have different opinions on what is the essence of Christianity is, so I cannot assume that Kierkegaard means by this what I would envision by it. Here is an example use of the phrase in context (The Book on Adler, ed. and tr. Hong & Hong, 116): 

Kierkegaard and Nietzsche are often treated together as early existentialists. This is rather odd, as Kierkegaard was self-consciously seeking to be an orthodox Christian, and Nietzsche was self-consciously seeking to destroy Christianity. Nevertheless, after reading only a little bit of Nietzsche I have seen some parallels to Kierkegaard already. (Citations below from The Portable Nietzsche). For example: 

Nevertheless, it also seems to me that this is significantly different than the traditional tripartite view of man; he does not seem to conceptualize spirit as one of three components of man, but the relation of the two components. How does Kierkegaard's position compare to standard bipartite and tripartite views of human nature? 

Once again, Kierkegaard speaks much of spirit and consciousness of spirit/self. Wikipedia claims that Nietzsche said he would read Kierkegaard. Do we know whether he actually did? If not, can their commonalities be traced back to some other philosopher they both read? For example, perhaps "consciousness of spirit" is terminology from Hegel? 

There's an essay in Either/Or that made me think I got the sense of what Kierkegaard was trying to do. Kierkegaard had an extremely well developed sense of aesthetics. But here was this man, arguing that he had found a proof of why Mozart's Don Giovanni was the best work of music that there ever could be. That's a ridiculous claim, and he argues it pretty well. I got the sense that that was the whole gist of the pseudonymous works... that they're about complexity and sophistication and philosophical argumentation that's designed to lead people out to something further... and taking it so far that they're revealed to be preposterous. His signed works (I'm thinking Works of Love and The Point of View) go the other way. They're more religious, but so was The Sickness Unto Death. I thought what was distinctive about them was that their direction was in reverse. They went from sophistication back to simplicity. If the sophisticated arguments in Kierkegaard's pseudonymous works are still impressive, I think perhaps read more of them... 'till they seem ridiculous. I got the sense that the signed works were intended for those who had been broken or made weary by the pseudonymous works. 

I get the sense that the later Wittgenstein and the ordinary language philosophers are of this school. They're not designing litmus tests of dreaming (private language), or "proving" that the fact of language means that we cant be dreaming, but to reveal those questions as absurd, and to bring us back to a position where thoughts of skepticism about other minds etc don't arise. The quotes are taken from a pseudonymous work of his, Concluding Unscientific Postscript, extract from Kierkegaard, Søren. The Essential Kierkegaard. Edited by Howard Vincent Hong and Edna Hatlestad Hong. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2000. pp. 221-222 

I am new to the Philosophy Stack Exchange, though I have been a member of the History Stack Exchange for 3 months. I recently posted 2 answers on the Christianity Stack Exchange regarding the questionable relationship between Deism and Christianity. Admittedly, I know very little about Huxley's Agnosticism-(I believe it is Thomas Huxley who was the Agnostic. Aldous wrote the famous Distopia "Brave New World"). However, I write this post as someone who is familiar with Agnosticism. For an Agnostic, the topic of God is inherently unknowable and truly mysterious. The Agnostic's position is predicated on the notion that such a Grand Entity cannot be proved nor disproved. The nature of proof is exclusively geared towards the physical, the materialistic and the tangible; even the intangibility of something, such as Gravity or Time, is still within the realm of the physical and the materialistic. How exactly one can try to prove or for that matter disprove God's existence, are questions that have been asked for time immemorial into the present-day; and yet, we always return "back to square one".......... unresolved and unanswered. If, however, one chooses to believe in God(s), then he or she certainly has the ability to do so; a belief does not always necessitate proof or affirmation. You can believe that you are going to win the million dollar lottery, though you do not know that you are going to win the lottery-(unless you choose to validate the role of Prophecy and Presaging). The difficulty that Agnosticism has with so-called Prophets and Clairvoyants, are their spectacular forecasts which in most cases have and continue to yield disappointing results. However, for Theists and "People of Faith", Prophecy provides an opening into the future and in turn, recognizes the magical and miraculous power that a small number of individuals have been and are still able to wield. If one was to compare an Agnostic with a Theist, both would initially agree with the plausible premise that the existence of God cannot be known and is truly a mystery. However, The Agnostic typically stops at the word, "mystery", whereas the Theist typically continues onward and goes a step further by saying, "Yes it is a mystery, though I still believe in God's existence anyway"-(and a few Theists go a step further by undertaking the erroneous tasking of trying to prove God's existence). If an Agnostic were to continue onward, like the Theist, with regard to believing in-(or even claiming to know about) God's existence, then an Agnostic....... ceases to be an Agnostic and may as well call himself or herself, a Theist. Now an Agnostic could hope that there is a benign or graceful God; it is certainly not wrong-(either intellectually or morally) to express one's hope for a Gracious Grand Being, as well as a Heavenly Hereafter. Again, I return to my lottery analogy; one can hope that he or she wins the million dollar lottery, but to say I believe or that I know I am going to win the lottery, is just plain foolish. And although the lottery is certainly not God, the rather plain spoken and seemingly simplistic comparison may have some profundity which underscores an Epistemological problem that has mystified humankind since our earliest known origins......and I suspect, will continue to mystify us. Agnosticism may not be the perfect answer........though it does offer a level of intellectual honesty that few seem to welcome. 

I think Cavell's criticism can be readily applied to this question. How much of philosophy is wisdom, and how much of it is an aversion to ordinary categories - a sense that, like physics, human understanding can and must be broken down to atoms and its boundaries and mechanisms worked out for us not to be made fools - fools to religion, fools to superstition, fools to ignorance? We're driven to dissect, and by dissecting we kill it. Ever noticed how whenever you hear "philosophy of", the meaning of the noun that follows tends to disappear into obscurity? Epistemology is a rumination on knowledge by one struggling to, but never genuinely succeeding in, overcoming a denial of knowledge. The quote is from Stanly Cavell's essay "Must we mean what we say?" 

But "reality" here is meant as the kind of reality we can understand - the reality of observables. Physics does postulate that something behind that might be said to "exist" - the wavefunction. But the use of the word "exist" in this context is problematic. I mean, we can kind of conceptualise Schrodinger's cat... but that's not supposed to teach us about cats, but rather get us thinking about the kind of thing the cat is entangled with. What is it? We cant seem to ascribe reality to it. And at that point, I think it's kind of wide open. You could think of it as Kant's noumenon. Might as well say it's calculations in the mind of god. Or you can just leave it as the wavefunction. Could even call it nothing. It's all equally non-sense, in a way. So I think modern physics can be seen to reinforce Berkeley's idealism, not undermine it. Where Newtonian physics seemed to close a lot of doors, quantum physics seems to open them.... and at those extremities, one is so lost.. the choice of how to view existence seems more an aesthetic choice than a scientific one... and maybe an aesthetic choice at the boundaries can be said to be a religious one.