If the only way you can eat calories at a surplus is by drinking a gallon of milk a day then you should contemplate getting a g-tube. GOMAD is a bad idea. Milk is extremely insulinogenic not to mention our bodies have limited ability to break down lactose. Not to mention 1 gallon of milk has 208g of sugar which is 832 calories. Spare yourself the diarrhea and diabetes and just eat a normal diet. Milk has its place but advocating to haphazardly add 2336 calories to your diet is beyond absurd. Just because something worked for a few individuals doesn't mean is a good idea. Search "__ (insert random word from dictionary) diet works" and you will find tons of success stories! Edit: Some math to show why the average trainee doesn't need 5000 calories Lets take Jim. A skinny guy who wants to be buff! Perfect candidate for GOMAD! His stats: 

Here's the thing: The toned look is a combination of having high muscle mass AND low bodyfat. If you have low bodyfat AND low muscle mass you end up looking like a starved person. What to do Start increasing your caloric intake which will lead to your metabolism revving up. This will lead to better hormone production (Which means more fatloss/muscle gain), muscle gain, and muscle size increase (Your muscles will be filled with glycogen -fuel- which makes them bigger). I recommend slowly ramping up your calories. Start by ramping up to maintenance. Keep that for 1-2 weeks and then you can add calories on top of that if you want to gain muscle faster. Here's how you figure out your caloric maintenance level 

Admittedly he was selling his own physical training routines, so he is going to say that they're beneficial, but bear in mind this was over 100 years ago. Fast forward to today and it is widely accepted that exercise has many benefits for health, and baring accidents, healthy people tend to live longer than unhealthy people. Another things to consider, alongside living longer, is quality of life, I don't know about you, but I've seen elderly relatives living out their final years suffering from dementia in nursing homes, barely able to get out of the chair. To me, that's not living, that's just surviving. But, you were asking for specifics, so, let me introduce you to the Yoda of strength training, Dan John Dan John writes quite a lot about training for life and life long health (remember, being healthy helps you live longer), but he also covers non-exercise related things. His top 10 tips for living a longer, healthier life? 

From personal experience from a couple of gyms (and admittedly this may not always be the case), if the plates are smaller rubber ones, then they actually fit very tightly onto the bar so despite the dynamic nature of the Olympic lifts, there's virtually zero horizontal movement of the plates during the lift. I've seen smaller metal plates (1.25kg, 2.5kg) shift on the bar during the movement if not placed inside the collars, but never the smaller rubber ones (0.5kg, 1kg, 1.5kg). 

All of these methods are presupposing that your squat technique is solid. It might be worth getting someone knowledgeable to critique your technique and if there's any issues, fix those before pushing up the weight. I'd personally keep in the assistance exercises you're doing (except for leg extensions, I've got nothing good to say about those), but also throw in some more lower back work on squat days, in the form of back extensions, reverse hypers or good mornings. 

How can I achieve a similar flexibilty like this (not talking about the weight, just empty bar for example)? I like his squatting style alot and would like to be able to get into the same bottom position. What are the most important stretches (here I found a good list)? How can I pin-point which muscles/ areas are my worst? I am searching for mobilty tests for: 

Short answer: you have to consider the actual calories (the remaining amount after burning calories off). Example: Let's say I ate 2800kcal, burned 500kcal off and I need calculated 3100kcal to gain weight. On this day I won't gain muscle theoretically, because 800kcal are missing for that goal. But one day does not matter. Always talke your weekly average calories into account! 

Bench press works mostly chest, incline bench works both to the same extend (45 degree angle) and overhead press works mostly shoulders. You can see the worked muscles in the order of percentage involved here: 

I would say that I have a fairly strong grip. But when I pull 170 kg I feel the bar starting to slip (double overhand, no straps, no hook grip) right before lockout, so I missed the full lockout, because my strength gave in (the bar was not dropping, I was still able to set it down). With mixed grip I pulled 3x165 kg the next day which is a greater achievement considering the predicted 1RM of 175kg. The numbers don't matter here and are just a mere example. My question is: Can my body output more power/strength when my grip is stronger, let's say so strong that I don't even feel holding something? Is there a study about that topic? 

One of the main issues I've had with front squats in the past is that of thoracic mobility and mid / upper back strength, particularly when it comes to moving out of the hole (the bottom of the squat position). If you have poor thoracic mobility, or a weak mid / upper back, then you tend to curl forward as you try and push out of the bottom of the squat. I always use a clean grip (backward wrist bend) to do front squats, and since I have less range of motion around the shoulder in a clean grip than I do with a crossed grip, the issue of thoracic mobility becomes more pronounced. In simpler terms, it could be that you're actually leaning forward too much but compensating by lifting your elbows higher, which is a lot easier with a cross handed grip (as an experiment, sit up straight assume a clean grip on an imaginary bar, and push your elbows as high as you can, then assume a cross handed grip on an imaginary bar and see how high you can get your elbows. My guess is a fair bit higher). As others have mentioned, mobility in the hips and ankles could also be something to look at. As to how to fix it and improve your front squats, I'd say first off work on your thoracic, ankle and hip mobility daily. It doesn't have to take a long time, something like the counter stretch is easy enough to do a few times a day and has helped my a lot. More weight related, train your front squat first in your workout, and you can try doing supramaximal holds in the front squat position, something like 3 sets of 30 seconds at 110% of your 1RM. Another thing is to make sure you really are racking the bar close enough to your neck. I was told by an oly lifting coach that if you can breath comfortably, then you're not doing them right :) There are a lot of good suggestions here, though they do assume a clean grip front squat. 

Probably want to add more sugar if you are doing long intense exercise, unless you already use something else to replenish your glycogen levels. 

I don't know the exact cause of cracking joints and as that page indicates professional opinion is also inconclusive, but I've always thought it was the cavitation of the synovial fluid which is again confirmed there. From Johns Hopkins' Orthopedic page: 

It really depends but you need other electrolytes beyond just sodium, more specifically potassium and magnesium. A serving or two of a electrolytes beverage like Ultima replenisher should be sufficient. Of course this greatly depends on the specific workout session so use your own judgement and definitely do more specific research. You also may need to supplement your exercise with carbs so that you replenish your glycogen levels. Here's a recipe for a home made electrolytes beverage: Measure all ingredients precisely. Small variations can make the drink less effective or even harmful. Mix the following: 

It's all about presentation really. Before I officially became a personal trainer I started out randomly helping people at the gym. Out of the hundreds I've given advice to only a handful took it negatively and even then we just didn't see eye to eye and life goes on. First thing is to weigh how helpful your advice against the fact that you are going to interrupt their workout/take their time. I would only say something if it's something major or the person involved clearly is a novice and is struggling. Here's how I do it: 

There are a lot of push up variations you can do and they all stress different muscle systems. Doing pushups with the elbows flared out isn't a good idea since it will put a lot of stress on your rotator cuffs. You also won't activate your chest fully that way. Elbows too flared 

I had really tight hamstrings. I have been stretching them for quite some time now and it improved remarkably. When I look at this picture I notice the straight upper an lower back. This is not a picture of me, but I look basically like this (except for being able to almost touch the ground with the palms of my hands). Now you will say, do the earth touch more, but there is a problem with it. I can clearly feel that I compensate lacking flexibility with spine rounding. I feel, that if I only do the earth touch only my spine gets rounder over time. So, is this still a hamstring problem or is it another muscle? Please give me specific stretch to achieve the position shown in the first picture. Edit: Removed air squat part, because the focus should be first on the given stretch otherwise this thread gets to complicated in my opinion. I have a concrete problem at hand and I want to solve only this first. 

In how far is a predicted one repetition maximum (1RM) accurate if there are several seconds between reps? For example using this website. Example: Let's say I do 10 x 150kg on the deadlift with average rep time of 9 sec (time from first rep to last pull divided by reps). Is there a formula that takes rep time into account? If not, which rep time is acceptable between repetitions to call it a set / so the predicted 1RM works? 

Does it count as a set if you stand up after each repetition during deadlifts (to take a deeper breath and brace more properly) which also includes resetting your grip? Background: I am training for powerlifting 

Take a break. The main question here is why do you go to the gym? Personally, I go for a bit of stress relief, because I want to get stronger, and because I enjoy the training and shooting the sh!t with the people I train with. Saying that, I do sometimes hit periods where training seems like a chore, and when that happens, I take a week or two off. It's important to note that I don't just sit on the sofa in my underwear and binge watch Netflix (well, maybe on the occasional Sunday...), I stop my regular training, but still do something to keep me active. As was eluded to in the comments, getting "me" time is important, something that you can do by yourself without feeling pressure from anyone. The gym can sometimes provide this, but if you're the sort of person who's very aware of the people around you, it may feel like you have to perform at peak every time you're in the gym, so you're not judged too harshly by others (though honestly, most people very rarely care what others are doing in the gym, as long as they're not in the way, or not doing something stupid or amusing (or stupidly amusing)). I'm a little hesitant to mention it, but it is also possible that you're over training. If you're hitting the gym and Crossfit classes on alternate days, then depending on what you do, that has the potential to be a lot of work and stress on your body. If you're not recovering fully between each session, then systemic fatigue is going to build up over time, until it hits a point where your body just needs to rest and doesn't want to train. You can look up symptoms of over training (or, under recovering, which is usually what it is), but from memory they do include things like a lack to motivation to train. If you're lacking motivation to train, but still put on onus on yourself to hit the gym every day, then you're going to be stressing yourself out over the perceived belief that you HAVE to train every day, even when you really just don't want to. So, to go back to my original point, take a break. Take a week off of training, that time when you're supposed to be training in the evening after work, go for a walk and listen to a podcast, or go and gently swim for an hour. Treat yourself to a spa day, take a yoga class, or even just do 30 minutes of stretching for those parts of your body that need it. I don't know what your goals are, or why you've been hitting it so hard, but taking a week off isn't going to mean all your muscle suddenly wastes away, or that all the body fat you've lost magically appears back overnight. What it might mean is that you reignite your passion for it, and carry on making progress.