All people have large stockof words related to specific interests. When was the last time you heard "laparatomy" from the mouth of someone who was not a physician, veterinary, or otherwise related to medical professions? It just happens that at the time these claims were made, few women were professional, or, better saying, most of them had just one profession, that of housewives. No wonder they would use words related to cooking or sewing more often than men. (Magenta to me has nothing "feminine" on it; it is a word used by graphic workers of both sexes, and seldom by anyone who works on other trades. But perhaps this is distorted by my having Portuguese, instead of English, as a first language.) 

The word "dialect" is unfortunate, because it means different things in speakers different, oh, ah, hum, "dialects". In the good old times, it used to mean a kind of "sub-language" or "quasi-language" - what was described, with some wit, as "a language without an army and a navy". In that sence, Venetian, or Hunsruekisch, are "dialects". More recently, and more politically correctly, in our troubled times when it is deemed improper to talk about some facts of life, including navies and armies, "dialect" came to mean any variant of a given language. The former definition became badmouthed for being "extra-linguistic" - but unfortunately the word dialect is still applied to things such as Pommersch or Neapolitan, while now being used also for very different phenomena, such as AAVE, the Portuguese spoken in Rio de Janeiro, the several non-standard varieties of any given language, slang, professional jargons, etc, etc, etc. So, is it possible to say that "Venetian is a dialect", and that, being a dialect, it is "inferior to Standard Italian"? Well, there would be a problem here; after all, "Italian" is just "Tuscan dialect" upgraded to national language through a political decision. If other factors had prevailed, perhaps the newly unified Kingdom of Italy would have chosen Sardinian, or Sicilian, or Piedmontese, as its national language, and now we would speak of Tuscan as a "dialect". So, both languages, Venetian and Tuscan/Italian were "born equal". But the fact is, the Italian State machinery is run in Italian, not in Venetian, Calabrian or Friulian. And this introduces a deep inequality between Italian in the one hand, and the other languages of Italy in the other, because the State, albeit being "extra-linguistic" in the sense it is meant when we say that the difference between language and dialect is "extra-linguistic", is a very powerful glossopoietic entity, that "produces language" everyday - especially through its courts and academic institutions, but also, even if less decisively, through its army and navy. This gives the standard language a decisive, if unfair, advantage against dialects such as Venetian or Hunsruekisch: the State speaks Standard Italian or Standard German, and if you want, or need, to communicate with the State, you will have to do it through the appropriate national Standard. In this precise sense, Standard Italian is "superior" to any other language of Italy: it is the language that is taught in schools, that you need to know to read the national press, to listen to TV, to demand in court, to write your doctoral thesis... and to properly communicate with your sargeant, nevermind if you are a footsoldier or a captain or general. But I suppose you are asking about "dialects" in the more modern meaning. Is Standard English "superior" to cockney, or AAVE? Or is Standard English "correct" English, while the other variants are "wrong" English, or perhaps different languages? I would say no. Those variants are part of a same language, English, and they serve different purposes. You don't write a dissertation in cockney, but you also don't address your buddies at the bar (or your family at home) in Standard English. You use different "registers" of the English language, some more formal, some more informal. The informal registers tend to vary more geography-wise than the standards, but that doesn't make the English spoken in Pennsylvania a different language than the English spoken in South New Wales (though, of course, if given a few centuries more, they very weel might evolve into exactly this, and become mutually incomprehensible). A traditional, prescriptive, point-of-view is that the standard is the only "correct" language. This is the reason people look at constructions like "it ain't true" and say they are "wrong". They do not conform to standard grammar, or standar lexic, or both. And since the standard is the only variant that is studied in school, and consequently, the only whose rules are aprehended consciously, people tend to imagine that the standard "conforms to the rules of language", while informal variants are like the Old Far West, a territory of lawlessness. But this is false; the speech of the prostitutes or the teamsters is not less regulated by rules than the English of the Queen - they are just different rules, quite probably not even less strict than those of Standard English, and those rules are not taught or even studied in the same depth as stardard rules are. So, there are sentences that do not follow the rules of Standard English, but the rules of other variants of English. Those are "wrong" only if your intention was to speak or write Standard English. If used in an informal social context, they are probably correct. The opposite is also true: to speak among friends like you were in court or parliament will result in you being told to stop; they probably won't tell you you are speaking "wrong" English, but the effect is the same: to enforce the rules that are contextually correct. But there are also sentences that do not follow the rules of Standard English, nor the rules of any other variant. Those would be wrong English by any measure. 

While in normal situations implied context is much less blunt, it still does make up an appreciable portion of what we speak. In example #1, dates is referring to the romantic phenomena. However, as seen in example #2, this assumption cannot be known through just having a gender-biased word ("she") that modifies or indirectly modifies the word "dates". Then, in #3, it is seen that while stating "I picked a date" would likely refer to the date fruit, when "between the two females" is added, date now refers to the romantic phenomenon. Further, in #4, it is seen that the meaning of "date" even depends upon the setting. Going to a store for dates would refer to the fruit, whereas going to a restaurant would refer to the romantic phenomenon. Then, as seen in #5 and #6, date can even flip-flop between romance and fruit just based on the type of pronoun used. Finally, as seen in #7 and #8, "date" can also depend on the time period. #7 refers to the romantic phenomenon, whereas #8 refers to the archaeological dating as in determining the time period of an artifact. Thus, since the implied diction can get so tricky, a very complex tangled web of conditional word relations would be necessary to figure this aspect of the problem out. Conclusion The overarching question is where can a find a gigantic list of the meanings of all words in all languages in all contexts that includes at least these kinds of interactions between words as listed above. Please note that it the list doesn't have to be perfect, it just has to be workable. For example, there may be some odd-ball idioms with an unanticipatable definition that are based on the context of the surrounding passage instead of the surrounding sentence. Bizarre lingual phenomena things like this would also be very helpful to know about, but are not a priority. 

it seems obvious to me that these sentences are not synonymous, either with the original sentence, or with each other. On the other hand, adverbs like "luckily", "hopefully", "understandably", behave in a similar way to "yesterday": 

There are methods for calculating the age of the split between two languages (which, conveniently, I do not rembember the details of). They rely on counting related material versus unrelated material, and making a proportion. Evidently, there is a point at which such proportion tends to zero. That is, two closely related languages that diverged a thousand years ago will have x% related words; two not so closely related languages that diverged two thousand years ago will have x/2% related words, and so on. But at some point there will be no difference between relational similarities and statistical noise. Once in a conlang forum two groups invented different vocabularies for two unrelated languages. I applied the usual method and concluded that the languages would have diverged 5,600 years ago. So it is possible to conclude that two completely unrelated languages are close enough that they have diverged five or six millenia ago; that probably is close to the point where the difference between signal and noise becomes untraceable. 

This example unspoken implications entry allows the computer to fill-in-the-blanks with the 3 example sentences listed at the beginning of this section. For example, when the computer cross references example sentence #1 with this thesaurus entry, it will think: the person in the thesaurus is the personal pronoun , the use is , the "chair" is , and the table is sit`. In this way, the above entry in the thesaurus would allow the computer to understand that the 3 example sentences at the start of this section are asking the same thing. Problem #2: literal Context I use the term "literal context" to describe words where their definition is based on other modifying/modified words. A very good example of this is the word nuclear which can mean a lot of completely different things based on the context. Nuclear can refer to the nucleas of a cell (ex. "nuclear envelope"), dangerous radioactive material (ex. "nuclear energy"), to immediate family (ex. "nuclear family"), to an ailment called "nuclear cataract," and even to extreme excitement (ex. "The crowd of people went nuclear"). In a case like as the word nuclear, a simple synonyms list can't just be used because the meaning changes based on the literal context. Thus, for this aspect, there needs to be a massive thesaurus to also list which words mean what when used in conjunction with which other words. Problem #3: implied Context Implied context is where the definition of words cannot be determined just based on the literal interpretation of which words surround it. Rather human intuition and common sense are needed to figure out what is ment. In this, we will examine the usage of the word "date" in 8 different contexts. 

Ser is also highly irregular, taking forms from at least three different roots: Ele será - He will be Ele era - He used to be Ele foi - He was. 

Portuguese certainly has triphtongs: Paraguai - /para'gwai/ luau - /lwaw/ Since the former is an import from Tupi-Guarani via Castillian, I would assume that Castillian has triphtogs too (I would not assume that of Tupi-Guarani because the /gw/ probably originates in a glotal stop, /para'ʔajʔ/). Isn't "why" an example of a Standard English triphtong, /hwaj/? Or what we call tritongos in Portuguese is not the same as what you call triphtongs? 

The third and fourth categories are more commonly composed by names of non-domesticated animals - and the fourth is more usual among borrowings from Tupi-Guarani. But the issue is somewhat blurred. Some would say that "elefante" does have a feminine form (and then disagree whether it is "elefanta" or "elefoa" - placing the word in the second category above - or "aliá", which would make it an instance of the first category). And definitely there are cases where there is inflection, but one of the genders is more or less automatically used when the sex of the animal is unknown - "raposa" (fox) does have a masculine form, "raposo", but the feminine is used whenever the sex of the animal isn't important. Now, a use such as "Seu Esquilo" (Mr. Squirrel) is unusual - it is either children talk or a peculiar subset of the literary register, pertaining to fables or fairy tales. And then the rules are much laxer than in standard or colloquial register. If the animals come in couples, it would often be natural to call them "Dona Onça" and "Seu Onço", even though the latter would be weird in colloquial speech. This is however very irregular, and the use of one of the forms may sound weird even in a fable ("Seu Furão", ?"Dona Furona"; "Dona Zebra, ?"Seu Zebro"). Also in fables, the modern (and somewhat colloquial) masculine "Seu" could possibly be replaced by the archaic "Dom" - as in "Dona Baratinha e Dom Ratão"). So, in the case in point, I think the most natural thing would be to call the squirrel "Seu Esquilo", unless for some reason one would assume it is a female (the word does have a feminine form, "esquila"). If it was a fox, it would be more natural to call it "Dona Raposa" unless for some reason it was assumed to be a male. If it was a jaguar, it would be "Dona Onça", with the alternative "Seu Onço" only if we intended to stress it was a male, if we are telling a fable; in colloquial or standard Portuguese we would call a male jaguar "onça-macho" (and use the feminine articles and adjectives - "a onça-macho estava furiosa".) 

As seen in the 3 sentences above, it's quite easy for a human to understand that all 3 sentences are basically asking the same question. However, that is not the way a computer sees it. The way a computer would see it, , , and are not direct synonyms, so all 3 sentences are not asking the same thing. The solution for this is the thesaurus being looked for needs to contain a list of which word are implied in which contexts. For an example relating to the the above 3 sentences, this unspoken implication part of the thesaurus might contain an entry of technical information that can be understood in english as: 

The end goal of asking this question is to find a big (probably several hundred petabyte) data file expressing the meanings of words based on their interactions with other word in as many languages as available for some programming code being writing. However, 3 major problems arise when trying to obtain this meta-dictionary being looking. These three problems make this dictionary not just an ordinary synonym list, but rather a unspoken implication, literal context, and implied connotation based thesaurus. Problem #1: Unspoken Implications Let's compare the following 3 sentences. 

I am not sure of what we are talking about. In many languages, verbs are inflected in tense and mood, and in person and number. Tense is usually mixed with aspect (in a not much consistent system), so it is usual to refer to "tense/aspect". In many languages, including many that inflect verbs according to tense/aspect, mood, person, and number, verbs do not inflect according to "voice" (which is more commonly indicated by syntax). So, morphologically, there is no "tenses, voices and moods", but - for most Western languages, at least - "tense/aspect, mood, person, and number". And I am not sure that those are legitimate semantic cathegories (voice for instance seems to me to be clearly not semantic - "John sang the hymn" is synonim to "The hymn was sung by John", which is not the case regarding tenses, moods, etc). Are you asking for what features are grammaticalised in verbal morphology, or are you asking for what semantic categories are covered by verbs? Morphologically, I suppose that verbs can be inflected according to many other semantic categories - evidentiality, as pointed in other answers and comments, gender, intensity, for instance. Or even to mark sentences as affirmative/negative/interrogative.