Real Coypus are a menace: Here is the 2016-2017 report on Louisiana's coypu(also called a nutria) harvest, which is designed to keep their numbers in check. For the 2016-2017 season in just Louisiana, more than 200,000 coypus were culled, a million dollars was allocated to pay the hunters, and it is estimated that nearly 6000 acres of coastline was damaged by the local coypu population. And this is before their genes were messed with. Your super coypus are worse: Essentially, the super coypus will eat the world into the apocalypse. Your super coypus just escaped from some rural homes, and reach a nearby river. They start eating, and they start breeding. A normal coypu weighs about about 6kg. If your coypu monstrosities are dog-sized, let's say they weight about 30kg. If they ate 25% of its body weight daily like a normal coypu, then each one of these things is eating 7.5kg of veggies every day. Presumably, your genetics lab also made nutrient pellets that hid their true hunger from the public. A normal coypu can give birth to 1-13 offspring every 130 days, and you said your rodents were designed to breed faster than normal. Pretty soon, the super coypu escapee population has outgrown the local wetlands. The plantlife around their rivers is depleted, but luckily for them the rivers they inhabit lead right into nearby crop fields. They begin eating massive amounts of crops and are able to breed and spread faster than ever before. As more super coypus escape around the world and eat their way through farmland, the fear of food shortages grip the world. With governments focused on controlling a panicked populace, attempts to cull their numbers fail. There's too many to capture individually. Burning and poisoning crop fields to save the food supply is a poor long term strategy. Eventually, these fuzzy rodent-locusts deplete the environment to the point where their population collapses and they cease to be a major problem. Unfortunately, humanity ran out of food long before the super coypus did. 

The dragon might be able to shoot napalm using yeast, bacteria, palm trees, and oil sand gizzard stones. The yeast and bacteria make the fuel, the palm trees and oil sands make the gel. 

Unfortunately no, you can't replace an element of the periodic table because the ordering of the elements on the periodic table are based on the number protons found in the nucleus of the atom. However, you may have another option. Carbon has 6 protons, always. Give it an extra neutron? Still carbon. Give it an extra electron? Still carbon. Give it an extra proton? Now it's nitrogen. No getting around around it, any atom with 6 protons is defined as carbon, so you can't just replace spot number six with a different element. However, that doesn't mean that all carbon acts the same. Diamonds are made of carbon. Graphite is made of carbon. Why are they so different? Because of the atomic structures that carbon can stably form. Allotropy is the ability for some chemical elements(like carbon) to take multiple forms, and this can result in vastly different properties from the same base element. So, while you can't scientifically replace an existing element with a new element, you certainly can semi-scientifically say that some element has weird properties when structured a certain way, and that simply nobody had tested that form yet in our world. 

If females are completely parasitic that only leeches off males without giving anything back to them, they are going to be inherently disliked by the males. And the males can find ways to get rid of the parasites from their body, or even completely avoiding any interaction with the females. So, the males must really like the females, or the two sexes will need to have a little bit of mutual relationship. Since detrivores are smart, they are going to realize that working together is going to increase their chance of survival, which means that they are going to be social creatures. Their social structure is going to be different than humans, though, since they have extremely different physiological characteristic and different developmental stages between the males and females. Detrivores are going to live in groups with male leader, since males are much bigger and stronger. The females in the group are going to compete against each other to get place on the body of the dominant male. Only the best females can copulate with the best male in their group. It's a little weird because the females are going to fuse with the male, which means that technically the male is the one that's going to be pregnant, and not just with one, but multiple babies. This means that male detrivores should have the ability to control the growth of the baby and can absorb the baby back when food is scarce, which is kinda fun. Without this ability, the females with their babies are only going to make him weaker and make him can't maintain his dominance. So, one of the biggest psychological difference between humans and detrivores is how members of one sex see the other. 

Heat would be the most believable. , which means that it's just another form of energy. So, these are some other forms of heat that your magic can use as its energy source: 

Now it's only the upper world that has unconnected edge. The only solution is to connect it with the existing singularity. This makes the geometry of the upper world shaped like sphere. By introducing more dimensions, you can flatten the geometry, making the two plane stay at the same level in the 3D world. I'm not sure how many dimension you need to add to make it work. The overlap can also be solved by adding more dimensions. My solution is to make the singularity have minimum size, just like how real black hole have event horizon. The difference is that this singularity doesn't have gravitational force. 

Given that you can recognize that these symbols have meaning to the Egyptians, can you learn to at least write in it without the aid on an Egyptian? 

Trivially, yes. If the landmass is small enough, it can easily be controlled by a single empire. However, that's not a very interesting answer, so a better question is how big the landmass could be. We can use real-life examples to see how large this hypothetical controllable landmass is: 0-1,000,000 sq. km of land: Easily. According to the sizes listed here, countries today range in size from <1 square kilometer (Vatican City) to more than 1,000,000 sq. km(Russia). The average country in the world takes up about 750,000 sq. km, which is about the size of Chile and Turkey. The Byzantine Empire roughly covered Turkey back in the 9th century, so these sizes are definitely possible. 1,000,000-15,000,000 sq. km of land: Probably. According to this list, there are plenty of large empires in history. Rome, Alexander's Macedon, and the Ottomans all claimed about 5 million sq. km of contiguous land at their peak, the Umayyad Caliphate got to about 11 million sq. km, and the Qing dynasty of China reached about 15 million sq. kilometers, which is about a third of Asia. These empires are certainly at the technological level you described, and there are plenty of examples so this size is pretty doable. 15,000,000-25,000,000 sq. km of land: Possibly. There are two historical land empires in this category: the Russian Empire and the Mongol Empire. The Russian Empire formed in the early 1700's so it might be a bit too advanced compared to the examples you gave, however the Mongols are the interesting one here anyway. At it's peak in the late 13th/early 14th century, the Mongol Empire covered 24 million square kilometers of land. This is about the size of North America. Since this is the largest land empire in history, it may be around the upper limit for the size of empire at the technological level of your examples. 25,000,000+ sq. km: Probably not. The largest empire in history, the British Empire, controlled about 35 million sq. km at it's peak. However, they cheated and used boats, which significantly sped up their empire-wide communication and logistics. Since no other empire has come close to this size, it is unlikely that an empire could come to this size without significant use of the ocean around the supercontinent. This would also require the continent to be thin or fjord-y in order to let ships cover most of the travel distance.