So we can imagine that other african species may have followed the same road, and reached your island when the sea was lower, during the ice age. Even if your island was never directly linked to the continent, it may have been close enough to allow terrestrial animals to end up there. After the sea rises they would have been definitively trapped on the island, but they found a way to survive. 

The biggest inconvenience is that your map may have a weird shape, and you'll have to cut the oceans. But there is no perfect solution. If you want to preserve areas and distances, this is one of the best options. 

It seems impossible to make a 1 km high living creature with the actual laws of physics. You just can't scale up a human and turn him into a giant without drastically modifying his anatomy in order to keep him alive. The tallest people alive (more than 8 ft / 2,4 m) have many ealth issues and don't live long. Their bones break easily because their body is too eavy for their skeleton. So, if you want to create a 10 meter high giant, you must give him massive legs and stronger bones (like elephant's legs). But he would probably be unable to walk on two legs like humans, and would more likely use his arms and walk like a giant gorilla. So he might not be able to throw a ball, and would never do a salto. His heart would have to be very big to pump blood and send it to the brain. He would have trouble to stand up, and would rather keep his head at a lower level to ease his heart and help the blood flowing to his head. As his body adapts to his new posture, he may loose the ability to speak like humans, and would probably only make deep grunts. It will be more difficult for him to cool his own body. He would have to find a new way to regulate his body temperature, or he would die of hypertermia. And yes, he would be slow. Giant animals are always slow. They need more energy to move, and their nervous system is less efficient. The bigger you are, the more time it takes for nerve impulse to travel through your body. That's why elephants walk very cautiously : if they step on something sharp, it will take more time for them to notice it. 

Ash's answer lays out some good ideas for how different plant species dying off would end the world, but I'm not certain that it's possible for a plant virus to have the properties you want in the first place. For one thing, they're not usually that deadly. (Tobacco mosaic virus or TMV, a well-studied plant virus, does a tremendous amount of economic damage, but each individual plant is only stunted, not killed. Though expensive, it would be possible to out-produce the losses.) They also have difficulties in transmission vectors. The normal vectors are physical contact between infected plants or through intermediary animals (usually pollinators, grazers, or worms). As far as I can tell, there are no airborne plant viruses - probably fortunately. Since these vectors require plants and animals to be active, it wouldn't be very good at spreading in cold or sparsely-populated areas. You might want to change the backstory to focus on chemical warfare (chemical toxins won't spread themselves - usually - but once in the ground, they can be devilishly difficult to remove) - or simply say that the plants died and with the world falling into chaos, they never did figure out exactly why. 

As you mentioned, there doesn't appear to be a lot of information about this online, but it does seem some gemstones are associated with different metal ores. Quartz is associated with gold and a few other types of veins, and forms a variety of gemstones (amethyst, citrine, rose quartz, etc.), but I don't know if quartz veins actually contain any useful gemstone-quality pieces. (Quartz vein mining appears to be less common today, but was a big deal in the past; most of the well-known gold rushes went after quartz veins.) I'm told beryl (emerald, aquamarine, heliodor) is associated with tin ores. Aside from this, it's worth noting that some metal ores can be passably pretty rocks in their own right; precious metal ores wouldn't be used that way since they're more valuable processed, but e.g. hematite (a major iron ore) can be either a glossy black stone, which was valued as a gem in Victorian times, or banded blood red/black. Azurite and malachite are well-known semi-precious gems that are also copper ores. 

As a start, your phylologists could mimic the various strategies pursued by ecologists (in order to get a political influence and preserve biodiversity). Their points of view are very similar : they see diversity as a treasure and uniformization as a threat. They want to protect endangered species, or endangered languages. So, the first part of the strategy is to convince people that their fight is meaningful. Why uniformization would be an issue for the world ? You must spot the danger, and name the ennemy. Let's imagine that they see global standardisation as a dangerous process, and they think that actual leaders of the world want to make everybody similar, to make them easier to control. People with different languages see the world differently, have their own concepts and culture. They have their specific identity ans tastes. But many world leaders want everybody to follow the same track, buy the same things, vote the same way. Some of them want to destroy local languages, to weaken minorities and strenghten their own power. The phylologists may want to overthrow those leaders, and promote diversity. They should convince people that they face a risk, and that uniformization will have a negative impact on their life. They need to educate them about cultural differences, and the richness of languages. Because those who don't know much about others, don't care. With ecology, you must think local AND global. If you take only the local aspect or only the global aspect, it won't work. I think that the language issue is similar. They must fight at a local level and global level. So they should find a way to unite the various minorities that are fighting for their identity (and trying to preserve their language) to become a political force, and count on the international scene. Once they are strong enough, then can act as a lobby and promote their program to protect language diversity. But they will face strong opponants, so it's not going to be an easy fight, and will take decades. They will have to be patient. A more brutal strategy, like using the force to reach their goal, might not lead anywhere. Their only chance is to think on the long term, and bet on the next generations, to create a new world order. 

It's big, but it's hardly on the scale of obliterating an island. Of course, 1 kT is not all that big as nukes go, but you begin to see the problem. Physically destroying the island would require an immense amount of explosives, whether conventional or nuclear. Digging it out by hand or machinery runs into a similar problem. If your island is 11km x 4km and you need to remove an average of 5m of material, that's 220 million cubic meters of stuff (mostly sand and dirt, but it could have some bedrock if you're unlucky). Compare that to the Sailor Hat detonations, which dug out around 30,000 cubic meters each. If it's near shore and you want to reshape the map to demonstrate your power, there's always Alexander the Great's solution: make it a peninsula. Here's an aerial photo of the city of Tyre, ca. 1934: 

Prior to Alexander's siege in 332 BC, that sandy area on the right didn't exist; Tyre was an island. Alexander's forces built a land bridge out to reach it, and the rest of the peninsula was gradually built up by deposition. 

Completely abolishing currency as a concept is probably not going to happen; it's just too convenient. However, you do have the benefit that there are some drawbacks to the two major contenders here. The illegality-on-its-face is probably a big deterrent to your drug becoming a de facto currency. Non-users might think it's too much of a risk for a commodity they don't even want; even users might think it puts too much of their money reserve at risk, or might worry that having too much cash would bump up the charges if they're caught (e.g. from possession to possession with intent). On the other hand, avoiding them all using cash would seem pretty simple: if not many people have legitimate, cash-paying jobs, compared to the number of people who (legally or illegally) buy outside goods with cash, there simply won't be enough of it for the economy to run smoothly. One interesting direction you might go is towards social stratification (even in the slums - as Pratchett once wrote, the rungs on the ladder might be close together here, but people watch them very carefully). Having cash on hand is a sign that you have a good job, probably stable; spending cash on outside goods is a sign of luxury. Conversely, since the drug is looked down upon and isn't universally used, using it for trade is low-class and "vulgar". So you have two coexisting economies - one in cash, the other in drugs - and the proportion to which one belongs to one or the other is a major sign of social status. Because of that, you have a lot of essentially artificial restrictions on who pays whom in what. Well-to-do (relatively speaking) people might not want to deal in drugs on principle, or because it would make them look low-class, and the lowest of the low might not deal in cash because they can't trade it easily or it would be seen as selling out. To make this work at the boundary, people barter things with a neutral connotation (e.g., if I'm a doctor, I prefer cash, but I'll take a chicken over being seen getting paid in drugs). The trick for you, then, is setting the story in that border, where people sometimes deal in cash and sometimes deal in drugs, but often deal in barter - and have to navigate vendors, brokers, contacts, etc. who want to get paid in one or the other. Both money and drugs are stable(-ish) currencies, but they can be conveniently useless whenever the plot demands. (Admittedly, this does rely on their being a social stigma for the drug, probably in favor of something else - e.g. "only low-class people smoke, we drink beer instead". If that doesn't work for your story, you might need another reason for it to be seen as disreputable as a currency.) 

Decrease the brightness of your moon, and make it invisible during the day. By making the surface of your moon darker, you reduce its brightness due to light reflection (albedo). Cover it with black lava fields or dark stones. If it's dark enough, your moon should be only visible during the night or twilight. You can give your moon the same apparent magnitude of objects that appears after sunset. On Earth, the twilight sky allows the visibility of objects with magnitudes from -2.5 to +4.5. -2.5 is also the apparent magnitude of the new moon, invisible during the day. Even if we can't see it, the new moon is not totally dark as it reflects the earthlight. But it's hidden by our atmosphere brightness. An object of similar magnitude would be visible during the night. According to Handbook of practical Astronomy (p. 402, 403), during a total lunar eclipse, the Moon's magnitude is -2 when the sky is clear, and totality is rather light and still visible. Your full moon should look similar in brightness, except that it won't have the red/brownish color of our Moon (due to the eclipse), it should be dark grey instead. So, we can imagine having a black moon with a very low albedo, that reflects a very small percentage of sunlight, and that should be invisible from sunrise to sunset. Of course during the night it won't be as bright as our own moon, and will look more "greyish" than white... But if it's as big as our moon it should be easy to spot it anyway. With such a moon, your nights should be quite dark, even during the full moon. You may not see your own shadow. The behaviour of nocturn animals/bugs should also be different, because the moonlight won't be as bright as what we know on Earth. 

The immediate problem wouldn't be the radiation or blasts - I wouldn't go near, say, Cheyenne Mountain but for the majority of the planet's surface, that wouldn't be your issue. Your issue would be the enormous quantities of dust and dirt kicked up by the detonations, along with particulate matter from the explosions themselves. Very large volcanic eruptions have been known to cause volcanic winters over large parts of the globe, with cooling, sharply reduced crop yields, and the like. For most eruptions, these effects mostly pass after a year or so (or at least I've not seen reference to one that was multiple years long) but my impression is that nuclear winter can last quite a bit longer, and could easily be a mass-extinction event on its own. 

Perhaps they aren't actually identical? Say that 99 out of every 100 unicorns are unicornus simplicus, which as everyone knows has low-quality horns that won't hold magic worth a darn, whereas the 100th is unicornus incrediblus that is worth its weight in gold. But of course there are no outward signs of which is which (except perhaps to the trained eye), certainly none you could discern in the middle of combat. (If anyone asks why the unicorns are outwardly identical - clearly it's an adaptation of the rare unicorn to blend in so it's not killed by marauding adventurers. Indeed, overharvesting by previous generations might be why they're rare.) I don't know offhand any large real-world animal species that share ranges with related species to that extent, but it happens a lot with birds (note how detailed birdwatching guides have to be, compared with recognizing say a deer) and plants.