What is practical is up to you, but I can give you some information to help you make up your mind. Typical rental prices for a satellite phone are $15-$30 a week (According to this site). The cost per minute is in addition to this cost, and is around $0.50-$3 USD a minute. Weight is usually around 400 grams, or just under a pound. Battery life is pretty much comparable to a smart phone, 3 hours talking and 24 on standby. 

First of all, you are more likely to hear the rattlesnake than see it. They tend to camouflage themselves quite well, and unless you are paying very close attention, they are easy to miss. I have actually stepped less than a foot from one and not noticed it until I was passing it (It was coiled in a circle, hence my lack of rattle snake bites...) If you hear a rattle from a rattle snake, STOP. Look around, try to see where it is coming from. If it is coming from the trail in front of you, or near the trail, then find the spot. Walk around the area as best you can, giving the snake at least a 10 foot range if you can do it, or as much as you can if 10 feet isn't available, but do not get closer than 5 feet. The best way to do this is for one of the hiking party to act as a spotter, keeping an eye on the snake while the others pass, then someone who has passed the snake keeps an eye out for it while the spotter passes the snake. In the event of a snake bite, treat it for the puncture wound, and then seek prompt medical attention. Your hike is probably over at this point in time, so turn back to your vehicle. 

Skim-read the books again, answer some of the review questions again. This will remind you of the theory. However, books are no substitute for getting wet and running through the skills. All dive shops / schools will be glad to take you on a refresher dive in a closed environment to go over the skills - rigging the kit, checking the kit, buoyancy, trim, reg out, mask off, descents, ascents, etc. It's in the interest of the shop/school to make sure that you're feeling competent again. The word of warning is that it's said you loose a "level" every year. The problem is the mind (ego?) remembers how one used to do things and doesn't adjust to the new reality. So take it gently for the first few dives whilst you remember just how great diving is and reflect on why you left it so long! Diving's like riding a bike; it comes back pretty quickly. Have fun. 

You should be able to breathe out through your nose and have no effect on the seating of the mask -- that's what rebreather divers do all the time. If you can't do this, it has to be a problem of fit. Masks are extremely personal bits of kit that need to be tried on before you buy. Typically the test is to take the strap off (or put it around the front of the mask), press it to your face and slightly breathe in through your nose. It should stay in place. If it doesn't stay in place, use another mask, one that fits your face shape better. The strap is there to lightly hold the mask in place; if it's too tight it can distort the mask surround and make it harder to seat. 

Part of the reason that people don't die from snake bites is because they take the proper precautions. And while the bite of an adder isn't likely to kill you, it could make your return trip much more difficult. One thing you do not want to do is to try and suck the venom out, or try and wrap a tourniquet around it. These will stop your bodies native ability to get rid of the venom. Treat the bite to prevent it from bleeding, and then go as quickly as possible to a qualified medical facility, without straining too much. If you are more than 24 hours away from help, then you might want to simply get to a good area to camp, and relax during that time. But try and find an area where you can request medical help if needed (IE, has cell phone reception). You probably have a few hours of hiking before too many symptoms would appear. (Source: Treatment of Bites by Adders and exotic venomous snakes) 

There is really two different answers, one if you are dealing with glacial ice, and one for seasonal snow. For seasonal snow and for solids, your best bet is to bring biodegradable bags, pack your waste in as deep a hole as you can manage, and you should be fine. By deep, I mean a few feet at least, or better yet, a deep natural crevasse. For liquids, pick a designated area to dispose of your waste properly, trying to minimize the space. Try to pick an area that someone isn't likely to try and make water from the snow, especially if in a popular back country area... Bushes, trees, etc should be fine if you can manage. For glacial areas, use the same guidelines as above, but in general, you might consider packing it out. Denali in particular, and many other mountains, require packing out solid human waste, and liquid waste in many areas. 

The urge to breathe is driven by the CO2 content which is still being produced at the same rate at depth as on the surface. We metabolise the oxygen and produce CO2 as a by-product. In fact at the surface we breathe out surplus oxygen, hence one can perform mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. 'Skip breathing', i.e. deliberately breathing slowly is really not a good idea as you will build up your CO2 content which can be extremely bad giving you a headache or worse. One of the absolute worse things that can happen underwater is a CO2 hit -- called hypercapnia -- which can be fatal. You'll be uncontrollably gasping for breath consuming an enormous quantities of gas and could even spit out your regulator. Divers I know who have experienced this never want to experience it again. Rebreather divers do a lot of training for this eventuality; it's much less common on open circuit. Alas the high partial oxygen pressure at depth (up to 1.4 on the bottom and 1.6 when decompressing -- the air we're breathing now is 0.21) makes little or no difference to the amount of CO2 we produce and expel from our lungs when we breathe out. One's breathing rate does tend to reduce when hanging at a decompression stop. The deeper and longer one goes, the longer these stops will be and they can easily exceed an hour. The breathing rate goes down simply because you're doing nothing; laying flat in the water for 30 mins watching your computer's timer appear to slow down. Good meditation practice - and no mobile phone signal. The other thing that affects our breathing rate is stress. Novice divers tend to breathe more than experienced divers. But there's nothing like an instructor testing you and "breaking" your equipment to increase your SAC (Surface Air Consumption) rate. Or diving in a shark cage: happy happy, then when the shark appears... where's all that gas gone! 

I often found myself following these steps from Lofty Wiseman's Survival Guide, even though I was not in a life or death emergency situation, and never had any problems. It allows you to safe check all vegetation. These methods have proved themselves on several occasions during my time in the army. I am not encouraging anyone to use this method in a non-survival situation, unless he/she feels comfortable doing so. Always adopt the following procedure when trying out potential new food plants, only one person testing each plant. NEVER take short cuts – complete the whole test. If in any doubt, do NOT eat the plant. Should stomach trouble occur, relief can be gained by drinking plenty of hot water; do not eat again until the pain goes. If it is severe, induce vomiting by tickling the back of the throat. Charcoal is a useful emetic. Swallowing some will induce vomiting and the charcoal may also absorb the poison. White wood ash mixed to a paste with water will relieve stomach pain. INSPECT Try to identify. Ensure that a plant is not slimy or worm-eaten. It will be past its best, with little food value other than the grubs or worms upon it. Some plants, when old, change their chemical content and become toxic. SMELL Crush a small portion. If it smells of bitter almonds or peaches – DISCARD. SKIN IRRITATION Rub slightly or squeeze some of the juice onto a tender part of the body (under the arm between armpit and elbow, for instance). If any discomfort, rash or swelling is experienced – DISCARD, reject in future. LIPS, TONGUE, MOUTH If there is no irritation to the skin proceed in the following stages, going on to the next only after waiting five seconds to check that there is no unpleasant reaction: • Place a small portion on the lips • Place a small portion in the corner of the mouth • Place a small portion on the tip of the tongue • Place a small portion under the tongue • Chew a small portion In all cases: if any discomfort is felt, such as soreness to the throat, irritation or stinging or burning sensations – DISCARD, reject in future. SWALLOW Swallow a small amount and WAIT FIVE HOURS. During this period eat or drink NOTHING else. EATING If no reactions such as soreness to the mouth, repeated belching, nausea, sickness, stomach pains, griping pains in the lower abdomen or any other distressing symptoms are experienced, you may consider the plant safe. WARNING POISON! There are two fairly common poisons in the plant world, but both are easily detectable: Hydrocyanic acid (Prussic acid) has the taste and smell of bitter almonds or peaches. Most notable example is the cherry laurel (Prunus laurocerasus), with laurel-like leaves, which contains a closely allied poison. Crush the leaves and remember the smell. Discard ALL plants with this smell. Oxalic acid, whose salts (oxalates) occur naturally in some plants, for instance wild rhubarb (mostly in the leaves) and wood sorrel (Oxalis acetosella). Recognizable by the sharp, dry, stinging or burning sensation when applied to the skin or tongue. Discard ALL plants which fit this description. • AVOID any plant with a milky sap, unless positively identified as safe (such as dandelion). • AVOID red plants, unless positively identified, especially in the tropics. The red-streaked stalk of wild rhubarb is edible but its leaf is poisonous. Hemlock has reddish-purple splotches on its stem. • AVOID fruit which is divided into five segments, unless positively identified as a safe species. • AVOID grasses and other plants with tiny barbs on their stems and leaves. With a magnifying glass you can see them as hooks rather than straight hairs and they will irritate the mouth and digestive tract. • AVOID old or wilted leaves. The leaves of some trees and plants develop deadly hydrocyanic acid when they wilt – including blackberry, raspberry, cherry, peach and plum. All may be safely eaten when young, fresh and dry. • AVOID mature bracken (Pteridium aguilinium). It destroys vitamin B in the body, setting up a peculiar blood condition which can cause death.