What was the dominant religion of the Arabic people when Prophet Muhammed started the Islamic religion? 

What was the official policy of the USA on colonisation? How well did America follow it officially and non-officially? What were the reasons behind it? 

"Zones of influence" were primarily a means of dividing land between two or more colonising nations. This enabled these nations to avoid armed conflict while acquiring more colonies. China and Afghanistan are other examples of lands divided into zones of influence. Carving a place "Zones of influence" doesn't seem to be that different from colonisation, and probably carried the same benefits that makes colonisation desirable - Access to cheap raw material, market for produced goods, population for military enlisting etc. 

In many American sci-fi/fantasy fictional works, there's a trope about Nazis creating/attempting to create/use supernatural weapons/monsters (examples Hellboy movie, Indian Jones movie etc.) What, if any, is the historical basis of this trope? 

Gender ratio - The gender ratio at birth is about 1:1. If there is no large scale deaths in males, then polygamy would essentially leave many men wifeless. Religion - Christianity bans adultery and polygamy. Given the dominance of Christian Europe in the last few centuries, this has probably had a lot of influence. Human Nature - Nobody wants to share. polygamy can probably lead to uncomfortable living conditions. Economics - Supporting a wife and children is expensive. Supporting more than one wife and extra children would probably be out of the reach of majority of population in ancient times. 

Most historians agree Mao was quite crazy, almost as crazy as Stalin, but it remains the general consensus that development of nuclear weapons and nuclear threats were only part of the "MAD game", so that China got its way diplomatically/politically. The most prominent events, as mentioned above, are the Taiwan Strait Crises. Mao wanted Taiwan because (1) he wanted to unite China under his power (2) Taiwan received aid from the USA so there was a constant threat of attack in the far south (3) Taiwan was strategically important as she was key to sea lanes linking Malaya to Japan, which supplied the Japanese with tin and rubber for industry (she was a model democratic society, a state all capitalist countries could point to and say, see, capitalism works. Thwarting its progression would be seen as Communist victory ideologically.) According to Mao's China and the Cold War by Jian Chen, which in turn is according to Gromyko's accounts of what happened, despite PRC official accounts condemning them as false (Jian believes Gromyko): In discussions with Gromyko while shelling the islands of Quemoy and Matsu, Zhou Enlai told him "Inflicting blows on the offshore islands, the PRC has take all the hard blows, including atomic bombs and the destruction of its cities." Also, although he advised that the USSR should not take part in the Sino-American war "even if the Americans used tactical nuclear weapons," he said if Washington risked broadening the war by resorting to using "larger nuclear weapons", the USSR should "respond with a nuclear counterstrike." Mao then stated that should the Americans invade the Chinese mainland or use nuclear weapons, the PLA would retreat, drawing American ground forces into China's interior, after which Moscow should use "all means at its disposal [i.e. Soviet nuclear weapons] to destroy them." Furthermore, Jian sees Mao had "unique" and "unconventional" views towards the nuclear issue, repeatedly claiming that "even if the American atom bombs were so powerful that, when all dropped on China, that they would make a hole right through the earth, or even blow it up, that would hardly mean anything to the universe as a whole, although it might be a major even for the solar system". He also described nuclear weapons as nothing but a "paper tiger" - this may refer to Eisenhower's policies of massive retaliation and brinkmanship that threatened war without genuine belief in those threats, but it is more likely a reflection of Mao's indifference to its power and effect. Nonetheless, the CCP leadership retained caution in approaching the US military, insisting that the PLA "concentrate the strength of their artillery force and navy to bombard Jiang's vessels ... However, no strike should be aimed at American ships" and unreasonably demanded that they in the event that American and GMD ships were mixed together, only GMD ships could be fired at. 

Until Japan made a strategically foolish decision to attack Hawaii which invited the US into the war, Japan was winning the war in China (Manchuria) and other South East Asian countries. The SU was very weak in the east at the time without much naval power. There was no reason for Japan to be afraid of Soviet invasion. Japan defeated Russia in Russo-Japanese war in 1905 and the main reasons for Russia's defeat were weak Russian naval power and Russia's internal political situation. Japan had confidence in its military power in World War II, too much of which led to its defeat and surrender. 

Strong European countries such as Great Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Russia and other countries were expanding rapidly in the uncharted territories such as Africa, India, China, the Philippines, and Japan because they need to increase their trade and plunder natural resources from weak nations. The US was a late comer to this ever-intensifying competition and East Asian countries (China, the Philippines and Japan) were the only territories left for the US to compete with other European nations. China, through two Opium Wars, was weakened significantly and had to accept Western countries' power and influence, which led to the collapse of the Qing Dynasty. 

Because they needed Japan as a trading base and gateway to China, India and other countries such as the Philippines. Japan was one of the few countries that have not been technically colonized in East Asia. Its strategic importance was too great to be overlooked by any country, especially the U.S. 

Reading my IB textbooks, they say Brezhnev's rule was an "era of stagnation". However they are only able to cite evidence of economic stagnation when claiming that would require "stagnation" in multiple aspects, such as political, economic, social, military, ideological... From what I read, "stagnation" should refer to a lack of development in itself, and not a backwardness relative to other countries such as the USA, Japan ...? 

Edit: Detailed explanation given in this book The First Domino: International Decision Making During the Hungarian Crisis from page 131 onwards. 

I am aware that the Japan quotes are less relevant to the question, but from the few books I could find that mentioned Jesuits at all, this is the best I could find so far. However, if they are insufficient or unsatisfactory, I am happy to find more sources. 

As user5751924 said, many differences arose due to differences in reception by Chinese/Japanese authorities – which also changed in the centuries, causing change within those countries. According to Marius B. Jansen, in The Making of Modern Japan, "Unlike in China, where the Jesuits chose to become intellectuals and scholars in order to penetrate the class of literati, in Japan they could concentrate on their religious tasks, as the principal intellectual class, that of Buddhist clergy, was in any case closed to them." Here, Jansen is referring to the 16th century, but it also applies for the next couple of centuries. To elaborate... On China, from Immanuel C.Y. Hsü's The Rise of Modern China. About Italian Jesuit priests Michele Ruggieri and Matteo Ricci who settled in Chaoching, Kwangtung, in 1583: