James B. Conant, a higher education reformer and president of Harvard University from 1933-1953, adopted the Scholastic Aptitude Test (now known simply as the SAT) for Harvard admissions in 1941. Harvard was one of the last selective Northeastern schools to drop its separate entrance examination— though it had used the SAT for evaluating scholarship applications since 1934, soon after Conant was installed. An interesting read on changes in the college admissions process in the United States is The Scholastic Aptitude Test: Its Development and Introduction, 1900-1948, David R. Hubin's 1988 doctoral dissertation, which he has made freely available online. It describes the origin and criticisms of entrance exams, the post-World War I obsession with IQ, and manpower issues affecting grading and post-GI Bill admissions procesing among factors contributing to the rise of the SAT. 

Lansdowne's iconic painting of Washington in civilian dress was not produced until 1796. There are some sources which say he donned his Revolutionary War uniform when reviewing troops suppressing the Whiskey Rebellion, which Joseph Ellis writes is the last time a sitting U.S. president commanded troops in the field. Washington was not charging into battle at the head of the army, however, and I did not turn up any authoritative sources which mention his dress. 

No. Many volumes have been written about Galileo and the Church, and so an answer on this site cannot do the topic justice. But despite the gleeful reporting by critics of the Catholic Church, the 1992 report was not about astronomy. It was an admission that Galileo had been mistreated and wrongfully convicted. Soon after his election in 1979, Pope John Paul II appointed a commission to review Galileo's trials. Thirteen years later, as reported in the Los Angeles Times: 

I see two different questions: why are there so few promotions at the top, and why is the attrition rate so much higher at the top? To the first, I would blame a top-heavy top-heavy force, i.e. there is a very high ratio of flag officers to troops, particularly at the very top. Promotions to general staff tend to come with appointment to commands, which are political, and few and far between to begin with. "Star creep" or "rank inflation" mean that a large number of generals and admirals are occupying the top of the heap, leaving little room for advancement. After all, why would you leave? It's an achievement and responsibility which has been compared to that of a Fortune 500 senior executive, and though your compensation will be at least an order of magnitude smaller, it's not a bad lifestyle. Gates' 2010 report is not the first time the brass creep has been raised, nor is the U.S. the only country where it is a concern, but it is a significant factor, particularly since the end of the Cold War as troop numbers and the number of commands have been shrinking. To the second I attribute a variety of factors, all of which ultimately point to opportunity cost. As the chances for a promotion shrink, the burdens of military life become progressively more onerous compared to opportunities in the civilian world. Consider that 

There are Army regulations governing when promotions are awarded to whom. For example, there is a minimum Time In Grade (TIG) of several years, depending on current rank. There are educational guidelines as well; for example, to be promoted to captain, a first lieutenant must have earned a bachelor's degree or its equivalent, and to be promoted to major, he or she must have advanced education. Not every soldier will meet such requirements; a mediocre physical fitness report can get you passed over. Battlefield promotions of the sort seen in films are exceptionally rare. There is a service-wide promotions board which reviews all officers recommended for a promotion. But while promotions at lower ranks are almost perfunctory, candidates at higher ranks receive much greater scrutiny. The regulation even states that majors or lieutenant colonels passed over twice for promotion are retained essentially at the pleasure of the Army, and would otherwise be directed to retirement or discharge. Moreover, the board is working for the good of the Army, not necessarily your career, and your timing could be off. Only 36% of eligible lieutenant colonels were promoted to colonel in 2011, whereas 91% were five years previously. Timing is influential in another way. To become an officer in the U.S. armed forces, one is either graduating from the academy or an ROTC program or is completing an officer training program probably following some time as an enlistee. This will entail at least a 3-5 year active duty service obligation, and a concurrent 8-year total military service obligation, which can be even longer in effect in certain occupations (e.g. for example, naval aviators' commitment clock starts running only after they complete their flight training). So if the median O-1 (Army second lieutenant, Navy ensign) is 22 or 23, a large percentage of them will make it to O-2 (Army first lieutenant, Navy lieutenant junior grade) if only because they are required to remain in the military for at least as long as it takes to make that grade, and the requirements for that grade are relatively low. From there it isn't much time to O-3 (Army captain, Navy lieutenant, etc.). But by age 30, many will have tired of military life— the bureaucracy, the moving, the danger of getting blown up— and many will leave, particularly those with families. Those who remain after that have a strong incentive to serve out their 20 years, which would mean they have earned a reduced military pension after retirement, partly securing their financial future. At this point, those with perfect service records and a strong desire to remain in service will stick around and wait to be called up, but many more will find the compensation and lifestyle of a private sector job more appealing; you have two decades to figure out how to apply the contacts and management skills you have acquired in a new career as a civilian. 

Washington conspicuously respected the subordination of military to civilian power as a general, and at his inaugurations and other official appearances as president, always wore civilian clothes. Still, that does not mean he never donned his uniform again. At least one surviving uniform is in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, and to quote liberally: 

The first transatlantic crossing by airship was made by the British R34 in July 1919, from East Fortune, Scotland to Mineola, New York, a journey which took 108 hours and 12 minutes. The R34 had not originally been designed as a passenger carrier, however, so this should not be seen as typical. The return journey to Norwich took 75 hours. Regular passsenger service began with the Graf Zeppelin, which made its first crossing from Friedrichshafen to Lakehurst (New Jersey) in 1928. According to Airships.net, the journey took 111 hours and 44 minutes, but that is attributable to storms, damage, and a circuitous routing. It required 71 hours and 49 minutes for the return trip. Another British airship, the R100, made the journey from Cardington, Bedfordshire to Montreal in 1930 in 78 hours, 49 minutes. The return took 57:56. Graf Zeppelin's infamous sister, the Hindenburg, seems to have made better times. In 1936, its longest westbound trip from Frankfurt to Lakehurst was August 17–19, taking 90 hr 10 min, and the shortest came June 30-July 2 at 52:49. Eastbound, the longest journey was October 1–3 at 58:02, while the shortest was August 10–11 at 43:02. Remember, the speed of an air journey is determined not only by the theoretical speed of the aircraft, but also by winds, as well as varying flight paths taken due to weather conditions. That is a big reason why eastbound journeys even in jet aircraft tend to take less time than their westbound counterparts.