Background checks can take a long time. A "contingency" like that makes the "offer" very open ended. I would consider the offer not an offer, but more an "expression of interest" until it becomes real. The employer should have told you how long it would take and you are certainly justified in calling him to find out what the timeline is. Until the offer becomes real, you should not "accept" it or stop looking for other positions. At our company we complete background checks BEFORE making a written offer. 

I am hoping to work with a good team to write software modules that will help the company be successful with their new products. Just tie your personal goals to the company goals so they match. Your goal is help the company meet their goals. 

I don't get this. You are acting based on a phone call? In the real world, at least the white collar world, offers are WRITTEN and they have an explicit time window. If, by some bizarre omission, there is no time window in the written offer, then the time window is legally infinity. Personally, I would never work for somebody who was so stupid as not to define a time window in their offer letter, but if you want to do so, and the guy calls you up and says "Well, are you accepting or not." just say "I am still thinking about it". After all you have an infinity amount of time to think about so why not? 

In general, you should always go back at least 10 years (if you have that much experience) and never leave any gaps. Gaps in the last 10 years are a huge red flag for me. Also, if I even suspect a gap is being covered up I will personally call up the company (or school) to make sure the person was there the whole time. Blatant exaggerations are a non-starter for me; I will just assume they are a liar and I don't hire liars, no matter how good they are at programming. If I can't verify something, like it is a foreign company, I will assume the worst. In general, anything from a country other than Canada, western Europe, Hong Kong or Australia/New Zealand I will regard with suspicion. If the person has been working for 15 years and the resume goes back 10, I will want a general sense for what they were doing in the 5 years missing. In the army? In prison? Dealing drugs? Living in the parent's basement playing Counter Strike? What was the guy doing for 5 years? 

Make an estimate. How would they know any different? Whatever answer seems reasonable to you, that is your answer. The bigger issue here is that if you do not know the answers to these questions, then it would call into question your ability to answer similar questions along the same lines. Sure, you can guestimate your way past a total size of project question, but once you start guestimating your way through the whole interview, the other party may start to get the idea you have no idea what you are doing. 

The recruiter doesn't know. They can give figures, but such values will be no better than what you can infer from internet sources. A company will offer differ amounts depending on the person and their experience, and different companies will offer widely different amounts based on various factors, including how flush the company is. In some companies there will be a pay scale which is fixed because if they pay different people different amounts for the same type of position it will cause problems. Such companies will generally state the standard amount for the position type. You will not find out what that is exactly until they make the offer. 

If it is a large company with a lot of room for advancement, then maybe consider it, otherwise, the main alternative is to vote with your feet. Unfortunately, it is difficult to solve underpayment problems. Even if you twist their arm, the additional amount they will offer you will be pretty small and once you do that you get perceived as a "difficult" employee. Think about it: if you demand more money when they promote you, what effect do you think that will have on their willingness to promote you again? 

What it is about is HR justifying their existence. To HR departments any kind of "confrontation" between employees is an excuse to have 15 different meetings and write up half a dozen reports. They have probably held 3 meetings already to discuss the matter just among themselves. Unfortunately, you are trapped in this bullshit now, so you have to deal with it. The only thing you can do at this point (if you want to stay at the company) is to be polite and perfunctory. If you are clever, you can try jokes designed to draw ridicule for having 12 person meetings over such a petty event. Nobody cares what HR thinks, so whatever happens in the meetings is more or less irrelevant. When you answer, it is advisable to stick to the facts. The HR clowns will try to turn it into a therapy session with questions like "How do you feel towards Melissa?" or "Are you angry about what happened?" and other such psychological questions. Don't fall for the trap. If they ask you a subjective or psychological question, just say "Let's stick to factual questions." The more concise and monosyllabic your answers are, the faster it will be over with. How to Deal with Political Attacks This accusation against you is essentially a political attack, because it has nothing to do with work performance and involves other people, ie, a political situation. In all honesty, defending yourself in this case is pointless, because, as I said, the people who matter (your boss and his/her boss) could care less what HR thinks. They are not going to fire a valuable worker because some loser in a different part of the company made some petty complaint. However, in the event you need to defend yourself against a political attack in the future which might be more serious is to use what is called an ad hominum argument. This is a counter-attack on the reputation of the person who accused you. Never try to argue the facts in a political situation. Facts are like when-did-you-stop-beating-your-wife questions. You can only lose arguing facts. Arguing facts makes you look guilty. So, for example, in this case, your accuser will say that you "shouted" at her. An error would be to argue and say "I did not shout at her." You look guilty if you do this. The right strategy is to counterattack. Say instead, "Melissa is a liar. She dresses poorly, is addicted to cigarettes and has an absenteeism problem which is consistent with her lying and trouble making." Melissa's worthless lies do not deserve the dignity of a response, so it is a mistake to stoop to the level of answering them. 

For IT/system administration it matters less. In that area certifications are generally sufficient. For anyone writing software formal training makes a big difference in the kind of code you will be capable of writing and your knowledge and that is reflected in hiring practices. Degrees are not just pieces of paper. I spent years in school studying week after week, month after month, complicated computer science theory, doing problem sets and writing complex theses and papers under the direction of professors who were leading experts in their field. You cannot just watch a few YouTube videos and get the same knowledge. Degrees represent serious levels of theoretical knowledge and preparation that represent years of effort and study. If you want to advance in computer science and do higher level work, formal education is extremely important. 

Most of jobs are a lot less glamorous in reality than they are depicted in job descriptions. Is anybody at the company actually "travelling abroad" at all? BTW travelling on company business is not like taking a vacation. Usually all of the time is spent doing business stuff. Also, usually "clients" are not located in tourist destinations. Ever been to Manchester, England? Not a pretty place. Even in places like London and Paris, the interesting parts of those cities are like 1% of the total and unless you are working for Goldman Sachs the odds that you will be going anywhere near a place you would want to stroll around are about 0%. Anyway, you could look for a different job, but in all honesty you will run into the same kinds of bait and switch problems at any company. 

I stopped reading the "one month notice" part. I assume this is in the United States. You know if they fire you, you know how much "notice" you get? 15 minutes to clear out your desk escorted by security guards. You owe your company ZERO notice. That's what "employment at will" means. As for the part-time work, I think you are way beyond the point where you should be seeking to work more for this company. You need to leave and focus on your next position. 

You are absolutely right. I actually never give code-this-up problems anymore in interviews because it is so artificial and does not really tell me much about the person's ability. Writing code in 5 minutes on a white board in a stressful situation is not really relevant to job performance in my experience. Nonetheless, many interviewers will ask you to code on your feet. If you are not experienced at doing this or doing high-speed coding, like in a coding contest, it can be a real show stopper. I have seen candidates write and then stare at that one line of code for 15 minutes. There is no easy way around this. In general, probably 90% of such questions involve a list iteration, comparison or modification. For example, let's imagine the task was to intersect two lists (determine the unique set of members common to both lists). To do this you sort the lists and then walk through them using a certain logic. I recommend you do this one example until you have it down cold on a white board. That will be about all you can do to prepare for an actual test in an interview. So, for example, in the algorithm I describe above, if the input is two lists: { b, d, e, e, f, g, a, c, e, q, r, e, d } and { i, a, f, f, k, p, e, z, e, t } then your program should output { a, e, f }. If you can correctly draw the algorithm to do this on a whiteboard, you will be on the right track. 

There is no such thing as a "productive meeting". Trying to induce more meetings will not lead to greater "recognition" for you, unless you want more recognition as a talker. Trust me, no matter how braindead you think your boss(es) is/are, they know your value to them. Even the most retarded boss in the world has a rough idea of what everybody is doing and whether they ought to be fired or not. The mistake you are making is thinking that what your boss says to you reflects what he thinks about you. Your second mistake is thinking that the quality of your work or your value is related to when you are promoted or what you are paid. There is only a very loose connection between those things. Whether you get promoted or not has very little to do with how good a programmer you are or how much work you do. For example, if they have no money, they are not going to pay you more, even if you are frickin Linus Torvalds. Conversely, if they get a new $50 million contract, guess what, you will get a lot of money, even if you are biggest loser in the company. Your third mistake is to think something you might say will somehow change the way your boss deals with you and your co-workers. Just reading that sentence makes me laugh. Your best action is to shut up and focus on your skills. If, by some miracle, you actually become a good programmer (something I doubt will happen, given your interest in "meetings"), you will magically and automatically be transported to a lucrative and satisfying position (like the one I have). 

Unless you have a contract, your employer does not have to "allow you to work". If they are "not paying" consider yourself fired as of right now. Sometimes if an employee "gives notice", the company will simply fire them. That is what has happened to you. 

Just to make this crystal clear for you... Let's imagine you have some nuanced 30-minute conversation about how you handled a conflict with a coworker. Do you really think the HR rep is going to write "Candidate seems to be masterful and diplomatic at dealing with difficult coworkers." No, of course not; the rep is going to write, "Candidate told me he got into a fight with a coworker at his last job." You just got voted off the island. All the delicate subtleties you are describing to the HR rep will get distilled down to one basic fact: you had a fight. When an HR rep has 10 candidates that all have identical credentials for 1 position, what do you think they are going to do? Look for reasons to eliminate people. 

Sounds like the architect has way too much time on his hands. When people make worthless, editorial comments about my code I ignore them or perhaps respond with a perfunctory: "Thanks for the great ideas!", then delete their email. I suggest you do the same. Life is too short to worry about stuff that is non-productive like that.