No, most knowledge will not be on the net, and is unlikely to ever be so. What is available is information. For information to become knowledge it has to be synthesed in the understanding; and only human beings, that is people can understand. We are far from articulating understanding in automatic forms i.e AI - although no doubt simulations of such will be helpful, and in future will be indispensible. Scientific knowledge is known & understood by scientists. Knowing that mass is energy is a fact, and knowing that fact, or additionally many other facts adds up to a great deal of information but very little actual knowledge. This kind of ostentatious display of fact-mongering is something that the net is very good at. The net also is very good at the classification of information, which is the division of thought & knowledge. In many ways it displays the banality & spectacle of information rather than the profundity of knowledge and insight. 

The 'objective world as we know it' is phenomena; this aligns with Schopenhauers philosophy: Will to Representation is the Noumenal to the Phenomenal. 

First try to locate this essay of Valery in the critical apparatus that is already available; for example, the poetry-foundation suggests that: 

There are two theories of the infinite, the ordinals and the cardinals; neither have a direct application to the world in a concrete manner; as a generalisation of number, they have no referant as say the number two can refer to two plums. Similarly they don't have direct practical applications in physics or engineering. However they do have utility within the body of mathematics for example Gentzen proved the consistency of Peano Arithmetic by allowing induction to a larger ordinal. But here practical means outside of its own domain - we're not using ordinals to solve some problem of ordinals - but an important question in some other area of mathematical logic; this sense of practical is obviously different from the sense above; and also in the sense the question uses. 

The question appears to be about sovereignty, spheres of influence and terra nullius; and these are all topics in political philosophy as it deals with the relations between states and opposed to within a state. So one can think of this as question of international relations or geopolitics. The premise is a ridiculous one,and is unlikely to be used by serious diplomacy on resolving the disputed territorial status of the The Spratly Islands (Chinese name: Nansha islands, Vietnamese Name: Quần đảo Trường Sa, Filipino Name: Kapuluan ng Kalayaan). There are already small military occupations by China, Taiwan, Vietnam, the Phillipines and Malaysia. Additionally the Kingdom of Brunei claims an exclusive economic zone in the south of the island. Early cartography by the chinese show that 

I'm interested in alternate readings of Oedipus Rex, as opposed to the orthodox modern position embedded in Philosophy since Freud. I've noticed, that the wikipedia entry on Sophocles treatment of Oedipus Rex has: 

There is no largest large cardinal axiom as there is no maximal consistent and recursive extension of ZFC. Furthermore though there is a definition of a Reinhardt Cardinal, However that they don't exist: 

I don't think so: Consider a soul (or mind) that has always been disembodied. Suppose he has empirical beliefs. Then how can he with any justification call them empirical? Empirical by its very sense means to have reached some conclusion/understanding by reference to the real world, and this through sense perception; do to call them empirical beliefs is incoherent - the most he can justifiably say, is he has beliefs. But there is a subtlety; say we have a soul that is disembodied now, but for some extended period in the past he was embodied; then he could have conceived some empirical belief - the physical fact of gravity, for instance - and this has remained with him when he 'slipped this mortal coil'. 

Yes, it is inconsistent. Its easy enough to find plenty of counter-examples. It matters that is inconsistent because we use reason to judge truthfulness. Reason isn't limited to science, it is used in history or in art - neither which is scientific. But we also use authority to judge truthfulness. For example, very few people are able to judge the correctness & truth of Fermats Theorem for themselves. For those that are interested one accepts the judgement of those best able to judge: Mathematicians trained in modern number theory. Within Islam, it is the Prophet that is the authority. For Christianity, I assume that it is Jesus. They, according to tradition, have direct knowledge of Allah or God. Allah or God has 'spoken' to them. This, one might say is 'private' language. Private languages do not have the same form that public speech has amongst us. For this to be understood by the rest of it has to be translated into public speech. It is in this translation that inconsistencies appear. A separate argument is that Allah/God is not limited by logic. In the Tractatus, Wittgenstein points out: 

Coining words are important, because concision is important; It's also important in how it suggests other possibilities. A further thought here, is that sometimes an extension of meaning occurs without any corresponding change in the word. For example supervenes was originally used in a specific sense, but is now used almost everywhere in philosophical discourse according to the SEP - which implies a change of meaning by context. The Category Theorist & Topologist Peter May said he spent a week thinking about what to call a new mathematical concept, the monad; whilst this is a term used by Leibniz in his Monadology as a unit of ultimate being, utilising the sense from the greek root monos (lone) and monas (unit); and which goes further back to the Pythagoreans as the Unit of Divinity, in the sense of being indivisible; it is at least lexically similar to monoid and which a monad is (in a certain precise sense). It is also connected with the word monoidal category. This shows that top-flight mathematicians, and by extension philosophers take naming quite seriously. One might say to bestow a name is to bestow importance, and one might view titles as an extension of naming - hence naming ceremonies in primitive & feudal societies were of significance. 

Suppose I decided to draw a picture, and a drew a line like this: 'I', and then another one exactly like this after it, and then another, and so... This would be a tedious picture, but this is like a memoryless drawing - with each line being placed as though it was the first line placed. This is by analogy just like the throw of a fair coin or die, each throw being memoryless. The question is are there other ways of throwing that take into account history? Sure, not with a dice or coin, but certainly with a virtual dice in a virtual world, and an avatar throwing it. And this would be like a man doing a drawing knowing the line he placed before and knowing the line he places after, and the line he is drawing right now. He has before him an aim, and behind him a history; and right now the moment drawn.