To simplify, if you find this account of B-theory knowledge (eternal knowledge or an eternal being behind it), then you probably would simply reject either that any God exists or that the existing God is a B-theory God. 

I cannot speak to the quote directly, but it seems highly amenable to this reading of knowledge or least less amenable to the notion that knowledge is justified true belief. 

Panda mothers usually only care for one twin. Therefore, human mothers should only care for one twin. 

To put it another way, Aristotle operates in a system where wholes are prior conceptually and by necessity to their parts (the boards of wood don't make the ready-made cabinet, they are made to become parts of it). 

Take an idea or approach Present it with a problem case or resolve a built-in tension in the idea or approach. Amend or replace the idea based on two. 

Clearly, any shortening is going to lose granularity. Often we do this because we don't care about the subtleties of someone's argument anymore. For instance, I don't teach part 3 of Kant's Groundwork very often in ethics, because students have a hard enough time with the basic idea of a duty-based ethics founded in reason -- no need to try to explain how he tries to make that glue to the real world. The question in any class is how pedantic we must be to accurately convey an argument vs. how broadly we must sweep to cover a large amount of material in a short amount of time. 

Normally, you are always allowed to add a disjunction to a claim (not to both sides of a claim -- but with biconditionals, there's a way to do so using conditional proofs). 

I'm not sure what the name of the fallacy is but as I suggested in my comment that's not very important. What you're describing is in the family of "non-sequitur" or "red herring" fallacies. Formalized, they have the structure: 

This question is probably better suited for English.se than philosophy.se, but the basic answer is that spiritual has to do with spirit. But what is spirit? One answer could be the Holy Spirit for Christians. I think there's a similar concept available to Jews and Muslims but I don't know as much about that. By extension, there's a meaning of Spirit which refers to our consciousness as a group in Hegel. Apart from the Hegelian version, this is an odd one for an atheist. But Spirit does not always mean obtaining from a religious or heavenly realm. Instead, spiritual can be a synonym for mental. Thus, Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit is translated in one contemporary translation as Phenomenology of Mind. Thus, "spirit" in English sometimes translates Geist in German. In the same way, it can mean experiencing psychological enjoyment at something or merely enjoying it for non-material reasons. Or to give a different language's take 精神的 means "spiritual" but also could be translated as "psychological." (For Hegel, the two turn out to be synonymous since self-consciousness is the ultimate property of the divine for us... but I digress) A further possibility and one that should raise eyebrows coming from an atheist is a panentheist sense of meaning in nature. On such a reading, the spirit is in us and things, and our connection with those things is "spiritual" as this is the unifying element of our diverse matter. 

I have been reading a lot of secondary literature while writing papers and there seem to be two basic interpretive streams regarding this comment. Some authors suggest that this is a future event that has not yet happened (like Jon Stewart in Kierkegaard's Relation to Hegel Reconsidered -- pagination omitted but he uses this not-yet interpretation in at least two arguments there to suggest Hegel is not committed to things Kierkegaard disagrees with). other authors interpret Hegel as believing it was happening in his time (See for instance, this answer by Thomas Pogge, Mark Alznaeur's "Hegel's Theory of Normativity" p. 206-207). My question specifically is if we have any knowledge from Hegel or a nearby source that would definitively settle the question of whether Hegel thought he was living in the era of the owl or not? (I realize this relates in part to left and right Hegelianism, but my question is whether Hegel himself believed he lived in or before this era with some sort of definitive sourcing). 

Monism does not necessarily posit that there is one thing that is the whole so much as everything is really one kind of thing. Just to give one quick example to show it's less crazy than you think in modern thought. Many of todays leading scientists and quite a large percent of philosophers are materialists. Materialists are a type of monist as they believe the only thing that exists is matter (you can try quibbling by pointing out energy, dark matter, etc., but these are ultimately differentiations on the same thing according to the theory). 

I would say you're describing a species of ethical subjectivism (or moral subjectivism). Here, the basic idea is that things are right or wrong as the subject decides them to be. There's several different versions of this (here's some further references if you want to better articulate your version: $URL$ , $URL$ $URL$ One of the main thrusts for ethical subjectivism in modern philosophy was the movements of analytic philosophy and logical positivists in the early 20th century (including G.E. Moore and Bertrand Russell -- see $URL$ Here, the idea is moral sentimentalism, which is an outgrowth of the idea that the world should be viewed in terms of propositions (that reflect a truth-value about something in the world) merged with the belief that moral claims do not have object truth values. A second feature in your view: 

Your intuition depends on believing the threat -- in other words, if we accept that they will kill all 20 if we don't kill 1, then we aren't saving even one life by not killing. Conversely, in the drifter case, we are killing 1 life to save other lives. Conversely, one might suggest not killing in the Jim and the Indians context precisely because one does not believe the promise or believes that one cannot trust the promises of people who are willing to kill. Yes, a Kantian rejects both, but this is because on both universalization formulas and humanity formulas, killing itself is wrong -- since we cannot will the end of our own and all rational life as a universal and we cannot see killing as an action that furthers humanity and treats it as an end. In other words (with the exceptions of war and capital punishment for reasons that involve the nature of justice and the state), Kantian ethics does not allow agents to kill for any reason whatsoever. For Utilitarians, the drifter case is a commonly presented problem. And "Jim and the Indians" is to some extent an improvement on the enticement of the problem for Utilitarians. In Mill's version of Utilitarianism, there's a harm principle and a liberty principle that prevent the distasteful result that we should kill drifters if it would help save the lives of upstanding citizens. The Jim and the Indians version (partially) fixes this by making it so that the sacrifice in question will (probably) die anyway. The feature that causes the parentheticals, however, is the use of the threats and promises. It requires the agent to be willing to accept that the captain will keep his word and actually save the other 19 or conversely kill all 20. These features actually point to a common issue for utilitarian views -- namely, whether we are trying to maximize expected consequences or actual consequences. If we are trying to maximize expected consequences, then it seems like if believe the Captain, then we ought to kill the one person (expecting to save 19 lives). If we mean actual consequences, then we can only know if killing the one person was good or not based on whether or not the 19 end up getting saved. Part of Williams' point is that it seems intuitionally off (at least for him and many) to think that killing someone is the right action regardless of the threat/promise. Or to put it another way, it's part of Williams' larger critique that Utilitarianism and its calculus is not the basis of our moral action but rather than an attempt at redescription that we then evaluate based on whether or not it gets things right. 

I'd suggest two things. First, what you're offering is similar to an argument that Descartes offers elliptically in the Meditations. In Med. 1, Descartes points out that he has at times been mistaken. And as a consequence should doubt all of his beliefs, but that checking the beliefs would take an infinite amount of time. His solution is to instead suspend belief until he can come up with a firm foundation. Ostensibly in his argument, this is the cogito, but more accurately it's a circle of (a) the cogito (Med 2), his argument for a good God (Med 3), and "clear and distinct ideas" (scattered throughout and not well defined). In the process, Descartes highlights a problem for the sort of system you're suggesting. Namely, there's going to be a negative infinite regress. In his case, it's that we have to keep doubting our judgments -- including our judgments about our judgments. In your case, it's a continuous loss of probability. This leads to the second issue. Maybe both you and Descartes are wrong about what it means to know something? A lot of recent work has suggested that knowing is an act. This research is spear headed by Ernest Sosa and John Greco. On their view, to know something is more similar to successfully baking a cake than justified true belief. You either end up with cake or you don't. On such a model whether you arrive at knowledge depends on the techniques you're using and virtues of the knower, and your confidence levels don't really enter in. Moreover, once the knowing is accomplished, it's over, so there's no room for the sort of compounding probably you and Descartes face. Maybe to state it more simply, knowing may not be the sort of thing subjectable to an infinite set of regresses about our confidence in each act of knowing. Instead, it might just be something that succeeds or fails. 

Minsky: can't the entire room function as a virtual mind. [Searle: virtual = ersatz, not having the actual function] Searle: of course not, because ersatz things cannot have real effects. 

Here you've made quite a few assumptions about what utilitarianism supposedly must be. For one, you've assumed something about the relationship between the calculus and time. For another, you've identified pain with certain hormones. 

Me looking out the window at a squirrel (which by itself wouldn't be something I could articulate in those terms) Me thinking about [Me looking out the window at a squirrel] Me thinking about [me thinking about [...] 

What you've read are primarily the earlier pseudonymous works. Kierkegaard is sometimes spoken of as having two periods of pseudonymous authorship and simultaneously a prolific set of pastorals written in his own name. If you look at a timeline of both together, you will see he published at a prolific rate and sometimes released a pseudonymous work on the same day as a work in his own name. In the title of your question, you speak of "understanding Kierkegaard" but in the body of your question, you speak of understanding the pseudonymous works. I will address both and the resources I take to be necessary for either goal. If you want to understand Kierkegaard, I would think you need the following: (a) a thorough background in modern philosophy especially Kant and Hegel, (b) a familiarity with Lutheran Christianity in Denmark and its history, (c) reading mostly the pseudonymous works of which I would recommend the following: Part of Either/Or, Philosophical Fragments, Fear and Trembling, and Sickness unto Death. In terms of his own authorship, I would recommend Works of Love and 1 discourse -- Purity of Heart is to Will One Thing. It would also be helpful to read editions that include excerpts from his journals which talk about his process of authorship. To understand a particular pseudonym, I would recommend reading My Point of View as an Author but also excerpts from journals which explain what sort of perspective the respective pseudonym takes -- specifically whether the pseudonym is supposed to be Christian [i.e., do they have faith?] or not and to what extent they are supposed to be able to see through the stages -- the aesthetic, ethical, and religious (or ethico-religious). 

The way the question is worded makes me hesitate to believe the OP is interested in the answer, but I'll give it a go. I'll answer this by specifying the parameters necessary to make assertions like (1). First, I'd assume that people who believe we can state moral propositions are going to be moral realists. This means they believe that morality (or at least some part of it ) is real, meaning non-arbitrary. In other words, they are going to be committed to the idea that moral rules are not merely rules produced by society or by optimizing for pleasure. (Though the latter may have a propositional commitment to the claim that "pleasure is the standard of right and wrong" which might then commit them to other propositions). Second, they would need to believe moral realities can be captured and assessed propositionally. Not all moral realists are committed to the idea that moral realities are best captured propositionally. Stated at their core, to use moral propositions, you must: 

Peter Singer identifies wrong with pain. It's not particularly clear that plants experience anything similar to what we normally call "pain" whereas it seems like many types of animals do experience identifiably similar pain. So it's discriminating based on what he takes to be the relevant feature of morality: pain. And this is linked to some form of sentience and consciousness. 

Socrates is told that he's the smartest Socrates denies this based on a "principle of charity" argument that merges these three features: 

I'm not sure I grasp how you are using the word "will" in your question formulation, but it sounds at least in part like you've transposed some terms from the classical formulation which has its origin in Augustine (and to a much less developed extent Aristotle). Aristotle refers to willing and acts of willing but not to a will as a distinct entity in the self versus practical reason (phronesis). One particular weakness of Aristotle's account is a discussion historically called akrasia and more recently called "weakness of the will." The classic problem which occupied Aristotle was that the practical syllogism says that if you know the right thing to do, then you will do it. Thus, right action seems to follow immediately from knowledge. (This is Nicomachean Ethics Book VII for the weakness of the will problem) Augustine has a much more robust notion that we have a faculty in us that is the ability to choose between options presented to us. This is developed in part with reference to a notion of sin around the idea of concupiscence that prevents the self from acting on the knowledge that would lead to right action. (Augustine treats this in on the freedom of the will which is just an extremely difficult text). This idea of the will as an entity and desire as something that prevents it went rather unchallenged until Kant. (You can find it in Descartes' account of error in the Meditations for instance). With Kant, you begin to have the idea that the freedom of reason to choose is regardless of the data or somewhat in spite of the data. As I read Kant, the choice is between pure reason and one's desires and passions. For Kant, this is about bringing the maxim of one's will in accordance with universal reason. Another idea where I cannot give you the exact providence is physical determinism which takes choice to be an illusion. (Note the lack of reference to a notion of will). You can find hints of this as far back as Newton, but it really hits full force more recently.