Achieving a goal is by definition done with an end-point in mind. If 'truth' is one of our goals that presumes that there is a purpose of that goal, whether it be satisfying curiosity, living more effectively, or whatever subjective purpose we assign to the goal. With that said, I'd argue that we don't need to know what's true and not true insofar as we can achieve other objectives in our lives that matter to us without the knowledge that we could have seeked out. As for the value of knowing what's true: there's a lot of it. Understanding what's true means understanding how the world works, how people work, how systems work, and on and on. As people who need to navigate that world to survive, having knowledge about how it works is incredibly and universally beneficial. Knowledge is power. 

While it's not entirely clear whether certain organic molecules (like virii) meet all of these criteria, it's agreed that the overwhelming number of living things share these criteria. The clinical definition of being dead is: 

Science doesn't have an explicit aim, science is a methodology to uncover facts about the known universe. A common misconception about the practice of science is that it's tied to ideology or dogma, it's not. 'Science' is one and the same with the 'scientific method', which is the process that scientists uses to conceive of and make tests to uncover the truth/reality about things. Scientists may have a particular aim in mind when applying science to a problem, but contextualising science itself as having an aim or raison d'etre, shows a misunderstanding of what it is. The problem is that science often undermines other practices that are tied into specific ideologies or frameworks, and so it gets pulled into all of the debates and arguments that that entails. 

This suggests that our mental abilities imply that we live in complex social communities, and are oriented to survive in those communities. Spertus, 2003 

Short answer: no. Long answer: 'Capitalism' isn't a static concept, it's a term made up to describe an aspect of many economic implementations around the world today. Those economic implementations vary wildly. Historically, capitalism can't have an end goal because it's origin doesn't point to any single actor or body. Rather, I'd describe it as the manifestation of human nature on a mass scale. When human beings organise themselves they tend toward socially-democratic nation-states. This hasn't happened with conscious intent, it's just happened, and we've labelled it with the term 'capitalism'. And so while it can be comforting to imagine that international politics is organised and intentional, this is actually not the case. Rather, it's like a couple billion apes who are capable of using complex language bouncing around and trying to produce enough food for everyone under geographic and resource limitations that are mostly beyond our control. edit: One thing I'll add, though, is that in a sense 'capitalism' works toward the end of improving people's quality of life in the short term, but rather I'd describe it as people wanting to improve their quality of life being capitalistic. Capitalism as an economic model is the effect, our natural tendency to capitalize is the cause. 

Gender roles have a deep, long history that are in fact strongly tied into biology. In a nutshell, in primitive societies men were hunters, and women stayed home, talking with other women, and caring for children. Multiply this social reality over many hundreds of thousands, if not millions of years, and you'll see fundamental biological differences between men and women, averaged out. For most of history these gender roles have played a significant role in our species survival. Women are great at keeping children alive, men are great at keeping everyone fed. All of that said, how we define what a successful gender is, is a moving target. What it meant to be a woman in the 13th century is not the same as what it means to be a woman in the 21st century. So what we'll see happen as time progresses are new traits becoming selective for each gender. For instance, if suddenly it matters that women are capable of holding down a good job, then women who aren't financially successful start getting weaned out of the gene pool, and what it means to be a 'fecund' woman changes. So to get back to your question, gender roles do matter in the sense that if you're good at filling the typical role you're more likely to pass on your genes. But the caveat is that gender roles, and eventually biology (over hundreds of thousands of years) aren't static. So society will, in time, be more open to a wider ranging definition of various genders, or at least a changing range. 

'Normalization' might work. The process in which a certain behavior becomes the the de facto of how people are supposed to conduct themselves. Some good examples are Christianity, engagement rings, upgrading phones, and the like. No rational reason why these things should happen, but people have accepted them as a reality of modern life. 

Are there any well received philosophers still writing today about politics and democracy in 2017 and/or what may be some ways forward for the international community? 

This is a bit more of a stretch scientifically because it's not isolated to neglect, but neglect is the key word here. Children who are socially neglected experience, on average, more mental disorders over the course of their lifetime. It also suggests that negative social interaction is associated with psychiatric problems. Pedell, 2010 

I'm becoming interested in delving further into feminist philosophy and have come to understand that 'feminism' actually represents an incredibly rich and diverse set of thought. So what I wonder is if feminist thought can be categorized into major branches or major theoretical concepts, and if so, what those concepts are? 

You're misunderstanding the term. The biological imperative does not mean organisms have to do particular things, it means that there are certain.. we'll say, something like natural laws which guide how we understand living things, and how living things are likely to behave. In a nutshell, the biological imperative is the idea that living things exist to produce copies of themselves. A few corollaries of this imperative are that living things also need to both survive, and find mates to produce those copies, in addition to whatever properties stem from that. As a scientific term, then, it is an important concept because everything else about the biology of an organism ties back to this imperative. Everything about you, everything you do, how your brain works, is ultimately aimed at surviving, reproducing, and creating copies of yourself. So when scientists study an organism, they make the assumption that this is the purpose of any evolved features. For most animals this imperative is bullet-proof and always plays itself out. Where humans differ is that we've adapted a strong ability to adapt to new things, which can include our own desire for reproduction. Still, though, our bodies will usually be inclined to seek out partners, make money, and survive, regardless of whether we actually produce children. In sum, there is nothing we have to do, it is an imperative that any biological organism is oriented toward survival and reproduction. 

Is there thought within this work that is considered the most revelatory and influential of all ideas presented, or is it just thought of as a generally well written work? If it does contain specific ideas that have been particularly important in the history of philosophy, what are they? 

This paper implies that social isolation is a problem with senior citizens, and investigates ways to deal with that issue. You could go further and assume from this that, neurologically, isolation is a problem. These are just a few examples, but I'm sure I could go on. Maybe there is something else that can be said about this, but science does say that if you're socially isolated you're going to run into problems. So to directly answer the question 'can people live happily alone on a deserted island', I'd suggest that the answer is no, they can't. This line of thinking over-estimates our ability to and runs right in line with our cultural belief that people can think their way out of their problems. Maybe people can think their way to happiness to a certain extent, but generally the most effective way to resolve problems is to actually get rid of the problem itself. And the studies above definitely suggest that social isolation and abuse are serious problems. 

I'm not sure about the term but I think the problem here is mainly psychological, not philosophical. Cognitive Dissonance may be appropriate, where one's beliefs about themselves do not match the reality. To elaborate a bit, dreams are easy, but achievements are hard. Any given person has the capacity to imagine themselves in any particular role, or even believe themselves to be capable of any given role, but in practice their life does have objective limits. On the other hand, not 'living a life true to oneself' may be a bit more subtle than this. It doesn't have to be 'wanted to do [x] but ended up in [y]', but rather 'had the choice between [x] and [y] and chose [x] when I really wanted to do [y]'. Typically, when this type of thing happens it's because a person is conforming to pre-conceived notions of what they should be doing. Not explicitly philosophical but the relevant phrase may just be: be yourself 

Most people in 2016 who are paying attention accept the materialist perspective, that is that the scope of the universe is made up of physical phenomena that follow natural laws. For the brunt of human history we were either living close to the earth, or later caught up in metaphysical questions which offered answers to the purpose of our existence. I'd argue, however, that at least some of the human race is now moving into a post-spiritual world. I wouldn't argue that materialism negates ethics, morals and the like, but what I think it does do is negate any non-transient, objective purpose for being alive. What this means is that people are de facto free to live their lives any way they like within the confines of biological and social norms. What I'm curious about then is if any philosophers, sociologists, psychologists, past or present, have written on finding meaning in this materialist world that's devoid of objective purpose? 

It is my understanding that the ideas of Ancient Greece were carried through medieval Europe and had an influence on enlightenment philosophers. What I wonder is, what were the main (or most important) ideas that carried over from the Ancient period and into the Enlightenment era? 

What you're missing is that just because someone takes part in philosophy, does not mean the axioms they use to form their beliefs are always logically sound. I would argue that the field of philosophy draws a lot of curious people who are prone to accept a lot of philosophical thought on authority, or even just because they like the idea, and not necessarily because of some bulletproof rationalization. And so the result is that it's not uncommon for some people who practice philosophy to make claims that are actually unsound. 

The problem is in the question. Deciding that working for someone is slavery may be your opinion, but it is a subjective opinion, and not necessarily indicative of objective reality. People have been doing work in order to survive for as long as there have been people, and at no point during that time did these people get to dictate what they did anywhere outside of the system they were born into. In other words, as human societies have progressed, the nature of work has taken on slowly evolving concrete forms that make up the reality of the population. At any point in time, there can be no other way. Within that context, I don't see a reason why 'ethics' or 'ideals' should enter anywhere into the equation. Following your passion is a great concept, but if it leads you into a place within the system you live in where you can't find work or support yourself, what have you gained? I'd think when it comes to work one should first attempt to understand the market in which they live, and then further how they would best like to use it to their advantage. 

While looking at the 'philosophical' question of whether or not someone is dead might sound interesting, I think what you're actually interested in knowing is under what conditions someone is no longer a conscious person. Being 'dead' has a very real, and straight-forward answer. Once you die your body will no longer work. If you aren't dead, but unconscious, it is possible that your consciousness can be restored with the right types of therapy. Lacking consciousness would be caused by very specific conditions in the brain. Anyway, hope that helps. 

It depends on the value you place on a species existing. Popular opinion is that extinction is bad, and on a mass scale it is for bio-diversity, but if a species goes extinct, especially in numbers from 10ish individuals to zero, in the long-range of earth's future it doesn't really matter. For that reason I'd argue that if the zoo keepers were faced with the same decision but in your circumstance, they still would have killed the gorilla. 

I suspect this question is too broad, as philosophically speaking, one could approach the phenomena of 'life' from many different angles, and conclude with many different definitions. In general, though, how you define something depends on the context in which you want to define it. For instance, in biology we define life (roughly) as material entities with metabolisms and a few other properties. This is a definition aimed at understanding how living things work. But if we wanted to move over to ecology we could define life in the context of it's relationship with it's natural environment, which would give us a different picture. Or if we moved to physics, again it would be a totally different definition and perspective. Similarly, different strands of philosophy (although I'd argue the above are also strands of philosophy), should be able to define life under different frameworks. So if you want a concrete answer, you need to be more specific. 

To me the problem is largely centred around the fact that, historically, women have been relegated to secondary citizens in society, and it's only now, and only in certain parts of the world where they've been able to assert and strive for better conditions for themselves. Strictly speaking, many of the arguments in your question are correct, and the debate on gender equality could definitely use a lot more subtlety, the problem is that human beings don't tend to be good with subtlety or grey areas. Everything usually has to be black and white. And so yes, the debate as it stands is flawed, but the problem of gender equality as a whole is real, and the reason people care about issues like the pay gap in the first place is because they're interested in reducing inequality, even if from a place of ignorance or disingenuousness, and even if their arguments are not always logically sound. So a more.. socially progressive, way to look at the debate is to recognise that inequality is a real thing and should be reduced where necessary.