This should sound more generic than only for a safety stop during a dive. I had this issue that during the swim as well, that I had to constantly fight to keep from rolling to one side, or to keep my feet from floating towards the surface. The two most typical problems with swimmers/divers that I saw were : 

Cutting the Ice steps is technique which is used since years, and rather was invented way before something like crampons came up in mountaineering. I met a team at Saser Kangri, who spent a lot of time in cutting steps in Ice. And, I could only ask them why to do it and invest so much of amount of energy and critical time when you have crampons? I believe Ice Cutting is done on a very hard snow. Agreeing to the fact that you can use crampons for an ascend over such a face, but for a team of around 10-15 mountaineers, everybody exerts the same when they choose not to cut ice steps, but if two/three heads go a bit ahead, cutting steps, the team can proceed much faster and rather in a packed approach, like a convoy. In case of bad visibility, the stranded people can track down such steps and follow them rather than looking for something else which is more artificial. I see that as the biggest advantage of doing it. 

If you are in Southern Hemisphere: In southern hemisphere, The North Star, Polaris is not visible, so You'll need to identify the Southern Cross, also known as Crux. The Southern Cross is constellation that has 5 starts, the 4 of them being brighter than the other and angled together and quite far away from the 5th star, Acrux aka Alpha Crusis. Draw an imaginary line towards the ground from the axis that intersects Acrux. That is the south, so the north will be exactly opposite to it and behind you. 

Mathematically (and in the harder way to look at it), V = AS(t1/2) where, V is volume of the water intake, A is the surface area subjected to water, S is Sorptivity of the tent surface and t is the time for which you have pitched the tent while something is touching the wall. One question: Have you ever bought a cheap rain-jacket? Gets wet at the elbows first than belly. Try this, take a cloth which is not really rainproof. Put it onto a vessel as a filter. Pour water quickly, faster and in more volume than what cloth can filter and drip below. You should see water being gathered, slowly filtered and then collected in the vessel below. Now, somehow, put your hand in the vessel and poke the filter-cloth from inside, water shall be collected faster than before. End of play, throw the water away to the plants. So, What Capillary Action has got to do with something touching the tent from inside? It has all got to do with the Porosity and the Sorptivity of the surface and the Surface Tension of the tent fabric. 

Rectilinear Have you seen a large viper move? Or a Boa, or a Python. Thats rectilinear movement. Just straight drag of the whole body. Its usually in large snakes. They just move straight. 

The 100 Newton thingy is more suitable for usage in more troubled waters, probably for ones with yachts and Powerboats in waters where the help is at a relatively longer distance. It should be used by Non-swimmers, or may be 'Not-so-good' kind of swimmers in calm waters since they assure a reasonable safety from drowning in relatively calm waters. 

Blaming it on my roommate all the way. He goes for a 3 day hike, whenever he is back, he is tired, thats obvious and evident. The night he comes in, he goes to washroom (for poo) and his poo smells real bad. Is it common/normal? (I too face the same issue once in a while). What might he be doing wrong? Is it related to hydrating habits and/or diet? Hydration: Never dehydrated really. Water intake might be a bit low as compared to a regular day, but manageable. Diet: Mostly white bread and pickle/jam/sauce or butter as lunch. Lots of tomatoes, carrots and cucumbers to munch on. Some variant of steamed rice as the dinner. 

There are few peaks like : Ekdant - 6128 mtrs (A name for Lord Ganesh), Kartik - 5113 mtrs(named after brother of Lord Ganesh). I had planned for these two on a single trip, though I could not execute the plan. There is Parvati Parbat (6,257m) above the Satopanth Glacier. I have the Himalayan Journal of year 2009 which has expedition reports and lots of useful notes on above said peaks. Try and get a copy of that from Himalayan Club. Or even this link here may come handy. But, the above are less trekable than Climbable peaks. As of now, if you are looking for Absolute Trek'able thing around Himalays, try and do Mt. Everest Base camp trek from Luk'la, Nepal. Its an amazing experience to have! I have planned the same in next year August. EBC is not technically difficult at all, but the Altitude and Weather part together make it more challenging. Its also about the distance you cover. In the EBC trek, you can summit Gokyo Ri as well, Now of Gokyo Ri Trek, I've heard so far, is tougher than Stok Kangri. One more option, which is less Trek'able as you expect, is relatively difficult, is: Doing a Trek upto the Advance Base Camp (ABC) of the Saser Kangri in East Karakoram. Set your Base Camp at 4750 m and then an Advanced Base Camp at 5360 m. If you are good with ration and equipment then you can also try and reach to Camp 1 at 5880 m. Beyond Camp 1 (usually called C1) its no longer easy. I believe with the kind of thing you are looking for, reaching ABC of Saser Kangri is a good fun. Beyond that, you may choose whether to continue to C1 or fall back. Or you have route like, Kanchenjunga Base Camp, Annapurna Circuit. Have a look at this site as well. 

This doesn't ensure that you are ready do deal with treks/mountains in the region which may (or may not) be new to you. I am from India and I have been into mountaineering for over a decade now, but that doesn't directly qualify me to trek or plan a climb in Europe or even somewhere in Asia. Because, surroundings change, the way people go about it (might) change. I don't want to be rude outright, and I'd never advice you to not to go for it, but I'd strongly recommend you to explore the region which you know about. (If you are not already) Be a regular hiker/trekker and get familiar with do's and dont's when things go wrong. A bad day (not a worst one!) in mountains shape you as a better trekker than 10 good days in mountains. Now, if you are really ready to go with it, I'll help you with first item in your list. I am sure you can do this for other mountains by yourself. 

Mainly, the high altitude diet is not just for high altitude. When you know you are going to eat it at altitude above 7000m and don't want to loose out on a summit, you better make habit of that kind of a diet. You don't want to find yourself asking a sherpa at higher camps: "What is this thing?" 

This question might be flanked by The Great Outdoors and Bicycles, yet I'll ask. When I am off for a mountain-biking thing, I usually have a backpack with me which contains clothing, medical kit, basic toolkit for repair, tarp, sleeping bag, food and water, etc. What would be the ideal method to carry it? Should I haul the pack on back or should I attach it to the carrier that my bicycle has? Lets consider a 35-Lt backpack and an offroad rough terrain with lots of ups-and-downs. 

Using a stick effectively would help you judge what you are stepping into. I have seen people getting their ankles twisted because they didn't see what they stepped onto/into. If possible avoid such route during low-light, mist and night. 

In both the cases, the thing to keep an eye on is Sweating. If weather is dry, hot and low humidity, you will stop sweating after a certain point, the core temperature is increases, and you might sustain a heat stroke if continued without necessary hydration. If the weather is hot and humid, you will sweat a lot, loose body fluids and start dehydrating. Key to avoid both of them is Hydration. 

EDIT: I watched the film again, and I can confirm that it is snow and not ice. P.S.: These 3 mountaineers aren't just any mountaineers that we usually come across. There are one of the well-known, most talented and experienced climbers/mountaineers around the world. EDIT 2: I just saw the section of the film again, and it is a biner on the right side of the column which is at right hand side of the left red arrow. 

IMHO, I am rather a kick-the-root-cause kind of a guy, and this lotion thing sounds like a work-around solution which I don't like. Rather than going for such products, I'd prefer to add an extra foam cushion under the shoulder straps if the problem persists. EDIT: Looking at the picture of the backpack that @liam has added, I don't think that pack would trouble me and most of other people, as IMHO, the shoulder straps looks good with cushion. But thats just by the looks of it. I'll just say, don't invest in for a different backpack for that reason too soon. Its a good backpack. Happy Outing! 

If you follow safety instructions (probably issued by authority there who know the snake better than I do) and are very careful about picking the place such that your best bet is avoiding their area of interest/habitat, you should not come across one. Now, you checked the place, confirmed that there is no snake, you sit in a blind for hours. Does the safety followed earlier makes sure that no snakes comes there? Of course, it can't be guaranteed. But, with the kind of sensing organs they have and their typical behavior says that, they'll see you before you see them. And, they are more on the defensive side than being on the curious side of an animal. But, God forbid, if at all a rattlesnake comes around you, its likely that unless you are paying very close attention towards it, you won't see it since it camouflages itself so well, but you will hear it. Pay attention to the typical rattle noise, just as you hear it, take a careful look around, avoid panicked rapid movements and slowly get away from it at least a 15 feet, let it pass, do not try killing it or messing with it. I've never been hunting so this sitting in a blind scenario did make me think about how could you avoid them. In case if you have a companion, use the other person as a dedicated spotter who can spot snakes and other potential threats more carefully and frequently than you will, You can keep your eye peeled for the thing you are hunting, while your spotter ensures that nothing comes closer. Though the risk is there with Side Winders since they are so small and perfectly camouflaged with the land. Check with the local authority for details about the area of prominence, where the are spotted more frequently, their meeting seasons, etc. Avoid their mating season. During the mating season, and just before the season of hibernation, they tend to travel more distance than they usually do, and obviously are far more aggressive than they normally are. If I were you, I'd definitely avoid that season. 

Start with first loosing up all the strings. One can tune them once reached a camping place and then plan to play. Remove the tremolo bar and/or Capo if there is/are any. Preferably I won't bother carrying it. Choice is yours. Then see that you have aligned all tuning keys parallel with the headstock, so that they don't get a bump. If you are going to an area (or in the rainy season) where you may encounter rain, Get bubble paper and wrap the whole guitar with it, use duct tape to make sure that it remains wrapped. Consider adding crushed up paper around the headstock and the tuning keys. And then wrap in bubble paper. Newspapers would do just fine as a crushed up paper. Now, put it in the case in such a way that you make sure that any unsupported areas of the guitar are supported with the crushed up paper. Fill up any air space in the case with crushed up paper. 

Hunting is a skill that involves fine craftsmanship, understanding the surroundings and the mentality and habits of animals. Look for the places where you are most likely to find rabbits. You should be looking for their droppings, tracks, rubs, scratches, signs of feeding, shelter or burrow entrances, food and water sources, etc. Select a place suitable for setting up the trap like the one I have drawn in the picture. (Kindly neglect my bad work with the Paint tool) Pick a tree or something similar that can give the kind of a recoil action when the latch is disturbed, so that the loop shall swing in the opposite direction and above the ground (+ a rabbit's height). Fix a base deep in the ground. Make a notch on it to latch the trigger in it as shown. Craft a trigger which can be latched into the base as shown. This may take some time. Tie a string (you can use a shoelace) to the tip of the small plant. The plant should be tough enough to bear the weight of a rabbit. Make a loop of wire and tie it to the trigger part. Practice the loop part multiple times as this simple knot is too crucial to fail. You may have to put some obstacles around the set up so that the animal is forced to be diverted towards the setup. Finally put the bait in front of the setup such that the rabbit will have to pass through the loop. So that when he necks though the loop and move ahead, the latch is popped, the trigger is lifted and the rabbit is hung. 

Assuming that you have the right kind of a backpack according to your requirements. First, you need to separate things that you need frequently and things you'll need less often. The way I camp/trek and plan things, I am okay to pack everything all over again in the morning. Generally, it is best suited to pack lighter items in the bottom of the pack and heavier stuff toward the top, the idea is to keep heavier stuff closer to your back and not on bum. This keeps your center of gravity relatively high. Center of gravity plays a very important role in balancing your body when in motion. Higher Center of gravity tends to make it easy to haul the backpack easily while your performance with balance is hampered. Women naturally have a lower center of gravity, so the women I know and trek with, they pack heavier stuff at the bottom, that further increases their stability. Remember, The lower your center of gravity is , the easier it is to keep yourself balanced, pack feels heavier. The higher your center of gravity is, the easier it is to haul the pack but chances are more to dwell/tip off or go off-balance. 

Hydrating at regular shorter and regular intervals. Hydrating at regular intervals is not the actual Acclimatization. But, Hydrating at shorter and regular is necessary in order to sustain Acclimatization Routine. You don't sit in a tent the whole day to Acclimatize. You have to work out, might have to modify diet and the hydrating habit that suits the altitude/weather. Working out outdoors regularly during the Acclimatization Period. Before getting out there, before the acclimatization period begins, There’s also the option of creating an artificial hot and/or humid environment by wearing extra clothing during exercise, training in a hot room or without the Air Conditioners, using a humidifier, etc. Plasma plays a role in Thermoregulation and Osmoregulation. Add protein supplements and protein drinks to your diet, A protein-heavy diet will help to build more plasma in your blood. Also, consume fruits rich with Vitamin C regularly to increase the Ascorbic Acid that is a vital part of blood plasma. Once you are out there, wear looser clothes, light-colored cloths. Again, this isn't Acclimatization, but it is necessary to be able to perform in that kind of a weather. 

Concertina These are also plenty around. Have you seen a snake climbing a tree or moving on a slippery surface? In this method the snake winds up itself and then it uses the energy to thrust forward. Then the front part of the body stays on the surface and the back part of the body is pulled up to be coiled again. To notice, this method is a lot of friction with the surface, using a lot of its energy. So, do these snake move fast? No, but can they strike fast, Yes. 

I always wonder, in what way I can pack my things so that the weight distribution will be good and I can find it handy to get the things quickly instead of unpacking the entire backpack. I know that light and bulky stuff should go to the bottom, then a bit heavier stuff to go in the middle, and finally on the top of that should be what you need frequently through out the day. Is there a benefit to pack it in a Vertical manner? Or should one stick to Horizontal packing sense? EDIT: I am considering this in context of 3-4 days of trek.