Economics of scale. For instance, when a bike manufacturer buys thousands of groupsets directly from a component manufacturer, they get a significantly better per unit price than a retailer can. The retailer not only must necessarily buy in lower volume, but also typically buys through one or more layers of middlemen, each layer adding their cut to the wholesale price. Thus, the typical replacement price for a single part is often double or more than the original cost to install it at the manufacturer of the bike. 

A 160 pound rider will have no issues with pretty much any quality wheel set on the market now, but if your primary use is as a training wheel set, get the 24 spoke count set. It hurts nothing, and may affect the time between maintenance cycles slightly. If you will use the wheels for events, it may be worth the slightly reduced weight and generally minisculely higher performance of the lower spoke count wheel. If you were a heavier rider, I'd say avoid the lower spoke count wheel, but you'll have no problems regardless, assuming the wheels are in good shape when you get them. 

That is, I change my chain every 1200-1500km. I change the cassette on the 5th time I change the chain. And I change the chain ring set every other time I change the cassette. This is an example of an obviously worn chainring. 

It is the black piece about 2 inches from where it enters the down tube. That is the barrel adjuster, but in line adjusters can be difficult get started adjusting, as often they come from the factory with the 2 halves of the barrel adjuster turned tightly against each other. That makes it appear to do nothing, when in fact the reason it is doing nothing is because it is rotating around the cable housing, rather than activating the adjustment. Try to hold one half still, while rotating the barrel. Once it is broken free it should work normally. If not, then take it back to your LBS, and ask them to do it, as you will likely have to remove it from the bike to get it free. 

It should not require greasing after only 5 weeks, unless it was not done originally. A noise of that type can be caused by basically 4 things in the Bottom Bracket: 

The pad spacer is intended to prevent you from accidentally closing the brake without the rotor in place. It is not required, for any part of the adjustment or installation process, as long as you do not need to bleed the brakes, and as long as you refrain from squeezing the lever without a wheel in place. If you do need to bleed the brake, it is convenient, but not required. 

The answer depends on the reason for the "hop" and your desire for perfection. A wheel which is out of round due to incorrect spoke tension, rather than impact damage to the rim, will have no trouble being repaired, even with far greater than 3-4mm of deviation by detensioning all the spokes, and re-tensioning them evenly, essentially re-building the wheel. A wheel which is out of round due to impact can be made round with that much deviation, or more, but it requires having the spoke tension be unbalanced. If the spoke tension on a wheel is unbalanced by more than a few percentage points, then the wheel will not remain true and round. It may, however, remain safe to ride, and only require more maintenance than normal to keep it straight and round, or it may not be safe at all. That is something only a skilled mechanic or wheel builder can tell you, and only after re-tensioning the wheel. Since it is a factory built wheel, I assume either that you tried to true and tension it yourself, or that there is impact damage, because it should be round from the factory. I hope that helps. 

Based on your description of your issues with heart rate training, I'd be willing to bet that you are training daily, or without enough rest days between sessions, and that you are training above your cardio fitness level. If you have a need to train to a goal, rather than just ride, try dropping the intensity of your training down a level, and make sure that you follow a good rest day schedule as well. Our bodies don't gain during exercise. Exercise breaks us down. The gains come in the rest periods after exercise, when your body recognizes that it's been put through the ringer, and builds up to a peak that will support the new level of effort that is required. The problem is that this peak effort stage only lasts a short period of time before your body goes back to what it's used to, and it's tricky to figure out that recovery period for yourself. The key is that if you exercise again at that recovery point, and then have a rest period, then you will make gains. Push yourself again too early, and you prevent the build up from happening. Wait too long, and the gains are gone before you build on them. Why is this relevant to your question? Because if you are seeing very different heart rates (especially higher rates) on the same course and level of effort over 2 consecutive days, then your body isn't finished with its building stage. You needed more rest before you push it again. For me, I make the most gains when I ride hard, and then rest 2 days, another hard effort, then rest one day. Light effort, one day rest. Hard effort, 2 days rest. And so on. But, and this is key, it's different for everyone. Following someone else's plan is good to figure out what works for you, but you will need to pay attention to the feedback your body gives you and modify accordingly. That feedback (at least in the cycling/training world) comes in the form of data from your heart rate and power meters, average speed, and perceived effort levels. CTS has great training programs which are designed to be applicable to a lot of people. They may need to be modified to work well with your body. 

Yes, it is possible to use a 22 chain ring on an otherwise 10 speed SRAM drivetrain. At our shop, we have used the front crank interchangeably for months on end on multiple bikes. 

Crankset - Standard road triple Flat bar road shifter set ST-443 FD-443 front derailleur Possibly new cables, if they don't come with the shifters. A new chain designed for the number of gears in your cassette. 

You have two different questions here. The first one, which is what should you use to clean and polish carbon without damaging it, it what most every one here is answering. The real answer is, you can use just about anything. Pledge, Bike Lust, Turtle Wax, Storck's Carbo'Coat Polish. It doesn't matter, as long as there's a wax base, and no abrasives in it. To fill the fine cracking in your clear coat caused by UV exposure, you do need to go outside the bike industry. Use detailing clay, like that made by Meguiar's. Their Mild Overspray Detailing Clay works very well to remove race stickers, adhesive residue, tree sap, etc.. which you need to do to prepare the surface before using something like their Swirl Remover 2 to remove the surface scratches and cracking. You can do this with a rag, by hand. You don't need to use a buffer. 

Assuming the stem was chosen by the manufacturer, it's required torque as printed on the stem should be within the ability of the fork steerer to support. If the stem says,"Max Torque 10Nm" as opposed to just "10Nm" then start with a lower setting around 6Nm and work up slowly until the stem clamp will not slip on the steerer. If only the number is printed, it must be exactly that number. It is a good idea to check the torque compatibility of parts purchased for your bike. If you buy a stem that requires 12Nm, but your handlebar won't support more than 10Nm, you are destined for trouble. Usually, 6-8Nm is enough for that purpose. You can lower the required torque by adding a carbon friction compound, sometimes called carbon grease. It increases the friction between the steerer and the stem clamp and will therefore require less clamping force to stay solid. I assume you've dealt with this issue long since, but in this case 10Nm would be correct. 

Simple answer is, they are. See the Scott CR1, the Trek Pilot, the Specialized Roubaix, and a dozen similar bikes marketed, and very popular all over the world. All are Sportive style bikes, marketed under their own local market category names. 

The differences between the bikes are small, and mainly will relate to durability. The quality of several key components is higher on the Analog Disc, which should equal smoother, faster shifting and better longevity of these components. In addition the Analog Disc is a 9 speed bike, and the Aim Disc is an 8 speed bike. As the current high end models are 10 speed, and 8 speed mountain components are expected to go away in the next year or so, I would recommend the Analog Disc. They aren't showing pricing, but I wouldn't expect more than a 100-150 dollar or so difference between the 2 bikes. I hope that helps. 

First, an answer. If you try to modify the Arione, it very much does matter which model you have. If the base of the saddle is composite, then you could make a cut out. But it is unlikely to last very long. I expect that the filler materials, the gel, the foams will simply move out of place out of your new cutout. If it uses the woven base, the one that is soft material like kevlar, then you won't be able to make the cutout without damaging it at all, IMHO. You are complaining about a product which you think should be designed better, but the fact is, it's a product which works for a lot of people as is. There are a ton of other saddles with cutouts that you could choose. If you don't own the Arione, you aren't locked in to using it, as you implied in your question. So find a saddle that works for you, rather than buying a saddle you aren't happy with, and trying to modify it. It makes no sense. 

The thread on a derailleur fixing bolt is typically 10mm x 1mm thread pitch. For almost any standard derailleur, that will be correct. There are a few very new designs on the market which might not fit, namely Shimano's new direct mount derailleur system, but that would be a special order in most shops at this stage. Anything on the market for 9 speed mountain should fit a 10 x 1 thread. So to answer your question: Technically, no, not any derailleur will mount to your Scott derailleur hanger. As a practical matter, yes, you are pretty safe ordering any 9 speed MTB derailleur, and it will work. And if it looks like the same mount, it will be. That said, it sounds like you may have cross threaded your derailleur hanger when you tried to change it the first time, so you may also want to pick up a spare derailleur hanger. 

Measure the circumference of the wheel in millimeters, ideally using rollout method described here. Convert the millimetric measurement of the wheel to inches by dividing by 25.4. (25.4mm = 1 inch) Divide by 12 to get circumference in feet. Calculate wheel revolutions per mile by dividing 5,280 by the tire circumference in feet. Calculate the speed per minute by dividing the wheel speed by the tire revolutions per mile. For example, if the wheel speed is 300 rpm, the example tire is moving at 0.446 miles per minute. Multiply the miles per minute speed times 60 to convert the speed to miles per hour (mph). Multiply by 1.609344 to get speed in KPH. Example: 

Spoke wrench Nipple driver Truing stand Tensiometer Spoke prep or Linseed oil The Bicycle Wheel by Jobst Brandt 

This part is specific to Specialized. They only make one size. If you loosen the center cable, it should have more than enough clearance for a Zipp wheel, even if you have the new Firecrest design. The straddle clip can be replaced with a standard cantilever straddle cable and a hook, like this: