Neither option is 'better'. But evolution, in general, is extremely slow. As such, we've mainly used technology to better adapt to this world. This has been fairly true since the beginning and is perhaps one of the defining aspects that makes us human. In fact, when technology enables us to do things, it eliminates the need to evolve to to do it directly. We figured out how planes work, so no need for us to evolve wings any time soon, for example. 

This is a thought provoker! But, since we're talking about stories, my mind immediately jumped to the 'gotchas' that would make forming a society difficult. Would people still work? If each day was a repeat, would there be a compelling reason to clock in each morning at McDonalds to cook for people? Would a bus driver bother getting the bus going? Why plow the snow if tomorrow is the same? Would basic infrastructure be working? Would anyone bother to reboot the web server for the day? Change that lightbulb? Or, perhaps the bigger issue...would anyone that works for the power company bother to go into work to actually provide power for the day? I'm thinking that would all fall apart pretty quickly. The next question would be...would it return? If everyone remembers each same day from day to day, perhaps verbal agreements could be made. Joe, you come in 'tomorrow' and fire up the generators. Bob will come in the 'day after' that. Then Sam. So, initially, people may go the free-for-all route. But that can get old. And at some point, humanity may wish for a semblance of routine and return to the routine and start going back to work to bring back a bit of order. The success/failure of that may be varied from locale to locale but, over time, if enough regions leave the power on, and the cable on, word can spread. If all of that succeeds, one scenario is a form of Utopia. No one gets older. Everyone works minimally (only infrastructure and service jobs are really needed). And there's plenty of time for leisure. Everything is free (as why bother with money for a day?) There is a catch, though, and that, of course, is that society somewhat stagnates as there's no way to record information for the next day. It all has to be stored and shared verbally. Day by day. That might slow down the progress of human knowledge significantly. On the other hand, with each day a repeat, and all that leisure time, perhaps word of mouth is ideal and we all slowly learn all of the things we never had time to before. There would be casualties, though. As others have pointed out, for most people, this would be a nice way to spend each day. But for anyone that is suffering at any level, this could be a nightmare. If you in your last days of a painful disease, or are injured every day in the first 10 seconds. Or simply depressed. Having to spend every day in agony over and over will surely create despair. Or those that are alone somewhere without an easy way back to civilization within 24 hours. Being alone for the rest of your life could drive someone insane. 

I think you can buy your way towards preparing for the apocalypse. But like you say, once it comes, money isn't worth much. So the entire 'buying' part has to happen pre-apocalypse. Once it happens, money will likely be less useful than brute strength...weapons, bunkers, etc. That said, there would likely still be valuable commodities (such as fuel ala Mad Max). So perhaps part of the preparation is to transfer one's monetary wealth into commodity wealth for post apocalyptic trade economies. 

In a world I am building, there are two sapient species, named Ae and Be. Ae are tall but blind, while the Be are short and sighted. While it has been asked how a blind species would discover another species' ability to see, on the other end of the spectrum, how would a species with sight explain what sight is? 

Compared to the vast majority of the world, North America is pretty bland when it comes to countries, we have the US, Canada and mexico, that's it. Now Cascadia, California and Texas were all at one point free, independent nations, what other section of North America could theoretically be free nations in the modern day? For a nation to count, it must be able to run independent from other nations, so Texas would count while a Vatican State rip off would not. The Alternate history must not go back farther than the 16 century. Also this ignores theoretical wars that did not happen, as to avoid broadness. 

Recently, the youtuber JoergSprave released a new video, where he built a bow capable of firing an arrow unpracticed at full power every second, as opposed to his initial 1 every 4 seconds. He does this by building the quiver into the bow itself so as you pull back the string, an arrow in pushed into its launch. I want to know, is this weapon feasible for medieval combat? That is, it is realistic for a army to built, train and use this design in an actual battle? If not, how close can we get? 

I have a world with days lasting 9 years. The inhabitants of this world have taken to migrating across the globe to avoid the deadly night, keeping themselves in a sweet spot. One of the biological quirks of the people living here is that sleep isn't a thing. Similar to dolphins, they sleep with only one hemisphere at a time, allowing them to maintain consciousness at all times. This allows them to get their required sleep while still being able to migrate throughout the 'day'. As I began to develop the mythology and cultures of this world, a question popped into my head that would heavily affect everything this species does; how does their consciousness work. There are various signs that our right brain is really its own intelligent consciousness that works with our speaking left brain; But on a species where each half is only conscious for half the time, would they only be able to speak half the time? What about the other things? The right half of your brain dominantly controls things such as spatial abilities, face recognition, visual imagery and music. While the left half deals with language, math and logic. Would a species that only uses half the brain at any moment only possess one half of these features at any given moment? Would it have two separate personalities? Or is there other things that I (admittedly not a neuroscientist) just am not seeing? 

Recently I have been browsing theoretical alien designs and a feature I have become interested in are multiple jaws. What I mean by this is an inner jaw located inside of the outer jaw. An example of this can be seen below (by artist abiogenisis) 

If the sea levels of Earth were to suddenly rise by 49 meters, or 160.7 feet, what would the world map look like? 

For all who are unaware, synesthesia is a condition in the brain where two or more senses are connected; for example being able to see sound or hear color. Of course they do not actually see color or hear sound, but their brain connects their sense, so they attribute certain sense to other senses. Is it possible for evolution to favor this condition and if so, is it possible for it to become not a condition, but a feature? 

Make it controlled. Nuclear reactors are controlled nuclear reactions. They're controlled to the point where there is no explosion. A nuclear bomb is an uncontrolled nuclear reaction. I'm likely stretching physics here, but one could perhaps have an incredibly tiny amount of fissionable material and then control it with a really tiny reactor (nano-sized rods?) 

The more muscle, the more calories needed. However, that doesn't necessarily mean more food needed. Just higher calories. But yes, food could be one problem. We may also see issues with the physical world having to become upgraded. Plane seats. Car interiors. Mattresses. Granted, we have to accommodate some of that today in some regions (namely the US) due to higher fat mass. So in terms of size issues, there may be a parallel there. And then things such as ladders. Instead of being rated for 200lbs, maybe they'd have to be rated for 300lbs. So there could be a need to increase natural resources to accommodate this more massive human. 

For starters, 'on par'--in the real world--is a misleading concept when comparing the societies. The America's had elaborate advanced societies as well. They were just different. The other big thing to note is that 1600's Europe was a society that formed from a long history of interacting with many other very diverse societies. So had Europe been left to their own devices, they never would have achieved the 1600's Europe that came to be. As such, hypothetically, it's doubtful that more isolated societies would advance the same way as societies with a lot of interaction with other societies. Even if both societies had access to the same types of diverse other societies, advancements would likely not mirror each other due to pure randomness. The reason we have different cultures is because of that. 

Plenty of species already evolve with us in urban environments (at least 'evolve' in the sense that they thrive and benefit from the urban environment). 

As several have pointed out, many animals were bullet "proof" at one point in history, only to be trumped by technological advances in firearms that render what protection they had useless against the increasingly improving technology. So, in the context of the real world, I believe the answer is no, as biological evolution is simply slower than human invention. Going back to even cavemen era, humans were able to hunt animals much larger than themselves quite successfully. One could argue that if it were possible, animals such as Elephants or American Bison would have already figured it out. :) However, there's one major exception to the above logic that I can think of: bacteria. Granted, we're not talking about bullets here, as fighting bacteria with bullets is rather impractical. But if we consider the invention of anti-biotics as a medical "magic bullet" the above argument changes, as bacteria has been able to evolve faster than our technology. We humans are in a constant battle trying to fight bacteria as they, quite literally, do evolve anti-biotic resistances faster than we can wipe them out. 

Species that are adept at changing environments and opportunistic in terms of leveraging human environments will thrive. Others will not. While not urban-centric, the PBS documentary on Dogs talks about one particular species that has thrived with humans: $URL$ 

One thing the other answers miss is: pride. Building large, tall skyscrapers is very much about bragging. The pyramids weren't built for practical purposes. They were built as status symbols...as are most of the worlds 'tallest' buildings. Tall buildings are used as personal symbols (Rockefeller center), business symbols (Transamerica Building--later a symbol used by the city), and City symbols (1 World Trade Center). 

I'd look at all sorts of coastal islands. Sea stacks, for example. There are plenty of naturally occurring islands out there that are inaccessible by boat. Typically due to: cliffs, reefs, and the sea itself (rough seas). Cliffs make it impractical to build infrastructure for shipping, but you are correct in that people could always build trails. So I don't think it's the cliff that are necessarily the key element. Just one of the barriers. The bigger barriers would be shallow sands (possibly fixed via dredging), rocks and reefs (possibly fixed via demolition), rough seas (possible fixed by building sea walls). All surmountable, of course, but typically highly impractical. If you look at the west coast of North America, you'll find a lot of of the coast is not easily accessible by large ships. Most ports are in fact inland (up river or within large bays).