Your gross oversimplification is roughly OK when you are comparing one species against another. It breaks down completely when you try to apply it individually. To provide a parallel, BMI correlates to body fat in a way that is statistically significant, but when applied individually may give the wrong impression about the amount of fat someone carries. In other words, BMI works for producing statistices of the number of obese people state by state, but when applied to just you can paint a picture that is very wrong. The truth is, people have a wide range of life spans (since this is what you are concerned about): 

Lastly, I shouldn't have to tell you this, but you still want a good amount of protein. At least 1g of protein per pound of lean body mass while you want to gain muscle. Of course with the extra protein, drink lots of water. Finally, the exercise you choose is up to you, but you won't build bigger muscles (getting heavier while not getting fat) without demanding more of them. Some options are: 

10g of BCAAs is perfectly normal and fine to use regularly. For those that don't know what BCAAs are and why they may be beneficial, BCAAs are Branched Chain Amino Acids. Because they are straight amino acids that are used by the muscle systems, the body doesn't need to work hard to break them out of a full protein chain. When you lift heavy things, and in general exert your muscles to exhaustion, BCAAs help repair the muscles quicker than by consuming protein. Indirectly this improves your energy because the body spends less of the energy repairing itself. They are not a replacement for protein, however. Our bodies have 11 essential and another 11 non-essential amino acids which it gets from protein. The non-essential proteins can be manufactured--of course it takes some energy to do that. Most BCAAs (powder or pill form) include the three main essential amino acids: leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Some have a fourth. The D-pinitol is a form of Vitamin B which also mimics an insulin response. Insulin is an anabolic hormone which has the responsibility to channel energy into your muscles and organs. That helps replenish the glycogen stores more quickly (assuming you have the carbohydrate reserve for that). 

I have not found a strength training app that I really like all they way around just yet. I've tried quite a few, and my observations are listed below. My current solution is to use Google Drive for my training spreadsheet and Fitocracy Training app to log the work. JEFit is a decent general purpose app with a focus on body building. Out of all the offerings, this is one of the closest to what I want but it does have some major shortcomings. In JEFit, KG and LBS are just labels, so if you ever travel and enter stats in the unit you don't normally use it will throw off all your charts. Same with competing, if competitions are held in a unit you don't normally use, you have to do the conversion yourself or throw off your charts. It's programming is good for weekly training. If your routine fits a nice weekly pattern it's perfect--but if it's a monthly or longer cycle JEFit's programming falls very short. Adding ad hoc exercises is a bit of a pain, so simply not using the programming part is rather annoying. Fitocracy Fitness Tracker App is great if all you want is a way to track what you are doing today. It doesn't pretend to have a programming aspect, so it makes it really easy to record things ad hoc. I use Google Drive for my training spreadsheet and the Fitocracy app to record the work. This combo seems to be good enough. Fitocracy does know the difference between a pound and kilogram, so if you ever have to change units it won't mess any charts up. Problem is, you can't have one exercise in KG and another in LBS if your gym has mixed equipment (most commonly with kettlebells). Multi-Year Training App this had a lot of potential, and I paid for the programming add on--which was a waste of money. The app can handle more complex programs if you use the ones that are built in, which includes strong lifts, starting strength, Wendler 5/3/1, German Volume Training, and a few others. It provides some good primers on strength training out of the box, but the piece meal purchasing for things that should be included (like tracking your work) is not cool. The programming essentially is limited to one day's work. Each day is it's own program. You can't even string a week's training together. Really. It's a waste of the $1.99 to get the programming. I'm sad I spent money on it. If you use the packaged programming, it's workable. Big Lifts only does Starting Strength and Wendler 5/3/1. Don't waste your time if you ever want to do anything besides those two. It doesn't support ad hoc exercises, or track any assistance work you do. Gym Hero at the time I tried it was nothing more than a digital notebook. I could track my work quicker and easier with a pen and paper. It does integrate with RunKeeper for historical tracking, but the strength training portion doesn't get sync'd with Fitocracy if you use that. Another possibility I saw that integrates with RunKeeper, but I have not tried would be Fitness Tracker 90. 

The padding and material is actually the least worrisome. You can get new foam padding and a new vinyl cover and fasten it with staples. If the structure of the gym equipment is no longer sound, politely refuse to take it. It would be cheaper and safer to get new gym equipment than to restore that one. 

So here's the deal, just because the scale shows a higher number than normal doesn't mean you have gained all that as fat. In fact you might have a couple things working together to give you that 2-4kg swing from morning till evening. Yet, by morning your body has been able to process the undigested food, deal with the mild allergic reaction, build new muscle, etc. As a result the inflated number goes back down. I think the most common reason for scale swings throughout the day is the different levels of water retention. After a day of insufficient hydration and a lot of salty foods, I'm more bloated than after a day of plenty of water and more sane food choices. 

The shoulder is an amazingly complex joint that allows for a very wide range of motion. The point of the rotator cuff is to keep the ball joint in the middle of the shoulder girdle. It is a stabilizing muscle, not a primary mover. I think it's a big mistake to treat rehab exercises like you would strength exercises. When a physical therapist prescribes rehab exercises they do so with an attempt to restore the joint to normal operation. Increasing load on one of the exercises can make cause rehab to take longer as the stronger muscles tend to keep getting stronger and the weaker muscles tend to want to let them. When you are given the green light to resume regular exercise, make sure you are doing so with proper form. Also make sure your assistance exercises help you keep your shoulder joint sitting right where it's supposed to when you are at rest. 

In general, there is an inverse relationship between intensity and volume. In short, the heavier the weight, the fewer reps you will be able to lift with it. It does take less time to lift shorter sets (i.e. fewer reps per set). At the same time, your body does need a certain amount of volume to force it to adapt and get stronger. So managing the variables between rest and exercise is critical to getting stronger. Now that the groundwork for terminology is laid, is there anything special about the 1 hour mark? 

Biceps and Triceps are antagonist muscles. That means when one is the primary mover, the other simply lends stability. The concept that an exercise is for a particular muscle group simply means that the primary movers do most of the work. Because they are antagonist muscles the only thing that can hit them about the same is a static hold for time. Even then, depending on whether your arms are extended (triceps) or flexed (biceps), the majority of the work will still be one or the other. 

All things have to be taken in context, and understanding the target audience. Some compound movements like Squats and Deadlifts have a great anabolic effect, which puts the body in a place where it is more likely to put on muscle. Particularly beginners are best served focusing on compounds for both the strength and size considerations. However, that is not the end of the story, nor can it be. Goals of Your Training Your goals affect the type of training. They are paramount, as they help you determine what kind of a program and what exercises are necessary to achieve those goals. It also affects what type of results you want. 

Green tea does have caffeine, but not so much as to be particularly worrisome. However coffee does have a lot of caffeine. If we use the 16oz threshold from my personal experience, we'd be looking at 180-400mg caffeine daily. The equivalent mix would be 3-4 cups of green tea and one cup of bulletproof coffee. I would save the coffee as a pre-workout, and use the green tea throughout the day as you see fit. The important thing is that you don't overdo it, and scale back when you need to. I'm in excess of 250 lbs at the moment, so you may have to scale the total caffeine intake to account for differences in body mass. Long story short, you should be fine. 

Beginners can adapt with only three sets of work. The true purpose of the extra 2 sets on Strong Lifts is more practice while the weight is very light. SL promotes starting much lighter than you can lift. If you've never lifted before, you start at just the bar. If you have lifted before, you cut your current work weights in half. Intermediate Lifters can adapt weekly. However, the work volume needs to be varied throughout the week to enable new personal records (PRs). For example, Madcow Intermediate uses the first session as a volume phase doing 5x5 ramped sets. The second session has 4x5 ramped sets (on squats it's sets across for the top two sets) which allow for more recovery. On the last session of the week, you have 4x5 ramped sets, a top set of 3, and a backoff set of 8 for each of the main lifts. Advanced Lifters can adapt monthly. The work is usually varied throughout the weeks so that you have a volume phase, a transition phase, and an intensity phase. The volume phase primes the pump and really forces the adaptation. The transition phase is a bit of reduced volume to allow mid-cycle recovery. Finally, the intensity phase is where you set new PRs. The closer you get to your genetic potential (i.e. the more advanced you become), the finer the line is between training volume to induce change and the volume that induces over-training. That's why you have to pay attention to the overall training volume, other life stressors, and your mood. 

The answer depends on what your overall goals are, and what you are doing with your training. So, let's look at a couple of different people with different goals: Jack is a marathon runner. He runs for miles on end, and is into endurance. Jack needs to keep his electrolytes up, make sure he has carbs for energy. He still needs protein, but his muscles only need to be so strong, so his primary concern is energy. On the surface it sounds like Jack would benefit from a whole lot of milk, but he really only needs enough protein to maintain the muscle he has. Joe on the other hand is a power lifter. Joe is taxing his muscles pretty hard, and constantly increasing weights. Joe needs both a lot of protein and a lot of Calories because the process of building muscle burns more Calories than maintaining it. Additionally, those muscles need the energy to lift the heavy weights. There is also a very strong correlation between lifting heavier weights and more body weight. This is why things like the Wilks Coefficient exist, because a 140lb guy lifting 140lbs requires more effort than a 200lb guy lifting the same 140lb. That and the process of lifting weights burns a lot of Calories in a relatively short time. Joe is the guy who needs to be drinking lots of milk. Now, please understand that when Mark Rippetoe or any other weightlifter is recommending GOMAD (Gallon of Milk a Day), they are not recommending it for more than a month or two at a time. Drinking that much milk only works when you put in the effort at the gym. For long term sources of protein, as a weightlifter, look at: 

This is from the Stronglifts paper. Essentially, if you were doing 5x5, and your deload/stall progression is done, switch to 3x5. Then 1x5. Finally, to a new program. Now, there are some things you can do to keep the press moving forward: 

However, if you gain the bulk of your carbs from fruits, vegetables, legumes, and whole grains (like brown rice) you get more of everything. More micronutrients, more fiber, more satiety--i.e. keeps you full longer. NOTE: I'm avoiding the topic that some articles have discussed saying that whole grains have what are essentially anti-nutrients and remove micronutrients that your body needs. That would muddy the waters, and I personally believe that if you take multivitamins it will exceed the damage that those anti-nutrients can do. So are refined grains good or bad? Neither. They are amoral. If you're dietary requirements include 320g of carbohydrates a day (an example from my current diet), it really doesn't matter that 100g came from refined grains. It really only matters that you don't exceed the total goal for the day. The following are true: