Astrological readings. Astrology describe a moment of time with planet positions and the relation between them. For example, a moment of time can be described as follow: Mars in Aries, Mercury in Libra... conjuntion between Jupiter and Mars and Saturn in opposition to the Moon. Each combination might be unique. Neptune for example needs 165 years to make one orbit, so this kind of calendar can be used for a long period of time. 

Maybe your issue here is more a problem of weight and availability instead of a problem of health. A way to protect health would be a cyst around each zone with metal, so that might not be a problem. About the weight. Let's imagine we select iron (poor choice because it rusts, but just as an example). Iron density is close to 7800 kg/m3. So a plate of 5mm of iron (enough for your purpose) of 1 m3 would have a weight of 39.4 kg. Human skin has 2 m2 of surface, so you would need almost 80 kg of iron or its equivalent to cover the body. Other metals can be used, but the weight might be similar. Maybe your creature can keep those 80 kg extra. But here is the main issue: ¿From where that creature is going to absorb that amount of metal? ¿How that metal is going to form a crystal in absence of high temperature? After all, a plate of metal requires high temperature to be formed. Otherwise it would be only a bunch of separated atoms. Hence, what you need is a polymer or a compound instead of a pure metal. Something that can be synthetized at lower temperatures; natural examples are spider silk, tooth enamel, silk or lignin. 

They are currently treading water in the ocean about one hundred meters off-shore . A ton of trash, loose objects, and furniture that could serve as aids to flotation seem to have accompanied them in the transition. 

Unbeknownst to them, they have been instantaneously transported to another planet, perfectly earth-like (same/extremely similar flora/fauna, same size/gravity, same sun type, same moon type). There is absolutely zero chance of making contact with Earth, or returning (the planet is on the other side of the Milky Way, or in another galaxy altogether). So here's the question: How long does it take them to get out of this dire strait, onto dry land, and to develop a new social order/civilization? I'm looking for estimates with good reasoning behind them, taking into account the number of people, their 21st century knowledge, whether whatever items they happened to have in their pockets could play a significant role, as well as whatever you think may be important. The climate that they've appeared in is Mediterranean. The preferable unit for an answer would be generations, but feel free to give one in an actual time-unit as well if you think you can make a good case for it. This has been getting some great answers! Here's an edit to clarify some points: 

Apologies for the extremely weird title. Admittedly, it describes my question well. Now, I'm making a universe where humans have discovered the big secret to space travel. It's actually pretty simple; all you have to do is ████████. Who'd have thought? Now, the problem with easy space travel in a species with low lifespan is that terraforming takes too long. Humans don't wanna wait for stuff, so instead of letting our machines make the planet perfect, we have a tendency to settle when it's barely livable. That means that not all of the chemicals and stuff are out of the air, but there's nothing so toxic that it'd kill people very fast. With that in mind, what colors can the sky be if the atmosphere is breathable? For the sake of the question, please also assume that the gravity, temperature, etc. of the planet is also livable, with modern-day tech. High-altitude stuff is fine -- as long as people can live on the surface, I don't care. Space ships are airtight anyway. Bonus points if you make it snow- or cold-related. 

Under the assumption of no data loss during the transfer (due to any object in the transfer medium). Your system still has two problems. 

Low chances due to tectonics, because the crust that is lost by the movement of tectonic plates usually is the crust that is below the sea. The surface that covers continents might move or go up due tectonics, but almost never disappear. The worst case would be that the remnats are buried in a mountain like the Tibet or the Alps, but never below the sea. Yes by other force of nature. Like any other fossil, the remnants of your civilization might be convered by sediments and later on turn into stone or leave their mark in the stone. 

I'm writing a story, based vaguely off of the Stars Without Number system. There are lots of things bugging me, but by far the biggest issue is this: the military contractors and bounty hunters and the like are all congregating in the war-torn areas, waiting to be hired, instead of relaxing in luxury, waiting to be called. There's mostly reliable, long-distance superluminal communication, but only in the sense that you can put a message on a ship (or into the ship's computers) and have that ship carry it, mostly reliably, between systems. How can I explain why PMCs would do anything but stay at home, waiting to be hired to fight? 

Imagine you had a flat earth scenario, in which the world is essentially a giant disc floating in space (I know that in reality any such world would be pulled into a sphere by gravity, but for the sake of the question assume that gravity just pulls "down" instead of towards the center of mass). Now direct your attention to the edge of the disc: without something to stop them, all of the air is just going to pour over it, leaving the planet incapable of supporting life. What measures could be taken to prevent that from happening? One thing I've thought of is placing giant mountains along the entire rim, tall enough to hold in the whole atmosphere, but I'm interested in whether there are any other passive solutions that would work in the real world (ie, no magic or teleportation). EDIT: A recurring question seems to be "why wouldn't the Earth and everything on it be falling at an equal speed?" Let's hand-wave it away by saying that the Earth is already at the "bottom" of the universe, and so cannot fall any further. Things on the top, however, can still slide, jump, or fall off and then descend through space until they reach the "bottom" too. Arbitrary, yes, but I think it allows us to focus more on the question itself: how do we keep the atmosphere on top of the flat surface, besides adding huge mountains around the edges? 

It could have been the same but with a different religion. In case that Christianity did not develop, another religion would have taken its place, after all Roman religion was weak during the end of the empire. For example, manicheism might have replaced Christianity during its early stages, or Islam in the latter. Since United State was colonized by people who was running from religion persecution in England, in your alternate history the founding fathers could be shiites minorities while in England most people are Sunni. Judaism probably would be the same, because judaism is inherit, hence is more difficult to convert people from other religions to judaism. 

A volcano eruption might add enough dust to cover the view of the stars and rings. It will also reduce the sunlight if the dust eclipses the sun. The dust does not need to cover the whole sky, because the winds might move the dust to cover only the view to the rings. 

If you think I forgot to mention something, feel free to mention it below. Now, my question is this: How did the zombies win? You'd think that humanity would have pretty quickly organized an army and killed the zombies easily, given that we can do things like climb ladders and drive tanks and they can't. What happened? 

I'm writing an autobiography of my life in the post-Zed world. Now, I think the effects of the Zeds have been obvious – total obliteration of any worldwide infrastructure, severe depopulation, turning most or all major cities and even smaller ones into zombie-ridden hellscapes. Nowadays, any area with a population over fifty is either very well cleared or doomed. Now, when the zombies emerged and conquered the world, I wasn't there; I was on a small island in the Pacific, starving to death. I only saw the aftermath from after a few months had passed, with zombies still covering the planet and only scattered enclaves. What I do know is this: 

Probably the subject would be already dead by a fungal infection. In case the subject is still alive: 

It would be plausible for communication only in absence of verbal language and (maybe) facial expressions. Since humans have language and no-verbal communication (posture, tone, volume of voice, facial expression), there is no need of another communication system. Facial expression in your case is not needed, because bio-luminescence develops in darkness. It would be plausible for attraction. But this kind of solution for attraction usually happens only in enviroments with abundant resources (darkness isn't a place with abundant resources), where a species can waste effort for attraction. That is why birds in jungles are more colorful than birds in tundra.