The fact that humans can act "irrational" doesn't necessarily mean that they aren't rationally explicable. In fact neuroscience is trying to do exactly that. I think if you'd distinguish between "rationally explicable" and "acting rational", your question would dissolve. 

This is not a question about the cogito argument in the closer sense. I will try to isolate my questions from the other questions posted concerning Descartes. If I understood what I've read correctly, Descartes claims that what he knows clearly and distinctly is true as it can't be any differently. That's true for the cogito, and, let's assume for argument's sake, also for the ergo sum. Now I read in the Cambridge Companion to Descartes (online available here) that apparently this ergo is no syllogism but an intuition as basic as the cogito itself. My early assumption, namely that Descartes uses logic to infer the ergo sum though he didn't prove logic's truthfulness yet, is thereby rebutted. But what about inuition? A quote from the Cambridge Companion (p.147): 

Isn't that rather what an email is/does? Transporting untranslated information from A to B, exactly the way the information was inputted? But that's exactly the point Searle makes with his analogy - the man who doesn't speak Chinese but actually acts (considering only the outcome of his actions) as if he did, because he has a book of rules that tell him how to. If I'm not missing out anything, then your analogy lacks very important premises/assumptions. I should add that I know pretty much nothing about how computers work, but I spent some time on that chapter (meaning to say I am only talking about Searle's argument, not about computers in general.) 

My new term brings new questions, this time concerning Kant's "Perpetual Peace" (you can read most of it here). The preliminary articles can be differentiated: All of them are prohibitive rules, but some (1,5 and 6) are "strictly valid without regard to circumstances". The other ones are permissive laws. It is these that got my attention. As Kant writes, these leges latae (preliminary articles 2,3 and 4) "may be legitimately put off". Why does Kant establish the permission law? How can there be a law (especially in Kant's theory) that doesn't claim universal validity in absolutely every case? How can there be a "may" in Kant's moral theory, and even more, how can it be called a law? Why is it needed? Is it a logical need or rather a pragmatic, "timeserving" one (to explain why some changes do not have to be made right away)? And why does it exist in the natural law, but not in ethics? 

The compulsion of the others to enter into a state of civil law can be violent. What we see is this: There is a prohibitive rule to use violence in general, but there is a permissive law that allows violence in certain circumstances, namely for the erection of the state, a legal constitution. It is similar for states which, between themselves, act as individuals. As long as there is no international constitution, individual states are "in the state of nature". To overcome this state and to constitutionalise their interactions, certain otherwise prohibited acts become temporarily permitted. Every thought in this book serves one purpose: the creation of a legal condition between states. It is Kant's philosophy of law on a higher level all over again. This is also why we don't find the permissive law in ethics. 

Your question was "Since quiddity is the essence of a being, by which two existing things are distinguished, how can it actually precede existence"? The answer is: It doesn't, you got confused by terms. It's the other way around: Existence (ontologically) precedes essence. That is because its contingent existence is dependent on the derivation from god. 

I already highlighted what I'm aiming at: Even if Descartes doesn't need logic to work before he can actually prove that it does, even if he can "reduce" the ergo sum to a basic intuition - isn't he getting ahead of the argument, relying on the natural light of a non-deceiving god, although it's not before the 3. meditation that he actually proves that there is a god and that he is no deceiver? In other words: If he has not yet proven that it is impossible that the "natural light" we rely on in our knowledge is sent by a deceiving or evil entity, can any step after the cogito be called necessarily true? To underline the importance of god for knowledge, let me quote one more passage (p.151): 

I think Rousseau meant to say that the government can't expand and stay the same government. Of course there can be a general development towards democracy, Rousseau himself promoted democracy after all, though not for all kinds of republics (Geneva was a tiny one). As you I am not an expert in history, but I can't imagine that Rousseau made a counterfactual argument, having observed the rise and fall of more then one government (Europe was in flux). I'd say the argument is, as you lined out, meaning to say that governments must end (or be ended) before "it can pass from the few to the many". 

As to be free means to follow one's own rational principles, only the individual living in a civil society with rational laws (i.e. laws the individual would agree with) can be called free. As Kant advocated a republican constitution, not a democracy, how would the sovereign or the government know about what laws the free citizen of the state would agree to? Kant "invents" a touchstone to answer that question, the touchstone of Publicity, again in the Perpetual Peace (Appendix II, note that there is a strong resemblance to the categorical imperative in the formulation and the universal demand): 

I found a paper on jstor, titled Kant and the Right of Revolution that seems promising; also, there is a very concise explanation of Kant's notion of Rebellion and Revolution in the SEP. 

I don't think there is. Let me unwrap that a bit: First, there is not one book by Kant himself that touches upon all the topics he wrote about. He was very very strict about keeping different matters apart, so every book has its own matter, and one of them can't serve as an introduction to other ones, at least not consistently, and that's second: Kant didn't know everything he wrote down when he started - many of his pre-critical writings were later dismissed, and the practical writings often disagree in certain aspects. The Critique of Pure Reason was meant to be an "introduction" - Kant wanted to write the Metaphysics of Morals but noticed that he had to do all the groundwork first. But starting with the Critique seems to be a bad idea. If you really want an introduction into Kant, as a whole system, I would absolutely recommend reading secondary literature. If not, start with the Prolegomena and the Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals. 

Xodarap and volkerjaan already made some good points in their answers, however I am not convinced yet. My suggestion: You don't necessarily need the others to be 'real humans' to make a moral choice. But let's not forget Xodarap's argument that there is at least a chance that they are. You said you practice some kind of utilitarianism. That would not make any sense if there were no other interests but yours, there would be no calculus then. Now the preference utilitarianism suggests an "equal consideration of interests" of all beings, not only humans, because pain and suffering are bad, regardless of your species etc. The calculus computes the optimal fulfilment of all these preferences. This would be reason enough not to run around and shoot the un-real humans in the head. But this might not suffice, because how do we know that the empty human shells have preferences, and even if they do, it might be preferences as "not getting my system stopped, e.g. by getting shot in the head", but not "I want to be considered an equal being". This might be an indication that the consequentialist standpoint can't help solve this problem. To solve the utilitarian calculus, you have to know the facts (and pretty much all of them, which is in itself problematic). If you don't know what is going on in the humans around you, how can you evaluate their right to having their preferences considered? I'd say: utilitarianism can't solve this problem. No matter how you'd act in relation to your fellow humans, it would be a wager. We have to make the assumption that they are like us before we decide to consider their interests at all. We should maybe try another concept. My assumption is that the question "since we cant know if other people exist why should morality not revolve only around myself?" is easily answered with Kant. Why? Because what "good" and "moral" is does not depend on your or anybody's interests. Because we don't even have to consider other human beings but ourself to be bound to do justice. You don't have to act morally in regard to these others because they may or may not be real humans, or because even if they aren't, they might be sad if you don't, but because this is the only way for you to be just. This is the point I already saw in volkerjaan's answer. You don't to good for others, but for yourself. This is not constraint, but freedom. That's the answer - what's best is best for you!