Ajahn Sucitto, in his travelogue, Rude Awakenings, also mentions putting out a small quantity of food for some creature before starting his own meal. 

Huh??!! Only Eastern Buddhists and Protestants in the American South? Have you looked around "Western" Buddhist Centers in North America? Here is an article about the overwhelming whiteness of American Buddhist Centers Here is one about the decades-late recognition of it and some attempts finally being made to rectify... A report at pluralism.org which says "People of color are negotiating spaces within predominantly European American sanghas (Buddhist communities)." I guess problems are easily seen everywhere except in one's own backyard. 

guṇa also has two other meanings, besides string. One is "quality" and another is "to multiply". Most translators choose the "strings that bind" meaning, but it's been noted that these other two meanings also aren't unreasonable in this context - namely "proliferation resulting from the senses" (from the multiply meaning) and simply "the five sensual qualities". 

Marrying within the family was common in many parts of the ancient world, especially among royalty. The Buddha’s family was no exception. Yasodharā (who married Siddhārtha who went on to become the Buddha) and Devadatta were children of Suppabuddha. Suppabuddha was Siddhārtha’s uncle, being the brother of the sisters Māya (Siddhartha’s birth mother) and Pajāpatī ( his stepmother who actually raised him after Māya died at childbirth ). So Devadatta was the Buddha’s cousin, brother-in-law, playmate/rival while growing up, follower and ordained student after Siddhartha was enlightened, an important leader in the Sangha*, a causer of a schism in the Sangha, a would-be plotter of his death. A complex figure who has been caricatured and narrowed down in the eagerness to paint everybody as either hero or villain. A book that discusses this is Buddhist Saints of India by Reginald Ray 1994. As an aside, it was said that Devadatta’s father, Suppabuddha also was pretty antagonistic towards the Buddha, first because of anger that he had abandoned his beloved daughter to go forth as a samaṇa and later also on account of tensions that his son had with the Buddha. 

This is a beautiful question, because it's not only about the spiritual aspect of life, but about living a spiritual life -- where your practice and your daily life are not separate. There is that beautiful adage, "the finger that points to the moon is not the moon," which seems specially relevant to your query. Our minds can be harnessed like a magnifying glass into understanding phenomena. Since all phenomena share certain characteristics, by deeply understanding a fragment we can understand the whole. The key is knowing where to look, what to focus on. This is why oral teachings and scriptural knowledge are so important, especially in any serious practice of the Buddha's teachings. We get our bearings, a basic "map with landmarks" that we can use to find our way around. Language can be viewed a few ways; mainly as an expression of life, and also as a tool which we can use to help one another. Ultimately, as you say, it is like a reflection. The "mirror of mind" can become apparent with steady practice and rigorous reflection. A good analogy to the words or language, the oral instructions that make this understanding possible might be: a key, or fine tuning, or two magnetized ends finally coalescing. The words and teachings help unlock truth, which can be understood, and whereafter -- as you have said -- the words themselves seem hollow or insignificant in comparison to the actual experience of understanding. That said, we must always be thankful for our stepping stones. You can climb up a ladder and see the view from the mountain top, which doesn't render the ladder useless, but if your truth was "ladder ladder ladder" and now it's "whoa! check out the view!" there can be a sense of disparity. The truth is, all the teachings are skillful means for realizing the ultimate nature of reality -- actualizing an understanding that is beyond description. Buddha called it the deathless, among other descriptions, and although study and understanding of the words is very important, the actual experience is the intention. Back to your question, ultimately the three Reality, Experience, and Information are inseparable. It may appear that the cliff and the sky are separate, but there is no gap in their continuity. 

My person was not so avaliable here, those days. Here maybe some helpful links and inspirations, Mr/Mrs Uhoh. The great buddhist ancestor festival - share ways of your country, tradition It, if researching, has next to in every country it's long time till current tradition and is not that much connected with religions direct in it's performences. Such as a hell-door story, king and monks, is also base of the culture here in the country of the Khmers. 

So don't be touched on common ground when "I have seen on internet" might call into quest. It' not yours. 

This work, which might give a notion, might be a useful inspiration to "see and realize for oneself": 

Neither such as Buddhism nor such as Hinduism do approach anything or have views, people have, and they have as much different views as there are people, of corse. Maybe this short quote helps in general to do not lose what is called proper attention: 

Likewise the "mental" (process, if liking to make such a differenciation, since it requires always both. the is no such as a rupa-process, and a nama-process), "Beginner". It's, if not gained Awakening, an ongoing becoming and decay of nama (mentality) and rupa (item/object/matter), an "endless" process of "self" becoming and decay, caused by craving and ignorance, since a long, long time. (Becomming of) Atta, (the grasp) does/is not end with the death of what ever body (rupa), from one atta to another atta. Moment for moment, life for life, as long as not see the stream as it is Timsa [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gain.) 

Breath, and those interested (in possible release), when ever there is the knowledge or assumption, that "living being", it would require to accept the destruction of life, if then (not knowing as it is) take on to destruct, call for it, or accept. To tend to one speculation requires to deny the other possibility, once arosen. Once such a serious thought of "it could be..." is arosen, it would be unskillful to simply deny it unproved and act on it. It falls then quick under what is called "deliberate" act. Even if it would then show that there was no life in it, "luckily", the acceptance before, is unskillful kamma, yet not a break of precept. So the wise way is always, if in doubt, to handle it as if, and not to deny it out of certain personal reasons, at least most unskillful. "Please" be clear that intention is something very close to the act it self and not a far purpose. One literary sample would be the burning down of a forest, jet accepting even if humans are inside, that they would die, as one story where a monk caused a downfall - transgression. (See Pārājika discussion) To tell somebody "there is no life in it" without directly knowing, would transgress (aside of possible purpose to even have something killed) the precept of "speaking what is not true". At least, in regard of the question: the modern and by certain sects used "sentient" is not a messure, since such leads to all kind of speculations. "Living", in what ever way and state is to be taken as messure. 

Please don’t reply with references to what is implied and what is common sense etc. I know that. The question is specific to whether there is a prohibition in the letter of the monastic code. While the 5 lay precepts do guide against harsh speech, no prohibition on a lay person silently beating someone either. This is also not lost on me, so it’s not really useful to point out that “what about the lay precepts?” . The question is regarding the Vinaya in its role as community rules, not as guidelines for wholesome personal behaviour. 

This question is more broad than monks and monasteries. Just because they focus solely on meditation does not mean that everyone else is involved in addressing injustices... so, let me just slightly change your question to "how can one sit and meditate while..." Where does all the suffering in the world come from? Anyone who inflicted any suffering on a human being or an animal - wasn't it something in their minds that caused them to do that? Isn't the addressing of those causes in the minds critical to the lessening of suffering? From the perspective of the one suffering - one can see quite quickly that the mind plays a huge role in interpreting events that happen. The sole difference between a painful event and something that happened and got taken in the stride, is the mind. These two aspects taken together, argue strongly for mind training as the single biggest tool to counter suffering. But...one may ask "How is working on my own mind helping anything? A is causing suffering to B. If anything, it's their minds that should be trained, not mine. My job is to fight A and save B". Anyone who sits in meditation knows pretty soon that one has little control over one's own mind, let alone on anyone else's. At least, with one's own, there is some chance of influencing it. And why does that matter? Because we ourselves become A or B in situation after situation, many times a day (if we are mindful enough to notice that). Hard as it is to admit that I am an inflictor, it is easy enough to see that on the other hand, every inflictor is an "I". It is a fallacy to think that some people are of a different type (evil) and the rest of us are not. It is just the same type of mind, having been conditioned by different circumstances, which acts out differently. It is rare that one does harm for the sake of it. It is far more common that one just seeks what one desires and acts in a way that doesn't care about what happens to anyone else because of that. That includes some of the most heinous crimes in history like slavery and various kinds of exploitation happening up until today. Are we aware of how, in the pursuit of convenience, fun and pleasure we ourselves cause harm without meaning to? Plantation owners in the American South and farmers under apartheid were just "trying to work the land..." right? The brutalities committed in Africa and elsewhere were just to "help industries back home in Europe by finding them resources", right? Or perhaps it was even the noble cause of "scientific and technological advancement of society back home". Until recently, we thought we were just driving to and from everywhere, having fun and convenience, enjoying the freedom of the road, not hurting anyone at all until having to face the catastrophic effect on the climate. Think my choices of buying and consuming something has no effect on human and animal suffering? I need to think again! So the mind, even of "us innocents who aren't hurting anyone" could use a lot of examination and cultivation. This is not to say that one should not do anything externally to help anything. By all means. But while doing so, no need to come to it from a place of anger and agitation towards anyone. We can work towards goals but not neglect what is happening with the mind. Also not to say that protest and activism don’t have their place, but it is a huge mistake to think that focusing on the mind is not one of the most powerful tools at our disposal. If you don't believe that, try this experiment - every time we ask "how can I deal with this person at work/school who is being a _____?" Also ask yourself "how can I make sure I'm not myself being like that person?", see what in the mind is causing such behavior from oneself. And see the magical effect this has on the environment around you after a period of time. Quite a different thing from taking refuge in identity ("they" are bad ones) instead of seeing what one can do on one's own end. There is also something odd about asking this about monks and meditation alone - as if it is the sole alternative to human rights work or even remotely a factor in the causing of suffering? One can ask the same about a whole lot of other things - "how can someone watch TV while so many people are suffering?". Or going to the movies, or a bar or studying mathematics or philosophy, doing photography, sleeping in on a weekend, going on a trip with friends, playing with your children.. do people do all this because they "don't have a heart"? As for monks...every field benefits from people who do it full time. Monks are those "pros" in the context of cultivating the mind. So if you can grok the value of mind work, such a question would not arise about monks. Finally, I might add, it was precisely with the goal of reducing human suffering that the Buddha chose to go forth and search, and then to teach the path he found to others - not in disregard of it. 

Not for all practicioner, especially for householder, asubha or reflecting on "demotivating" things are useful to walk on in higher states. Making merits bring joy, joy is the fundation for benefical concentration. Therefor one should seek for company of people delight in making merits, sharing merits and invite. Less are the possibilities for doing such, so be not lazy and do joyful sacrifies. They are the foundation for a benefical practice and the great field of merits has just one purpose, giving people the possibility. See: Ten Ways of Making Merits 

(Of course many do not see that they just put the lable of Buddha Dhamma around gross wrong view.) This is actuallynothing seldom. We find that much under modern Zen-follower, Bodhisatva strivers and in many other secualar approaches where householder are trained in "householder"-equanimity, meditation, but their basic right view and virtue not firm. Where as the Uposatha of the "cowboys" still has an opening to the path, even if it is mostly just for mundane merits done, the Uposatha of the Jains cuts one easy of the path and closes all access. Not to speak about the effects on many, when teaching but denying mundane right view, saying somehow "thats kindergarden"-Dhamma. 

Paths to benevolence - Dr. Hecker Generally my person likes to tell you straight forward that popular Vipassana is really useless if not having trained or train the basics. My person knows less, came across less people who as lay people practicing Vipassana and have actually gained anything benefical for a long therm benefit. Generally most of them are more worse as people having not done because they usually terrible overestimete themselves and apply the certain skills for wordily interests. So one is wise to step onto the path in a humble step by step way as well. When time and kammic prerequisites are right, when all moves on a "rightous" level, fruits can be expected. It's needed to do the raw stuff first. No areas are more unvirtuose, unpleasant, wordily, political and violent as those where "Vipassana-Freaks" dwell (especially layman leaded, but also where monks make their livelihood in teaching such to those not prepared actually). [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

Really? The shining of the sun is happening naturally without the need for a "shiner" Where does cognizing happen? Or even better, if you drink a cup of tea, where is the drinker? Is the drinker in the hand? In the tea? In the cup? Buddha Shakyamuni taught that there is no independent, lasting self, which is what selflessness alludes to from the perspective of pure wisdom. The fact is, even a single action by a single person requires the rest of the universe to come into alignment at all. Now, when coming to consider our very personal and intimate experience of the world, we find that we all have proclivities, patterns, and pathways or courses through life that are distinct and fairly individual. However, all beings wish for freedom from pain and discomfort, and yearn for bliss and happiness, we all just go about it in ways that may be contrary to our goals, and the Buddha taught true causes, true effects, true pathways to where we want to go. One of the contemplations taught by the Buddha was the contemplation of selflessness. Without faith, it is not possible (in my limited perspective and ignoramus opinion) to realize selflessness. With doubt we can sharpen our perception and acumen to a degree, but when one sits down to try and realize truths that were illuminated by the Lion of Speech (another pet name for the Buddha), doubt is a huge obstacle. So rather than doubt whether or not selflessness is true, we can doubt the notion of a self. We can investigate: if there is a self, where does it dwell? Does it dwell in the body, does it dwell in the mind? Is it the same as the body? Is it the same as the mind? When your attention is focused on a sound or on a flavor or on a taste, would this experiencing be a Self? What happens when the experience dissolves or the rest of the cosmos transitions. Where did this "lasting self" go? Was it ever actually there? We may be fooled and think selflessness means that we have no agency or power in the universe, but it is precisely because identity is not a static thing that we can grow and make our way towards Awakening. So consider with any phenomenon: where is its self nature. Does it perhaps come into being based on all the phenomena around it? Does this computer exist in the way we think it to, or does it arise due to the circumstances and all the parts and intentions coming together? anatman may be translated as selflessness or identitylessness and both terms are great for meditating. If they are difficult to accept as truth or reality, then we must contemplate them over and over and ask questions. Finally, when we have faith that there is no alternative to all forms of existence exhibiting the (three) marks of existence [selflessness/identitylessness being one of the three marks] then we can sit down to meditate with great faith and inspiration and gratitude to the Buddhas. 

Simply focus on what is skilfully and unskilfully, making clear that one not acting skilful by himself can not be easy a place to relay on, find out by yourself what leads to longterm happiness while searching for approve from the wise and then, end your teaching, after indroducing to the Brahma-Viharas, like him: 

There have been ... prostitutes who realised the Dhamma quick, as they possible do today, if coming proper in touch. Of the two trader, one of his/her body (kaya) and one of the Dhammakaya (body of the teachings), the second is seen as to be real nurishing much suffering and demerits for many. One might know the joy and beneft if getting certain things free and without being not genuine and strings binding on the world. The business of prostitution is how ever, in most Buddhist countries and people there by large not so negatively discriminated like in monotheistic countries. There is still a more "liberal" view, just another kind of trade. This liberality in that regard is displayed by the Buddha and followed correct in the quoted sutta. 

The same is within the practice itself. If we have a wrong understanding of anicca, it's actally aversion and we might cut us of to walk further on the path. Let my person note in general: Better to try to gain skills next holding all other things would be to sacrify times to just serve and spend time next and near a contemplative. It's not easy to get it right in a "fast-food-way". [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

All of the possibility to gain such a teacher is by the seeker at least, or let my person say be being touched, good or bad, comes it's way. How it happens, that a person gain Dhamma, enters the stream, is sure best explained by the Buddha himself as reported: