The answer would be yes. As the planet orbits its star that orbits the center of the galaxy, the planet and its star could enter a nebula and pass through that nebula for thousands or millions of years and then emerge on the other side of the nebula. And then, after making a full orbit around the galaxy lasting for maybe two hundred million years, the star and its planet might reenter the nebula again if the nebula was still there. Of course entering the nebula every 200,000,000 years is not exactly like having a regular "nebula season" every year, but at least it is possible. Exoplanet GU Piscum b orbits GU Piscum at a distance of about 2,000 astronomical units and thus the opposite sides of its orbit are separated by a distance of about 4,000 astronomical units. An astronomical unit is the distance between Earth and the Sun. Thus a planet with such a wide orbit as GU Piscum b could travel about 2,000 times farther into and out of a nebula's borders than a planet with Earth's orbit could. I don't know if a nebula would have border sharp enough for that to make a difference. Of course a planet with such a wide orbit would probably be many, many times as far from GU Piscum as the outer limits of GU Piscum's habitable zone, so unless there is a very exotic and alien type of life on that very cold planet there would nobody to notice the nebula seasons. Of course there could be something like a brown dwarf star orbiting a star at a distance of 2,000 Astronomical units and there could be a habitable planet orbiting the brown dwarf very closely, close enough to be heated to a habitable temperature. Of course the year of GU Piscum b is calculated to last about 163,000 Earth years, so the natives would probably not live long enough to notice nebula seasons. Among the smallest known nebula types are planetary nebulae, emitted by stars during a certain brief phase of their lives. At any one moment there will be only one planetary nebula for millions of stars. Planetary nebulae are about a light year in diameter, and thus about 63,241.077 Astronomical units wide. So even if a planetary nebula has a relatively sharp border, a planet of a star right at the border of the nebula, with an orbit only a couple of thousand astronomical units wide, probably isn't going to take travel into very much denser or thinner regions of the nebula. Furthermore, most nebulae are much thinner than the thinnest vacuums which can be produced on Earth. Astronomical photographs of nebulae are taken with long exposures many thousands of times longer than the time it takes for a human eye to see successive images. Thus nebulae look bright and opaque in photographs but look pale and translucent when seen through telescopes. So the sky probably wouldn't look much different when a planet was deep inside a nebula than when the planet was outside the nebula, and people on even the widest orbiting planet wouldn't live thousands of years to notice what little difference there was. 

Since there are other independent realms bordering the confederation in the original question, the confederation might change into a more centralized system, possibly an empire, for reasons of better managing the economy and for being stronger in dealings with outside governments, just as the United States of American found the Articles of Confederation inadequate and so adopted the Constitution. 

Some may imagine that those lamps were magical, others that they were technological. Thus it is possible that Dwarves had technological artificial lighting to grow plants under the mountains in the greatest fantasy of all. In my answer to this question Giving Tolkien Architecture a Reality Check: Dwarvish Kingdoms I discussed how much underground room the Dwarves would need to grow their own food. 5) A fifth possibility is that the Dwarves are able to synthesize honey from basic ingredients using magic and/or chemical science. 6) According to Tolkien, Dwarves often traded their goods to others for most of their food and didn't produce much of their food. Thus they must have had a lot of trade with other species and realms and importing honey and/or mead would not add a lot to their trade. Mike Scott's comment is quite on the mark. 7) Andon is right about letting bees forage outside. "leave a door open and hope the bees come back" is not a big leap of faith. If the hives are in the dwarf city the worker bees will come back. 8) And maybe fantasy writers just like to write about Dwarves drinking mead without knowing the ingredients of mead or thinking about how the Dwarves obtain mead. 

Animals and plants mutate all the time, at a slow rate. You and everyone else are mutants, since each and everyone of your genes has been mutated as humans evolved. So radioactivity from a nuclear war might cause a slightly higher mutation rate in animal and plant species. Since most mutations are damaging, most mutated animals and plants would die fast and mutations would not accumulate very fast. So people would notice a lot of plants and animal species going extinct from the effects of the nuclear war, but probably wouldn't notice an increase in mutations despite expecting to see it. 

There is no need to have rebellious nobles declare themselves kings when the empire weakens, though that happened in a number of cases. it is quite possible to normally have kingdoms within the empire. In history there are many examples of dependent kingdoms, maybe more than independent kingdoms. In the 19th and early 20th centuries newly independent European countries became kingdoms, and thus it became usual to think of a king as the sovereign of an independent country. Many people would said that since today only 32 independent sovereign states are kingdoms (16 of them with Elizabeth II as their queen), there are only 16 kings in the world today. But that is not entirely accurate. For example, the head of state of the United Arab Emirates is a president. But the country consists of seven emirates ruled by hereditary emirs who form the ruling council. The president and the prime minister are elected by the council, but the Emir of Abu Dhabi has always been elected president and the Emir of Dubai has always been elected prime minister. So some people would count the emirs in the UAE as sort of kings within a federation of kingdoms. Malaysia consists of 13 states and 3 territories. Nine of the states are monarchies, with one raja, seven sultans, and one Yang di-Pertuan Besar as heads of state. The nine monarchs elect the head of state of Malaysia, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, from among themselves for a five year term, but by agreement the position is rotated from sultan to sultan in a predetermined order. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong is often called the king, but it makes as much sense to call him the king of kings and the monarchs of the states kings. Wikipedia has a list of current constituent monarchs, hereditary heads of state of groups within various countries. 

WARNING! MANY POSSIBLE ANSWERS ARE DEADLY DANGEROUS TO THE NATIVES OF YOUR PLANET AND COULD WIPE THEM OUT! You will want to select answers that don't threaten to kill off the natives of the planet. That means a lack of drastic changes in the amount of radiation the planet receives from the sun. The planet's axis of rotation will probably be tilted away from exactly right angles to the plane of its orbit. That will give the planet seasons like Earth has - Earth's axis is tilted 23 degrees from exactly a right angle to the plane of its orbit. Thus at different seasons the sunlight hits a spot on Earth at different angles and with different intensities, resulting in different temperatures. Even though the amount of sunlight reaching Earth is almost exactly the same year round, Earth's axial tilt causes drastic seasonal temperature changes in various parts of Earth. In temperate and arctic regions the temperature changes with the seasons are drastic enough that plant and animals life and humans have to adapt to it in order to survive. The severity of your planet's seasonal temperature changes will depend on its axial tilt which you have not specified. If the planet's sun was significantly variable the temperature changes added to the seasonal temperature changes could wipe out all life. If the planet's orbit around it's sun was significantly elliptical instead of almost circular the temperature changes added to the seasonal temperature changes could wipe out all life. Volcanic eruptions could change the appearance of the planet's sun drastically as they often have on Earth. They have often caused widespread crop failures and famines and one tens of thousands of years ago might have killed almost every human alive at the time. Even larger and deadlier eruptions are in the geological record. Stars suitable for having habitable planets are all main sequence stars and have a relatively small range of mass and luminosity. I suggest that you try something less drastic than most of the suggestions. The eyes of the natives may be more sensitive to bright light than human eyes. Maybe they are usually active at night, and don't go out in the day more than humans go out a night. Thus they don't get good looks at the blinding sun even as much as humans do. When they go out in the day, they notice the position of the sun from the length and direction of shadows. And the sun could "change shape", and thus the shape of its shadow, if it was a double star. The planet could orbit around both stars if it was several times as far from the two stars as the separation between them. The stars would probably orbit each other with a period of a few Earth days, while the orbit of the planet around them might equal a few Earth months to a few Earth years. So over a period of Earth days or weeks, the stars would appear to move apart to a distance of maybe ten or twenty degrees of arc, and then get closer together until they passed each other and grew apart on the other side, and then came back together. And their shadows, which the natives could see, would do the same, pointing farther apart as the stars grew farther apart, and moving closer together as the stars got closer together. And maybe the planet's atmosphere would periodically change, and fill with light scattering particles, dimming the apparent brightness of the suns so the natives could look directly at them and see that they were 2 balls of light and how they moved relative to each other. Or maybe it is the opposite. Maybe the natives are active in the day, and the atmosphere is normally so overcast that they can't see the suns, merely a blob of slightly more intense light that periodically gets wider and narrower. And perhaps there is a periodic changes in the atmosphere that make it less overcast and enables them to see the two stars clearly. Another possibility is having a star that is slightly - repeat slightly - variable and a planetary orbit that is slightly - repeat slightly - elliptical, and both the variability and the orbit have the same period. So either 1) the star is brighter when the planet is closer to it, and thus the two causes of temperature differences will reinforce one another, or 2) the star is brighter when the planet is father from it, and thus the two causes of temperature difference should almost cancel each other out. And if the star's period of variability and the planet's orbit period are not exactly the same, the planet's situation will gradually change from 1) to an intermediate condition and then to 2) and back again. 

1) A possibility to make a planet less tidally locked would be libration. Luna, the Moon, has libration that makes it seem to wobble very slightly as it orbits the Earth. Tidal locking means that the period that the Moon takes to revolve or orbit 360 degrees around the Earth is exactly the same as the period it takes the moon to rotate 360 degrees. So one side of the Moon always faces the Earth and one side always faces away from the Earth. This is because the average orbital speed and the average rotation speed of the Moon are identical. But the speeds at any particilar moment are not exactly identical. The orbits of all astronomical objects are elliptical and thus deviate more or less from perfectly circular orbits. Thus objects speed up and slow down as they orbit other objects. So the Moon sometimes travels faster and sometime slower than it's average orbital speed. But the Moon cannot speed up or slow down its rotation, it has to always rotate at its average rotation speed. So a total of 59 percent of the Lunar surface is visible from Earth, instead of fifty percent. So if your planet orbited its sun in exactly 3 Earth days or 72 Earth hours, it would orbit at an average rate of 120 degrees per Earth day or 5 degrees per Earth hour. And if tidally locked it would rotate at exactly 120 degrees per Earth day or 5 degrees per Earth hour. And if the planet's orbit is highly eccentric the planet's variable orbital speed would sometimes be faster or slower than it's exact rotation rate, thus making for a lot of libration and for a lot more than 59 percent of the planet's surface to sometimes be in daylight. In our solar system the planet Mercury has an orbital eccentricity of 0.2563 and is 1.5177 times farther from the Sun at Aphelion distance than at Perihelion distance. If Mercury was tidally locked to the Sun its libration would be 23.65 degrees due to its eccentric orbit. $URL$ Orbital period of a tidally-locked Earth-like planet around a red dwarf2 Of course the same tidal forces that would tend to lock the planet's rotation would also tend to make its orbit more and more circular with time. 2) Maybe, like Mercury, its orbit and rotation might become locked in a 2:3 resonance. Mercury has an orbital period or year that is 87.9691 Earth days long. It has a rotation period relative to distant stars (or sidereal day) 56.646 Earth days long. That means that it's solar day, it's day relative to the sun, is two Mercurian years, or about 176 Earth days long. If another solar system had a much smaller scale version of Mercury's orbit and rotation, each might be, for example, one twentieth as long as that of Mercury. The hypothetical planet could have an orbital period or year that is 4.398 Earth days long, with a rotational period period relative to distant stars (or sidereal day) of 2.8323 Earth days. That means that it's solar day, it's day relative to its sun, would two of its years, or about 8.796 Earth days long. So divide those figures by three to get a year 1.442 Earth days long, a sidereal day 0.9441 Earth days long, and a solar day 2.932 Earth days, or 70.368 Earth hours, long. Can a star have such a close habitable zone that a planet would have a year only 1.442 Earth days, or 34.608 Earth hours, long? Here is a discussion of distances of habitable planets from their stars: How far away does a planet need to be from its star to have Earth-like conditions?3 Apparently K3-137b has the shortest known year of any know exoplanet, 4.31 hours, orbiting a red dwarf - except that PSR J1719-1438 orbits a pulsar every 2.2 hours. But they are not listed as potentially habitable planets. The list of known exoplanets in the conservative habitable zone includes ones with years 12.4, 9.2, 6.1, and 4.05 Earth days long. They orbit TRAPPIST-1, a M8V type star. I don't know if a M9V typed star could be enough dimmer to have a planet orbiting it in the habitable zone with a year as short as 1.442 Earth days. For a solar day 100 Earth hours long, a habitable planet with Mercury-like resonance would have a year 2.0492 Earth days long, a sidereal day 1.341 Earth days, long and a solar day 4.0984 Earth days, or 98.3616 hours long. It is possible that your planet could orbit in the habitable zone of a brown dwarf, intermediate between a planet and and star. Thus it might have a year and a solar day shorter than a planet orbiting even the dimmest red dwarf star. But it seems very likely such a planet would be tidally locked. $URL$ I may point out that the apparent movement of the sun in Mercury's sky is sometimes very odd, and that different places on Mercury's equator will have significantly different temperatures during their noonday periods. If this planet planet orbits a red star in the habitable zone the tropics and the temperate zone would be divided by longitude as well as latitude. $URL$ Why does Mercury have a 2:3 orbit: spin resonance? Scientists are still coming up with ideas and computer simulations to explain it. For example, some scientists have proposed that Mercury was once tidally locked to the Sun but a massive asteroid strike changed its rotation period, similar to what paltrysum suggested. $URL$ Other computer simulations suggest that a 2:3 resonance is a more natural situation and likely to occur a lot in extrasolar planets. $URL$ You should look for other questions and answers about habitable planets in 2:3 resonances. What's the longest plausible orbital period for a habitable planet with a 3:2 spin-orbit resonance?7 There is also the suggestion that a habitable planet could actually be a habitable moon of giant planet in the habitable zone of a red star. Thus the habitable moon would be tidally locked to the planet instead of to the star and would have periods of daylight and darkness. It should be noted that it has been calculated that the orbit of a moon will not be stable unless its month is one ninth or less the length of it's planet's year - the length of the planet's year should be at least 9 times the length of the moon's month. If it is desired that the day on the moon, equal in length to the moon's month, should be about 5 to 100 Earth hours, the length of the planet's year should be at least 45 to 900 Earth hours, or 1.875 to 37.5 Earth days, and it can be several times as long. Thus the length of the planet's year can be made to fit into the the possible length of a year in the habitable zone of a red dwarf star. You should look for other questions and answers about habitable moons of giant planets in the habitable zones of red dwarf stars. Making a slow orbit around a large gas giant8 Captured Earth-Like Moons around Gas Giants9