Hence the question whether transcendental idealism, the content of Critique of Pure Reason, is ontology or epistemology has not found a decisive answer. Possibly any either-or classification is too narrow for the scope of Kant’s thoughts. 2) The philosophers of German idealism try to abandon the distinction between ontological and epistemological idealism: “Although the overcoming of the distinction between ontological and epistemological idealism by means of relying on self-relating activities might be seen as a common goal of all the major German idealistic thinkers, […]”, see $URL$ Hence also for German idealism it does not seem appropriate to classify its goal as either-or. 3) Concerning the relation between German idealism and the idealism of Berkeley SEP emphasizes the differences: "There is thus a fundamental difference between the idealism of German idealism and the immaterialism of Berkeley: where Berkeley’s idealism focused on ideas as the “stuff” of existence and assumed minds, whether human or divine, as their repository, the German idealists focused on the mind as active and largely tried to suppress the traditional ontology of substances and their accidents within which Berkeley still worked, which Hume questioned but for which he supplied no alternative, and which Kant again defended by conceiving of substance and accident as relational categories." 

Everybody agrees that the concepts of energy and momentum or the concept of spacetime are genuine concepts from physics. Not only that these concepts are used in physics. They are made precise in physics. What about the concept of information? The concept is used in a series of sciences, including physics, biology and informatics. There is a striking parallel between Boltzmann’s definition of entropy „S“ in thermodynamics and Shannons definition of entropy „H“ in his information theory. As far as I know, currently there is no general accepted, quantitative definition of information, which also captures the aspect of meaning with its reference to a sender, a receiver, and a message. My question: 

Descartes is one of few European philosophers whom one can read without any introduction from the secondary literature. Hence I recommend to start studying Descartes by the primary sources. You get a fresh impression of his thinking and you can form your own opinion: 

The model of electrons orbiting a nucleus has one severe handicap: An electron orbiting the nucleus changes permanently the direction of its velocity, which means a permanent acceleration. According to Maxwell's theory of electrodynamics an accelerated electron creates an electromagnetic radiation which carries away energy from the electron. Hence the electron looses permanently energy. As a consequence it approaches an orbit nearer to the nucelus and finally rushes into the nucleus. Summing up: The model of spinning electrons is inconsistent and cannot serve to explain the phenomena. Historically this was a great problem in the beginning of the 20th century. The solution came up with quantum mechanics (Bohr, Heisenberg, Pauli, Dirac). That's quite a different theory. Its enhancement as quantum electrodynamics is one of the best theories we have today. In general, chemistry works fine with quantum mechanics, see e.g. Pauling, Linus: General Chemistry 1970. One can actually compute the ionization energy, see Chap. 5.2 "Excitation and Ionization Energies". Note. No other theory allows to compute these values. Hence your example does not illustrate the fact that different theories explain the same phenomenon. 

Syntactic marker: mass noun, concrete Semantic marker: natural kind, liquid Stereotype: colorless; transparent, tasteless, thirst-quenching, etc. Extension: H2_0 (on earth), Different chemical formula (on Twin Earth). 

I know that these questions have found a broad spectrum of different answers. Therefore I would also welcome some criteria how to decide about the answers. 

Exhausting plane geometric figures by triangles is named triangulation. In dimensions higher than two, i.e. for not necessary plane figures, the generalisation of triangles is named simplices. This leads to the mathematical concept of homology, which in the 20th century developed into Algebraic Topology. 

"heating water to 100 degrees Celsius (the boiling point of water) at sea level" is a sufficent reason to boil water. But it is not necessary: When you boil water on a mountain top, where air pressure is less than at sea level, you can boil water at a temperature less than 100 degrees Celsius. 

What are main questions philosophers deal with? Which methods do philosophers employ to deal with these questions? Which theoretical terms do philosophers introduce to investigate these questions? Which answers do philosophers propose for these questions? 

Note. A mathematical model from history which has a certain relatedness to the statistical model from your question is Pascal's Wager. 

I recommend to distinguish the following points: 1) Descartes‘ „I think therefore I am“: I can always deceive myself concerning the content of my perception. Possibly I am dreaming and my perceptions relate to a dream world. But the fact, that I reflect my perceptions and that I think about the possibility of deception, proves that I exist – according to Descartes. 2) Independently from Descartes and confirmed by general experience: We cannot create objects in the real world just by thinking about them. Except from some fairy tales wishing does not create the content of my wish. 3) Anselm of Canterbury thought that certain ideas necessarily imply the existence of the content of the idea. His example from the ontological proof for the existence of God: 

Your questions operates with some terms from the philosophical tradition. They can be questioned in the light of neurobiological insight into the operation of the brain. Such terms are “actualization of a potency”, probably taken from Aristotle’s metaphysics. As well as “active agent acting of received impression”, alike to a homunculus as Conifold states. And also the concept of a “Self”, a high-level construct which captures our conscious experience. Ome of the core insights of neuroscience is the lack of an active agent. Instead, the prefrontal cortex collects a set of areas, which represent personal goals and other contextual information. They modulate competing representations in sensorial, memory related and motoric systems. (see Goschke, Thomas: Der bedingte Wille. In Roth, Gerhard; Grün, Kaus-Jürgen: Das Gehirn und seine Freiheit. 2009. German). But there is no single control unit. Instead there is a net of several competing systems, interacting by several loops of forward and backward information processing. According to neurobiology, an area the “Self” does not exist and is not necessary. 

It was Aristotle who first made the qualitative difference between the physics of the sublunary region and the outer region of the aether. The sublunary region was the domain of the four elements, each having its canonical position. While the aether region hosts the stars and the planets with their circular movements. But Newton discovered that the same natural law of gravitation explains the free fall on earth and the movement of the planets. The same natural laws hold true in both Aristotelian regions. That was a breakthrough on the way to unify natural laws on a cosmic scale. Concerning time dependence: Some decades ago a serious discussion was initiated by Pascual Jordan, whether the gravitation constant changes on a cosmic time scale. But the general heuristics today is to formulate natural laws which do not contain time in an explicit way. Nevertheless, the time-independent value of the fundamental constants raises the question why they have their distinguished value. In the context of multiversum speculations also universa with a different value of these constants are taken into consideration. 

1) Aristotle develops his classification from the study of mesocosmic (= middle world) objects only. Further stimulation came from the discussion of Plato's theory of forms. E.g. causa formalis resembles the Platonic concept of form. Aristotle did no know about microcosmos. Concerning macrocosmos he had only a theoretical - and wrong - conception. Aristotle gives in Metaphysics a history of philosophy. He emphasizes that his forerunners detected only fractions of the different types of cause (aition). Hence he considers his doctrine of 4 causes a progress in philosophy. 2) I agree with you that causa finalis does not apply to physical objects. But to a certain degree it applies to animals and plants when considering the role of genes. Of course, the genotype defines only the domain of possibilities. Not every possibility will be realized. Most of all causa finalis describes the way that humans make their decisions. 3) Concerning your interesting example to explain light rays - microphysics - by the means of Aristotle's doctrine, my proposal is: 

Any answer about Socrates faces the difficulty that we do not have any texts written by Socrates but only texts written about Socrates. Texts about Socrates have been written by Plato, by Aristophanes and by Xenophon. The Socrates from Plato's late dialogues is certainly a fiction of Plato. While the Socrates of the early dialogues - Crito, Phaedo - and in particular the Socrates from Apology probably resembles the historical Socrates. In the following I base my answer on the Socrates from Apology. Here Socrates tells us about his lifelong attempt to obey to the dictum of the God, i.e. to practice a philosophical life. He means the god Apoll from Delphi. Because the Pythia from the Delphic oracle said, speaking in the name of Apoll: Nobody is wiser than Socrates. And Socrates wants to find out the meaning of this dictum. From this viewpoint Socrates serves one certain god, the god Apoll. On the other hand Socrates fights against the accusation not to believe in those gods which are venerated in Athens. And these are all of the Olympic gods, at least. Hence the question whether the historical Socrates was a monotheist or a polytheist has to be left open. 

It is one characteristic of human thinking, that we are able not only to think but also to think about the fact that we are just thinking. Human thinking can operate on different hierarchical levels: on a first level, then on a metalevel, thinking about our thinking on the first level, then on a second metalevel thinking about our thinking on the previous metalevel etc. Back to your example: On level 1 I have a conscious perception, and on level 2 I think about my perception, etc. What do you mean by "the first can bear no relations"? 

Rationality is a cognitive capability. A capability which must be trained like the capability to speak. Rationality is not an instinct: 

The quoted text puts Einstein's sentence into the context of discussing whether a certain moral can be derived from science. Is science descriptive or prescriptive (= normative)? The text advances the position that science is not normative. Today this position is shared by all scientists and philosophers of science. Broadly speaking, science investigates what is, but does not prescribe what should be. It was already David Hume who emphasizes that there is no path from facts to norms, see his "is-ought" problem. Concerning the context of Einstein's quote: 

Both types of definitions are faced with the problem to define what a fact is. And subsequently the question arises how to verify that the issue in question is a fact. The first definition in addition has to define the relation "to correspond". On the other hand, the coherence definition operates only on the side of propositions. There is no need to take into account the domain of facts. Accordingly the coherence definition reads: 

Of course, these electrical impulses can be created artificially in our nervous system, i.e. without impact from our sensors. The corresponding thought experiment is called brain-in-a-vat, e.g., $URL$ I assume that the group of experimentators, who succeed to implement such a difficult experiment, will have to overcome so many problems with the real world stuff, that they are the last, who doubt facts from reality. Note. I revised my previous answer due to the discussion with Zane and Pé de Leão. 

Both, Kant and Gödel prove the impossibility of certain rational approaches. That’s what both have in common. But both refer to different fields: Mathematical logic (Gödel), epistemology (Kant). I also have never heard that the idea has ever been discussed in Kant’s time, that an axiomatized system may have principal boundaries of its scope. On the opposite, Euclid’s concept of axiomatization was held by all as the paradigm of scientific reliability. Hence my answer to the question of the post is „No“. 

As you see from the discussion subsequent to your post the original quote is from Schopenhauer, Arthur: Über die Freiheit des menschlichen Willens (= On the Freedom of the Will). Brodhaus, Leipzig 1868, p.68. It reads 

In general, intuitionism is considered one form of constructivism. The latter forbids to use the law of excluded middle "A or non A". Hence the answer to your question is "No". In a non-constructivist context the law of excluded middle is the basis for all indirect proofs: In order to prove "A", you show that "non A" is false. According to the law of excluded middle then "A" is true. As a consequence, indirect proofs are not allowed in an intuitionistic context. That's a severe restriction for the "working mathematician". Note. Do you mean with "intuitionistic formalism" just a formalization of the principles of intuitionism? 

Your list from Aristotle, Met. 986a22ff, numbers ten principles (archai). The whole passage is part of Aristotle's history of philosophy: Before expanding his own contribution, Aristotle recalls the research to date, i.e. what did his forerunners state about the topic. After characterizing metaphysics as a knowledge of causes (aitiai) and principles (See sophia, 982a2), Aristotle aims at presenting his own doctrine of four causes (causa naturalis, efficiens, formalis, finalis). Apparently, these four causes are independent from the list of the Pythagorean principles and are talking on completely different levels. Regarding to principles Aristotle accepts two principles from logic: 1. tertium non datur 2. law of contradiction. Again, quite a different level. Aristotle authors a separate investigation, named "The categories". From the grammatical structure of propositions Aristotle derives 10 types of predication. They have been taken over as ontological types. Again they are different from the list of the Pythogoreans. Note. Aristotle does not attribute the list of ten to Alcmaeon of Kroton. He indicates that Alcmaeon used a similar organizing principle, but with quite different pairs. 

The terms fact and truth live in different ontological domains: Fact is a component of reality, while truth is a possible property of propositions. An issue either is, then it is called a fact, or it is not. A fact is the solar system with its planets. In general, it is possible to locate a fact within time and space, or - from a scientific view point - as an event in space-time. A proposition which claims a certain fact is true, otherwise it is false. The proposition "In the year 2014 the solar system comprises eight planets" is a true proposition. Its truth does not depend on the fact whether the proposition is stated today or in 100 years. The truth or falsehood of a proposition is time-independent. The sentence "Today it rains at Manhattan" is true when uttered at a rainy day, but false when uttered at a sunny day. This seems contradicting the statement about the time-independence of a proposition. But note that the term "today" is a variable of the sentence. Not before fixing the value of this variable, e.g. "today := 19.11.2015", the sentence becomes a proposition. 

The broadest classification discriminates between REM (rapid eye movement) and non-REM sleep. The latter is the stage of dreaming. Sigmund Freud was the first who investigated the semantics of our dreams as part of his psychoanalytic approach. He characterized our dreams as the "royal road to the unconscious". This was a groundbreaking insight, because also today it is difficult to access the unconscious processes of our mind. Different from legends which interpret dreams as prophecies, Freud made the hypothesis that - broadly speaking - dreams represent wishes of the dreamer and their fulfillment. He published his theses in "Freud, Sigmund: The interpretation of dreams (German: Die Traumdeutung)" 1900. The book is a classic and a must for dream research - even when its results are questioned and even when it is questioned, whether the whole domain of psychoanalysis is science. 

considers quite a different point of human nature. Einstein explains the meaning of this statement just before: 

Philosophy of science is completely superfluous for the working physicist - according to Feynman's ironic statement The philosophy of science is as useful to scientists as ornithology is to birds. To explain why muons reach the earth before decaying, you need some knowledge about time dilation from the Special Theory of Relativity. And to prove that a^n+b^n=c^n, n > 2, has no non-trivial solution, you must understand the sophisticated mathematics of Wiles proof of the Shimura-Taniyama-Weil conjecture. In both cases, philosophy of physics and philosophy of mathematics did not contribute any piece of insight to the answer. Nevertheless, in mathematics there are certain foundational questions around set theory and some philosophizing along the lines "Which ontological state do mathematical objects have?" But these questions do not find a generally accepted answer. In addition, most working mathematicians care about such issues at most on Sunday morning, when other work is done. Possibly this answer sounds a bit harsh. Please note: I do not deny that one can find philosophy of science an interesting subject. And that this type of philosophy can be a satisfying occupation. My point is to stress the irrelevance of this field to the working scientist as Feynman stated above.