Any chance to terminate the VPN in a DMZ instead on the LAN? If so, then you could punch a hole through the DMZ -> LAN on port 1433 to your SQL server. If it was me, I wouldn't want anyone whose computer is not maintained by my company on my company's network. Thus the reason for putting them in their own DMZ. What if they get a virus, or are part of a spambot network and start sending out spam across the VPN tunnel out your Internet connection. There are a lot of scary scenarios for a paranoid person. :-) 

In addition to the "Enable Ping from LAN to Management Interface" already answered... You need to enable "Management via this SA" in the VPN properties. I believe this is off by default. 

After getting your error messages, go to: Sonicwall's Knowledge base and enter in the error message in the search string. Usually the error messages are in all capitals, like: NO_PROPOSAL_CHOSEN. In my experience, most of the problems come down to the setup of the VPN parameters not matching up between each end of the tunnel. Specifically the ID used for the local and peer IKE IDs. It is our practice to always use the SonicWALL Identifier as this is the most reliable. Good luck 

Does the printer support native PostScript. Many printers only have PostScript emulation. The actual printing engine does not "think" in PostScript and so you lose some definition in comparison to a true PostScript printer. A lot of HP printers (not sure about the 2605) only do emulation. Do your users need PostScript? If they are printing mostly office documents (Word, Excel) PCL will be the best. There are normally far fewer options on a PCL driver, which makes it simpler for an enduser. If your users are printing out graphical presentations or lots of pictures and are very picky about the final product, then I would go with a PostScript driver, but only if it is a true PostScript printer... 

Do you have any ability to take a sniff of the traffic? You need to find out what the traffic is and what host(s) are sending it. Are you sharing files on this site? Do you have an open/insecure FTP server that someone could be feeding data to? How about email, is it hosted on this site? Some outlook clients will never give up sending a message with certain non-fatal errors. In short, we need more information to help you troubleshoot. 

Are you doing anything in your login scripts that violates UAC? Try disabling UAC, and rebooting (this is necessary for the UAC change) and see if it still takes 10 minutes. Windows 7 does not show status of login scripts when the UAC fails and so you have no idea what is going on...at least that's been our experience. 

Not to question your setup, but it seems like a bad idea to put the hosts outside your firewall. If they get hacked, all your VMs are now owned by the hacker... Rather, you should put the ESX Host on the private side of the firewall and then make a DMZ vSwitch within the ESX host. You should be able to do this easily by physically setting one of the NIC cards in your ESX Host outside the firewall and including ONLY that card in your DMZ vSwitch -or- you can use VLANing, if you have an ethernet switch that supports it, and combine the DMZ network with other networks on your vSwitch and take advantage of existing NICs in your ESX Host(s). 

Hardware firewalls as a general rule tend to be more reliable and faster. Since the manufacturer can choose/build the OS, they can make it very specific to supporting a firewall. Software firewalls don't have this luxury. They are dependent on the OS they are installed on. That being said, there are many good software firewalls. Some, like iptables, are even free. If you are looking to protect a medium to large business network, then IMO you should choose a hardware firewall. I think you hit the nail on the head with your question, it's really the same question: you get what you pay for. EDIT: Another thing that should matter to you is ICSA certification. There are about 20-25 hardware firewalls on this list and about 50 software firewalls, including personal firewalls. 

Yes, you are right. The lack of twisting will make your cable very noisy. I would not expect your network cards to connect at anything higher than 100Mbit and in some cases might even go to 10Mbit. Silver satin (8 wire no twisting) was sometimes, though incorrectly, used in 10Mbit applications 

I believe you will have to put a capture filter for all HTTP traffic, and then put in a display filter for the After you have found a response code, remove the display filter and then use the Follow TCP Stream -or- the Conversation Filter to find the related packets... 

I think the spammers are doing this on purpose hoping that your mail server will backscatter the complete message (your SMTP server is following the rules so it will add the \n) to the innocent person listed on the Reply-to. To fix this, you need to get more aggressive with your anti-spam by checking that the senders IP is not listed in RBL lists, that the SPF record matches, etc. Another thought would be to flush your queue of these dead messages with a script every night. I don't know Exim well enough to suggest how to do this... HTH 

We had the same problem using the VSP instead of the built in Microsoft VSS. In the properties of the Master server -> Client Attributes, set the Snapshot Provider to "Use Microsoft Volume Shadow Copy Service..." That fixed it for us, as the settings were then controlled by the client OS, not NetBackup. 

They both state that there is no standard defined for broadcasts. It also mentions in 919 that a specific physical interface should be selected for the broadcast. In the case of a multi-homed, multi-NIC machine generating the broadcast, I don't think that it's clearly stated what should happen. Broadcasts are never supposed to be passed by routers from one interface to the other, so is the Windows machine a router or not in this case? If it is acting as a router, then any host responding to the broadcast with the incorrect IP address for that network (Adapters 2 and 3 in your example) should send the packet back to the ethernet address of Adapters 2 and 3 in response to Adapter 1's IP address and the Windows host should route it to the proper interface. That sounds confusing... but can't think of a better way to phrase this And finally, RFC 919 specifically says From RFC 919 

Since each application seems to handle broadcasts differently, I think that's where the responsibility resides. For example. sends out directed broadcasts on multi-NICed machines, whereas games might use global broadcasts. In short, the application should be fixed, not the OS in this case... EDIT: Here is a link for the same circumstances, but on Linux. The linux kernel handles it by only sending one packet out the default interface (NIC A in this example). They recommend that the application enumerate the NICs and send a directed broadcast out each NIC. Link 

There are hundreds of techniques for stopping SPAM. A Bayesian filter is one, but there is also DKIM (which is something your ISP should implement), SPF records, Vipul's Razor databases, DCC databases, etc. Spamassassin's home page discusses some of these techniques if you are interested, but this would be longest post in history to cover all of the ways to stop SPAM. It's truely an exhaustive subject, for obvious reasons. 

Michael, We have been Sonicwall users for a decade or so, and we have fought with this issue for that entire time. What you are trying to do is not possible with a Sonicwall. You can limit the total bandwidth to a particular protocol or port number, but not by per session. We currently have an NSA2400 with the application firewall, and it is still an aggregate limit rather than a per-session limit. That being said, you can setup a low QOS on the HTTP protocol so that any other protocol will take precedence. This won't get anyone else's browsing to be any faster, but it won't kill email or real-time streaming (unless it's http). One other solution, is to put certain offenders in a user group and limit them to some fraction of your total bandwidth and all the non-offenders would still have the remaining fraction left over for browsing. This would require users to login into the firewall before browsing, unless your 3060 has LDAP integration. If it does, then you could setup groups in your Active Directory and then the user won't have to login in each time... 

Login to the firewall Go to VPN -> Setttings Click the pencil next to the Tunnel in question Click the Advanced tab. Check the boxes next to the items you want to enable (HTTP, HTTPS, SSH) 

Since WebDisk (AKA WebDAV) is HTTP protocol based it will have more overhead than FTP transmissions. So FTP would be faster. As far as what's better, I would go WebDav because: 

One other thing to bring up: If you are going to use it as a database server, you will want to gauge how long your average query is going to be. If you get two long running queries, your database server is going to become unresponsive to the third query (even if it is just a simple single record request). We made this mistake on a database server and the users very quickly became very unhappy. Especially if you are using Stored Procedures with RBAR in them... After about a week, I placed an order for another dual core chip to fill the second socket. Our database runs our accounting package, which frequently runs queries that feed reports. Some of these queries hit tables with millions of records in them and take 15-30 seconds to run. If your load is different, you might be able to get away with one dual-core socket. 

On the Restore database dialog, there is a setting: and the default is . So your restore operation should be restoring only the most recent backup. Here is some more information from MSDN on this. Since a full backup includes the Transaction log, it could make sense to include two full backups. The first one could be used for the initial restore and then only the transaction log from the second full backup could be used to update the incremental changes from there. Another reason could be if the transaction log was truncated after the first backup was performed and your .MDF file was corrupted in the meantime. At that point you might want the MDF from the first full and only the transaction log from the second full. 

Are you looking for something more than this as an answer? EDIT: based on your edit. No this would not produce any more whitenoise than the airwaves do now. Take TV and Radio stations. All are using the air as the transmission medium, but each device receiving the "data" tunes to a specific frequency and all others are ignored. In the case of frequency multiplexing, each device has multiple tuners and logically joins the received "data" into a single stream. 

This can be real disaster if DS1 has very little extra storage and your VMDK_2 file is heavily used. We had a situation happen to us where the C: drive of a file server was on DS1 and the file sharing drive (F: in our case) was on DS2. A snapshot was taken during a VCB backup and ran for about a week before it was discovered. By the time it was discovered, DS1 was pretty much out of space and we almost lost a server while trying to consolidate the snapshot... it was a bad deal. So you want to make sure the Datastore with your .vmx file on it has enough room to save the snapshot .vmdk files. 

Check that your firewall is not blocking active ftp connections. WinSCP will default to using passive connections if it can't establish an active one, but the command line FTP can/will not. Unfortunately, if active FTP connections are not supported from endpoint to endpoint (I.e. someone's firewall is blocking it), then you are dead in the water with the command line FTP... 

I loaded this is an telnet session so there was no refresh, but if your IP address is 67.210.98.60, then you are no longer redirecting people to a bad site. If your IP address is not 67.210.98.60, then your DNS has been hacked. Running an nslookup from here, I don't see that your nameserver is domaincontrol.com. Did you let your domain expire? I have seen a domain get parked when it expires. On another note, maybe these guys are at it again. You might call GoDaddy and double check. 

I don't see any public IP addresses in your header... Did you send one to yourself? If so, that won't work. We need to see the headers after it arrives at Yahoo or Hotmail. One thing I do see is that your mail server thinks you are on a SORBS Blacklist. If you are, then Yahoo and Hotmail will most certainly tag your emails as spam... Update: You are on 5 blacklists according to: MXTOOLBOX. This is for sure the reason you are getting put in the junk folder at Yahoo and Hotmail. 

Yes, this is normal operation for ESX 3.x. Basically it (incorrectly I think) puts all the differential VMDKs on the same datastore as the .vmx file. For example, if you have a VM with a VMDK_1 file on DS1 and another VMDK_2 on DS2 and you create a snapshot, you will see two new files on DS1: 

Since this is a custom developed app, would it be correct that you have the ability to change it? If so, maybe the following suggestions would help: 

You can get more information on Spamassassin whitelist/blacklist here Restart spamassassin when you are done. 

The NetBackup agent for Exchange is what you need/want. Here is a link for a white paper discussing the options. 

DNS/WINS is not set correctly on the clients. Make sure that they don't have a secondary DNS/WINS server that isn't on their local network. Make sure the cost across the links is set higher than default in AD Sites and Services. If it isn't and the local DC is busy, the remote DCs might answer sooner because the cost across the link is set low enough that thinks it should respond as the nearest DC. 

Just a shot in the dark here, but what do your switches say is going on? Do you see any entries about the port being shutdown because of attempted mac spoofing or other security issues? Are the MAC addresses in the MAC table after the first (non-working) reboot? This smells more like a switching problem then a server/host problem. 

Just in case someone finds this later, we were able to update the Cache memory without trouble. Noticed a huge improvement in speed (as expected), especially when writing files to the SAN. 

Not sure on the StorageTeks, but on our Tandberg, we need to use Tandberg supplied utilities to get diagnostics from the robot. The built in Veritas diagnostics always fail... 

We had a similar problem with a broadcom card and an incompatibility with the switch. Did you have an update to the driver that may have started this? In any case, the solution for us was to hard code the link speed and duplex. Try 1Gb/full duplex and work your way down from there. 

If you go to mxtoolbox.com and put in your IP, you can get a blacklist report. Your IP is on two of them: 

If you have a VPN connection, you can attach to your network remotely and access the file share that way. Keep in mind that it will be much slower, depending on the internet connections at your site and the remote user's site. Sometimes as much as 100 times slower... 

If you want to delete other temporary locations, you would need to add them according to your environment... 

Not all switches will pass this information. In the past, I have personally seen cheap netgear switches reset that portion of the frame back to 00's. This was a couple of years ago, but be aware that it's possible that your packets will be changed. 

What hardware are you using for your NICs? Is it on the vSphere compatibility list? If not, vSphere may not be able to use an appropriate driver that would enable it to use VLANs and other features of a vSwitch. 

The issue is that your mail server is not generating the bounce. The receiving mail server is. It's up to the receiving mail server to include the message in the bounce. Most mail admins won't include the message because it just opens them up to being a backscatter relay. Your only option as I see it, would be to contact the mail admins for each user and ask them to include the message in the bounce if your domain is the source... 

You will also need to check that the startup command for qmail-smtpd includes tcpserver, or the tcp filtering will not work. See these instructions (life with qmail) for further help on this, especially section 2.8.2.2. 

Those firewalls will bog down if you have Intrusion Prevention and/or Antivirus turned on. Especially if you have TCP Stream selected as one of the types to scan. It will try to build the whole file in its memory to scan it... Temporarily disable those features and see if your performance climbs back up. If so, then look at adding your servers to the exception list so you don't have drop your pants for the whole network.