For me it is by no means obvious that evolution reduces to prolonging one's existence and/or facilitating reproduction indefinitely and nothing else. Even staying within most primitive version of darvinism, nothing excludes the possibility that survival of species may (have) reach(ed) stages when something much more elaborate than that is required to survive in the long run. Like in complicated games such as chess - to win against increasingly strong opponents you must perform more and more elaborate calculations more and more steps ahead. 

Disclaimer: I am not a marxist in any way and in fact have not read anything by him, I am just trying to give a logical answer to the question. Does it contradict anything that by coordinated effort it is possible to raise some day a generation of people with the typical specimen, when seeing something that the society needs to be done and finding oneself capable to do it, reacts with a desire to go ahead and do it? In fact I think fragments of such societies have emerged many times, both in humans and in the rest of the animal world. 

In my opinion there is an obvious logical inconsistency here. If these cycles are to be identical then just as in this cycle we have no evidence of the others except for the idea itself with the status of a hypothesis, then we will be in exactly the same situation in all of these cycles, and then it absolutely does not matter whether they do exist or not. Similar but slightly different argument: even if we assume they exist, still - given they are absolutely identical, this makes ontological status of their multitude questionable. How does an infinite multitude of absolutely identical anythings differ from a unique such anything? In fact even if they only differ by time when they occur and by nothing else, this still makes them different, so even the time itself must repeat in cycles, and then I cannot even think of any way of distinguishing between an infinite number of cycles and a single one which is tracked many times. Consider a circle, say, drawn on table. The fact that I can describe to you features of this drawing in succession along the circular trajectory and when reaching the point where I started describing then just go on and continue repeating myself many times does not make it several circles, right? It is still one circle, I am just describing it several times. 

There could be two reasons why people do not feel guilty when committing mistakes knowingly: -Their ego defense mechanisms suppressed the guilt. -Their superego does not consider it a mistake or a sin. (as the above example) 

I realized it's a universal problem (after reading an explanation for Sartre's "hell is other people"), that nobody is free from (except obsessed people), but all i'm left with is myself. I know it's irrational for a mortal to be occupied with such trivial which will all soon be gone, but i can't find a way to get rid of this guilt. Even after becoming aware of my true existential condition (which brings me anxiety and depression sometimes), i'm still a victim of this irrational guilt. It seems to me to become free from this guilt, you have to be obsessed or at-least preoccupied with some life project which is impossible for a nihilistic. 

My answer supposes that religion is a nature of human beings. How i define religion is by a broad definition which can include Christianity, communism and even atheism. If we are inherently and naturally religious, then salvation is a common desire. If we take Christianity as a literal and basic example for religion, then the guilt is the fear that arises due to committing a sin. Now , how this can be generally applied to include any other non literal forms of religion (Ex: communism): The question here is, from where is the superego (ego-ideal) being fueled ? In the example of Christianity,the answer is religious believes. But In-case of consumerism, the superego is being supplied by the culture. In rare cases , the superego might be personal, which results in a behavior which is not welcomed by the culture, for example: a maniac that does not suffer guilt after killing. (because killing is not forbidden in his superego) What i am trying to say, is that guilt is a result of a receiving a low self-esteem, which happens , when one's self-image collides with his ego-ideal. 

The reason why I ask is because the law of cause and effect is central to scienctific investigation, yet I've only heard that causes necessitate effects and all effects have a cause. But it seems to me that this could go deeper, much deeper. Like what if you have two effects of the same cause or two causes of the same effect, how would you know? How do you know that you have a cause-effect relationship, and how do you know if something merely seems to be a cause-effect relationship, but is not? I've tried searching for this on Google, but the results returned are sketchy at best, as they subscribe to what one may call pseudo-science (for e.g, every 'good cause' brings about a 'good effect', or something else to do with karma, which I personally commit to the flames). Thank you in advance. 

Before I begin, what I mean by 'systems' is what I've dubbed 'axiomatic systems', those which act as the starting point for all knowledge, for which I know of three: Maths, Logic, and Set Theory. I'll just call them systems from now on, though. I'll first begin with my intuitions behind this question. Most of you here will be familiar with logic, being that it's the 'tools of Philosophy'. Whenever you do logic, you're working within a system. One can't just 'do' logic, for logic is the activity within the structure of a system. So the reason you can't just do logic is for the same reason you can't drive without a car. So, such systems have to be literally designed; its axioms must be discovered, it's properties must be studied, its values and operations must be declared before use, etc. I've been looking for this answer for quite a while, and in searching the depths of the internet the best I can find are papers that partially (and very briefly) study some of the aspects of the analysis and creation of systems. What I really want, however, is an academic, and rigorous field of study that gives an exhaustive account of how such systems are created. I think the reason why am having trouble is because am using 'systems' in a very technical way, and I have no other way to really express what I mean other than "systems". Quick note: There are fields out there looking at the use of systems (maths, logic, set theory), how they can be combined, how there used in computer programming, but none which seems to study the actual systems themselves. Oh, by the way, am not sure what to tag this as, so sorry if I've missused the tags I have provided. 

Take this example, some people have amputated limbs, now does that make everyone praise their intact body? the answer is no.There's a common basic narcissism (not the clinical narcissism) in man, that makes him act as a special one. It goes like this: I'm special, therefore my destiny can not be like that person.The problem is that deep inside you, you do not feel that your current resources can be degraded at any time.My answer is, it's impossible to praise what you have (will never be grasped as a radical idea that shapes your mind) . Now i do not know whether the acknowledging of the insecurity of your resources would bring happiness or dread. (Side note): It seems to me there is a difference between praising our current condition and not condemning our current condition. 

First, i would like to refer to self-confidence as self-esteem which seems to me as a more of an abstract of an idea of self-confidence (A person with high conscious and unconscious self-esteem will be aware of his true abilities without under/over-estimation and will be satisfied with his abilities but not to the degree to stagnate his development) The clinical narcissist is someone with only conscious self-esteem, but deep down they self-pity. This narcissist wants to prove to himself, that he's something. When you try to prove something, this is a proof that you are not yet. This narcissist will avoid anything that makes him feel different from his ego-ideal, (For example, instead of taking an exam to measure his skills, and then self-improve, he will avoid that. But on the other hand, the person with real self-esteem, won't matter a realistic evaluation of his abilities in order to improve.) The real self-esteem is an abstract and radical idea that shapes the whole mind. 

I disagree that faith (as you define it) is a must for optimism. Religious faith is merely an example of faith. You could have faith in any of your cultural business (Say for example, raising good kids or acquiring materials). By your definition of faith, all atheists will be living in despair and lack of possibility, but does that happen? No, because they have faith in something else (Which might be their atheism). That leaves us with the term "Self-esteem" as a better substitute for "Faith". Self-esteem is defined by: The belief of one, that he is part of a meaningful and righteous project (Ex: Communism,Atheism,Christianity or even being a fan for a football team) and a genuine follower of that project (Ex: for Christianity,being a non-sinner). What i want to say in short, is that faith does not have to be literal, as in religious faith, here's where self-esteem comes as a working definition for all forms of faith. That's why most of atheists will not reach despair after abandoning their religion. For the nursing woman example you give: Atheists are not free of the guilt present in the religious, if she's an atheist and her set of moral standards (super-ego) is well-established by the culture or any other non-religious means, she would still be prone to guilt that might a reason to force her to nurse her husband. The fact that religion gives us literal hope (Ex: After life and reward), does not mean that it's the only way to mask the existential anxiety and despair. What i want to stress is that, "faith" is too abstract to be substituted with its concrete daughter "religious faith". 

The reason why I find this question to be worthy here is because a Google search simply does not return any valid resources. Most results are from, shall we say, less scientific sources, yet simultaneously The Law of Cause and Effect is a central principle in the world of the sciences. I Imagine there are various sub-laws expatiating upon the relationship between Cause and Effect, various axioms for and/or derived by the law, and entailments of the law. What I want is something imitating Aristotle's 3 Laws Of Existence. Existence is an 'obvious' principle central to science, as we, afterall, don't go about studying the non-existent, so we may sometimes take this for grated. However, even this 'obvious' principle has certain properties that have been delineated by Aristotle. I was wondering if anything has been similarly documented for the Law Of Cause And Effect. 

The reason I ask is because of the ambiguity of some statements when the conditionals of a condition are not referenced by tense i.e time. For example, in the Cognito Ergo Sum 'I think therefore I am', it could be read as saying that thinking causing existence, which is obviously not the case. Let my elucidate the problem, as you'll be well aware, this is an instance of Modus Ponens, which can broken down as such: 

About the question So, by 'type of questions', I really mean this from an ontological perspective. I imagine there is a complete set of (type of) questions, and thus any question that ever was or will be asked will be of one type or the other belonging to such a set. A problem In trying to form such a set containing all question types, is there a way we could know for sure that we have covered all possibilities? Say we never had a concept of time, we could thus never ask 'when' something happened. Furthermore, if this was the case, it's not like we could just conclude 'oh, we must be missing the concept of time!', because obviously we would have started with such a concept to make that conclusion to begin with. My attempt at an answer In trying to derive an answer myself, I have come up with 6 types. These are: when and where (relating to spacetime), what and who (identification and personhood i.e human identification), why (motive) and how (causality). A problem with the answer It seems as if though however, that many questions can be rephrased to give the same meaning, but using different question types. For e.g, 'how does a ball drop to the earth' vs 'why does a ball drop to the earth'. The answer to both seems to be gravity. So there seems to be a problem of interchangeability. Now I know that why and how aren't always interchangeable, such as 'how did he murder' vs 'why did he murder', but when they are, that seems to be problematic. Summary So, how can we go about forming the set of all question types, and can we know when we have done so? Furthermore, why is it that some question types seem interchangeable when such types are of a different nature to each other? Maybe it's just a matter linguistic confusion?