This answer doesn't handle how to separate the population, but discusses how much separation is required. I decided to do a small simulation of two such populations to give you an idea of the amount of interbreeding that is possible to retain the two populations. I assumed there were two populations, both of which were city sized (they mixed together within their city perfectly, everyone may end up having children with anyone else). Then I assumed that a small percentage (alpha) from city A moved to city B each generation, and the same percentage of B moved to A. Then each generation produced a new generation with the ethnicity distribution that the new generation which had an ethnicity ratio was proportional to the number of individual pairs that could lead to them. For example, assume cross-over was 1 percent and we are simulating the first generation. The original generation from city A has 1% individuals that are purely from B, and 99% that are purely from A. Therefore generation 2 would have 0.01% from B, 0.99% that are 50/50, and 99% that are from A. Then 1% of this distribution would swap with 1% of the opposite from the group at B and it would be repeated. I ran this for 1000 generations, with 1025 different ratios available (i.e. a person could be 1/1025 from A and 1024/1025 from B). Here are the results (I apologize for the small font): 

They could combine cycles, just like on earth On earth, 19 years measured by the sun almost exactly equals 235 months measured by the moon. This is known as the Metonic cycle and was the basis for both the hebrew and babylonian calendar, as well as a "runic calendar" invented in Scandinavia in the middle ages. An attractive property of the calendar is that it can be used to predict eclipses. It's also the basis for predicting the date of Easter. We could imagine that the martians devise a similar calendar, based on the sun and its two moons. We know the following: 

While a fictional society with say, tribal elves using bows and arrows could be "mistaken" for humans in the real-world archeological record, a high-tech or very exotic civilization needs to have every trace of it removed. You can do this by: 

The orbital mechanics of 3 or more bodies are complicated and a lot of research has gone into finding physically possible configurations. In our own solar system, out in the Kuiper belt, there are many pairs of objects circling each other. Most famous is Pluto and Charon for orbiting around a common center of gravity, but other pairs have been spotted with telescopes. When we recently got close-up photos of Pluto, scientists found several crater-pairs on its surface, evidence that pairing up is common out there. (The Kuiper belt is not so lonely after all!) The way it works with the moons of Pluto is that Pluto and Charon circle each other in the center and the other moons, namely Styx, Nix, Kerberos and Hydra, circle further out. 

With a wooden shaft the thin light arrowhead would not have enough weight to fall tip first. You would have to add some weight to the tip. Romans used lead to balance their sling darts and javelins, you could do the same thing. Or you could shape the shaft so it has more weight in the front. 

In the year XXXX Australia and NZ are released/break off from the states of Commonwealth as the situation in Europe escalates. EU breaks down, as many states start to leave and when Greece says it is not able to pay its debt back, German banks are ruined. Several european states are quickly dominated by foreing economies. Share prices rapidly plummet down and are quickly bought by Russians. Without its buyers China starts to press on USA, to pay back its' astronomical debts. Rich companies start to control USA and large portions of land are sold as a form of repayment. As conflicts in the middle-east start to settle down and I.S. is defeated... Egypt and Syria, ally them selves with The New Persia (Iran and Iraq) and starts to support Russian Federation as the new northern economic power. Without the support of other states Australia has to develop its own industry, the plan is to create industrial zones in the dry main land, the plan is funded by a rich yet mysterious investor from Singapore. As people start to move into the main land, projects for terraforming the desert start to progress quicker than expected. NZ is cooperating with Australia, supplying them with agricultural goods. It is not enough, so Australia looks for partners in Asia. Vietnam and Laos profit from their new trade agreements. Soon other island states start to join in. Japan starts to supply Australia with technology and United Korea (I hope that happens after the olympic games) doesn't want to fall behind. As the small island states grow more dependent on A and NZ, ideas about creating a federation start to pop up and USO is born. With the other former economic giants crushed under their own weight USO, China, USA and RF are only remaining. USO starts to invest into Africa and southern America, creating a new granary for themselves and also supplying their new industry. How is this? 

The Raccoons Originally a North-American species, it has dexterious hands and thumbs, can stand upright not unlike a meerkat, is an omnivore, good at problem solving and has a complex social life. These are all traits that have been proposed as crucial for the development of Homo Sapiens. Without human existence, present-day North America is full of large herbivores, with descendants of mammoths traversing the arctic from Scandinavia through Siberia and Canada. The Raccoons spread north and live on a mixture of scavenging on large prey and hunting down smaller or weaker prey in packs. Without human interference, the next glacial period arrives when it should and allow the Racoons to cross the Bering Strait. From there they spread rapidly throughout Asia and Europe. In Europe they become a terrible invasive species, decimating birds, amphibians and other mammals just as they have done to a lesser extent in real-world Europe today. A line of Racoons radiate out on open grass-land, either in central Eurasia or Africa and develop a truly upright posture, to better survey the land for prey and predators. This frees up their already dexterious hands and sets off a feedback-cycle between tool-use, more dexterious hands, brain development and hunting techniques. One sunny day, a million years from now, a young inquisitive racoon is left back in camp while her family hunts. Out of curiosity or boredom, she grabs a piece of flint and slams it against a rock laying in the dry grass... 

Making bolts or arrows out of ice is not a good idea, the arrows could break under the strength of the crossbow, because the force has to come from the back of the projectile to the tip, that produces vibrations and bending. The long thin shape of an arrow is not optimal for these reasons, and it is the projectile that modern crossbows use. Arrows also need fletching, that you can not make from ice, because it needs to be flexible at least a bit. The smaller thicker bolt could work, but the kill would still not be guaranteed, since it could break easily if it hits bone, because you have fairly thin point made from a very brittle material. You could compensate for the vibrations with a tube, or go full Slingshot channel and use pressurized gas to propel the projectile. BUT have no fear, for I have found a different solution, that still uses ice projectiles and crossbows. But they are nolonger sharp and pointy. The answer to this problem is quite simple. Shoot hailstones instead of icycles. You get lots of ice bullets and this type of crossbow. Round projectiles are ideal even for a brittle material like ice. Hailstones have good aerodynamics (all round things have), they are heavy, they withstand the shooting as well as the impact.(as proven many times in nature) In nature they still do some harm, but if you use a crossbow, you can propel them far past their terminal velocity. This projectile also doesn't lose its functionality if it's in a warm environment, yes it will melt eventually, but while it still has enough weight it will work just fine, while the arrows and bolts will become dull. But even this projectile can be very light compared to the intended ammunition (lead), so unless you have a very powerful crossbow, don't expect good range or accuracy. If you want to make the bullets somewhat pointy, you could use a tear shape, like on sling bullets. 

How about alternative methods? A standard water tower is about 40 metres high. To get the same potential energy in the water you'd need: 

You should not consider core and rim-ward in this scenario. The Milky Way is around 150 000 light years in diameter. The proposed 500 light year travel is just 1/300th of that. It's like the difference between crossing the US from coast to coast and crossing from the Statue of Liberty in New York over to Central Park. To boost their chances, the ships could instead aim at dense clusters of stars. The Hyades cluster being the closest at 153 light years. That hopefully let the ships investigate many star systems and even settle in relative vicinity of each other. Edit: Oops, turn around, turn around! (See Durakken's comment :-) 

Here is a WWII fighther plane that crashed in the Sahara. It's pretty well preserved, which bodes well for your spaceship. The cockpit was not filled with sand, so it appears that this Kittyhawk P-40 has not been covered completely by the sand only to be uncovered later, but has faced 70 years of sand erosion in the open air.. 

Rust cloaks (red dust of mars) Reds (red planet) (or Communists) Red colour- rouge(fr. But also similar to rogue) There could be a name that derives from their reputation or function. Vultures x Settlers Or you can go with mythology and find names of children of Ares. Amazons, Thrax, Phobos etc. Then there is an option to name them after a first colonisation ship or a first martian settlement. So you can name them anything you fancy. 

Gun dragon Your dragon takes a rock between his teeth, heats it up with his flame and then using a explosion inside his mouth spits the stone over greater distances, than normally possible. This means that he has oxygen as part of his dragon breath fuel, so that it can explode in a somewhat sealed space. Beetle dragon This dragon is a "black sheep". He can not breathe fire, but he can spit hot acid like this thing. Other dragons hate him, because his attacks completely ignore their fire resistance, they were building for milleania. Worm dragon This dragon didn't like the others much, but he became a friend with a strange worm from a desert. This sand worm taught him to how to make lightning come out of his face. Now they eat horses in Mongolia together. 

Both impractical and stores surprisingly little energy. The energy stored is given as mgh where m is the mass of the house, h is the height and g is the gravitational acceleration of 9.8 m/s^2. You can see from this expression that if you double the height, you can get the same energy with half the mass. Lets work through an example: 250 metric tons is a guesstimate for the weight of a house and the question calls for lifting it something like 5 inches or 13 cm. With these numbers we arrive at: 

Carbon dating is problematic, as you need to know level of Carbon 14 in the atmosphere at the time the animal or plant you are studying died. But there are other radiometric dating methods which might work. The simplest thing would perhaps be if they found a machine similar to a radioisotope thermoelectric generator, which is a device that uses a radioactive substance to create electricity. It is today used to power interplanetary probes, among other things. If the protagonists find a device powered by say plutonium-238, they can look at the ratio of plutonium, uranium and lead to infer the number of years since the plutonium was refined. This is similar to uranium-lead dating which is a dating method that can determine the age of rocks that are from a million year old to several billion. The base may also have a derelict nuclear reactor, similar to that of nuclear-powered submarines today. You can have the protagonists do a similar analysis here. Edit: A generator using Americum-241 makes for more straightforward dating, see discussion below 

I will go full rebel here and instead of thinking about railguns and gauss rifles and tasers and zat'nik'tels and other complicated stuff, I will give you some examples of what we already have. Gas pistol. No gunpowder, incapacitates opponents, effective range - 4.5 m. Grenade launcher with tear gas. Incapacitates opponents, has the range, can use compressed gas instead of gunpowder. Harpoons and slingshots. Look for the slingshot channel on Youtube. Legal & dangerous. Air guns. Some air guns could be used for hunting big game. power, range, no gunpowder. With the right ammunition you could make a riot gun. 

Far south-west of the main continent exists an island in a shape of crescent moon with dense jungles and slender mountain peaks and a single city named Kalt stands in a place where the islands' central lake opens to the sea. (large lagoon with a big river flowing into the sea) This city does not have any slaves, yet it is rich. The inhabitants mine metals from the lake, where a big volcano once stood. And its beaches are full of pearls. The sand glitters with the iridescent dust from the shells and pearls ground by the sea waves. Could there really be a beach like that? Could the iridescent dust last for a long time or would it decompose? If most of the pearls were collected by the inhabitants, would more wash up to the beach, if there are lots of clams living around the island? 

Reports of the fastest objects in the universe [1,2] posit that there could exist planets that travel as fast as 30 million miles per hour, or 0.04473 times the speed of light. This works out to a small but noticeable time dilation. When 1000 days have passed in the rest of the universe, only 999 days have passed on the high-velocity planet. [3] In a hundred years, only 99 years, 10 months and 24 days pass on the hypothetical planet. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ [3] $URL$ 

This means that if the magicians killed off all the mundanes or the mundanes killed off all the magicians, the population would still revert to 50/50 magicians/mundanes in the next generation. You can spin all kinds of plots on this. Note how, if genetic screening is available, mundanes can marry selectively to ensure they get only magic or mundane children, but magicians cannot. Such selective breeding could increase the number of magicians in the population somewhat, but does not have lasting effects on future generations. 

There are a lot of answers and I tried to look for this idea, but I didn't find it, so. The god is testing his followers. He wonders about his followers. How long until they find out? Who will find out? A lowly monk or a high priest? Are the leaders of the church able to notice? If not are they still worthy of their position? What will be the reason for noticing the impostor? Will somebody be jealous of how quickly is the impostor rising in ranks? Or will they find flaws in his teachings and expose him? What if the impostor exposes the evils within the hearts of the god's followers? It could be just a lesson for the followers, so when something like a succubus tries to enter, they will know. Or the other god is trying to prove that noble god's followers are blind with pride or that some are evil. The god is truly noble, so he will not interfere and let the truth be revealed. Then there is the possibility that the real world could be radically changed if the god would interfere directly, so he asked other gods for help.