Any of a number of conditions leap to mind. Magical Source The imperial lineage claims privileged access to a source of unspeakable magical power. Kings who accept their condition of fealty are granted limited access to the same source. In order to demonstrate the point, kings must have elementary training in magical practice, provided by imperial wizards. Magical Weakness In order to perform real magic one must grasp one's own true name, in somewhat the same fashion as the Wizard of Earthsea. Everyone has such a name, but only those trained in magic can truly understand or use it. But unfortunately, using that name also makes you vulnerable to certain sorts of very subtle and elegant name-magic -- such as the sort practiced by the Emperor's magical assassins. Flow of Benefit In somewhat the same vein as the first case, the king is understood to be the local source of fertility and prosperity, which ultimately radiates from the Emperor. Since every king practices a form of magic that is recognizably imperial, having been trained in it by the imperial wizards, it's clear to even the dimmest bulbs that the king is not in himself primarily responsible for peace and prosperity, but the emperor. Flow of Force The flip-side of the same coin: the king's magical power is used ritually in certain legal instances, e.g., ordination of judges, executions, opening of the annual High Court, etc. The use of imperial magic on such occasions demonstrates that the law is ultimately underwritten by the Emperor, from whom radiates impartial justice. This also suggests that if the king administers justice corruptly, his power will fail -- and with it his life. Metaphor and Metonymy In a world where magic works, all of these things can be literally true as well as metaphorically so. One demonstration of magic by the king can stand in for the power of the Emperor. If a king is essentially ordained by the Emperor, through a magical rite that also opens the king's third eye and enables him to perform at least simple magic (with training, anyway), then it's also possible that the Emperor can take that power away, in which case the people (local lords, etc.) will have clear grounds for legitimate regicide. 

Another answer specifically excepted the case of forced migration, but it's worth considering. Two versions strike me as especially significant for your question: the Puritans going to America, and British convicts being sent to Australia. The Puritan example is particularly interesting here, because it both was and was not forced. In effect, contrary to many of the myths that American schoolchildren are taught, the Puritans were under a good deal of social and economic pressure in England, and decided to try America instead. Their problem, fundamentally, was that they wanted to be stunningly intolerant and controlling of everyone with whom they came into contact, but their non-Puritan neighbors weren't very happy about this. So they moved to America so they could set up a completely non-tolerant society where they punish people who disagreed with them about more or less anything. And on the whole, their neighbors in England were happy to be rid of them. The deal, of course, was that they were Crown colonies, and they had to pay the Crown. In part, this was a matter of money for services: they needed guns, for instance, and all kinds of other goods that they couldn't get very readily in America. In part, this was just taxation. Eventually, this all led to revolution, in large measure because the colonies no longer needed what services the Crown was providing -- they could make their own guns, for example -- and so they were paying a lot for very little. Thus "no taxation without representation." So to get back to the core of the question: the possible relations between the colony and the homeworld are extremely variable. If the colony was in part forced, there may be a lingering grudge against the homeworld, but on the other hand, Australia was remarkably tolerant of being a colony for most of its modern history. If the colony was formed as some kind of social, political, religious, or whatever experiment -- as with the Puritans, but there have been many other examples -- the group may want independence as soon as possible; on the other hand, most such experiments have failed fairly disastrously, and arguably the Puritan one did as well, in which case despite the desire for independence they may be heavily dependent on homeworld support. Meanwhile, the homeworld presumably wants something from the colony, or else why would they support it? If they really don't want anything from the new world, and the colonists want independence, then you could end up with effectively no relations: space travel isn't likely to be cheap, and if the homeworld won't pay for it and the colonists are reasonably poor in high-tech resources, the colonists may end up pretty much orphaned. 

Given all this, what might be done to prevent economic disaster? First off, a corollary of the extraordinary power of magic as well as stricture #2 above: can magical means detect a difference? For example, can magical means be used to discern the history of a given object, its location of origin, etc.? If so, those who can afford to do so and have a vested interest in the stability of the economy (banks, governments, etc.) may well have wizards whose job it is to detect counterfeits. But let's suppose that #2 is true in a radical sense: the created gold is in that case not a forgery. It's perfectly real. In that case, it seems to me that the issue devolves into one of interests. On the one hand, there are those who have a strong vested interest in the long-term stability of the economy, such as banks and governments and so forth. You might say that everyone has such an interest, but that isn't necessarily the case. If I find a huge nugget of gold in my backyard, my inclination is to turn it into money (sell it to a bank or gold dealer, etc.); the fact that this may in some sense devalue the world's gold reserves isn't something I'm going to worry about -- I leave that to the world's financial industry, and if they have some suffering because of it, well, sounds good to me. Not my problem. Now in early modern Europe, particularly in the sixteenth century, alchemy was big business. That isn't just turning base metals into gold, to be sure, but let's focus on that for the sake of the question. One way of dealing with alchemists was to punish them: the reasoning here is not that the gold they create is necessarily not real, but that the Crown has the monopoly on creating currency, and as a result, gold-making is arguably a crime of lèse-majesté. Another possibility -- equally attested -- reverses this reasoning: if this alchemist seems likely to be able to pull it off, the Crown wants him working for the Royal Mint. So in the end, it's a matter of interest. 1. Who has a strong and indeed vested interest in the totality of the world economy? Until quite modern times, nobody. If I have more gold than you do, whether "I" and "you" are individuals, guilds, or states, then I'm richer than you are, period, no matter where I got the gold. To be sure, the history of Spanish conquest and the import of vast amounts of gold and silver to Europe from the New World did cause tremendous damage in the long run, but in the short run it certainly made Spain very wealthy. And although we might now argue that this incredible surge of precious metals was a bad idea, the Spanish didn't see it that way at the time. So by this reasoning, if nobody is particularly looking out for the world economy, the only thing stopping magicians from creating gold is local interest. 2. What do local interests think about creating gold and such? Depends how easy it is, and how firmly the Crown or whoever holds on to its currency monopoly. If there are zillions of magicians running around doing this all the time, then I do think the value of these goods would have collapsed long ago, but the question as posed presumes otherwise; this suggests to me that producing gold magically is rather rare. In that case, magicians who can do this are themselves resources, like gold mines. So by this reasoning, the laws and such governing magicians creating gold will tend to approximate those governing gold mines, the differences being primarily that (a) magicians can move somewhere else, and (b) magicians can be killed. If I were the Crown, I think I'd want to link a to b: the magician works for me in the Mint, and does what I tell him to, and if he ever tries to move away I'll have him killed. 3. What wider implications does this have? 3a. If I'm a magician who can make gold, I either do or do not want to work for a state. Could be a very cushy job: the Crown doesn't want to have to kill the goose that lays the golden eggs, and it's not terribly difficult for the Crown to ensure that I lead an awfully pampered life if it wants something from me. So if I have that power, I may well seek patronage of this kind -- many alchemists in European history did precisely this. If for some reason I really badly don't want to work in this way, perhaps because I like traveling around, then I had better not advertise that I can create gold this way. 3b. Suppose there are three states, which for sake of simplicity we'll call France, Spain, and England. Now Spain has a whole lot of powerful magicians working for them, and they're cranking out gold and silver like nobody's business (cf. Spanish New World colonial exploitation). England and France would certainly like to have that same power, but they don't, so what do they do? France might well try to cozy up to Spain, do them favors and whatnot in order to get Spain to loan them a magician or give them gold cheap. England, on the other hand, might decide instead to kidnap Spanish magicians -- or even assassinate them (cf. licensed privateering in the Caribbean). Conclusions The central point is that magicians as described in the question are effectively moving gold mines. The powers that be will want to control these mines, and if they cannot do so, they will want to ensure that nobody else controls them instead. I do not see a global concern for "the economy" being a realistic issue in the absence of a global financial industry. If such an industry does exist, then it will act in much the same way as any ordinary state: it will want to control the moving gold mines, and ensure that nobody else controls them. It is certainly possible that such an industry will make the claim that it must do this to protect everyone in the world from ruin, but somehow I suspect that the people who run that industry will get remarkably wealthy as they achieve greater and greater control over the magicians.