Given names are not quite random; they reflect in some way the cultural heritage of a society. Many names reflect things we hold dear or that evoke characteristics that we want to convey to our children. Many are inherited from the names of famous or historically important people. Many Germanic names hold meanings related with war, power, wealth, fame and nobility. Traditional Christian names come from the names of saints, apostles, prophets and other Judaeo-Christian religious figures. Chinese names vary greatly in theme, but most convey auspicious concepts, positive personal qualities and wonders of nature. There are also some naming systems that are more systematic in nature. For example, some of the most common names for Japanese boys merely mean "nth son". There are also the often cyclic generation names of some traditional Chinese and Korean families. You may either take inspiration from real world naming systems or even design your own. Whatever system you devise, consider how it makes sense in that new world you're building. Some names may be very popular locally for a short while, while others may have a more universal appeal, other names may be considered old-fashioned, stigmatized or even ridiculous. 

Strictly speaking, the answer is "Yes, that can happen." However, there are so many ways that it could happen that the full scope of "how" would be too broad. Since you don't need the full scope, but rather need only a few good ideas, I will offer some. 

Some people do maintain gardens through the winter. You just need a hardy plant and to help it along. Your people could grow kale in small greenhouses. A horizontal window is all you really need for this, or even just a layer of normal clear plastic-wrap used on left-over food. A window can even be propped up by the snow itself. All you need to do is keep this small space above freezing. With the right plants, even if it gets below freezing they won't necessarily die. Keeping it almost always above freezing also provides the added benefit that you now have a good source of water too, for both you and the plant; just toss snow in there and let it melt. Do a Google search for winter gardening advice. I typically do one like "Best crops for winter garden". Lots of the articles will just suggest lists of plants and how to care for them, but some actually specify temperature ranges below which you should expect the plants to die. For example, at growveg.com Best Vegetables to Grow in Winter, we see: 

might point to better results. I am by no means a biologist, and I have little knowledge as of how such Isotopes affect the Immunesystem of the creature, so another approach that might work by the same principle - and is surely more fun for the subject - is getting it drunk and measuring the degree of blood alcohol decreasing. However, this presumes that the scientists have knowledge over the alcohol breakdown process for the species without having it timejumping. Maybe a monitored measurement first? 

injecting a sample of the isotope getting a blood sample waiting a few days taking another blood sample and comparing the results with the expected value 

I am a huge Minecraft fan and just realized, this hasn't been asked before, so I wanted to ask a live-long (31. August 2009) question, and pay my obulus to the Anatomically Correct series. I have done some research, and found this picture: 

The spherical planet is projected on a plane by slightly distorting the proportions. Displaying coordinates makes the effect more visible: 

A lot of answers here seem to be answering the related but un-asked question of "How does the lucky person get away with it or maximize winnings?" The answer to the actual question is rather simple and short... How can the casino prove I'm cheating? If you are not cheating, they cannot prove that you are. How would they? The casino cannot prove something when there is no proof. The casino could try to plant fake evidence. This is unlikely to happen unless you are breaking the bank for any given, specific casino. Some people do walk away with millions, and the casinos don't plant evidence against them all, so why would you be different? If you are raking in Billions from 1 single casino, then maybe they would try something. At that point, though, what they are doing is illegal, so just use your imagination. Maybe they rig their own roulette game in a fashion that you could for cheating and they say you did it, maybe get false witnesses. There are 1000 things they could do here. Speaking of illegal activity, casinos are highly regulated in a lot of ways. It is illegal even for the casino to tamper with their own devices to cheat in the casino's favor, just like it is illegal for you to tamper with them to cheat. That said, they will definitely suspect you of cheating. There have been times when people have cheated, the casinos have looked into them and proven they did cheat, and those people have gone to jail. What Can (or Will) the Casino do? Even though the casino cannot prove you are cheating, that doesn't matter. They don't need to prove it. They can and will simply kick you out. It is that simple. If you keep winning too much money in a way that does no good for the casino (provides no positive publicity for casino, causes nobody around you to bet more, etc.), eventually someone will come over and just force you to leave. What Else is the Casino Likely to do? Planting evidence is unlikely, as mentioned above, since that could get the casino in big trouble. However, that does not mean the casino will just roll over. I will also go into the situation where you try to get one last big win so the casino has little time to react, but I will cover it from the casino's point of view, per your question. I have heard of people being denied their winnings before. Even if this is illegal (some have suggested it is, and I would agree), that does not bother the casino if they do not lose out. This, then, becomes just another bet, another game of chances. Odds are that people who are not given all the chips they deserve are not going to take legal action against the casino, and even if some do then the casino just pays you what you were owed in the first place. That is: there is no negative for the casino since they lose (approximately) the same amount whether they pay you now or pay you when your lawyers threaten them and so there is little incentive to bully you into leaving without all earnings, but there is much positive for the casino if you don't send lawyers. So it's a "win/not-lose" situation for the casino to bully you into not taking that last big winning when they are kicking you out. Further, if you have no witnesses or evidence, it may be hard to prove that you were denied what was rightfully yours. If you leave without all your winnings when the casino bullies you, what proof do you have that you actually were denied what was yours? If you were keeping a low profile, you likely left few or no witnesses. This makes it even easier for the casino to withhold what is yours. Summary The casino can't prove anything but doesn't need to. The casino can and will kick you out. It is possible they might try to bully you into leaving without all your money. 

In the binomial nomenclature, the first part of the name identifies the genus to which the species belongs; the second part identifies the species within the genus. The concepts of Genus and Species apply to Species and individuals sharing an ancestral taxon or common ancestor. For creatures engineered using DNA from a single natural species, the binomial name of that species should be used, followed by "var. something". From engineered creatures whose DNA doesn't match any natural species, but which share ancestry with species from a natural genus (or family, order or class), the genus name should be preserved, and a species name should be invented to describe the new creature. For engineered creatures with no obvious natural ancestors, a distinct nomenclature should be used. I propose the following nomenclature: 

Make: the name of the laboratory, company, manufacturer or brand who engineered the creature. Model: whatever name the manufacturer finds suitable to describe the creature. Release: to designate the iteration of the process of development of this creature. It could be a chronological marker (e.g. a year), a SemVer (major.minor.patch) version number, etc. 

During an explosion, pieces are going to be generally accelerated in all directions. If the explosion is strong enough, you can decide that sufficient acceleration has occurred on the debris to make it go in whatever direction you want. During the explosion, perhaps one of the rockets was actively thrusting at that moment, or maybe it is thrusting in reaction to the explosion to help stabilize; either way, that rocket, and any arbitrarily large chunk(s) of the ship attached to it, break away because of the reduced structural integrity. This piece(s) could now be essentially a missile and could happen to randomly land wherever you want. This might be your best bet. You said "in low earth orbit," but is it actually orbiting at that height? Similar to the answer from @AndreiROM if this is a new ship, or not new but is currently being moved from planet-to-orbit or orbit-to-planet, and it is being hauled up or down on a space elevator then all you need is for an accident where the elevator breaks or the ship breaks off it or similar. This would allow the entire structure to fall almost straight down if it's only at LEO altitude. A little bit more altitude and you could have it fall in an arc away from the elevator location. This would probably be the fastest option and would provide you with whatever time frame you wanted depending on the altitude the accident happened at: minutes, hours, days, even months or years... whatever you want, just change the altitude accordingly. 

Bonus Points for anyone who can give some plausible evolutionary explanation on why spontaneous explosions are a desireable trait for a species, andhow it could evolve. 

Generally, you should use lesser detail on your map, the further you "zoom out". There is no point in marking every little village on a world map as it would get confusing. Again, look at google maps, they show and hide routes, villages etc. when you change the zoom. 

This way you can create a map with all major parts of your world, like bigger continents and oceans. By using different colors you can either show different political factions or countries (have a look at the first image again) or you can document different biomes (simply have a look at google maps for this one). With your major parts of the world are mapped out, you can easily add rivers and bigger lakes to the map. Visualizing mountain ranges or forests can be done by using either shading, like in the first picture, or by placing little icons like trees or single mountains on your map: 

IMHO, both concepts of "religion" and "god" in such a world would be very different to what we imagine/know as such. To worship, for example, would be less about faith and belief (on an unseen/indirectly experienced higher being) and more about allegiance (towards a very visible individual). The legal system of societies developing in such a world would also be very different, with some societies being tied to the worship of/allegiance towards one or several gods, other societies giving their citizen complete freedom and responsibility over their choice of gods, and others simply not taking any stance. It would depend a lot on how strong the relationship can become between an individual and a god, and the nature of the gods themselves. For example, in a "Gods Need Prayer Badly" scenario, the gods would be as interested in maintaining a strong following as the people would be in keeping this god's favor. Other scenarios would put the people more or less at the mercy of the gods' whim, although god-challenging heroes may be a possibility. Of course, some people may take a third option, and flat out refuse to worship any visible, moody, aspect-limited, one-among-many, flawed "god", only willing to offer their souls to a believed One Supreme Being that would be above all gods and all creation. Maybe. 

Note: When I first answered, I missed your mention of Celsius. I was thinking -5 to 10 degrees F, which is even colder. This realization makes what you want even easier. There are edible garden plants which can survive the temperature range you specify just fine. I have edited the answer with this updated point of view. Sorry if my changes cause any confusion. 

The smallest geological change necessary to ensure that insufficient fossils exist to create the evolutionary ideas as you requested is: No change at all. Fossils did not provide the "origin of humanity" idea in the first place As has already been pointed out, the idea that creatures evolved from common ancestors did not originate with analysis of fossils. Fossils may already be insufficient to trace the link you speak of Further, even when fossils came into the equation, they did just as much, if not more, to dismiss modern evolutionary theories as they did to support it. For a long time there was a controversy called "The Missing Link." The argument went something like this (simplified for this answer): You have found fossils of humans, fossils of apes, and fossils of an extinct semi-apelike creature that is our common ancestor, but you have found no fossils that suggest the extinct creature ever evolved into humans. Indeed, some prominent evolutionists were concerned about this and looked hard for evidence to connect the proposed common ancestors to their modern day descendants. It was even suggested by some of them that, if they fail to find some of the evidences their model suggested should exist, then the modern evolutionary model should be abandoned. We do have more evidence now. However, the evidence is still not conclusive enough for all scientists to agree. In fact, there is a minority group (but still quite large) of scientists who do not believe that humans and apes have a common animal ancestor from which they both descended. In science, even among people with the same (or similar) beliefs, there is a lot of argument; scientists do not all hold strong to one unified belief where they are all in concert. Even many of the supporters of the current evolutionary model will suggest that the fossil record as dug up so far is not yet sufficient to trace human origin. Summary The fossil record we have is enough for the majority of scientists in that field to support the modern evolutionary model, but it is still sufficiently lacking such that a reasonably large portion of reasonable scientists do not support it. If there are smart, well educated professors and scientists who do not believe that even our current fossil record that we do have in reality is sufficient to make human evolution traceable, to the point where they don't even believe there is a link to be traced, then surely the amount of geological change necessary to suggest such a link is untraceable is zero change. In fact, I speculate that the modern evolutionary model would still exist today, mostly intact, even if we had no fossils more than a few generations old for study. 

I think @Quentins answer of using a radio transmitter is a good approach. However, having a technical device stuck to your species might not work, depending on the details of your timetraveling process. Who knows, whether only the species travels and the device remains untouched? Further, the device probably has some issues due to its size just like he already pointed out. I would probably go for a more cemical/biological approach: The possible timetravelling subject could be injected with a small amount of radioactive material with a high rate of decay, for example that has a half-life rate of . So, 

Image source: $URL$ A Napalm bombs area of effect is somewhere between 2500 sqft 2 and 20000 sqft 3. So to completely cover the entirety of Madagaskar (6,318415e+12 sqft) you'd need quite a few of these (or really big ones). But if you target highly flammable areas like forests, the area of effect of the bomb will highly increase due to the fire spreading widely, leading to massive forest fires scorching wide areas of the land. Note that the use of Napalm against civilian targets is prohibited, but I don't think the Rat Empire cares about such restrictions. They are Part of human law and not Rat law after all.