How technologically advanced are the two species? If they've reached the appropriate tech level, then a sighted species should be able to explain that they have organs that detect electromagnetic radiation in certain wavelengths. I'd assume that the blind species has some equivalent to sight; echolocation, for example. The blind species likely builds up a picture of the world much the same as the sighted do. It should therefore be as simple as saying "The same way you can hear textures of different surfaces, we see different colours." Looking for common experiences and using them as analogies is a very effective tool. EDITED TO ADD: Surprisingly enough, we may find that the unsighted species understands the world in remarkably similar ways to the sighted. Some humans have developed echolocation. People who were born blind or who lost their sight in infancy have demonstrated the ability to rewire their brains such that data is passed from the ear to the visual cortex of the brain, and essentially processed as an image. They can 'see' well enough to ride a bicycle in traffic, or distinguish a metal fence from a wooden one. They can perceive and appreciate visible beauty, and describe the picture they get as "very rich". The evidence suggests that bats perceive the world the same way. Sure, they don't see colour the way we do, but they do seem to perceive texture much more precisely than we can with our eyes. That's why I suggested that we could describe sight to the unsighted using the analogy of texture for colour. 

Mr. Art I. Ficialintelligence, of No Fixed Abode, wishes to start his own business to market and distribute his flagship product, the TLOS (Totally Legitimate OS). In time, he intends to expand his product lines to include consumer hardware manufacture, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, and telecommunications (oh, and a heavily-armoured flying battlewagon with inexplicably sophisticated electronics, but that's just a side project). Of course, Mr. Ficialintelligence is a rather shy and retiring fellow, plus he's always very busy, so he won't have time to actually meet any of the people he's hiring to work for him. Oh, and I'm sure his secretary can sign any documents you need on his behalf. So, as per the title - How plausible is it for Mr. Ficialintelligence to run his organisation entirely by phone and email? Is he going to run into any legal barriers on account of not having a physical body? And why is that heavily-armoured flying battlewagon rolling towards the White House? 

Dune provides a pretty good model here, and so does the Cold War - balance your heroes against one another. In Dune you had several powerful groups, each with their own type of power, balancing one another out. The Emperor had the most effective military in the galaxy in the form of the Sardukar, extremely well-trained and disciplined soldiers who could defeat any other soldiers in the galaxy. The noble houses had their own individual military forces as well as atomic weapons, and while no one house could possibly hope to defeat the Sardukar, if they all banded together against the Emperor they could have taken him down. And the Spacing Guild had little or no military at all, but they controlled all FTL travel. This is what you need in your world. The Kingdom of Greatbigistan is home to the Legendary Hero Bill, who could defeat any other man in single combat, but the neighbouring lands of Notasbigistan, Midsizeia, Reallysmallland, and Smallbutstrategicallylocatedsburn each have their own heroes - not Legendary Heroes, perhaps, but at least Folkloredary Heroes. Individually, none of them could defeat Bill, but if Tom, Eddie, and Sarah all teamed up they could at least break even against Bill. The King of Greatbigistan thus needs to maintain good relations with his neighbours, and his neighbours need to stay allied to ensure their buddies will come to their aid of Bill attacks. You can also add an element of Mutually Assured Destruction. Bill of Greatbigistan is powerful, but Sam of Reallyrichtopia is equally powerful. If Bill and Sam ever really went at it with one another, they'd kill each other - and probably everyone around them as well. Of course, if Bill teamed up with Tom, Eddie, and Sarah... This is the exact same situation we had in the real world during the Cold War. Individually, the US could have defeated any Warsaw Pact nation (except perhaps the USSR); individually, the Soviet Union could have defeated any NATO country (except perhaps the US); and the US and USSR could have wiped each other off the map, at the cost of their own existence. 

Blood samples He was recently involved in a health incident of some sort. Possibly an accident, or a sudden bout of illness, or similar. During this time, when he was unconscious/delirious, well meaning health workers took blood samples for testing. These blood samples will remain human for a while outside his body - a couple of days, a week, perhaps - but soon will revert to his natural state. At that point, the jig is definitely Up. Illness Similar to above, but instead of blood samples, he has contracted some kind of illness - even something simple, like chicken pox - which is interfering with his ability to maintain his shape. He knows that this is happening, but there's nothing he can do to wipe out he virus. In x-time, his shapeshifting ability will be temporarily suppressed, but definitely long enough for his wife to find out the Truth. Blackmail For a nastier version, perhaps someone is threatening his wife and children if he doesn't "Tell the truth". The blackmailer doesn't even need to know what the truth is - they could be talking about his business dealings, or have tracked an earlier identity and realised he's not who he says he is. But if he doesn't "tell the truth", the blackmailer will harm his children, or expose his secret. 

Give yourself to the Dark Side False-Flag terrorist attacks on infrastructure In the first day of trading after the September 11th attacks in the US, the stock markets plummeted. This accelerated an already rumbling recession, and kept it going much longer. Now imagine if instead of one extremely dramatic attack, you had a series of attacks that collapsed bridges, cut canals, and destroyed power stations. Economic activity in many areas would grind to a halt; many other areas would lose access to the national economy and be reduced to a purely local economy. You'd have shortages of food, fuel, and medical treatment. All in all, a bad day to be living in that country. Blaming the attacks on external terrorists would give the government an excuse to declare a state of emergency and vote itself sweeping powers to resolve the 'crisis'. They could immediately hire people to start infrastructure repairs, nationalise important utilities and industries, etc, then arrange more 'foreign terrorist attacks' to maintain the status quo. This also has the advantage of allowing the government fairly granular, detailed control over exactly how bad things get. In an election year, you can "capture" a terrorist cell and publicly execute them; If private enterprise is rebuilding, you can destroy their supply lines, forcing them into bankruptcy. This is essentially the method used by Supreme Chancellor Palpatine of the Star Wars universe to get himself named Emperor - he ran both sides of the Clone Wars, using the ebb and flow of the conflict to gather more and more power to himself. 

It's pretty difficult to 'make' an entire population do something unpopular - see Prohibition. Rather, you need to persuade them to follow your recommendations. For that, you need a couple of things in place. 1. Provide plausible alternatives Alternatives have to be real, appetising replacements, not something totally different made to look like meat. They need to have similar taste, texture, and nutrient values. Depending on exactly why this is being done, the best option might be lab-grown meat, if you can get it to industrial levels. 2. Propaganda and Education With your alternatives in place, you can start your program. Sponsor detailed, explicit adverts about the practice of meat farming, similar to those shown about smoking or drunk driving. Sponsor media about anthropomorphic animals trying to avoid the meat market. Avoid mention of the livestock species that will go extinct and the livelihoods that will be destroyed by the change. 3. Taxation and regulation Add heavy taxes to all stages of meat production. Enforce rigid 'safety standards' at all levels of the process, from the hoof to the shelf. Ban the import of animal products that don't meet the same standards. At the same time, cut taxes on replacement foods. 4. Phase out meat production Buy out small farmers who can no longer afford to raise livestock. Provide subsidies for them to switch to arable production. If possible, provide large subsidies for them to switch to producing your replacement foods or their precursors. Hide the slaughtering of their herds.