Resumes are a marketing tool, nothing more. You have to plan your market campaign based on what you are selling. In many ways, what to do is a cost-benefit analysis. If by customizing I can only apply to 10 companies instead of 100 in a week, am I going to generate enough interviews to make that time worth while and are those interviews going to be ones I am more likely to succeed at? If you do the 100 generic ones and get typically 4 interviews of which only 1 is really interesting and by customizing you might get 6 out of ten comapnies to interview you and 4 of thehm are really interesting, then it is worth the effort. But if you get 30 interviews for your 100 and 20 of them are interesting and 15 of them are ones you would be likely to get offers you want from, then customizing does nto make sense. So before you can determine if you should customize your resume, you have to determine what are the key things that would make you stand out from the competition. This list might be differnt at every stage of your career and what is on the list may dictate whether you need to customize or not. If you only have one or two selling points (as you might have at the entry level) and what you have to offer is not significantly differnt for the types of jobs you are applying for, then you might be best served spending the majority of your time on the generic resume and making sure it is something that will catch the attention of the people screening it to determine who to interview. I will also point out that a badly customized resume may work against you. Do you really have the marketing skills right now to truly customize your resume? However, the well-crafted custom resume that pinpoints the needs of the specific company you are looking at may be the one thing that distinguises you from a sea of entry-level recent grads who all have similar qualifications. Only you can make the choice of which is likely to be better based on your own particular circumstances. A well-done customization can make the hiring offical see you as someone who understands the business and not just the technical end and that will give you an edge. At the entry level point, we are mainly hiring on personality fit as very few entry level people have significantly better technical qualifications than the others. As you move up though, you will have more things that could go in your resume and now you have the opposite problem. Instead of trying to figure out how to customize when you have very little actual experience, you now are almost forced to customize so that the hiring offical will see the parts of your experince that are most pertinent to the new postion. It is also harder to get through the screening for more senior postions, so you really have to make sure you hit the keywords. Further, you are much more picky about what jobs you would consider (most of us learn this one the hard way) and so you need to do the research before applying in any event. 

First, if you are at the point where you are thinking of quitting life, you need to get some help immediately. There is no shame in getting treatment for depression; it is an illness just like cancer or heart disease. You don't need to tell anyone if you do feel they would judge you. Next you need to learn how to stand up for yourself. You don't have to insult back, but you need to be able to frame a clear objection to their behavior. There are books on how to be assertive, you need to read a couple of them and practice the techniques until you feel you can do this at work. Start with something small and then when the world didn't end, you can move up to more and more important things. When I was young, I was very shy and unassertive, people who know me now would laugh at that concept of me. You can learn to be more assertive, it is just a subject too large for a few paragraphs on a website. That is why I recommended books. Next consider if you want to work with these people. Decent people do not behave this way to anyone. There are other jobs where this is not tolerated. You could complain to HR but in the end, do you want to work with people who are bullies, especially since you said it was everyone and not just one person? While you are there though, start going to lunch by yourself and taking breaks after they have taken theirs. Keep any interactions strictly to business. Remind yourself every time they tease you that this is a defect of their personality, not yours. Decent people do not behave this way. 

I would put together a detailed Estimate including all the tasks that would need to be done and the hours to do them and the overall cost. Don't forget the cost of moving the existing data to the new data source. As a guess I would estimate this to be several thousand hours of work, but you need to be much more specific than that, show them what needs to be done and what each major task of this would take. I also would include a risk analysis describing the risk of introducing new bugs, the lack of data integrity, the chance that some data would be lost in transferring to the new database, etc. Once you present it, either they will pay you a large amount of money to make the change or you will never hear of it again. 

@enderland has a terrific answer. I just want to add something about what you should have been doing as a senior when you are new to the organization. If you have no actual tasks to do then you should be learning about the current systems at that organization not studying stuff on the Internet or surfing it for fun. You ask your boss which systems you should come up to speed on first and then dig in and learn that system in all of your spare time. Ask questions, create documentation, think of ways it can be refactored, etc. Until you understand the complex system to some extent, you are not very useful, so dig in and start learning them. Then if you still have free time, you go talk to the users of that system and find out what problems they have and think about whether it makes good business sense to suggest solving a particular problem. At a place like a bank, it would take considerably longer than 3 months to get up to speed on their systems so that would have kept you busy with legitimate work. By not giving you tasks immediately, they were giving you the precious gift of time to dig in and learn the systems without the outside pressure of a deadline. This is also likely what they expected you to do when they didn't assign any tasks. 

You have to somewhat aggresively pursue it when someone needs to complete something before you can do your part. My boss knows the day I think the deadline can't be met and why. I state specifically in the email that the deadline cannot be met because X task will take X hours and cannot be done until Y task is done and that task has not been delivered. I will repeat that email daily adjusting the deadline farther out by one day every day of theh delay. The first email will be "I need X by date such and such or there will be a delay." Each succeeding email will be slightly stronger in the wwording. But it is critical to say outright that the deadline is in jeopardy if this depenadnt task is not delivered. After 2-3 days, I would go to my boss in person and ask for help resolving teh issue. Now you appear to have a differnt issue becasue you got responses that indicate they can't do the work until they see if what you did works. You can't do it til they finish and they can't do their task until you finish. Not a good place to be in. In this case, you need to have a meeting the first day that it is clear that your expectations and theirs are in conflict and work out the conflict. They may need a small part of what you are doing and you may need a small part of what they are doing. Or maybe there is a miscommuncation on one or both sides about exactly what is neeeded. Get those parts done first and together if need be. Maybe a redesign is needed if these two tasks are genuinely in conflict. Bot you the other dev and your mutual bosses need to sit down immediately and work this out. There is no excuse for letting this linger in an email chain. Meeting the deadline is your responsibility. It is your fault if you do not meeti it as you have the responsibility to insists on a changed deadline or to follow through, even aggresively if need be, until you get what you need. YOur boss should certainly be aware possibly weeks ahead of time that there is a problem and you should be pushing him to resolve it on a daily basis if you cannot get it resolved on your own. 

This is timesheet fraud. You are right to be concerned. It can be illegal (depending on the jusrisdiction of course and what the contract specifies about reporting hours worked) especially if the hours are being moved to avoid a situation where the company won't get paid for them or get moved to a dfferent project altogether (if I am paying you to work on Project A and it is out of hours, it can be illegal to charge those hours to some other project I am also paying for or to some project someone else is paying for that uses up their hours and they do not get the benefit of any work being accomplished.). If the client is a govenrment agency, there is chance it will get caught as they audit these records pretty closely sometimes especially if they suspect they are being billed for work not performed. You need to be able to prove that this is not what you submitted if there is ever any question. Make a paper copy of every timesheet you submit when you submit it. If you are asked to manually move the hours afterwards, make sure to get the request in writing and keep a paper copy of that too. Keep the paper copies off-site. A well designed timesheet application should make it impossible for a supervisor to change the hours submitted by an a employee for just this reason. This is an internal check that every responsible company has. If I audited your company and found that supervisors could change timesheets, I woudl question the results and look much harder at the data. (I used to work for an audit agency and we dealt with this stuff all the time.) People can go to jail for timesheet fraud, you need to protect yourself. Now if these are internal projects (or the client is aware of the move to a different project for billing and has agreed to it) and someone is not fraudulently getting billed, this is not so much of a concern. It is also a problem if they are moving the hours to avoid paying overtime that you are entitled to. Not everyone is entitled to overtime, but if you are, they could be cheating you of money you are entitled to by law. 

If you were asked that, I would consider that he is trying to feel you out about whether you would be interested in joining as an employee as they certainly would not ask this question if they had no intent to offer you that status. Therefore the best answer is one that let's them know you would be interested in it, but that the action is up to them to take. Something like: "I haven't been offered the opportunity yet, but I certainly would consider it if an offer was made." Be careful not to commit to accepting any offer they made or you might get low-balled on the salary. Of course if you didn't want to be given an offer, then a smile and "I'm happy where I am." would suffice. 

What do you expect to gain from this? It is not going to improve your current rating. If you didn't tell your boss at the time the stresses happened, then it just looks like an excuse and will likely annoy him or her more. The proper time to bring up stresses that affect your work is at the time they are happening. This way your boss can make allowances and possibly shift workload. Bringing them up after the fact is not going to impress anyone and it makes you look bad. However, while your partner losing his/her job is a stress you can probably get allowance for, buying a home is not. If you let that affect your performance, you need to work on compartmentalizing. You should be able to leave these kinds of stresses at the door when you come to work. Serious illnesses, deaths (especially of people you live with), loss of family income, arrests in the family, etc. are the types of serious issues that a good boss will try to work with you until you get past it. Note that you are far more likely to be given the benefit of the doubt if your performance is usually very good. Note that telling your boss will not likely keep your performance rating from going down, but it will keep it from going down into the unacceptable level usually. But you aren't likely going to get an outstanding or an exceeds expectations when your performance has been diminished. 

Part of why they don't leave the room is because they want to see how you approach solving the problem as much as they want to see the answer you get. They also want to see how you react to stress and this is a stressuful situation, but likely the job itself has a fair amount of stress and tehy want people they know can work under pressure. They are NOT looking just for a trival technical answer to a question. They are looking for a way to evaluate how you work. Part of how you handle thisin an interview is talk out loud about what you are thinking in terms of solving the problem, ask questions to get more information and just start sketching out a solution. 

OK, first what you should have done was talk to the guy privately immediately after the meeting and told him that you didn't appreciate being talked over and not to ever do that again. As a business analyst, it is your responsibility to translate technical into client business terms and he did not allow you to do your job. His reaction when being confronted privately will tell you a lot about how to handle this in future interactions. Be prepared to hear something about what you were doing that caused him not to be confident in our client interactions. Take that to heart rather than getting upset, you can't fix a problem that you didn't know existed. But often in these cases, the person is just a dominant person who will walk all over anyone who will let him. So make it clear that you will not let him. The first step is always to let the person know he or she overstepped and that you are not going to be a pushover who will accept that. If the person does not have confidence in you, then discuss with your boss what you need to do to fix that idea. One thing that has helped me in the past was to get together with the people in other technical ares before the client meeting and go over what we were going to say so that we presented a united front on the message. In these meetings, make it clear that you want to hear their input and that you may adjust your approach depending on what they tell you. Now as to telling your boss. If you hadn't let this stew in your mind by not confronting the perpetrator immediately, then you could have handled this in a less stressful way. What you should do in the future is handle it so that your boss knows what you are asking for is support from him or her when this sort of thing happens. Some people will persist until someone higher in the organization confronts them. You want to know your boss has your back when these things happen. And knowing the personalities and office politics involved, your boss is in a better position to give you advice more tailored to the individuals involved. So ask him/her what you should have done differently. If however, someone gets to you so badly that you need to vent before you can be calm and professional in dealing with it, the proper way to talk to your boss about it, is to warn them that you need to vent and go someplace private. Some bosses are people you can do this with and others are not, so be aware of what type of boss you have. If this is someone who will take you less seriously for getting frustrated and needing to vent, then do your venting outside the office or by writing a email describing everything you are upset about (make sure to leave the To line blank so you can't accidentally send it). If you do vent, afterwards, think about the actual actions you want your supervisor to take and then bring them up now that you are calmer. Be aware that there are two possible special cases that may cause issues in a situation like this and you may need to directly address them. First if there is a male/female or older/younger or racial difference, you may need to address that. Many studies show that women are interrupted more, talked over more, not allowed to speak more, not paid attention to when they do speak, etc. If you are treated as less than because of your gender or age, then you need to be especially careful to be assertive about the matter. I have also seen this happen to people of color or employees who were significantly younger than the person treating them badly. When I was a young woman, this was far worse in the workplace and I had to grow a thick skin and learn to speak up in the meeting (although perhaps not starting with a client meeting) and not allow anyone to interrupt me. If they try, I interrupt them right back and claim my voice. If people claimed my ideas as their own, I pointed it out; I stood up for others having the same issues. When people know you will stand up for yourself, they spend less time trying to undermine you. Many women, however, are socialized to not do those things and then the situation tends to get worse instead of better. If you are in this situation, there are some books on communication that you need to read to understand how to better get your idea across. Deborah Tannen has written several goo books on this subject and Talking from 9-5 is a good place to start to become a better communicator. As a business analyst, your job is communication, make sure you learn to do it well. Another issue is that some developers have a problem with anyone who isn't one. Your boss can tell you if this is a problem here. With a person like this, it is better not to automatically invite them to client meetings, but to get their inputs beforehand instead. Remember, communicating with the client is your primary responsibility not theirs. You should be controlling all interactions with the client and they can't behave, they don't get to play.