While there are a lot of riders that have admitted doping, and/or been sanctioned for it (As well as others involved in the teams), I don't think anyone has compiled a single "Lance list". If you want to know, you are pretty much going to have to look through the team members and then check each of them individually. In addition to US Postal, Trek/Discovery and other Lance variations, many riders of the same era from other teams have also been sanctioned, among them Ulrich, Vinokourov (sp), Pantani, Basso, and the list goes on. Now that the USADA information has been released, the number of people named/sanctioned that testified include 11 former teammates in the USPS/Discovery days, among then Hincapie, Christian Vandevelde, Levi Leipheimer, Frankie Andreu. There are also quite a few redacted (Blacked out) names that are either not riders or are foreign riders. There have been quite a few resignations and firings among team staff related to this. There is an excellent interview with Levi here: $URL$ Note: Some of the following is hearsay type material: There is also speculation that the UCI itself was complicit in Lance's case, letting the team know when testing would occur, etc. (End vague, hearsay type evidence). One of the running jokes I've heard is that if they do actually take the titles away from Lance (Which is still up in the air, that's a UCI decision and will probably eventually end up in CAS [Court of Arbitration for Sport]), they will have to find some club riders to give it to because nobody else would be left. In short, it's a big mess, and it's probably safe to say that doping was (and still is) rife in elite cycling, and the ones that get caught are the ones that simply aren't paying attention. Oh, and for the record, Lance has tested positive twice, once for corticosteroids (1999), which was not outside the legal limits and attributed to a saddle cream, and another test in the 2000's was tossed out because the sample wasn't handled properly. I think it's a bit of a misnomer to label it all as the "Lance doping scandal", however. Lance is just the most visible part of a very large iceberg. And to add, now that the iceberg is starting to break up, many sponsors are leaving Lance (As of 10.18.2012) These include Nike, Giro, Trek, Anheuser Busch. Honey Stinger (Of which he is an investor) is removing his likeness from packaging, and he has stepped down as chairman of Livestrong. There is speculation that SRAM is attempting to buy back his shares as he is an investor there as well. 

First, one small point. The two pictures show different types of extensions, not bars. Bars are still what the extensions attach to (Commonly called either aerobars or bullhorns). Extensions come in various types, including (but not necessarily limited to) S bend, F bend, straight, skip tip. Each have their advantages and disadvantages. Most wind tunnel tests have shown that the hands angled slightly down so the line is straight along the tops of the wrist arms is faster. However, this may not be comfortable for some people depending on distance and position. Of just as much if not more important is the shape of the base bar, and the extensions/pad system being used. The entire aerobar/extension setup (Commonly referred to as the cockpit) is also highly dependent on rider position, and often the canard used in the TT/triathlon world is that you almost determine your cockpit first, and then your frame. For the second point, the photo being shown of Matt Goss is a bike that is set up according to UCI rules. These are very stringent, and regulate such things as the angle of the forearms according to the ground, the position of the seat front to back in relation to the BB, etc. If you remember the Levi Leipheimer praying mantis position, that would now be illegal according to UCI rules. They also dictate the shape of the aerobars and other factors (Such as a water bottle cage mounted between the arms. Wind tunnel tests have shown this is one of the best options, but is illegal according to UCI rules). Caveat- One of the last Tours that Levi did, his bike was set up according to UCI rules, but he had it at the limits and was still able to approximate his praying mantis position. I remember Liggett commenting on it at the time. However, unless you are competing in a specific National level time trial or higher where UCI rules apply, you can safely ignore the UCI guidelines. As it is a huge impact both in comfort and performance, I highly suggest you get with an experienced fitter. Time trial/triathlon frames and setups are vastly different, as are the measurements and frame designations. (A 54cm is not necessarily a 54 cm, etc.) 

Watch the video carefully. Many of those "bike failures" are a direct result of over stress on the frame compounded with user error. Very few of those are professional riders, most are amateurs with (presumably) little knowledge of proper maintenance. A few examples: 

Basically, the intended effect is to increase the number of red blood cells in your system, which in turn gives you increased oxygen carrying capacity to the working muscles. This extra oxygen allows your muscles to work longer and harder. In the early days of "blood packing", circa the 70's and 80's, it was basically taking a couple of pints of blood out of the body, storing it and letting the body naturally replace it, then transfusing it back into the athlete before their events. Erythropoietin has actually been around since the early 1900's, and in the 60's, they found that it stimulated blood marrow to produce extra red blood cells. In the late 80's, a synthetic EPO agent was created, and this is what led to the EPO use as an athletic enhancing agent, other than its legitimate medical uses (Anemia, and other diseases). The biggest effect from extra blood cells (Other than the risk factors of homologous blood {Blood from an outside donor}) is that the blood becomes thicker and more viscous. This can lead to blood clots, strokes, heart attacks and pulmonary embolism. This becomes more likely at rest/sleep, as the heart rate slows quite a bit. 

For an actual fit, you can't really do it yourself without extended riding and testing, usually with a powermeter or other method to measure performance, and someone willing to take video and still shots of you on your bike. What a fitter should be doing is measuring your body morphology (shape and structure), and then using that to get you into a correct sized frame (whether it's road, mountain, time trial, etc), and then adjusting the fit using different length stems, handlebar widths, seat posts/seats, etc. to get the bike comfortable. There are several different methods, including Fit Institute Slow Twitch (FIST, usually used for time trial/triathlon frames), GURU, Retul, eyeball and a few others. Many of these use fit bike mechanisms where the "frame" that you are sitting on can be lengthened, shortened, raised/lowered, etc. Some (Such as the Retul) also have cameras that can pick out and measure all the different lengths and angles and provide a printout. A fit, however, is only as good as the person doing it. There are good and bad fitters, and if you really want a good fit, I would do some research on the local fitters and their experience/certifications and word of mouth reputation. A "good" fitting will probably cost between $150 - $500 US dollars, depending on the type of fit, follow up sessions, and number of bikes being fitted. Part of the reason for the variance is that frame manufacturers (Especially in time trial/triathlon frames) do not really follow a "standard" measuring convention, and a 54cm top tube bike from Trek may fit very differently than a 54cm top tube bike from Specialized. Also, someone that is 5'10" with a 34" inseam will fit a bike very differently from someone that is 5'10" with a 30" inseam. If all the guy does is have you stand over the top tube and say "Yeah, that'll fit ya", I would definitely seek a different shop. 

I'm possibly getting a disc brake, 2013 Specialized Camber 29er without the wheelset. I was looking on wheelbuilder to see how much a wheelset might be (to save weight over factory replacement), and I'm a little confused by the different types of hubs available. They have ISO, center pull, straight pull center lock, and then various different brand versions. I will be doing a lot of trail riding, with some racing (Barnburner 104, Whisky 50), so enduro/cross country/marathon, primarily more towards the marathon side. I'm not big into downhill and extreme technical. What type of wheelset should I be looking at, and how does that affect the hub that I choose? 

I ruptured my achilles, and was out 6 months before I could cycle, 1 year before return to martial arts. Pay attention to your recovery. Treat it as seriously as you do your training. If you can do any training on the trainer with permission of doc/pt, even if it is minor, do it. Walk, aqua jog, whatever you can do to preserve aerobic capacity and muscle mass. Pay a lot of attention to diet. You are healing, and don't have a training load anymore, so you need to eat clean and make calories count. Find a hobby. Even if temporary, you will have a lot of unaccustomed downtime. You will need something to fill those hours or you will go batso. Gusty winds cause even the best to go down. Hope you heal fast and well. 

That kind of power is going to be between 5-30 seconds, and is most likely a 5 second maximum, or he's quoting the absolute peak that he put out. There is a very interesting analysis of several Team Columbia riders from a couple years ago when Cavendish won the stage. A few riders have 30-40 second pulls at the front in the 650-700 watt range, and in the leadout, Markus is at 700+ watts for over 30 seconds with a peak over 1000. So if the leadout is at 1000, Cavendish probably is doing 5-20 seconds in the 1200 range as he comes around the slingshot, with surge peaks into the 1400 range, but that level is not sustainable. You can see this when sprinters mistime their sprints and start losing steam short of the line. Here is the link with the powerfiles. 

The clipless pedals comment needs to be answered. It may be that your feet are at a bad angle compared to your knees. For example, when my knees are pointing straight ahead, my feet stick out at 5-15 degree angles rather than straight ahead. It caused enough problems that I had to get custom Speedplay pedals in spindle lengths long enough to accommodate that splay, and not lock down the float. One thing you can do to check this is sit on a bench that is high/wide enough that you can have your knees right at the edge of the bench and let your feet dangle. See which way your feet point. You could also need shims under one of your cleats to adjust for leg length not being the same, your seat may be causing you to rock, or it simply may be that you jump from a 20-30k normal range up to a century, which is quite a difference. 

An "open tubular" is basically a tubular tire with clincher beads instead of being sewn. They use the same materials as the sewups, so in theory should offer some of the same advantages as tubular tires. However, most of the pro's of a tubular (lighter weight, less rolling resistance, tire will stay on when flat) are voided because they've turned a tubular into a clincher. Plus, there are many modern clincher tires that have just as little or even less rolling resistance than a tubular (in some specific cases). 

It all depends on the riders that you encounter, actually. I've been in group rides of 40+ where everyone was an experienced cyclist, and it was smooth sailing. People were able to move in and out of various parts of the group at will, road safety and laws were observed, etc. I've also been in rides with 6 people where the handling was sketchy, they spread out across the road, ignored traffic laws and it was generally not a pleasant experience. The "commuter culture" is pretty much going to be just like the car commuters. You'll have quite a few that obey the laws and operate in a safe manner, then you're going to have the few that ignore the laws, people around them, and generally make it unsafe for everyone else. My favorite lately was a college "hipster fixie" rider that was riding no handed, cigarette in the right hand, cell phone glued to the ear with the left. Operate your bike in a safe manner, watch out for the cars and the unsafe riders, and you should generally have a pleasant commute (And yes, there is nothing better than zipping past a long line of stopped cars! :D ) 

Domestique by itself is neither a good nor a bad term. It simply refers to riders on a team whose role is not to work for their own race ranking, but to perform the day to day tasks and support that enable the team leader to advance their own race ranking. This may include such things as ferrying food/water from team cars, working to control the pace of the peloton, support a break, even down to giving the team leader their own bike if a mechanical failure happens at a critical point. What makes it perjorative is the context in which it is used. If someone uses it as a put down, then yes, it's demeaning. If someone simply uses it as a description, then it is not. Servant is a similar term. Servants were NOT slaves. They are people who serve others for a salary. Many servants both in older times when it was more common and more modern times were/are fiercely loyal to the house they serve. Especially in Europe where it is more common, head butlers and similar for peerage (Lords, Earls, Dukes, etc) were highly respected. If a lord got a reputation for not being good to their servants, it was hard for them to get more. But, you can use servant as a description or as a putdown. 

And of course, the first TdF win for Shimano was 1999 with Lance Armstrong. As far as the last time they were used in pro racing, I cannot find a definitive date. Since Shimano patented the Octalink design, which led to the creation of the 10 splined ISIS system, I would suspect that it would have been whichever groupset adopted ISIS last, or possibly some of the lesser funded Continental/USA teams clinging to fading technology for budget reasons.