There is a tremendous amount of research linking exercise to an increase in energy and productivity. Discipline has been shown to be most important aspect of habit development and therefore should be developed first. 

Essentially in a good morning, the entire length of the body is acting as a lever arm with the load being distributed throughout your entire posterior chain. That's a lot of muscle worked. This is an important concept to grasp. The good morning is not simply a "lower back exercise". Done properly, the good morning works the entire length of the erector spinae. I would do both as your PT has recommended. 

Shoulders Proper elbow and shoulder position are directly related: one affects the other. Retracting and depressing the shoulders while having the scapulae medially rotate towards the spine will produce a "big chest" or "chest out" position. Keeping the chest out helps to ensure proper scapulohumeral rhythm, shoulder joint centration, and ideal osteokinematics of the glenohumeral joint. Lack of "big chest" positioning tends to promote the opposite by pulling the shoulders out of their ideal alignment. 

If you're more powerful global muscles are firing before your deep stabilizers this results in large forces applied to an unstabilized spinal column. This is why the trA is so important. It activates first before movements in any direction. 

Understanding What's Happening To understand this we need first look at the "Thigh Muscles" that cross both the hip and knee. I created an image below showing these 4 muscles. 

The problem with doing 90 minutes of cardio is that you draw on the same resources that you have available to build muscle. In other words: 

No, you can't. Regardless of anything you've seen or heard before. It is impossible to isolate different parts of your chest. That's a myth. Instead, EVERY chest exercise will hit EVERY part of it. So yes, that means incline exercises still hit your lower chest, and decline exercises still hit your upper chest. Even if you only did one type of pressing exercise for the rest of your life -- you're still going to build your entire chest. 

Below was written by Grey Cook. There is no one I'm aware of higher in the Athletic Movement Field. "If you’re squatting wrong and it’s not killing you, it can make your hip flexor spasm stronger. It can make your swayback worse. It can make your rounded shoulders harder to bring back. When you go into your workout with underlying dysfunction (i.e. limited DF as the original posted asked about), remember this: Exercise is trial by fire. We want to optimize the situation and then temper the steel. We don’t do it the other way around. That’s sort of what’s behind the statement. It’s not a contradiction. When I’m talking corrective exercise, there’s not a lot of stress or load, because we should be learning to manage bodyweight. Managing balance without a load is natural. Everybody does that as they’re learning to walk. What’s unnatural is to load a squat that doesn’t have any integrity to it. There’s no situation where a baby would think, ‘I can’t really squat that good right now. Maybe put a mini backpack on me and see if that helps my balance?’ This is another form of what we’re doing at the gym when we throw on quantity to clean up quality. If you want to clean up quality, clean up quality. If you want to reinforce quality, then throw on quantity. The idea is if you have less-than-optimal integrity in your getup, go light until you recapture integrity. Then get heavy again, because that’s the best way to see if you can hold integrity and manage quality. Once quality has an acceptable base, start exploring greater levels of quantity—strength, speed, stamina, endurance—and see if you can maintain a minimum level of quality." $URL$ 

Bottom Line To sum it all up, there IS an upper and lower portion of your chest. You can't isolate them. Every exercise will always hit every part to some extent. But, certain exercises can indeed put slightly more training emphasis on one part than another. With all of that in mind, the true keys to building an great chest are choosing exercises that best allow you to actually train that target muscle group (as opposed to just your shoulders/triceps) and train it in a way that is both safe (by choosing exercises that feel right for your body) and progressive (by getting stronger over time). And eat to support it, too. Do that, and you'll build the most wonderful upper, lower, inner, outer, eastern, western, etc. chest you are capable of building. 

Here, we make it easier by adding a pillow or cushion to the chair – This raises up the platform and means less distance for you to go up, making it easier on your legs. Now, I want you to use the correct sit-to-stand technique I taught you above, to do this exercise. Stand up from the chair, not using your arms (your legs are only going to get stronger by working at it) and then slowly sit back down again using the same technique as when you came up (except in reverse!) This is a great one for strengthening your posterior chain and is very functional. Remember to make it easier just place cushions, or solid books etc on the chair seat to raise the platform. Do 3 lots of 10 – that means do ten sit-to-stands, have 1 minute break and repeat 2 more times. 

You're literally programming these spinal stabilizing muscles to shut off. Your innercore is the first muscle to contract during any movement. -- To feel this yourself, flex your arm kick your leg anything with your hand on your stomach. You'll be able to feel it contracting to brace your vertebral column. 

A two-sided loss in vestibulotoxicity typically causes headache, a feeling of ear fullness, imbalance to the point of being unable to walk, and a bouncing and blurring of vision rather than intense vertigo, vomiting, and nystagmus. It also tends to produce inability to tolerate head movement, a wide-based gait (walking with the legs farther apart than usual), difficulty walking in the dark, unsteadiness or the sensation of unsteadiness, lightheadedness, and significant fatigue. If the damage is severe, symptoms such as oscillopsia and problems with walking in the dark or with the eyes closed will not diminish with time. 

When you slightly bend the knee the hamstrings are at a more optimal length to contract since more cross bridges are overlapping. This overlap is required for a muscle to generate force. Similar to "A Tug of War" the more people pulling the greater the force. If the knee is fully flexed when you're lying on your stomach (Figure 2) the hamstrings are maximally contacted and have no more cross-bridges that can "connect and pull" so they can't generate more force -- also less are available to connect (aka produce force) throughout the range of motion (ROM) due to this position. Since the hamstrings are spending more time in a less optimal length throughout the ROM, your glutes are required to work harder to produce the force required to extend your thigh. 

1 - Congrats on your decision to get healthy. 2 - The great news your just getting started so essentially anyway you slice it you'll lose weight and put on muscle. The specialized programs are what you'll work up to and nothing you need to concern yourself now. 

Isolation training for your RO Cuff (in a non-rehab setting) is inefficient and unnecessary as it's already activated during more complex exercises. 

3 Kinds of Forces Contact with the ground results in one of 3 forces acting on the body during the stance phase. Vertical Forces are going to be equal and opposite, and included reactions to loading and propulsion, at mid stance these vertical forces are less than your body weight (BW). Anterior and Posterior Forces are designed to prevent the foot from slipping, at initial contact the AP force is directed post, it will peak at about 20% of the BW and is related to the bodies COG. As your foot first touches the ground, while entering swing, the forces will be directed anteriorly to help the body accelerate forward. Medial Lateral Forces tend to be smaller than other components and will vary with the base of support (medial / lateral forces are less if you walk with a small base of support because you would be getting more vertical support). 

The Significance of Inner Core Strength It's important to incorporate exercises that the cylinder shaped "wrapping" of muscles called your innercore. Exercises should involve the major that make up this cylinder and protect and brace your vital organs and spinal column in place. Some of the key muscles are -- internal and external obliques, quadratus lumborum and by far the most important the transverse abdominis (tRA). 

I'd see a local PT for an assessment. I'm only able to help you so much without seeing you in person. However this sounds like ITBS. 

3. Leading (or Stance Leg): Concentric Contraction of the Hip Adductors (controlling the movement) 4. Trailing (or Moving Leg): Eccentric Contraction of the Hip Abductors (controlling the movement) Note: The stretched elastic band generates the force to advance your trailing leg 

The rectus femoris acts as a knee extensor and hip flexor as it crosses both joints. Tightness in this muscle group can contribute to low back pain and is usually involved in any type of knee pain or instability. 

First, understand that growth occurs during the eccentric phase of an exercise. This is simply when your muscle is contracting while lengthening (so the load is greater than your muscles contraction force). 

Tip: if you cannot hold this very well, you can start with one finger on a wall or bench close to you Level 2: Action 

Level two: Swiss ball wall squats You will need a swiss ball (also called gym balls among other things) for this good little exercise 

Walking Right before push off, the calf -- which crosses both the knee and ankle, is fully extended and dorsiflexed (called passive insufficiency). While in this position of maximal tension, it’s also supporting the weight of your body. During push off (or propulsion) the lower leg contracts to produce the force lost during heel strike. 

That doesn’t mean you can’t do any cardio while building muscle. It just means that you need to perform cardio that minimally impacts the resources necessary to build muscle - such as shorter, more intense forms of cardio. 

In contrast, the primary wrist extensor is the Extensor Digitorum. As a matching Flexor Digitorum also exists the absence of an "Extensor Profundus" results in less precise, weaker wrist Extension. 

Your extensors (Glutes, back muscles, hamstrings etc) are what really drive you upwards and straighten you up at the hip and torso. This is a great exercise to do to get them working for YOU and the good thing is that it can be done on a firm bed or bench, as well as the ground. 

I wish you the best of luck I'm sorry if my recommendations are not what you want to hear but I can understand how frustrating it must be not being able to find a helpful healthcare specialist. 

Having been in almost an identical situation -- returning to workout after suffering an AC joint injury. Being obsessed with working out before my injury -- I couldn't understand why I was having trouble sticking to a routine. It wasn't until I stopped all excuses - as in literally if I committed to lifting M-F there was NO REASON I would allow myself out of my decision. Discipline is the most important, yet most overlooked part of working out. You've worked out before, stick to the basics - your consistency is what matters most when getting back into your routine. 

Yes, you can. At least a little. Let me clarify the difference. What you can't do is just train your upper chest or lower chest in isolation of the other. But, what you can do to some extent is put a little more targeted training stress on one area than the other. Not isolate just put a bit more emphasis on it. And it's all exactly what you've probably already known. Various decline pressing/fly exercises and dips DO target the "lower chest" a bit more than incline movements do, while various incline pressing/fly exercises DO target the "upper chest" a bit more than decline movements do. Flat exercises fall somewhere in the middle and hit a good bit of everything. Nothing too surprising there. But again, it's not that one exercise targets one part of the chest and NOTHING else. Every exercise still "hits" every part of the chest. There are just certain exercises and certain angles that place slightly more emphasis on one portion than the other. 

Training Effects on Muscle Fiber Type Aerobic (Endurance) Exercise Such as jogging, swimming, biking leads to increased: 

It's so frustrating to see people all the time trying to lose weight. The approach while well intended is backwards. It's like running out of gas and Triple-A informing you that when you burn more gas than you've put in your tank your car doesn't run. There's SO MUCH more to it than that. How fast you accelerate, break, oil levels, tire pressure, the area (rural vs city) and on and on....... Instead of learning about your body and the whys behind what you’re doing. Many people will hire a nutritionist to "tell them what to do". Weight loss is in a lot of ways counter-intuitive. At the extremes it's obvious (eating an entire pie is worse than eating a few apples). The middle ground, which is less obvious such as the types of foods, combinations of macronutrients, frequency, sizing and timing (etc.) will come as you learn.... Your body is incredibility adaptive. Restricting and starving yourself is the perfect way to teach your body to hold on to all the fat it can as it never knows when the next meal is coming. Conservation and efficiency becomes your bodies plan. The act itself of counting calories implicitly implies temporary. Are you going to meticulously count calories for the rest of your life? It incredibly inaccurate -- so if you spend the day measuring each meal and tracking calories and following it to a T the reported calories for many foods have been consistently found to be misreported, based on calorimeter data that's 1/2 a century old. Give yourself "outs" foods there's literally no limit on . Or allow yourself to eat all the chocolate you want, it just has to be covered in mustard or whatever.. 

For these reasons I've found changing a persons mindset is VERY difficult. The resulting structural spinal column injuries (disc, ligaments, nerve the list goes on and on) don't simply heal when symptoms subside. To get an idea of not seeing what's going on under the surface while wearing this brace. Maybe this will show the relationship more clearly. For example a patient that has trouble lifting his toes upward while walking (dorsiflexion) is given a rigid plastic brace to keep his ankle flexed at all times. When he uses the brace you can see he walks MUCH better and as a result stops falling while he's using his brace. What happen's when you take that ankle brace away? Falls go through the roof as his neuromuscular system has now completely shut off the muscle that flexes his ankle (called the tibialis anterior). He now falls every time he falls every time he does not use his brace. Hopefully this make's the relationship clearer (it is exactly the same concept). The stakes become higher when you replace the end result from "Falling" to "Chronic Spinal Issues". 

The above image compares the gait cycles of walking and running. The same concepts that apply to walking apply to power walking. The only thing that changes is the faster you walk shorter the overall cycle length and caddence (the proportions remain the same). 

The Meta Analysis "Protein timing and its effects on muscular hypertrophy and strength in individuals engaged in weight-training" Seems to support this: The Anabolic Window 

Elbows The flared elbow position (arms at 70 to 90 degrees from the torso) can produce both acute and chronic injury to the joints and tissues. Fortunately, many coaches now recommend the 45-degree arm angle, but this is still incorrect. Although 45 degrees represents an improvement compared to extreme-elbow flare, it's not ideal. The shoulders and scapula still have additional room to move into a more centrated and packed position. When the scapulae fully retract, depress, and medially rotate towards the spine as they should, the arm and elbow position will be much closer to the torso – a 10 to 20 degree angle. 

One thing to note. “Unnecessary” stress on the on the spine (core) is created by movement done in an unnatural, non-functional position. For example, sit-ups cause dangerously high compression and shearing forces to your spine -- about 730 pounds (3300 N) which well exceed safe levels established by the CDC. Larger muscles, with high force production (global musculature) must compensate by improperly activating to counteract these forces.* Done over time, your literally programming your nervous system to recruit (activate) these muscles at the wrong time -- such as smaller movements when those large muscles aren't needed. Source: $URL$