The simple answer is that God should be praised for all things, good or bad, and thanked for all things, good or bad. Of relevance would be the 1689 London Baptist Confession, which states: 

Presuppositional Apologetics: Stated and Defended Pushing the Antithesis: The Apologetic Methodology of Greg L. Bahnsen 

As a reformed Christian myself, I would suggest that the idea of Christian Theism (note, not theism in general) handles the infinite regress sufficiently. That is not to say it's persuasive to all men, but that it's sufficient for all reason. The nature of absolute authorities is that they are necessarily self-authenticating, else they wouldn't be the end-all in ones reasoning. Christian Theism declares, from the pages of Scripture, that man is able to reason only by virture of being created to do so, and as such is able to rely upon his faculties to be generally reliable as a result of them being created to understand the World around him. Problems of induction dissolve with the necessary presupposition of an eternal Being who has created all that exists, and has revealed Himself to some degree to His creation. Alternatively, if man were left to his own devices he could never have any reliable foundation from which to declare any epistemological certainty - yet we all do, daily. I've not seen any solid alternative provided that can provide the preconditions of intelligibility. Note here how the existence of God isn't "proven," but necessarily presumed a priori in order to ground the concept of proof itself. For more on the epistemological understanding of Reformed Apologists, I would suggest the following two books: 

As for the aspect of mystery, I don't think it's inconsistent to involve that as well. The fact that x takes place is enough to praise God (speaking theologically here), whilst the means by which x came to take place could be a mystery to those involved in praise. This answer may sound more theological than you had expected, but that is largely in part due to the nature of your question. For what it's worth, a Christian (speaking of my own class of 'believer'), ought to be thankful for all things, desirable or undesirable. That doesn't mean we don't mourn tragedies on another level, in our ignorance of God's reason for decreeing such tragedy, but it does mean that we must ultimately defer to (as stated above) the most wise and holy counsel of his own will. There is a flip-side to this coin as well. Unbelievers ought to refrain from "Where was your God when..." type of arguments when tragedies take place, unless they think it is equally worth asking "Was your God responsible for..." when great things take place. Contrary to the comment that it is inconsistent to claim an all-powerful all-knowing god, and still take aspirin when you have a headache, it is not inconsistent to take an aspirin when you have a headache while at the same time believing all that takes place follows from an eternal decree. Man only knows the decree as it is manifested in the past, and therefore has no future goal to comply with in not taking an aspirin. If a person takes an aspirin, that act of taking an aspirin was also decreed eternally yet cooperatively done by the individual in time. 

There is no free will. There is only chaos. That aside, believing in free will deterministically sets different boundaries for which actions can occur. 

I guess for a more compatibilist view you'd could think of free will as relative concept where some entities have more 'choice' then others. In that case you could consider a salmon in two parallel worlds swimming up a river to lay eggs and die, and in the same worlds a person going to that river and one world fights back against a bear and in the other world pretends to be dead. Although both actions of the person are deterministically achieved, it has more variation than the actions of the salmon. I think you could describe free will as having more available programs that chaotically can be elicited. So, if there is free will (compatibilist view), for an action to be regarded as a free choice you would at least need more than one available path that can be chaotically elicited. And you would like the trigger to come from within the entity itself as it were being the agent making the 'choice'. 

Biologically, you were lying, because lying is a cognitive process where you exert effort to suppress the expression of your true beliefs. This a major topic in forensic psychology, specifically in the field of interrogation of suspects and the use of lying detectors. Even though a suspect passes a 100% accurate lie detector does not always mean the suspect has told the truth. A suspect can have false beliefs. Telling lies and telling the truth are both behaviors and therefore are the truth: the electrochemical processes exist. So, even a lie contains information representing the truth. Semantically, however, the truth can never be known. It could even have been that you were both lying and telling the truth at the same time (see Schrödinger's cat). Perhaps you saying that you did not have a cigarette accelerated toward the state of you not having a cigarette. The problem with beliefs is that they can stochastically be true or false. Consider Alice and Bob each throwing a die ten times of which the last round blindfolded. The first nine rounds Alice never threw a six while Bob always threw a six. Who would you believe: Alice saying she never threw a six or Bob saying he always threw a six? Who is lying harder? In that sense we are all blindfolded. It could even be so that you unconsciously held knowledge that you had lost your cigarette, so your knowledge was unsure. Note that knowledge is located not in just one part of the brain (or mind), or just in the body. Even the environment holds knowledge. For example, ants use pheromones to store knowledge in the environment. So while you were biologically lying you simply did not 'know' you were telling the truth. If you have said "I think I do not have cigarette." it would have been a lie, because you actually believed you had. Saying "I do not have a cigarette." is the safer lie. You did not include information about your mental state. That's why keeping silent and disclosing as little information as possible is the best strategy to not be caught telling a lie. Also, semantically if you only had 1 cigarette to begin with and you said "I don't have cigarettes." (i.e. more than one cigarette) you could have told the truth. Semantics are your best friend for creating a false belief without telling a lie.