The tensioner spring is designed to keep the entire chain under tension, even after it passes the crank. So, the symptom of a too-weak tensioner is slack in the chain between the crank and tensioner. It sounds like the distance between chain links is not quite the same as the distance between valleys in your sprockets. This is not unusual if you replaced a very worn chain (because the sprockets would have worn to match the old chain). It's also not impossible that the sprockets are worn not quite enough to match the old, worn out chain, yet still worn too much to match the brand new chain. You may need to replace the rest of the sprockets in the cassette. 

Hills: Pushing a light bike up a hill is obviously easier than a heavier bike. Everyone likes to brag about that HC climb he did the other day. Without resorting to lying about actually climbing the hill, the easiest way for a cyclist to make his life easier is to carry less mass up the hill. Nobody will say, "That didn't count because you rode a 3kg bike," and you get no extra points for lugging a 40 kg dutch commuter bike to the summit. Technical Competence: Bicycle manufacturer have tried over the years to reduce bicycle weight, to the extent that weight (or lightness) has become a proxy measurement of the manufacturer's technical competence. Anyone can build a heavy bike, but it takes real engineering skill to build one that is light. 

My experience with the GSC10 (though with an Edge 305 not a 500) has been that the batteries last 6 to 12 months, or roughly 2500 to 5000 miles of riding. That works out to something like 125 to 250 hours of operation. That is considerably less than what is stated in the manual, but in the ballpark of what the other two answerers experienced. The symptom you described (losing connection with the Edge 500) is consistent with a dieing battery. However, another cause could be poor alignment between the magnets and the sensor. I've found that the cadence magnet, in particular, will not be sensed if it shifts by a centimeter, or so. Since the Edge 500 can compute speed from GPS data, it's sometimes difficult to tell whether the GSC10 is really not sending data or simply not sensing the cadence magnet. Make sure the cadence magnet is aligned with the embossed groove on the side of the GSC facing your crank arm. 

My wife and I recently rented a tandem for a day. I found that, because everything needs to be communicated -- starting, stopping, changes in cadence, shifting (which might cause changes in cadence), etc. -- we were talking continuously. This was good. What I would like to have is a simple, efficient vocabulary for communicating the essential information. Does this already exist in the same way that riders communicate on group rides? While I realize that we could just make up our own shorthand, if someone has already figured it out, that would be better. 

I use a mirror (a CycleAware Reflex) because, as others have said, it allows me to see what's coming behind me. Where I ride, the "bike lanes" are little more than poorly maintained pavement on the side of the road. So when it is safe, i.e., no traffic, I ride to the right in the roadway. I tried bar-end mirrors and glasses-mounted mirrors, but I didn't like either one. It did take some trial and error to get the mirror correctly oriented on my helmet, but now I get a good view of the road behind me. I've gotten fairly used to glancing back to see what's coming, so there are never any surprises. In fact, the other day in the grocery store I caught myself trying to look in my mirror to see if there were any carts behind me. I decided long ago: 

crazyguyonabike.com is a set of forums and blogs for long distance trekking by bicycle. I have seen such requests there before. The Regional: North America forum is a common place for people looking for riding partners, discussing routes, etc., across North America. 

My relatively new Garmin GSC 10 Speed/Cadence unit has started losing connection to my Garmin 500. I'm assuming that the battery is running out, since I'm still using the original that came with it. I have done about 35 hours of riding. So I am wondering: how long should a CR 2032 battery last? I know this is a little subjective and will depend on ambient temperature and to a lesser extent speed and cadence for transiently illuminating the LED each pedal stroke/wheel revolution. But generally, how many hours can I expect to get from a battery? 

Bicycle helmets are all certified to the same standard, so I would be sceptical of claims that one is safer than another. With bicycle helmets, a higher price usually gets you helmet that: 

As for the Hovding helmet specifically, it looks like the main selling point is that it sits around your neck while you are not actively colliding with something. Some people seem to think that conventional helmets look dorky and all helmets seem to give you "helmet hair" to one degree or another. So, I would say that this is again a case where you are paying to get a helmet that gives you more of categories 2 and 3 above. 

As others have noted, your brakes probably aren't set up correctly if you can squeeze the lever so far that it touches the bar while the bike is stationary. That said, squeezing the brake levers while the bike is on a stand won't cause any more wear than normal braking would [1]. If you want to determine how hard to squeeze the brakes while on the stand, a good test is this: ride at a moderate speed in a safe environment and then try to rapidly stop. Your brake levers should not touch the bars, and (obviously) nothing should break loose. A properly adjusted rear brake should be able to skid the rear wheel (but it is considered poor braking technique to skid the rear wheel). A properly adjusted front brake should should be able to lift the rear wheel off the ground (you don't want to actually lift it, so use care). Try to get a feel for how much pressure you apply to the levers when you practice a panic stop and then apply a little more when the bike is on a stand. Please note that it is unsafe to suddenly fully-apply the brakes (suddenly squeeze both levers as hard as you can) while traveling at speed. If your brakes are properly adjusted, you should be able to easily lock either wheel by pulling hard on the brake lever. For the rear wheel this is less of a problem: You will simply skid the wheel, wearing down the tire. If you do this enough, or at a high enough speed or with a thin road tire, you risk wearing down the rubber to the innertube. If that happens, the tire will rapidly deflate and you will be riding on the rim (this is bad). Locking the front wheel is a bigger problem: the front wheel will NOT skid. If you lock the front wheel, you will go over the bars and hurt yourself. [1] Within reason, of course. If you're some sort of Olympic weightlifter, it's possible that you might squeeze hard enough to damage something. Also, if the brakes are "looser" after you squeeze really hard (ie, if you have to pull the lever farther, not harder, to make the brake pads touch the rim) then you are either squeezing too hard, or you need to readjust the cable and tighten the cable clamp on the brake. 

Regular brake levers, without hoods or any additional levers or extensions, are intended to be used from the drops (i.e. riding with your hands down in the lower handlebar position). So, if your riding environment dictates that you might need very quick braking reaction, you would need to ride with your hands down in the drops. Most people - on many typical bike fits - would grow uncomfortable doing this, which is why it might make sense to add... 

Many commuters have found that a mid-width, semi-slick tire (i.e. something 30mm-45mm wide without significant knobs) ends up serving as a good/solid/comfortable on-pavement tire and also allows for sufficient off-road use. 

"Importance" is highly subjective, debatable, and relative. But, based on the limited information in your original post, and a lot of assumptions about you, I'd say: tire tread is only of moderate importance. Unless you're really pushing the limits of the tire (very fast aggressive cornering, etc.) you can make most common tire types (mountain, urban, cyclocross, road, etc.) work for commuting. Some factors to consider: 

On most bikes you typically just need to avoid the two most extreme cross-chaining scenarios: (A) the largest front chainring and the largest rear cog and (B) the smallest front chainring and the smallest rear cog. 

New brakes need to be "bed-in" (not bled), with their rotors: Get up to speed, then drag the brake for 5-6 seconds (builds up heat) and then increase lever pressure until the bike stops. Do this about 10 times. More on bedding-in brakes here: $URL$ 

General consensus is that a 'clutched' rear derailleur is also a key component to a good/successful 1x setup. These derailleurs provide a tighter 'pull' on the chain and help keep it from hopping off the chainring on rough terrain. For cassette/freehub compatibility, read the discussion that occurred here: $URL$ ... 

I have had good luck with Headsweats. They are pretty absorbent and keep my balding head somewhat protected from the sun under my helmet. 

I'm building a wheel with double butted spokes, 2.0 mm at the ends, 1.8 mm in the center. The Park Tool Spoke Tension Meter has a conversion sheet to determine the tension in spokes of different diameters. My question is which scale to use: 2.0 mm or 1.8 mm. Logically, I think that I should use the 1.8 conversion, because the center of the spoke is 1.8 mm diameter. But the entire length of the measured section is probably not 1.8 mm, because it is tapering to 2.0 mm at the ends. The answer to this question suggests there is some acceptable variation, so I was thinking about aiming for somewhere in between. 

I think it depends on several factors, as you note. If there is no traffic (car or bicycle), then just stop (if a tree falls in the woods...). If there is car traffic only, then move as far to the right as to can to be safely out of the way. If there is bicycle traffic, then it might be worthwhile to move completely out of the bike lane to avoid hindering other cyclists. 

I don't trust drivers, particularly the ones here in California. Riding alone, not it a group, makes me harder for drivers to see. Helmets are basically disposable, so I don't mine gluing a mirror to mine. I don't care about looking like a dork. I do that frequently enough in my regular life that time I spend on a bike is a drop in the bucket. 

Despite changing hand positions often and switching to more "cushiony" gel gloves, I'm still experiencing intermittent numbness when I ride (sometimes I get tingling and sometimes not). Are certain types of handlebar tape likely to help? The tape on my bike is several years old. I see gel and cork tapes (and those that claim to be both gel and cork), neither of which I have tried. I realize that I don't actually know what the real purpose of handlebar tape is (perhaps that's another question). It might be that it is only for helping you keep a grip on the bars when they get sweaty. 

The proper way to ensure your rim is 'true', is to remove it from the bike and put it into a 'truing stand'. A truing stand allows you to precisely measure a rim's "lateral runout" (side-to-side wobbling) as well as "radial runout" (a.k.a. "hop" - this is where the outer circumference of the rim is uneven in its distance from the center of the hub). If the truing stand reveals any issues, you would likely need a 'spoke wrench' to appropriately tighten/loosen the pertinent spokes to correct the problem (you'll need to read-up on these techniques as well spoke tension and general wheel building ). Since wheel truing is a fairly involved process that requires significant time, patience, knowledge, and some experience, it might be wise to first make sure you have definitely ruled-out an issue with the inner-tube or tire. Remove the tube and tire. Ensure that the wheel is clean and dry. Ensure that the inner-tube is clean and dry (lightly powder the tube if needed). To ensure that it's not twisted or kinked, inflate it just to the point that it holds its shape. Then carefully nest it into the tire and carefully put the tire onto the rim. The trick here is to ensure that there is no friction or encumbrances to the tube and tire taking an even/uniform shape as they're inflated to pressure. 

Yes, your bike is capable of using longer cranks. Longer cranks will likely cause more toe overlap, which is generally expected and widely tolerated on small-framed 700c bikes. Here is Sheldon Brown's opinion of toe overlap, from his online glossary: 

There is a good chance your chain is too long. As a rule of thumb, when you're in your two biggest coggs (front & back), your rear derailleur arm should nearly fully extended. There are some good tutorial videos out there that explain how to get the right chain length($URL$