And then just answer them tomorrow. If the request is urgent, I'll call them on their own phone so I can discuss it at length. 

I don't have a driver's license, and I doubt I'll ever be able to get one due to my Asperger's. I'm currently on the hunt for a job, and during the about 2 years in total (including previous job hunt periods), I've had about a half-dozen times that I've been late to a job interview because of extenuating circumstances (usually missing my transfer due to a bus or a train being late). Most times, it was less than 5 minutes, but I had one time on a snowy day where the trains were heavily disrupted causing me to be over an hour late, and recently, I was 15 minutes late. Both of these longer times, I have informed my contact at the company as soon as I knew I would be late and gave them an estimated time of arrival. I've also had some cases where I arrived 10 minutes or more early to an interview, usually because the time tables were such that those were the only time I could arrive without risking being late. One time, I arrived half an hour early, even though I took my bike, due to a combination of taking some room for error and a route that was unexpectedly mostly downhill, skewing the Google Maps prediction. Usually, when this happens, the interviewer is understanding, especially when I inform them in time. However, being late can't possibly be helping my chances, and I doubt that being excessively early is all that positive either. How much does being late or early to a job interview affect my chances? 

This sheet is now about 75 lines long for the next version release of the app, with some duplicated information and no visual organization except "what's on top is most important". I've been testing out some free workflow/task management tools for the past few hours (on my own time) and I am convinced that it would be beneficial for all the employees of the company to use such tools. What benefits about employees and management can I use to convince him that it's actually a good idea? I've come up with the following: 

There are probably more benefits... How can I start a discussion within the company to migrate to a better workflow management tool? 

I am a freelance software developer and have three clients that I communicate with via email. I have mobile and desktop notifications set up for my several email accounts (work, personal, university). If I see an email notification, I will generally stop what I am doing in order to respond, even if the email is from a client that I am not currently doing work for (I stop/start my clock accordingly). My average response time is about 5 minutes if I am currently in a situation where I am able to respond to an email. I feel that I have given my employers the impression that I am always available. Should I be waiting an hour (or a few) in order to respond? 

Gift cards are much more transparent in how much they are worth, both for the giver and the receiver. You're not going to run into hidden costs or calculations concerning how much your gift is worth. Gift cards can be pretty closely tied to the hobby of the user. True, if you just gift an Amazon or Walmart gift card, that's pretty vague, but giving a 20 USD Steam gift card to a PC gamer, or a 20 USD Barnes & Noble gift card to someone who likes to read, you show that you paid attention to what your boss enjoys. Gift cards always have value for the receiver. You're not going to gift someone a book they already own, or a game in a genre they don't like. They can choose for themselves what they spend it on. 

Today, I received a mail from a recruiter about an open position at another company. 6 minutes later, and before I even read the other mail, I received another mail, from the company the recruiter mentioned, asking me to complete my profile on their website after "my" application. Evidently, the recruiter submitted an application in my place, without my consent and even without my knowledge. I checked out the position on the company website, and it looks like a job which I wouldn't apply for myself: 

The CEO of a startup that I work with has, unfortunately, grand ideas about software that we can build. It is in a field that I am interested in, so it excites me, but at the same time I am realistic - there are a dozen other companies that specialize in this software, and they have vastly more resources than we do (I would be the only software developer, and I work about 30 hours per month with this company). Let me be clear here: the software we're talking about has been in development by multi-national corporations for decades, incorporating bleeding-edge research and millions of users' data. We don't have employees, decades, nor experience enough to understand academic research in order to build and improve the system. How can I gently tell my boss/partner “dude, I really wish we could make this, but it’s literally impossible given our resources”? PS - I am on very good/informal terms with the CEO, so letting him down easy in a conversational way would be most logical here. However, I'm looking for a more diplomatic way to break this news to the CEO, especially considering how a manager/project lead would want to learn about the inevitable failure and potential damage to the company should such a project be persued. EDIT: this is clearly not a duplicate of the one proposed. Simply reading the question and answers shows that... 

I can imagine using your company data for this purpose is tempting, but there might actually be a better solution for this that doesn't involve using the hard work your company has put into this. There are plenty of sites that already have done this kind of work and are willing to provide this information either for free or for a small monthly fee. Depending on where you live, it is entirely possible that you can access this information without relying on the work your company has done. $URL$ has a list of 10 popular comparison shopping engines. Aside from that, many countries have a local version just for their specific country. I do not know what country you're from, but it's likely that you can already access such data freely through non-company mediums. 

Others have already discussed the merits and issues with using a company-issued computer for this kind of stuff and I agree with the general "not recommended and probably not allowed either" pattern. However, depending on the size of your company and the main business the company does, you might have alternatives. More specifically: 

From your question, I'm guessing that the candidate did not get permission to share the code. Code is owned by the employer, and confidential, unless stated otherwise; so, in this case, this is unethical behavior and you absolutely not accept the code. In fact, dismiss the candidate immediately. Edit: To clarify, the ACM's SE Code of Ethics is not law. It is a simple set of guidelines as to the "do's and don'ts" of our industry. However, many universities and employers are adopting the code as our standard set of ethical guidelines, making sure that students and employees are aware of the code, and follow its practices. E.g. in my computer science degree, I've had at least 4 significant projects involving the SE Code. Many employers in my area also test candidates with ethical questions during interviews, expecting them to have knowledge of the SE Code and to employ it in their responses. 

I am asking around for advices as I am quite lost in this situation of mine. I am working in a CG industry where I first started out as a Roto Artist. After my first annual review, I was given the opportunity to work as a JuniorTechnical Artist (basically someone who troubleshoots and maintain all the other tools used in Maya, Nuke etc..), as I told them (my bosses) that I have an interest in the scripting since my real interests lies either in Rigging or in those FX stuff (in which both requires the knowledge of knowing Python/Mel) FYI, my current boss is actually from the RnD dept and he is currently acting in place as our Dept Head until a new replacement comes in... Just to let you all know, (I did told my bosses too) my last coding background is like 4 years ago in C++ (basic to above average skill and truth to be told, I have almost forgotten it) And hence, after working for about 6 months now, I am pretty lost as I feel that I am not really up to the position. Reason being that I am struggling with Python and Mel, not to mention that as my company are using their own 'modules' to code and used in softwares. Also the very fact that whenever I am tasked to troubleshoot a problem, I could hardly manage and I would have to ask my boss So my question would be: Is it a wise idea for me to pop this question telling them I am not suitable for it, or shall I wait for my coming annual review which is due in end Nov/Dec? And if I am telling them this early, will it be a bad impression? 

What should I do with the position the recruiter applied for? Should I notify the company that the application wasn't consensual? What should I do about the recruiter? Should I cut ties with them or give them the benefit of the doubt? 

One thing that might be a feasible solution is to ask him whether he can provide these updates through email. This has multiple advantages: 

This replaced my gender, my name, my date and place of birth and my nationality, and also meant I had a picture of myself on my resume. I also partially put it on there because it is sort of an eye-catcher, while still being somewhat neutral. Since Belgian e-ID cards require you to have a card reader and a pin code to do anything remotely useful with them, I don't think it's a huge security risk. However, I'm wondering if putting it on there might bring other risks along. Other questions on here mention that putting a picture of yourself in your resume could lead to you being discarded right away to avoid any potential discrimination lawsuits, but also that some regions actually expect a photo, and that men are more likely to get a callback if they put one in. That's also specific to putting a picture of yourself, and the effect could be different (for better or for worse) if the image actually contains crucial information for my resume. 

Sharing code with an interviewer is a blatant violation of the Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice: 

My boss, for the entire company's workflow, uses Google Sheets as a sort of feature-tracker/TODO-list. The company employs 7 people, aside from the CEO (my boss), who all work remotely. There are 2 software developers (myself included), 2 linguists, 2 marketing personnel and the CEO's son. I did once suggest to my boss that we at least move to a tool like Trello that functions similarly, but with much more flexibility. This was when he said that Trello would be a new tool that everyone has to learn, and he doesn't want to do that as everyone is already used to the "Google Sheet flow", and that it would be difficult for everyone to migrate. The problem is that if things are pushed into the backlog, as in "not important enough for this next release/campaign", they are often forgotten about. We will continue to add things to fix/add at the top of the list, and things that were low priority before become essentially non-existent. It's also hard to tell why we backlogged something because of the limited flexibility of Google Sheets, and having progress tracking is out the window. Here's an example from my Sheet (feature tracker) for a high-priority Android app fix that got mixed in with other work: 

Initially my current company in my home country got closed and I was given the opportunity to work in another location. I was given a permanent staff contract, 3 years worth of work permit. Though I seem to get such 'good' offer, the thing is I am not very happy with the current role I am in, still the same role back before the company closes down in my home country. And while during my probation, I talked to my reporting boss (he is my dept. head boss) that I am interested in moving on, he did mentioned something - 'will consider moving me after 1 year or, see how/where to proceed on'. Of course, no promises are made. Currently I am soon approaching my first annual review in this new location, however my company has the habit of delaying reviews between 2-4 months. And because of that, currently I am living in an apartment that deals with yearly rental leasing and I have yet to inform my landlord if I will be renewing. If I am, that means I will need to sign on for another rental year provided nothing does happens in my current contract, otherwise, I will need to find a place and move my stuff (which costs money) due to me dealing with the review delays. And so, is it a good idea for me to ask for an early annual review, while using my rental lease as part of the reasoning? Will this gives off as a very bad impression? (Perm. staff or not, there is always the fear that I will be let go as I am an expatriate.) Any advices?