For a beginner it is best to keep your eyes closed to be free from distractions. When you can concentrate better it is advisable to slightly open your eyes to let some light in if you are feeling drowsy or if it is in the early in the morning or late in the night. When you have your eyes open you can get distracted but sometimes having them slightly open to get some light in it might help fight drowsiness. And vise versa if your eyes are closed. 

You are changing after some sensation or the other through these chemicals. The addiction is to the sensations the chemicals create. 1st you have to identify the craving for these sensations and try to resist as much as possible and try to keep your equanimity. You need to get all the help you can get. Hence seeking medical advice is also a good option to compliment any route you take through meditation. 

As I see it Vipassana and Samatha Jhana linguistic development to distinguish between Jhana born from contemplating on the 4 Satipatthana as in the Saṅkhitta Dhamma Sutta (as Vipassana Jhana) and based on conceptual or mental constructions. Mental and conceptual constructions (pannatti) are more susceptible to distortions of the mind where by you may see this construction as perhaps permanent and not see its impermanent nature. Likewise other other distortion can happen. For more on these distortions see: Vipallasa Sutta. Jhana based on such conceptual framework this is mainly the mode of pratice in Samatha meditation can be identified as Samatha Jhana. 

And also online material on meditation. But in doing so be careful. Even choosing any online guided meditation instruction see if it adheres to the following principles: Any sensation is unsatisfactory this is the link to understand the 4 Noble Truths and also with sensation, according to dependent origination, arises craving which fuels the vicious cycle which keeps you in misery. If this is missing, you will miss the path and benefits of meditation. Also make sure any instruction in these online retreats are not contrary or tangential to the right view as mentioned in the Samma Ditthi Sutta. In addition you can try building you knowledge further. Some resources website: 

On account of any experiance from the 6 sense door it results in metal element of pleasure, pain or neutral feeling or emotion. 

Sourced from: The Five Mental Hindrances and Their Conquest Selected Texts from the Pali Canon and the Commentaries compiled and translated by Nyanaponika Thera 

When you are with a sense input you are always in the present moment. The way to be in the present moment or bring your attention to the present moment is to look at sensations. So you are doing the right thing here. 

Genrally Vippasana is practiced to gain revolution towards the 5 aggregates. If you develop deep absorptions then yes you can gain insight to past lives and karma. Some Vippassana teachers teach in such away that both concentration and wisdom develops. Interpretations of the Jhanas by Leigh Brasington covers some teachers who teach in such a way, which can lead to absorptions which give psychic abilities (omniscience and knowledge ), as well as, insight. 

This should be understood in the level of what is felt or experienced. Generally what you experience is element that dominates. Elementary / Gross View 

Should you meditate at least a little in the morning when you are time pressed and lethargic You pratice twice a day. Morning session reduces the build up of defilements over nights. Also if in one period the meditation session is full of hindrances at least the other will workout. Do not assume this will always happen in the mornings. Rise energy levels Trying to maintain the object of meditation (vitakka & Vicara) itself rises energy levels. Also Right Effort to abandon hindrances and the unwholesome roots (greed (lobha), hatred (dosa) and delusion (moha)) [see Pahāna Sutta for the method] and develop the Enlightenment Factors (especially Joy or rapture (pīti), Investigation (dhamma vicaya) and Energy (viriya)) make you energetic. 

Everything that has a start will eventually have an end. Even in relationships. Even relationships that last a lifetime come to and end with death. If one is attached to such relationship this also is unsatisfactory when it ends. Also you are not entirely in control of a relationship. Hence what one is not in control leads to unsatisfactoriness. As for lay people it the lay code of morality is the 5 Precepts. Though any relationships is not entirely satisfactory as long as this is not sexual misconduct it is OK, keeping in mind this also will not be entirely satisfactory and more the attachment more it will hurt when it ends. Also you can build temporary understanding Brahmavihara hence lessen the unsatisfactoriness. To get over unsatisfactoriness completely you have to look beyond relationships and aim for Nirvana. 

There were periods in which the practice declined. E.g. In Sri Lanka the Sangha also declined and was later restored by Weliwita Sri Saranankara Thero. Also Ven. Nanamoli's translation of Path to Purification has in its introduction about the decline in early periods. 

An accomplished practitioner may not be a good teacher and a good teacher may not be an accomplished practitioner. In some cases teachers maybe both. So ideally you should look for teachers who teach well, both theory and mediation. Also the Buddhist should follow: pariyatti (theory), patipatti (practice), pativedha (experience). Whereas learning / listening to the Dhamma is just the 1st of these 3 parts. So a person should teach the theory he should teach the practice also well. Theory without practice is like an unused boat. You should row (patice) the boat (theory or tool) to get to see the other show (experience). Also accomplished masters may not say so and also some who are not accomplished may claim to be so. Hence it is best not to look at this aspect in deciding who to listen to. Also see if the teaching sounds right, is logical and put it into practice and see if it is beneficial. As always go to the source. The Tipitaka a the primary source and commentaries and sub commentaries as secondary and tertiary sources. 

Pranayama seam to have some similarities with Anapana. What is the relationship between the two. Was this derived from Anapana? What is it's historic development? 

Stress does have an associated sensation with it generally manifesting as a tightness in the head (as per Banthe Vimalasiri - see What is depression?) and / or lingering discomfort around the heart (as I have heard as being taught by other teachers to be consistent with the Abhidhamma as the mind is heart based). Based on the type of the sensation craving, aversion and / or ignorance would arise. You have to relax both body and mind. The way to do this be equanimous of the session noting its arising and passing, or simply be with these sensation for a while analysing them before returning to your normal meditation object. When you return to your normal meditation object have a mild smile. This is something you have is Goenka's meditation instruction though this is not emphasised much but Bhante Vimalaramsi emphasizes smiling a lot in his 6Rs formula. Also one source of stress is worry which with you can counteract through concentration. When your mind wanders away realist it and bring it back. Periodically check if the mind is with the meditation object and even if it is fix your attention back at the object of meditation. Say if you are mindful of the body scanning part by part. You are looking at one part and the mind is still with it, then redirect the mind to the part again. If your mind is sticky stay with the part. If it is very restless either move from part to part quickly, or keep redirecting your mind to the object, i.e., fix your mind on the object, in quick succession. For someone who has practiced for a while this can break into tingling or electric sensation and further pratice this will become neutral. If you are moderately restless you can try Anapana meditation but if it is very restless best is quick scans as Vitarka dominates in this pratice. For a detailed study see: Saṅkhitta Dhamma Sutta, Uddhacca,kukkuca by Piya Tan. 

This single moment is made of contact. As every mind state arises due to contact. The substance of the moment is that you make the mental examination is this stimuli arising from contact favorable, unfavorable or neutral and reacting with sensations or it being present if favorable evaluation, unpleasant if it is an unfavorable evaluation and neutral if it is a neutral evasion. Pleasant feeling leads to craving and clinging and unpleasantness lead to aversion and neutral feeling leads to delusion. This keeps creates future contact and experiences which are entirely unsatisfactory. 

Food we eat is linked to sensations we experience. So best is to choose food which doesn't give unpleasant sensations, drowsiness, etc. Oily food leads to sleepiness. Spicy food lead to burning sensations. Meat lead to arousal. In Buddhism unlike Hinduism there is no special dietary requirements, but having a light diet which doesn't bring up discomfort can help. Also be mindful of sensations (taste, chewing) we experience while eating also. Something which most likely to cause attachment. 

The way to develop Jhana using Metta is found in the Saṅkhitta Dhamma Sutta. To start with you have to do the following: 

Chanting and good thoughts of the monks (even any other being) generate positive vibes. The string is used as a better means of conducting the vibration than may be air. (If you attach a tin to the end of two string and you speak into one you can hear the voice in the other.) Generally the string is wrapped around a vessel of water which cases the water to vibrate in tune with the chanting. These strings and water is given out as it the vibrations will carry some positive conditioning. 

The best is to go to directly to the Sutta or what the Buddha directly had to say about it. There are 2 good translations by Piya Tan: 

A woman can never become a fully enlightened Buddha. But a woman can achieve enlightenment as a disciple nun. Yasodara became a disciple nun not a Buddha. She was the wife of Prince Siddhartha. She became a nun later in the Buddha's Sasana. Also see: Bahu Dhātuka Sutta 

What you need to understand is how sensation due to metal activity lead to covetousness and displeasure and if you abandon craving and aversion to this you come out of suffering. More on this from the Mahā Sati’patthāna Sutta: 

You can neutralise Karma when the result is felt [Sañcetanika Sutta] or by diluting the result of karma through counteracting [karma Loṇa,phala Sutta]. 

Also some forms of doubt is wholesome and will not be a hindrance if done in the spirit of free inquiry. E.g. Kesa,puttiya Sutta (or Kālāma Sutta). Also the Buddha mention that doubt is justified in couple of Suttas including Kutūhala,sālā Sutta. As I see it any of these instances are skeptical on what is been heard or taught by others or skepticism arisen due to logical fallacies in reasoning with the accepted norms of the day. Also the people were in a stage prior to doing serious pratice of the path and training. So doubts before serious pratice and arisen from what has been taught or inferred the general acceptable knowledge is justifiable but so when you pratice or regarding the path and training. In essence being skeptical in any endeavour diminishes your ability to accomplish the end goal. When you initially approach a task or endeavor you can have your skepticism but when your you start executing you ideally should be void of doubt. More broadly speaking with respect to all the hindrances including doubt. What needs to be done is to starve the hindrances and feed the awakening factors. [(Nīvaraṇa Bojjhaṅga) Ahara Sutta] Since hindrances weekend wisdom and the awakening factors enhances wisdom. [Āvaraṇa Nīvaraṇa Sutta]. The hindrances are also dependently arise based on the unwholesome roots. [(Akusala,mūla) Añña,titthiya Sutta]. Couple of way to overcome them are given in [Nīvarana,pahana Vagga], [(Satipaṭṭhāna) Nīvaraṇa Sutta], etc. Coming back to doubt specifically. The reason for doubt is unwise attention. [Nīvarana,pahana Vagga] With unwise attention you begin to believe something not inline with reality (more on these perversion see: Vipallasa Sutta) and start doubting the teacher, teaching, benefits of the pratice. Not being able to clearly see the truth of the dhamma, teaching and practice leads to perplexity. Unwise attention should be overcome by seeing or experiencing the truth. [Sabb’āsava Sutta] Also see: 

Trying to forget is also being involved with the person. So you will not forget. Best way to forget it not try to remember or not to forget. If you hear something about the person or place analyse the feeling that arising and do not be averse or attached to them. You could try reading: 

You might have past 1 and 2. Now is the time to put some serious effort into meditation to realise 3. 

This is a by product of Avidya. It is in short reaction to sensations / feelings with craving and clinging. The way to overcome this is given in the Pahana Suttas (or the way to let go): Pahāna Sutta, Avijja Pahana Sutta 2. There are times that this process is formalised as understanding 4 Noble Truths. 

Any right or ritual does make Sankara / Karma positive or negative. Eradicating Sankara is the way out of misery hence any practice which does not eradicate Sankara is not conducive to get out of misery. You should understand the formation of Sankara and eradicate it. Formation of Sankara is linked to sensations. When it passes away subtle sensations arise. Likewise you can see rights and rituals cause formations. But until you get there some attachments to keep you on track and strengthen your faith is no harm.