Indeed, Brian may be telling his bosses that he told you all about it, but they know your story is different. The way round this is, when you deliver the next update, send it by email. Apologise profusely for the limited progress so far, adding 

This is a valid issue in some industries. You just need to frame it right. The below is from my own experience. Does it sound bad? 

You have been told that the technicians are not to be booked, so from the perspective of what you are authorised to do, it is completely true that they are not available. That said, the clients would probably be extremely annoyed if they found out the reason why they are unavailable. By changing your position from "I have no technician available" to "I have someone available if you insist" you have revealed to the client that technicians are being witheld for reasons other than simple physical availability. Your immediate change of position shows the client that you were not telling them the complete story regarding the availability, which may lead them to have a poor view of the company, and the experience may lead them to be more pushy with you and your colleagues next time they call. These are the reasons, besides disobeying an instruction, that your boss is annoyed with you. Some clients may be more inconvenienced by a technical issue than others, and some clients may be more important to the business than others. If you feel that a particular client who spends a lot of money will be particularly inconvenienced by the lack of a technician, you can tell them "I can take your details call you back if a technician becomes available" then put the phone down and discuss the situation with the manager. If the manager agrees, you can then call the client back and tell them you have managed to find someone. There are two advantages to this approach. 1) You have followed your boss's orders 2) Instead of looking like you were trying to hide availability from the client, you now look like you have made a special effort to find availability for them. An example from my own experience: Not long ago I had one of our technicians on a client site who required a particular spare to perform a breakdown service (free of charge under warranty.) Our spares department found a supplier who had one for $5000 immediately, and another who had one for $1500 on a one month lead time. The spares guy and I decided the best thing to do was not to tell the client about the $5000 option until he had finished checking other suppliers. The client phoned me to check on progress, and I told him "the best we have at the moment is one month, we are checking with other suppliers." The client then wrote me an email about how he needed to get his production line running again. We discussed this with management, and we made a business decision: it was worth taking the $5000-$1500=$3500 hit in order to maintain goodwill with the client. The $5000 spare was sent to them overnight and installed a day later. 

Your handling of the situation will make the difference between 1 and 2. Which is the one you want? If they hire another developer, do you want to be part of the interview process? I suggest you take advantage of the meetings with your manager to discuss your workload and the future of in-house software development. There is a 5th option: you get fired, and they get another developer or outsource. This seems unlikely as there is now code out there that you wrote and you understand best. But if you refuse to cooperate this becomes a realistic possibility. 

I was interviewed and offered a job at company A. I rejected it, explaining that it was because I was offered a ridiculous salary at company B. 2 years later company B moved to a different country, and I decided to stay where I was rather than go with them. I found myself back discussing a position with company A. My interviewer/boss (I accepted the job 2nd time round) at company A called my new interview there a "meeting" rather than an interview. Because I had already performed well at the first interview 2 years previously, we did little more than discuss my salary and start date. You already know the guy a lot better than my boss at company A did. Is there any need to discuss more than that? (Maybe if you know him but HR don't, they will have some questions...) 

Your very last question is entitled "Everybody wants me for my skills, but I am not supported and all feels like a political tug of war." It seems your manager is aware that there is more work than you can handle, but he doesn't know what to do about it. It seems that he wants to monitor what work you are doing for whom, which he should do: if he has a resource, he should know which department is using it. You are interpreting this as "monopolizing" but if you are a resource of your line manager others shouldn't be helping themselves to your time. I think it would be a good idea if you kept timesheets of your work. Discuss this with your manager. Yes you should share your code with him. After all it's the company's code, not yours. Something has to change. One of the following must occur. 

It depends what kind of work you do. I am an engineer, so my "Professional Facebook" is my Linkedin, and this is the most appropriate social network for a more "strait-laced" job. For other types of work a Facebook page is entirely appropriate. These tend to be work that is creative and/or dealing with the public. It is a good idea to use some kind of professional name, distinct from your personal account to avoid confusion. This is why Facebook has pages for "business" and "musician band." (and for "artist" too, I believe.) Besides being an engineer, I am also a musician. My band has its own Facebook page and Youtube account. I don't have my own facebook Musician page, but if I was serious about being a solo artist, I would. My sister is a freelance music teacher and craft fair organiser and has two separate professional facebook pages beside her personal one - one for each of her two businesses. Bars have Facebook pages. Photographers have Facebook and Instagram pages. Even builders have facebook pages, in additional to their professional website (if any.) Even suppliers of engineering software have facebook pages, as an informal user community. In summary, yes it is a good idea to have a facebook page IF it is appropriate to your line of work, but you should give it a name related to your work to avoid confusion with your personal page. 

I would fess up - "I deleted 2 days of work, but I think I can recover it in 1 day". I think you should be able to recover it in one day, we have all deleted work by mistake (especially when under pressure) and it usually does take less time to type it out again than the first time, as less thinking is involved. There may be some automatic backup that you are unaware of that enables your manager to recover your work (unlikely with git but you never know.) Your performance review is based on (I am assuming) minimum 6 months work so I really wouldn't worry about it. Also, performance reviews are (unfortunately) only vaguely related to pay raises! 

This was not your fault. You did not create this problem. Brian (and possibly Chloe) did. What you need to do now is deliver. Regarding the following comment on the question: 

Whether you send a "mass email" or not depends a lot on the size of the company you work for. If there's only 10 of you, that might make sense. If there are hundreds of people in the company, restrict it to your own department/project (and if you want to invite your friends from other departments/projects do that in a separate email.) The alternative is to leave it in the kitchen with a note explaining what your are celebrating, or on a filing cabinet near your desk. Really, this is entirely dependent on the culture in your company / department, not something we can answer here. Is it the norm to bring cakes for birthdays? or doughnuts every friday? Bear in mind also that the boss's view may differ from your colleagues' views. One company I worked for had a fantastic culture of socializing (and bringing food in for birthdays) which often took up an hour or more a day. When things got tighter (shortly before redundancies came around) the management put a stop to all that. 

If you do this it, will make it clear that (whatever Brian may be saying behind your back to cover his ass) you really didn't know. You'd better make sure you don't have some email somewhere that shows you should have known. Whether this is good for your relationship with Brian is something you will have to weigh up. But I wouldn't be inclined to take the rap for someone else. Note you could say "I wasn't informed" instead of "I was unaware" but that reveals your intention of passing the buck back to Brian (bad!), rather than coming across as an apology on behalf of the team composed of you and Brian (good!). 

You could certainly spend some time discussing what your organization is trying to achieve, to see if it would be a good fit for both of you. 

A little story: When I was a young engineer in Scotland, I went on a business trip to Colombia with my boss and our company's agent, who were both old men. Therefore the client's plant operators (who were nearer to my own age, but, shall we say, far more "working class") adopted me and took me out a couple of times (I will leave it to your imagination to guess where they took me.) Anyway, I made the mistake of giving these guys my work email. When I got back to the office I had several emails of pornography. One was of disgustingly hairy women, with commentary by Elmo the cute monster from Sesame Street. Very funny but not sexy. Fortunately no-one from IT snooped through my emails, so I never had to explain anything. In addition to the existing comments of "it's not your business, ignore it" The point I want to make is that you don't know who is to blame, and it may even have started with a legitimate business contact. Yet another reason to leave it alone.