So after all is said and done, I called a sand blaster, but they wanted too much money to blast my small hull. Like $1000. I could buy my own equipment to do the job for that price, but I didn't want to spend the money either way. My neighbor told me he had a blaster I could use, and when I looked at it, it was just another pressure washer. Well he said this one is a lot stronger. Anyway, I used his pressure washer and holy cow what a difference. His pressure washer blasted the paint right off. There are still some spots, but to be honest, it really did the job. What he leant me was a generac 3100 psi 3 GPM gas powered unit. It worked great and only took a few hours to strip the paint off the whole hull. Now all I need is to let it dry out so I can shop vac up the debris from my driveway. I just thought in case anyone wanted or needed to know that a powerful enough pressure washer does the trick. Bear in mind that it can and will strip the barrier coat and dig into the fiberglass if the spot is weakened, but considering I am looking to repair and restore this hull, that's just fine by me, if it comes off then I want it to come off so I can lay new glass and epoxy up and make it stronger. 

I have been looking into how strong of a bow would be required to bow hunt moose. I haven't been able to find a specific number as to how many fps you should be shooting to safely hunt moose. 

If you are out and get a "clean" kill on a deer, meaning that you have hit only its vitals, how long do you have to field dress the deer? Also, beyond that how long do you have to get that deer processed? Under the conditions that I am thinking the deer would just be at camp. How long would you have with it there? 

Your main problem will be people deer hunting, or other large game, with a rifle. My first bit of advise would be to not even bother going out for the gun season. The dangers with large game and gun season are that the prey is takin at a much larger distance, and more confusion could take place. If you "have" to go out hiking during the gun season I would suggest wearing all blaze orange. Better safe then sorry. As far as being out during small game or bird seasons. One article of blaze orange should be more then sufficient. Most people will be using a bow or shotgun which have a pretty limited range compared to a rifle and should be able to see you. All the other advice about what to wear and where to stay is also very good advice. 

I have been recommended to carry a tin can, filled partly with gravel. This will rattle and oust snakes, boars, bears. I have no idea how effective this would be. Playing a musical instrument should have similar effect, as suggested by all the comments. 

This weekend I forgot my expanded-foam sleeping mat and was cold during the night. The environment was an autumn forest. 

I have to wander how is some soft soap going to do more damage than two winters of salt, car oils, many kinds of mud, sometimes encompassing the whole shoe, bike chain oil, cow shit, sharp rocks, rotting wood and more. 

I am going for a two week trip in two weeks. We are two people, with bicycles and backpacks. Small sections of the trip pass through rocky trail with steel ropes. The weather is summer, but the possibility for downpours exists. We have one climbing harness, a climbing carabiner, some "dynamic" rope (15m) and a reverso. My worry is that shouldering/carrying on the back the bikes will be a balancing challenge, and the falls are significant. Can we use our current equipment to make the passages safer? 

tl;dr: concrete advice under the horizontal line Agreeing with the other answers, alcohol is best left for later because it can disorientate you. And among strength, endurance, body type, environment awareness, wisdom - the last is by far the most important when surviving. A month ago I was the closest in my life to calling Mountain Rescue (thanks god, that there was mobile coverage). A heavy fog, combined with gale and snowfall. Using a compass, a map and very tiring and slow process of digging snow pits, so that I don't get lost, I made it. From one steel pole to the other it was, on average, less than 5 minutes (20 meters). But then there was 1 (only only only 1) pole broken off. Even though it's concrete base was not covered by the snow, it took me short of 3 hours to discover it. 

Start at the edge and work your way out. The ice will usually be thinnest where the water flows INTO to pond or lake, and will be thickest close to the tail. That's because the ice is being pushed that way. Take samples as you work your way out onto the ice to continue to measure the thickness. 

My mother and her husband feed hummingbirds rather religiously. They have feeders all over and in every conceivable condition you could possibly imagine. My mother refills all of her feeders on a daily basis, and the birds have learned it is her providing the food. When one of the feeders has gone empty and the others are too crowded, the hummingbirds will hover outside her kitchen window to get her attention. This is not a joke, nor an exaggeration. The birds will hover around her while she's refilling the feeders. In one case, a hummingbird failed to fly south for the winter, and they kept one feeder filled and warm to prevent freezing and they successfully helped that hummingbird overwinter in the mountain tops of North Carolina. 

Primative waterproofing is accomplished by impregnating s material with an oil or wax or blend of each. Rubber also works well and since you are in Columbia, you can probably make your own from a rubber tree. 

I started with a buddy of mine. So he had most of the gear that was needed. I just needed to buy a gun, do hunter safety, waiters and some camo. Now if you're not in a situation where you have someone who already hunts you might need to do a fair amount of local research. The basics you will need are what I had to buy a gun, waiters, and some camo. With the waiters you will not need a dog right out of the gate. My buddy and I still don't even use a dog. The next big problem is where to hunt. This you will have to figure out locally. Where I live we go to public land that requires that you have a boat to get to a good spot. If you have private land you can scout it out for where you see ducks and then you could setup there. You also might be able to find public land that you could park your car and walk to. With decoys we started with buying a 12 pack of whatever ducks you have locally. Early season we tend to use less decoys because the duck travel in smaller groups and then increase as the season goes on. So later we bought another 12 pack of mallards which are the late season bird here. The best resource I found while starting is the Ducks Unlimited website. They have a good amount of resources on decoys, calls, guns, and just about anything you will need. 

Breathing technique is bar far the most important. Remember to keep your airways open at all times during descent and ascent, but most importantly during ascent. During normal dives you want to keep you ascent slower than the rising bubbles, while in a near continuous exhale, in deep dives you slow the ascent to half the speed of the air bubbles while exhaling. An air embolism is a SCUBA divers worst nightmare come true. 

Ivory soap (for North American campers)...it's the only one that actually cleans and does not leave any residue (which can hold oils) begins. I don't know what other brands of a similar product there is, but I bet you can find your own if you look for ivory soap on the Internet. 

Sure you can use anything as a bait really. Think of a crushed up can as a funky spinner (it's going to spin no matter what you do to it). It's shiny, flashy and moves erratically like an injured fish. I have also seen lures made by folding bottle caps around a hook shank. 

Being a sailor rather than a rock climber, my familiarity is more with nylon 3 strand twisted ropes. With nylon twisted ropes, you can make ropes of any length without needing special splicing tools like you need for cored ropes like those used in climbing. I would buy 3/8 inch deck and anchor line, cut your favorite clasp off your preferred leash, and eye-splice the clasp into the new rope using a thimble (metal insert that protects the eye from wearing). Cut the length of the rope to about 3 ft longer than you wish. And tie a larger eye splice into the other end for your hand. To learn how to tie various knots visit $URL$ 

Get the lightest carabiners possible, for example this for bags and something larger, but still light, not climbing gear, for the sandals. 

Those work, but to a far lesser extent than I would have liked. How can I speed up significantly the equipping of the backpack at home, just before a trip? 

This answer address efficiency i.e. to climb quickly, without getting too tired. It is something in between an answer and a comment. One advantage of walking consistently is thermal balance. That's how some old people in my area hike for several hours in the snow, wearing only shoes and short pants. And by thermal balance I mean avoiding the vicious cycle of 

Then there is the variable is the branch live or dried out. Lastly, calculating the strength of a branch would include not only successfully identifying the type of tree, but will also be very sensitive to the diameter of the branch. Are you going to be carrying sub-mm accuracy callipers and measure each branch? 

I deal with this problem by wearing a large set of sunglasses. Mine were originally designed for snowstorms - large circles, which leave nearly no gap to the face, plus side inserts, to limit light and wind from the sides. Work wonders, plus this solution frees the hands for energetic activities, like biking or wood hgathering.