Salt Fish hanging in a Hong Kong market in 2011 via Wikipedia @John also has a good point about live storage. Most Asian grocery stores in the U.S. sell very fresh fish and seafood by having at least some varieties live in tanks in their stores until it is purchased, and this would be a natural approach for merfolk. 

Incidentally, I don't think you'd need seven hot spots, because they tend to migrate. The four southern hotspots could easily be a single migrating hotspot and produce essentially the same topography, and indeed all six could be from a single hot spot if the Japan plate in the hypothetical case was moving rapidly in geological terms early on and was twisted a bit from pressures from the adjacent plates. A formation like that would be more in line with real world precedents. In terms of weather, this ought to expose western Japan to more intense typhoons. Subduction zones on both sides of the island would also greatly increase volcano and earthquake activity in western Japan. A subduction zone to the west of Japan would also greatly change its ecology, because a western Japan trench formed by the subduction zone would have prevented any land bridges or very shallow sea access to the islands as happened historically which was a major source of its pre-Iron Age population (the Jomon) and was also a source of much of its terrestrial life. With subduction zones on each side Japan would have terrestrial fauna and flora that would be much more distinct from the mainland in real world Japan, more like pre-Maori New Zealand. This topography would also probably greatly increase the number of distinct watersheds in the region, eliminating the long rivers necessary for larger freshwater fish. 

The mechanism already exists on earth, and is seen in the different winter coats of Arctic and sub-Arctic mammals such as Arctic foxes, stoats and rabbits and hares. Responding either to shortened days and/or dropping temperatures, the animals stop producing pigment in their brown fur, and it grows out white. Similarly, you would have either a one-pigment or a two-pigment system. A one-pigment system would operate like earth animals, with a base color for the hair and an overriding pigment which is produced either only in early life or in later life. A two-pigment system would presumably occur with a relatively neutral base color for the hair, and one pigment produced early in life, while the other is produced later. And for what it's worth, a restrained version of your desired change can occur in people. In my family, several males were redheads as children, then turned brown at puberty, then white when older. 

The short answer is no, for various reasons. The first is that atmospheres just aren't very thick, so the two bodies have to very close to each other in order for the atmospheres to interact. This will cause one or both bodies to start to disintegrate (see the Roche Limit). I don't think you realize just how thin atmospheres are. The Earth's atmosphere is 99% below 30 km, and the Earth's radius is about 6400 km. Also, consider a satellite in NEO (Near Earth Orbit). It has about a 90 minute period. That's about 17,000 mph. If this is a near pass by an object in a larger orbit, the speed must be much greater in order to let the object get farther away from the earth. But then the orbit can't be "sharp" enough at close approach to do a (roughly) 180 degree turn - that only happens for something like LEO. Although an orbit can get closer than the 90 miles or so (early satellite orbits) the gravity pull on the orbit simply doesn't increase much. Also, if two bodies passed close enough to mix atmospheres, the atmosphere gases would be the least of your problems. At the speed they're going, you would get really massive devastation from the shock waves - 17,000 miles plus over a HUGE area. 

One of the big things about technology is that it is so damn predictable. If magic was facilitated, for example, by summoning demons or ghosts that had their own free will and weren't always easy to bend to your will, that would give it a completely different flavor than conventional technology. It could range from elf and the shoemaker type arrangements to powerful spirits with minds of their own that only powerful sorcerers could bind. 

Sure. Not just humans, but all manner of creatures on Earth have very sophisticated highly evolved eyes and even partially inorganic bodies (e.g. shellfish) at all manner of wave lengths. I don't think they could get very powerful (biological systems aren't known for sustained high voltage high ampere electrical output outside anything more realistic than the Flinstones) - at best some sort of bio-capacitor might allow for short, high intensity bursts. But, while bio-lasers might not be fully appropriate to weaponize, they could be useful for line of sight communication, fire starting, accurate measurements, temporarily (or even permanently) blinding predators or prey, and any number of other applications. 

In countries and pre-modern societies where you have a high degree of inbreeding, this usually results in clannishness, nepotism and corruption, which is not a favorable condition for Western style democracies. Basically, extended inbred families at a higher level of common family ties, leads to the formation of "clans" and "clans" in turn have yet more remote family ties as "tribes". Most people in Iraq, for example, have a clan or tribal affiliation which often is more important to them than their national identity to a multi-ethnic state created by European diplomats a mere century ago. Above tribes are full fledged cultural communities (e.g. in Iraq: Kurds, Shiites, Arab Sunnis, Turkmen, and several smaller communities like Yazidis) some of which have internal extended family-clan-tribal substructure. Similar situations have arisen in post-colonial states in Africa and Southeast Asia. For example, it is a serious barrier to unity in the newly formed state of South Sudan. Part of the problem, well illustrated by the Iraqi case, is that by raw numbers since factions have different sizes, one of the national factions will always win and get a majority in parliament and lord over everyone else, while everyone else will always lose. In Iraq, the numbers are such that the Iraqi Shiites always win (upsetting the previous totalitarian regime in which the minority Arab Sunnis ruled knowing that their lack of a majority requires them to defer to the wishes of other ethnic groups; something similar is the case in Assad's Syria). Since movement between factions is more or less hereditary rather than fluid, this means that a substantial share of the population and majorities in large parts of the national territory, will always be on the losing side of every election. This makes democracy seem like a sham system not worth adopting to the perennial losers. They may as well be denied the franchise entirely. @Platypus adequately addresses the more or less consensus conclusion of the literature on that point. But, when no one clan is in a position to dominate the others, the most democratic (or at least most responsive to the opinion of the governed) alternative systems of government that arise are typically one of two kinds. Neo-Feudal Meritocracy An Example From Afghanistan One example is noted by David Anthony in his book "The Horse, The Wheel and Language" involving migration of people from Pashtun people who had a democracy of equal landowners in the jurga of Afghanistan to the neo-feudal society of the people in the neighboring mountains. Since you standing as a citizen and in the community among the Pashtun was dependent upon owning land, if you lost all of your land for some reason you joined a social underclass and had no future prospects. In contrast, in the neighboring mountain community, everyone was a liege of someone else (even the "king" of the region who was a liege of a leader of someone in Khazikstan), so there was no shame in being subordinate so someone else, and the system was fluid enough that if you showed promise, you could cast your allegiance with a more powerful master and move up in society without actually owning land. While not a true democracy, the neo-feudal mountain society did consider the views of underlings far down the power structure and promoted them if they had merit much as soldiers in the military might be promoted to higher office. A neo-feudal meritocracy can work in a clannish and inbred society. Other Examples If clan leaders are part of the overall feudal structure and the lord to which they all owe allegiance is distant and does not actively impose much order on the clan leaders, a cooperative council of clan leaders can result. This kind of dynamic is what gave rise to the House of Lords in the U.K. This neo-feudal meritocracy also characterizes the power structure and succession in the clannish society of Saudi Arabia, which is much more fluid than European feudal systems because the status of subordinates is frequently altered based upon merit from year to year, and in the system of Papal Succession within the Roman Catholic church. For what it is worth, this is also more or less how student organizations like clubs and student councils work in Japan, and how U.S. business corporations, universities and the U.S. military are organized. Again, it isn't democracy, but it is a system where there is room for advancement and where the quality opinions of people at the bottom can receive recognition and advance. It is a middle ground between absolute monarchy on strict hereditary principle applied at all levels of the organization as in Medieval Europe, and a free rule of law capitalist or democratic system. A Democratic Oligarchy Of Clan Or Faction Leaders Modern Examples Another example is that many clannish societies have a council of top clan leaders who jointly make policy for the entire clan society. For example, in Lebanon, there has been an arrangement for each of three top positions in the government to be allocated to a different religious faction (Muslim, Druze, Christian), so that each faction has a meaningful say in how the top level political decisions are made. Malaysia has a residual council of kings that collectively serve the role of a constitutional monarch with similar origins. One can look at the rotating presidency of the European Union as another example of what a political system on that basis can look like. Historical Examples Similar structures have existed historically, at times, in alliances within the Aegean Sea when it was balkanized into city-states, and among the Scottish clans. Many of the city-states of late medieval or early modern Europe were run on this basis with city council seats based down on a hereditary basis and divided among the leading families of the community as a previously more democratic system ossified into democratic oligarchy. In North America, the Iroquois Confederacy had this character. In The Bible While it is a bit hard to discern, the political system of the Hebrews described in the Hebrew Bible books of Exodus, Numbers, Joshua and Judges in which there were twelve tribes of Israel that met as councils when necessary to govern the overall community, and appointed temporary war leaders to lead them when necessary (called "judges") prior to the creation of the kingdoms of Judea and Israel, also reflect that kind of clan level democracy. In Fiction In fiction, a good example of this is the political structure of the living vampires explained in the later installments of the Vampire Academy series by Rachel Mead where governance is by a council of a dozen or so families led by a king chosen among them by a vote of the clan leaders. Another exploration of that kind of political system can be found in the Merchant Prince series by Charles Stross. You also see it in the structure of Werewolf society (by clan) and of other types of supernaturals (in family run "cabals") in Kelley Armstrong's Otherworld series. Vestigial Forms Of Clan Leader Democracy In North American Political Systems The U.S. Constitution is a hybrid of a democracy that gives each citizen with the franchise a roughly equal say (though the House of Representatives) and one that gives each collective group regardless of population a say (particularly before the adoption of the 17th Amendment when Senators were appointed rather than elected). The Confederation of the American colonies that existed from 1776-1789 before the current U.S. Constitution was enacted, was likewise based on a democracy of groups of people, rather than of individuals basis. In Canadian politics, councils of provincial premiers together with the prime minister to address issues of federalism, particularly where the provinces has some formal role but unity is desirable, have made what on paper seems like a relatively unitary political system work out in practice to be more of a hybrid system than the formal constitution would suggest. 

Since this is a bronze-age city, there is no reliable contraception, so anything which encourages marriage will also encourage population growth. Assuming you have leet social engineering skills, I'd try 1) Elimination of dowries. Couples can marry young. 2) Discourage marriages within clans. This is actually something of a problem, since bronze-age societies were quite violent, and social groups were quite close-knit - at least, the ones which survived. 3) Riffing on 2), make outmarriages the accepted mechanism for preventing inter-clan conflict. In effect, the widespread intermarrying will tend to break down clan barriers. Don't expect miracles, though, especially in a bronze-age society where long-range communication and transportation (and I mean more than a few blocks) is difficult. Communication is essentially entirely face to face, since literacy is almost non-existent and cheap printing and paper are unknown. Figure on a combination of political and religious pressure. This is decidedly non-PC, since the historical uses of intermarriage seem to have favored shipping off the girls, not the boys (who are needed at home as warriors). Furthermore, fast population expansion is a problem, since this implies fast resource expansion. With agricultural efficiency low, large populations imply large farming areas surrounding the city. As these areas expand they will tend to start splintering into local political units, with all the problems of political struggle and war which that implies. 

It is very common for people to be able to come up with the right answer without knowing precisely why it is the right answer or to articulate why that is the right answer. The distinction you make between being able to "generalized" and being able to "abstract" sounds a lot like being able to do something unconsciously without being able to do so consciously and rationally. (The process of "abstraction" that you describe sounds very much like what is often called "inductive reasoning". Many dictionaries define inductive reasoning as the derivation of general principles from specific observations.) When a policeman arrests or searches someone but can't articulate the reason he did so, and it turns out that the person actually was guilty, we call that in the law a "hunch" (if the policeman can articulate a reason it is "probable cause" instead). But, a hunch is usually not just dumb luck and instead is actually a situation where the policeman arrested or searched someone and was correct that there was a reason to do so based on observational evidence and the policeman was simply too inarticulate to explain why. Similarly, the popular book "The Gift of Fear" articulates the concept more generally that "gut instinct" can often more accurately diagnose risk to your person than conscious reasoning processes. At a neuroscientific level, this basically arises because the older limbic system in the brain (sometimes called the mammal brain) has specialized sub-systems devoted to threat analysis and honed by natural selection, that the more generalist and younger cortex unique to higher primates, does not. In contrast, different parts of the cortex are involved in different subparts of inductive reasoning. It also bears some resemblance to the notion of blindsight, which "is the ability of people who are cortically blind due to lesions in their striate cortex, also known as primary visual cortex or V1, to respond to visual stimuli that they do not consciously see." Another example is a rule of English grammar concerning adjective order that almost no native speakers of English are aware of, that is not found in any common school grammar books, that native speakers nonetheless slavishly follow without knowing that they are doing it. Native speakers will recognize that a sentence that does not follow this order is off, without being able to articulate why this is so. English as a second language learners, meanwhile, must be taught the rule. In the Star Wars universe, people who are "strong in the Force" can similarly act with superhuman awareness and precision by letting the Force guide their bodies subconsciously rather than relying on their conscious observations and rational conscious thought processes. In short, this very much makes sense and could easily flow from a brain structure in which brain structures in the subconscious mind are capable of categorizing or generalizing in some particular domain (ideally one with a great deal of selective fitness value) and another part of the brain engaged in abstraction and articulates the basis for the generalization. If the latter structure is absent or ill developed, then the phenomena you describe would arise. 

Because your SHC cases occur in public (rather than all the reported modern cases, which occur in solitude), you're in something of a pickle. However, I do believe that a sort of solution is possible. As has been mentioned, soft tissue (but not fat) is essentially water, so getting any sort of combustion going is a losing proposition - the body will act as its own fire extinguisher. And somehow replacing the body's water with something flammable, like alcohol, will have obvious and dire metabolic consequences. It's very hard to see how a victim could be walking around with a massive replacement of water with something else. But let us consider the alternative to soft tissue - bone. The skeleton makes up about 15% of the body by weight, with a nominal density of about 3 times that of water, so it's about 5% by volume. Now, what would happen if bones were (by some wild biochemical weirdness) replaced by a spontaneously flammable substance? Let's take nitrocellulose as a base line. The density of nitrocellulose is about 1.7 times that of water, with an specific energy of ~ 10 MJ/kg. So a 100 kg person with modified bones would have a skeleton comprised of ~ 8 kg of nitrocellulose, with an energy content of about 80 MJ. Thermal capacity of water is 4200 J/kg-deg C, so raising a kg of water to boiling will take ~ 294 kJ, and boiling that water will take ~ 2.3 MJ/kg, for a total energy requirement of ~2.6 MJ/kg. As a result, ignition of a nitrocellulose skeleton will only destroy ~ 30 kg of soft tissue. Well, nearly half-way there. Now let's look at fat. An overweight person might have on the order of 30% body fat (more for women). If, in addition to the bones being replaced with nitrocellulose, the composition of the body's fat were changed to 70% nitrocellulose, you'd have more than enough energy available to reduce the body to ash. The process would presumably begin with ignition of "bone" at one of the extremities where there isn't much flesh, and the advancing ignition zone would ignite the modified fat to complete the job. Are there problems with this? Oh yeah. Regardless of the perversity of the biochemical process required to modify bone and fat, at least 2 issues arise. First, nitrated hydrocarbons are toxic. Exposure to materials such as nitroglycerine and nitrocellulose will kill at quite low doses, so how the altered materials would be sequestered without killing the host is anybody's guess. It's magic, I suppose. Second, the modified bones would no longer (without some really serious handwaving) be able to support the growth of bone marrow, and the immune system would go to heck in a handbasket. EDIT - And another problem - how do you get muscles to attach to the new material? END EDIT But those are left as an exercise for the reader. 

Payment Systems In countries in the civil law legal tradition (not just Europe but also most of Africa, Asia and Latin America), as opposed to the common law legal tradition of England, the "payment system" aspect of banking is generally handled primarily by the postal service and involves "push" transactions (the European name for them is giros) that are the moral equivalent of a money order as opposed to checks in the common law tradition which "pull" money out of a bank account whose balance is confirmed when the check is presented by the recipient for payment rather than when the instrument is issued the way that a money order would be. We have private money transfer systems in the U.S. that operate more or less the way that a European postal account system does, the most famous being Western Union. Debit cards are also conceptually like European postal account systems because the available balance is confirmed before the payment is made and involves a reduction of a positive balance, rather than an increase of a negative balance the way that a credit card does. For larger transactions, wire transfers via banks are the norm, but wire transfers unlike loans and check transactions, are not functionally extensions of credit to the customer. In both the postal systems and in private money transfer systems, there is usually some sort of fee charged to finance the operation, which is some combination of a monthly account fee, a flat per transaction fee, and a fee that is a function of the amount of the transaction. A related line of business common in developing and third-world countries is that of a money courier, who physically delivers cash in person from a sender to a buyer for a fee, usually as an independent business person. Often money couriers network with each other so that a U.S. courier might deliver funds from an Algerian courier in exchange for the Algerian courier delivering from bound for Algeria by the U.S. courier. The two couriers would trade their obligations with each other rather than the physical cash originally delivered to them. This is basically a primitive form of wire transfer. A slightly more sophisticated version of the same thing is called correspondent banking where someone sets up the moral equivalent of a no interest checking account in several countries and then handles transfers between the accounts. Foreign Exchange The business of exchanging one currency for another that doesn't involve explicit interest is sometimes handled by stand alone businesses but is also commonly handled by commercial banks and could continue to be handled by them. Factoring Another major activity of banks in the early days of banking was a form of secured lending called "factoring". In a factoring transaction, the bank buys accounts receivable from a business in exchange for cash, and the business then uses cash to make purchases. As payments on the factored accounts receivable are received, they are paid over to the bank. The bank pays less than dollar for dollar for the accounts receivable based upon the past history of the business in successfully getting paid by those who owe it money plus an additional profit margin. But, unlike interest, this is a one time transaction that is not dependent upon how long it takes the bank to receive the accounts receivable, and it is generally structured to be non-recourse (i.e. if the bank isn't repaid its cash advance in full that is its tough luck). Investment Banking What you and I ordinarily think of as a "bank" is what is called "commercial banking." There is a kindred finance industry called "investment banking" which lines up long term investments in the stock and bonds of publicly held companies for companies that want to go public or are already publicly held in a process called an "Initial Public Offering" (as distinguished from a secondary sale of a stock or bond from a party other than the issuing company), for a significant fee that is financed with the public offering proceeds. If interest were disallowed or greatly limited, big business would get more of its financing from stock, preferred stock (which is a debt-equity hybrid), and would probably limit debt transactions to "money market" transactions in which big businesses borrow cash at very low interest rates for short periods of time (which even restrictive usury laws might permit) basically for working capital purposes. Trust Management, Safe Deposit Boxes and Cash Management Most banking functions are structured as credit transactions (even deposit accounts are currently merely loans from the customer to the bank). But, not all. Some banks have trust departments that manage money held in trust for others (both conventional private trust funds, usually for family members, and also charitable trusts and accounts such as retirement funds and security deposit funds and monies held in trust by lawyers for their clients), typically on a fee basis that is a function of the amount of assets under management. These can sometimes be invested in real world investments like real estate or leased equipment, as well as stocks and bank deposits. Banks also customarily operate safe deposit boxes and there is no reason that some institution or other wouldn't continue to offer this service. Cash management is what armored car drivers, sometimes affiliated with banks and sometimes as independent businesses do. They drive around, pick up cash received from businesses (and drop off new cash for day to day operations), and get it counted and credited to the account of a business in a manner that is conscious of robbery and embezzlement risks. (This is a booming industry in the era of the all cash legal marijuana industry these days.) Pre-Paid Bonds Just because private lenders wouldn't be allowed to charge interest doesn't mean that governments couldn't issue interest bearing bonds (municipal bonds or treasury bonds in current parlance). Indeed, they might even be legal for private parties since these interest rates are typically very low because default rates are very low. Buying government bonds creates a stream of payments in the future. One could trade in government bonds at discounts and premiums as the case might be in order to pre-pay obligations that would otherwise accrue over a period of installments, while receiving some time value of money benefits. This would be indirect interest, but might be allowed if government bonds were exempted. This is a method used now to close out loans in cases where prepayment is prohibited or prepayment incurs a significant penalty, while avoiding any meaningful risk of default because government bonds almost never default. For example, government bonds might be paired with lease to own transactions to discount future payments and close out the deals. Various kinds of bankers and brokers arrange these deals now and private banks might continue to do so. Credit Unions and Mutual Banks The New Deal featured many cooperatives, especially in rural areas, which are businesses owned by someone with a relationship other than as an investor in the business. For example, a mutual insurance company is one owned by its policyholders. Prior to the FDIC, mutual banks (owned by depositors) and credit unions (non-profit banks) were very popular because they were much less prone to taking risky high levels of leverage to benefit the private investors and frequently went bankrupt in recessions causing the loss of bank deposits. In contrast, mutual banks and credit unions, acting in their owner's interests, were much more conservative and rarely went bankrupt even in recessions (often called "panics" at the time). If the FDIC had not been created, a ban on private investor owned banks, but not mutual banks and credit unions might very well have been allowed, and because any excess profits from these institutions benefit account holders, there would be (and is today) little incentive for them to unnecessarily jack up fees or charge unreasonably high interest rates. Non-Bank Credit, Bonding and Letters of Credit You would also expect to see in an economy without significant interest being allowed, an expansion of "trade credit" between vendors and purchasers (e.g. selling goods that only have to be paid for in 30 days), and a replacement of financing transactions with lease to own transactions (now commonly seen in auto financing mostly because it affords business users of leased vehicles more level deductions for tax purposes). Private banks might get into this trade credit economy by offering "bonding services" for private companies. A bonding agreement in this context means that a financial institution such as a bank would promise to pay any lawful debts of the party to which trade credit was extended up to a dollar cap in exchange for a fee. Basically the bank is co-signing your loans. These arrangements are now pretty much restricted to government officials guaranteeing that their services will be lawfully performed and for firms in the construction trades, but the concept would be more widely used if credit from banks for working capital was not as easily available. A subtype of this transaction is mortgage insurance, but bonding is usually what it is called in cases of domestic trade credit and contractual liability guarantees. Letters of credit issues for a fee are a variation on bonding (where the bank actually pays all debts rather than just defaulted ones in the transaction) that are uncommon now except in international transactions but might become common if interest bearing loans were prohibited. You might also see lots of loan sharking and other black market credit transactions. 

Another answer has suggested heat shield material, but that stuff is not flexible, and so is not suitable for clothing. So, I'd suggest fabric made of woven metal threads, with a refractory metal chosen. This metal should have both a high melting point and resistance to oxidation. The obvious metal would be titanium, since this is already used in high-speed aircraft. Platinum might do, with a melting point about 100 C higher than titanium, with the lower strength acceptable since the cloth is not structural. There are, of course, metals with much higher melting points, such as osmium, rhenium, ruthenium, tantalum and tungsten, but these tend to be much harder and less flexible. There is also an issue with oxidation rates - tungsten, for instance, oxidizes readily at higher temperature. As to speeds available, I'd estimate something on the order of Mach 2 or (maybe, sort of) Mach 3. A limiting factor is that, unlike aircraft, people have to operate at speed at very low altitudes. The sort of aircraft which go fast enough to use titanium tend to do so at high altitudes where the air density is low. Plus, of course, metal fabric just looks super-heroey. 

AndreiROM is getting close. But first, about the military not being allowed to operate in the US. You are referring, of course, to the Posse Comitatus Act which prohibits using the Army or Air Force as law enforcement, except as directed by act of Congress. We'll assume that the secrecy concerns prevent letting those loudmouthed Congresscritters in on the situation, so act of Congress is out. That leaves, wait for it, the Navy and the Marines. SEALs and Force Recon, most likely. Oh, there are some inconvenient regulations which need to be brushed aside, but civilian law seems pretty straightforward. 

Honey can also make an excellent long term preservative (also thousands of years) and being underwater where it is cool, protected from light and is protected from bears and insects and people who like to raid and eat it (sea animals don't seem to have as much of a sweet tooth as land animals do), are all a good fit. Obviously, the merfolk couldn't make honey themselves underwater, but this could be something that the desire as a trade good in exchange for something else. And, of course, don't forget one of the most common premodern preservatives, which is salt: salt meat including beef and fish are some of the oldest foods with long shelf lives and the oceans have an abundance of salt. 

But, while your definition could certainly include a sessile organism, the requirement that it "be able to react to stimuli in a way inanimate objects do not" would seem to rule out many plant-like organisms. Surely a honey fungus colony or a large common rooted aspen tree wouldn't qualify under your definition. And, when it comes to reacting to stimuli, there is the question of how fast and how automatically. Would a Venus Fly trap qualify? What about a trumpet vine that opens every day when it is light and closes when it is dark? What about something like Tolkein's Ents if it took them a full day to have a few sentence conversation? (The Portia spider which is a remarkably intelligent but very slow thinking animal is a less extreme example). 

The best way to make a desert is to put a big mountain range on the coast which gets the predominant winds. As moisture-laden air is blown inland it will rise, cool, and dump its moisture as rain, producing a rain forest on the rising slope. The air which makes it over the mountains will have very little moisture if the mountains are fairly high, and thus produce a desert. You can see this in Oregon, where the Cascade Mountains produce very dry country to the east. 

As you point out, the world outside the bubble will appear darker - much darker. What appears as visible light is actually very, very far infrared (about 0.1 meter wavelength) and the energy available is virtually nil at these wavelengths. Interface effects make this a superb weapon of assassination. Simply walk up to the victim and position yourself so that only part of his body is within the bubble. The portion inside will have "normal" metabolism, but if the heart is outside the bubble there will be no circulation and the tissue will die in minutes. Simply stand in place for a half-hour subjective, then move on. The effects of massive tissue death will be enormously traumatic for the victim. Alternatively, stand aside from the victim and point a flashlight at where you you believe him to be, and hold it there for a while. Let's say you have a 10 watt beam, and you hold it for 30 minutes. The result (outside the bubble) will be an 18 kJ (10 watts x 60 x 30 seconds) pulse of extreme gamma radiation directed at the target. Of course, you'll need SCUBA tanks or something similar, since you'll use up the oxygen in your bubble fairly quickly (subjectively). You'll also need to come up with a method of heat management. On the one hand, you are effectively encased in a black body at 0 K which will suck the heat out of you and leave you frozen solid. If, on the other hand, you posit that the interface characteristics are normally reflective (so you don't freeze) then not only can you not use the flashlight, the longer you operate your bubble the hotter you'll get, since resting human metabolism is about 100 watts, and this has nowhere to go.