The section you've quoted does not say you can fish everywhere in your home county without a license. The exemption applies only when you are on your homestead (or your spouse's, kid's, etc.). Note that "homestead" usually has a particular legal meaning, so don't assume it's just a way of saying "residence" or "property". However, if you read further down the page, you will find the "cane pole" exemption (meaning no reel allowed): 

Above all, don't "act like food". Turning your back, acting afraid, or trying to run away will show weakness and probably trigger their prey drive. Your job is to act bored until they aren't interested in you, then to slowly back away. If they are still acting aggressive and you have the time, prepare for an attack. Quickly see if there's anything you can use as a weapon. If you have a jacket, wrap it around your weaker forearm. If you have a pack, ready it to fend them off. Yelling for help may be a good idea, in case others are nearby. In an attack, two things are very important: 

Wild dogs can indeed be dangerous, and packs can be extremely dangerous. You do not want to take on a pack of dogs if you can at all avoid it, and running is often a particularly bad idea. I suggest starting with the basics: try to keep the dog calm and don't try to intimidate it. This means: 

It may help to take a bit of cord and work through the instructions in order. After trying it out here, I would describe the finished product as follows: 

It is also mentioned that this is not guaranteed to work. However, many people use similar techniques (often with silicone coatings) to seam-seal their shelters, and I have not heard anything to suggest such coatings are particularly temporary. 

From perusing forums, I suspect this term arose during the golden age of Yosemite climbing, but was soon subsumed by the term "hanging belay". A Google Ngrams comparison gives a good visual of this. 

On mobile devices, the Gaia GPS app allows creating a waypoint using whichever format is currently selected (which includes UTM). From your computer, you can enter UTM coordinates into CalTopo; this is convenient if you are printing out paper maps. (It also has some ability to annotate maps and save them to KMZ/KML files for use with Google Earth or your GPS.) Additionally, Google Earth accepts UTM coordinates. However, you must ensure they are correctly formatted (e.g. "10N 548936 5274344"). As hillsons mentions there should be plenty of devices that allow this; I can confirm the Garmin 62s model allows this and would be rather surprised if the other models don't. 

Edit: Most of this should fit into a small pack, say about 25L. Below is a pic of some of the items. 

While some brands may be known for narrower boots, this also depends on the last[1] they use for a particular model. La Sportiva boots are often considered to be narrow and low-volume compared to Scarpa, but there are also differences between the lasts they use for their Trango vs. their Nepal lines of boots. (The Nepal last is wider than the Trango.) If you aren't able to find a model that works, you may be able to improvise. A few weeks back my girlfriend's bootfitter added foam under the tongue of her ski boots to help reduce her heel lift. It occurs to me that this the same idea behind the extra tongue supplied with the Nepal Evo's, and so you might be able to do similar with whichever boot you end up buying. One final idea you might try is using a women's boot (assuming you are male). La Sportiva's FAQ says "Our women’s models have a wider forefoot to heel ratio compared to our men’s shoes and are narrower, straighter and lower cut heel and have less volume overall". [1] A roughly foot-shaped form used to design the boot. 

Having described a pair of options, you can also look at the Wilderness Medical Society Practice Guidelines for the Out-of-Hospital Evaluation and Treatment of Accidental Hypothermia section on field re-warming. It suggests that patients not be immediately allowed to stand or walk, and that delaying exercise for about 30 minutes will help reduce the risk of afterdrop. On a personal note, I haven't yet decided to jump in an icy lake, but I can attest to the drying abilities of modern synthetics. This past summer, after getting my hiking pants largely soaked in a thunderstorm, I added GoreTex pants over them and after a moderate amount of walking had completely dried them out. 

It keeps the second strand free in case you need to rap down to the person to administer first aid or other assistance. It allows you to use the second strand for hauling, in case you don't have a second rope around for that purpose. It keeps things simple; if you haul only one strand and the device (prusik or descender) on that strand stops working, the person will fall back to their starting point. (Unless the device on the second strand fails as well, in which case they continue to fall.) 

This seems to matter more for big wall climbs, as using a sling belay is considered to be "aid". To climb such a route "free" requires a longer rope or adjusting the pitches to end at hands-free stances from which to belay. (This is from a US perspective, those in Europe may take a more relaxed approach to what is allowed for a free ascent.) 

If you have the equipment already, I would go back to the book and practice using the equipment. In the US the standard text is Mountaineering: Freedom of the Hills; there may be equivalents in other countries. Basic techniques such as knots can be practiced in your home, and a bit of regular practice each day should soon make them second nature. With a tree or strong overhead beam you can also practice ascending and descending ropes using friction knots, and with a buddy (or a bag filled with weights) you can also experiment with setting up different hauling systems. (Don't run the rope directly over a branch; the friction will damage the tree. Run the rope through a pulley or carabiners instead.) The idea is to have the core skills well-practiced, so that once you're out with a buddy you can focus on when and why to apply them, rather than trying to remember how to tie a particular knot. On a related note, it's also important to make very sure you have learned the techniques correctly. An "eh, it looks close enough" approach can result in subtle and undesirable variations. A good subsequent step is to poke about the Internet and look at how things go wrong. For the US the American Alpine Club publishes Accidents in North American Mountaineering each year and I expect DAV has its own publications as well. This will help you anticipate and take steps to prevent such risks, rather than risking rediscovering them on your own. 

Based on the picture the OP presents, the yellow prusik cord weave has each pair of threads (likely not the correct term) passing over 3 or 4 threads rather than two. This doubling of length and corresponding reduction of crossing points seems likely to make the cord more flexible than the orange cord, a feature that will assist in making the tight wraps of a prusik or similar friction knot. In actual climbing use I don't know of anything that would preclude using one in favor of the other for a given diameter or cord. The strength differences between different brands also vary far more than the differences between the two types of cord. BlueWater Ropes sells both accessory and prusik cord in a variety of thicknesses. There seems to be a negligable decrease in specified strength for the "prusik" cord, also seen below in the Sterling cords. The product photos show a similar difference in weave as that seen in the OP's image. BlueWater says: