(1) By the law of universal gravitation, All satellites MUST orbit around the centre of the earth. The plane of the Tropic of Cancer does not pass through the earth's centre and therefore cannot be the orbital plane for ANY satellite. (2) Since geostationary satellites must be located directly over the equator, their footprint does not extend to extreme North and South latitudes. To overcome this, an extremely eccentric orbital pattern called a Molniya orbit is used by countries like Russia (extreme North latitudes). The orbit is designed so that when the satellite is over Russian cities, the satellite is moving very slowly (in accordance with Kepler's second law) and remains "visible" to radio receivers for maximum time. 

Follow these steps to determine Declination $\delta$ (Equivalent to Latitude). To get the sun's GHA, you need to first calculate $RA$ (Right Ascension) as shown above and then convert this to GHA by these= rules... $SHA° = 360 – 15 · RA[h] $ $GHA_{Aries}° = 15 · GST[h] $ $GHA = SHA + GHA_{Aries}$ For the second step, you will need $GST$ (Greenwich Sidereal Time) which is you can calculate if you know UT (UT can be obtained from the time shown by a clock). Use this link to convert directly from UT to GST If you want a simple, concise way to be able to calculate the positions of all manner of celestial bodies, the sun, moon, planets, stars, then I highly recommended the book Astronomical Formulae for Calculators by Jean Meeus. It is the simplest, most comprehensive collection of astronomical formulae you are likely find anywhere on earth. 

It's a matter of statistics. Scientists take a small amount of the space (let's say 1 second of arc). They look at it carefully with strong telescopes, and count all the stars and galaxies they see. Then, they extrapolate that number at the total visible space. Of course they can compute several spots of the space and make an average count. Since the number is extrapolated, that's why it doesn't really matter if it is 100 billion or 300 billion of stars. The goal is to have an order of magnitude as pointed by Moriarty. 

I was looking at Wikipedia's Solar system page, and it says that Sun represents 99.86% of the whole solar system mass. I found that pretty huge. So i calculated ratio of masses : Earth / (Earth + Moon) and it's about 98.78%. I did the same with Jupiter : Jupiter / (Jupiter + Io + Europa + Ganymede + Callisto) and it's about 99.97% (I ignored small satellites). 

Many sources indicate that there is ice water on Mars today, but it is mainly traces, here and there, but not that much. However, solid hypothesis state that there were oceans on Mars, see Wikipedia's Mars ocean hypothesis or at least large aquifers on early Mars. They all concern early Mars so around 3.5 to 4 billions years ago. These theories suggest that Mars oceans could have formed Mesa landscapes (just likeGrand Canyon or Monument Valley). So my question is simple, if all these hypothesis are true, where did that water go? Is it possible that so much water could have been evacuated from the planet? I guess it would have needed A LOT of energy. So it may have been transformed on the planet. Is it possible that the water has oxidized iron, creating Iron oxide (ie rust) and that it is the main reason for Mars red color? The Mars ocean hypothesis page suggests some leads about the fate of that ocean, but none suggests the oxidation of iron consuming the entire oceans. Morever oxidation would implies the presence of water and dioxygen... 

While I agree with all the other answers here that no satellite flare has any chance of being bright enough to damage eyes or instruments there are concerns about them wrecking observations. Wikipedia reports that Iridium flares can reach magnitude -8 or brighter (Venus can be -4, the full moon is -12) and that could certainly be bright enough that scattered light from it would drown out some dim star or galaxy that you were trying to observe. If the flare can be predicted then you can always shut off the detectors for a short period, but some flares come from out of control satellites that are tumbling unpredictably. 

The first thing you need to recall is that electromagnetic waves do carry momentum as well as energy. This shows up in effects like light pressure. Specifically a photon of wavelength $\lambda$ carries momentum $h/\lambda$. In and of itself, that doesn't answer your question though, since you are asking about the rotation of the pulsar, and changed to its linear momentum don't affect that. However, there are two ways this can happen. First imagine a rotating sphere which is emitting radiation from its equator. Consider a point on that equator. The radiation it is emitting "forwards" (in the direction towards which it is rotating) will be blue shifted (as seen by a stationary distant observer) while the radiation emitted "backwards" will be correspondingly red-shifted. Since the blue-shifted radiation has shorter wavelength, it has more momentum, the net effect is a force on the source which tends to slow the rotation. (interestingly, the same effect is used at much lower energy levels to trap ultra-cold atoms in what is called "optical molasses"). The second effect is a bit more technical. The radiation which is emitted towards the poles of the pulsar has a property called "circular polarization" and a beam of circularly polarized light carries away angular momentum. 

To complete Envite's answer, I would point that you can easily experience that irregularity yourself. Take a fresh egg. Rotate it on a table. Stop it briefly and release it. The egg will continue to rotate irregularly because of the fluids moving inside. Since the egg is not a mathematic ball, and the fluids inside have several phases : yellow part, white part and gaz, the forces inside are complex, so the rotation is irregular. Moreover I think the Moon is not helping with the regularity of fluids moving (cf sea tides). 

I understand that one body has to be much more massive in order to be a planet-satellite system, otherwise it's a double planet system. But I would have thought 90% would be enough. 

When we look at the sky, and see the Milky Way, we mainly see a band, with no real center. On a more accurate picture we can guess the center of the galaxy (see this picture), but we still don't see the center as some kind of big bright "star", like on this picture. I know there is a lot of objects (stars, planets and dust) between us and the center of the galaxy. But stars are bright and they shouldn't "hide" the galaxy center's light since they shine too. Why don't we see the galaxy center as a "night sun"? How much dust is there so it's blocking the galaxy center's light? Is it because of all Oort clouds of all solar systems that we don't see the galaxy center clearly?