The issue is that air would have to be purple. I would try to legitimize this by having pure air also involve pure spiritual or mental spells (like divination) and have those involve the appearance of dark purple runes. This feels, however, contrived for earth and air. I am worried that having a balanced magic user's aura look silver may be difficult to pull off but if done right could be awesome. Air with a spiritual component may also make the white necromancy/black necromancy dynamic from the original into an awkward position. Important or worrying combination observations: 

I don't believe my own answer but Mars One claims that they will send up the first colonists who will live the rest of their lives there in 2024. While it will depend on delieveries for maintenance items, this is very soon. If funded and supported, one would expect the technology we currently have would allow us to make it self sustainable within 20 years after that. I am not fully convinced, however, that their predictions/plans are reliable. I also do not believe that they will be able to make it completely self supported. Please note that mining and agriculture are very necessary for a physical structure to be build/repair itself and that is going to take time to setup. While the computer systems will reasonably be able to be replaced via shipments, the eventual colony would need very advanced manufacturing inorder to construct these replacement components. This is by no means a simple goal and it would require many people to operate. 

To make is more traditional, I had an idea to be make it bigger. If the dragon can heat up scales at will (by a built in magic/biological mechanism) can it use this ability to facilitate flight (and therefore be larger)? As both heat and scales are magic, allow the scales to be comfortably be heated and maintained upto 1500C. If needed, older dragons could have thicker scales so hotter max temp. Realistic physics and biology allow it to be similar in size, wingspan, and flying ability to a shoebill without using magic. How big can I make it if it relies on your heating mechanism to fly? I included the following clarification in the comments: "I do not want an organic jet engine that has air passing though internal organs or an oversized air bladder" 

The formula is: $$f'=f\frac{\sqrt{1+\beta}}{\sqrt{1-\beta}}$$ where c is the speed of light, f is the frequency of the light normally, v is the velocity of the observer, $\beta$ is $\frac v c$ and f' is the freqyency of light observed by the observer. For blue light (650THz) to xrays (1500000 THz), you would need $\beta=.99999962$ so you would need to be very very close to the speed of light. 

A lot of the answers seem to be focusing on the amount of energy required to launch a seed to escape velocity. However there is another possibility to consider. Light gasses such as hydrogen and helium naturally escape from the Earth's atmosphere all the time without needing any sort of explosions. A combination of the lighter than air nature of these gasses and the average speed of individual molecules in these gasses contribute to this. This suggests an alternate possibility. Perhaps you have a plant which grows a seed which is a large balloon-like structure filled with hydrogen gas. Better still, not just a single seed but thousands or millions of tiny seeds. It is not unreasonable to expect a plant to evolve which can split water into hydrogen and oxygen, venting the oxygen to the atmosphere and slowing filling a balloon-like cavity with the hydrogen as it grows bigger. At a certain time in its growth cycle the seed balloon would be released and float through the atmosphere to a new location. The natural course of evolution would of course dictate that most of the time the balloon would release its seeds before ever leaving the atmosphere, but sometimes this would not be the case. Perhaps the mechanism which regulated when the seed balloon separated occasionally was faulty and it continued to grow and accumulate an excess of hydrogen until its excess buoyancy exceeded the tensile strength of the vine it was attached to. There are many possibilities. Once this seed had cleared the atmosphere it could continue to float into space. Perhaps the vacuum of space would degrade the skin of the balloon and eventually it would pop, ejecting various seed pods in all different directions, some of which would eventually reach another planet. Now as far as re-entry it is easy to imagine something like dandelions, where re-entry would be slow and gentle due to the seeds having something like a parachute preventing them from falling too quickly. Update: Doing a bit more research on this, it appears that the issue of the balloon making it out of the atmosphere can be overcome if the plant-material can stretch enough to allow the balloon to expand a great deal so as to allow the interior pressure to continue to exceed the (tenuous) external pressure. In addition, at a high enough altitude, the solar wind and possible interactions with the planet's magnetic fields could provide an assist, with the enlarged surface area of the balloon capturing the solar wind like a sail to propel it away from the sun and out of Earth's gravity well. So having the balloon actually pop due to pressure wouldn't be beneficial, instead this should occur due to a slow natural breakdown of the organic material after an extended exposure to space - perhaps in the atmosphere this breakdown would occur due to passing through storms or over longer periods of time, creating a lengthy gestation period of many year similar to cicadas. 

It depends on what you define as a legal person. Currently the punishment for animal cruelty is much less than murder. I think uplifted animals will almost immediately be seen as human for the case of being victims of violent crimes. A cute smart doggie should not be a victim. Likely capital punishments for criminal uplifted animals will remain in place for a long time even if your setting wouldn't otherwise have the death penalty. That is the current procedure for violent animals and it is easy to argue "the procedure didn't take properly". There will be some support for even punishment, however. There will be an even larger fight against animal-human marriage than with gay marriage (because ew). Which ever party gains the most by supporting voting rights for animals will heavily argue in favor of it while the other party may fight it. I essence with all this differentiation, laws will not be exactly the same for an elevated animal and a human. There are minute differences in laws for women and men (usually legal precident concerning paternity, divorce, sexual harrassment, etc.) and we pretty much the same. Between different species of animals there are differences. As a result, expect large protests fighting for these rights and a more silent majority against these changes. Expect that all species will eventually be viewed slightly differently under the laws based on intellegence potential, physical ability, and population. Insects will never be able to get an equal right to vote (can't ever be 18 anyways) while the voting age for dogs will drop to 2.5 human years (18 dog years). Final note: if a completely new country forms after this change with large enough populations of each uplifted species, you can expect voters to be represented by species in a simular way to how they are by state in the united states. Cats can decide their own appropriate voting age but their alloted number of seats in congress will be decided by some combination of total population, potential intellegence, and lifespan. 

If the only options are A:"don't destroy all of humanity" and B:"destroy all of humanity", then the answer is simple in the following case: 

I am going to compare a 50kg and a 1g spider with a silk radius of .003mm. The breaking stess would be about 1000MPa for an average spider. Lets say the giant spider manages to get this up to 2000MPa which is the strongest in the world. Quick calculation shows that the 1g spider can hold about 3 times its body weight of a single thread of silk. How much would that need to be for a 50kg spider? Only .5mm This calculation is enough to show that in theory a spider with thin strands (say 2-3 mm) would be possible. In practice a spider often uses several strands of silk together. I have my doubts about the accuracy of the .003mm radius. Basically, however, this shows that a giant spider could still possibly use silk like a small one iff it were worth it. I don't believe that it is an evolutionarily favorable path which is why we don't see it. In your world, however, you could possibly make it work. Please note that there are likely many nuances that would make this more difficult for a larger spider. I don't want to lift myself by such a small part of my body. The thin diameter likely increases mechanical strength more than bulk properties would imply. There is likely evaporation which occurs in the thin strands which would not occur in a thicker one. There is potential to focus stress on a small region of the silk. Nevertheless, spider silk's properties are incredible and, while they would need to be thicker for a giant spider, they would not really need to be THAT thick. 

Basically the idea is you have some pipes and they are filled with water to some pressure. Similar to electrons in a wire, the water in the pipe doesn't actually need to flow very much; it is the pressure that carries the signal. The water switch can probably be implemented in various different ways, for instance there might be a spring to force a blocking element (valve) out of the way between the water in and water out, but the total pressure is provided was less than the water pressure. Then, if water pressure is introduced to the control input it overcomes the spring pressure and slides the value shut, blocking off the water from the input and sending the pressure at the output to 0. Once you have this water switch, everything else can be implemented the same as digital circuits are implemented from transistors. It is of course going to be a lot bigger even with miniaturization because you will run into issues with things like capillary actions and such at much larger scales. 

I would like to focus my answer on one of the problems mentioned by others: namely that Bob has an overwhelmingly high probability of being born poor. The answer to this is simple. By being born with all the knowledge of all his previous incarnations, all that is necessary to bypass this problem is to have one lifetime in which he amasses enough wealth to control an organization of people, such as a corporation, which he founds. And with multiple lives of experience this ability to amass wealth should increase, as all the trial and error in previous lives is carried forward each time. The organization will be laid out with stipulations of how his succession works. Nobody need know anything of Bob's secret, and nobody need know all the pieces of the puzzle, ensuring that only his reincarnated self can claim the lead next. Furthermore, Bob can have "decoy" successors whose appearances are not well known, to give the appearance that he is grooming his replacement among a list of potential candidates, to eliminate any suspicion of some unknown suddenly showing up. And furthermore, precautions can be take to deal with the fact that after Bob's death there may be a delay of 18 years or more before his next self takes over. There may in fact be layers of protocols involved by which other people act as trustees or temporary stewards of various aspects of the organization until all the pieces for the next true successor fall into place. Now when Bob is reborn, there is naturally the annoyance of having to wait 18 years to reclaim his organization. But no matter where Bob is born, in what conditions, if Bob has any kind of cleverness he will realize that he can just play dumb, not letting on to his real nature, and wait for the opportunity to make his way across the world to wherever his base is. I would argue this is totally doable for any person in the world - given the clear goal and payoff in sight - no matter what their situation and upbringing - one can play along with their environment for the first 15-16 years, there are many ways they can find to make a one-time relocation to another place in the world, whether it is joining a merchant marine, or stowing away, or even just hiking if on the same continent. Once Bob is able to grow his organization enough, then it is a simple matter of building more bases, one on each continent at least, so that he can eliminate the need to cross an ocean at the start of every life time. To summarize, the key pieces are: 

The basic idea of this is possible but not to the extent you describe. I am going to assume that only information is preserved and not tools as tools wear out. One trick could be to have specialized knowledge available via the records. If, for example, the records contain detailed information on how to make gunpowder, you may have fireworks before swords. You are limited here, however, as most basic technologies require each other to work. You can't clone without computers; you can't do distillation without glass or metal; you can't make a sword without fire. Another method would be to have a very small percentage of the population have access to this knowledge. Your infrastucture supplying most resources would be very limited. This would mean that you could have a plant mass producing food stuffs but most people building mud brick homes. A whole ship out of valuable metal would be impossibly expensive and not provide as much added benefit as putting their efforts towards a university with whiteboards and cathode rays for demonstrations, an oil refinery, or even a modern munitions factory. This could lead to assault rifles on horseback and howitzers on sailboats. 

If the people from history were still around, history would move more slowly. The idea that Racism is acceptable in the Western world is decreasing/dead because younger people don't think racism is okay (brought up that way with media and legal influence to ensure it) and the people who thought racism is okay are dying out. The morals/beliefs/stigmas of the past would still be present today even more than they currently are. I don't believe that religion is BS but water nymphs and mermaids are. Likely some people who claimed to have seen them in the 1500's would still be making that claims today. We would have more spread out children. We would still on average have roughly (+50 to 200% likely due to increased unnatural death rates) same number of children to maintain the population. Raising them would however take only 1.8% of our lives compared to 18% now. Our childhood would also be less large the same way. This would mean there would be about 10% the number of children in the world. This by itself is worth of a very long study. Easier to note, however, is that you will have fewer close age siblings. Unless you are twins or your parents are bad with birth control, you will not have siblings within 5 years of your current age. War would be worse. The horrible effects of war including the population decrease would last for 100s of years. Grudges would last longer. America would still hate Japan and everyone would hate Germany. That was less than the equivalent of less than 10 years ago. War would be less. "While I still remember the horrible things you did, I am still wounded from the last war. Our ideologies aren't really that different from the last time we fought." The rate of technological increase would seem larger. This would mean that people who thought the cotton gin was innovative would be trying to learn how to use an Iphone. That would be the norm! Our greatest minds would have 100s of years more to study the universe and (assumed) the memory to support it. If anything the actual rate of technological increase would be faster. Nevertheless, this means that a large portion of the population would be left behind to only do manual labor unless continuing education becomes more significant. Expect to return to school for a decade every 100 years to stay on the cutting edge of whatever exremely nuianced area you are actually an expert in. We would actually make things right! We wouldn't build houses meant to last 100 years... we would construct them of stone. The Rule for Life people would actually be the people who did something. The monarchys of our world have been the children of the children of conquerors. Most monarchs, would be the son of the conqueror who fought by his side. Increase unnatural death rates and death via disease would be observed for several reasons. If every time i go to the store i have some chance of dieing in an car accident, living to 1000 would give me alot more car rides. The same is true for fights with wild animals and older farmer brothers, floods, and extradimensional abductions. If we don't have kids till 200 then more people will die before having kids. More people will die of accidents and disease than old age. This also means more disabled people who survive the accidents living longer. With respect to punishment, if we became able today to live to 1000, I would demand loudly and aggressively for the death sentence for any convicted murderer. Currently a life sentence costs the amount to keep them alive for roughly 60 years. Death sentence costs legal fees plus the amount of time needed for due process (say 20 years). Life sentence is more economical is most cases. If you bump that up to 500 years+ of upkeep...