The answer is not clear cut and varies with the importance/balance your culture gives to norms and informal habits. For instance, in southern countries the informal culture once takes precence to norms. People will expect you more or less are available to them, and place more value in the time you leave office i.e. late. In some more busy cities they turn a blind eye to people arriving late, as long as they work more hours. On the other hand, for instance in other germanic countries, you are expected to be there on your own alloted time, no earlier, and not leave late. Ask informally one or more senior workmates that you trust for their opinions. Be aware that several of the senior people may be exempt from following the normal working timetable in their contract while you may not. I have never almost asked for this question, and usually picked up the habits from others; however you can also introduce the theme in a more light way while chit-chatting with peers. 

By all means review your contract, but bear in mind they will still want a response promptly - so it's unlikely you'll be allowed a few weeks to peruse at your leisure. Given your situation, I would contact the second company and basically inform them of the first company's offer. Explain to them that you would prefer to work for them (it certainly sounds that way) and ask if there is any way to advance the interview process. If the company wants you enough, they'll do it. If they don't, they won't. You need to decide how important/necessary the first job is to you. You've a firm offer already - is it worth rejecting this on the glimmer of hope a second company offers? I think your actions thus far are fine, but you've a short time window. Get in touch with the second company, determine what they're willing to do and if they don't get back to you take the job with the first company. By all means ask to review the contract with the first company, but the longer you put off getting back to them, the more unprofessional it appears if you refuse them. Of course, given their distant geographical location, you may not care about this - but I would never advise burning bridges with any company. Be professional, be polite, be courteous and be sensible. Try and get a response on the second job offer, but don't forget you've a company who have shown you clear interest and are obviously keen to hear back from you - which sounds like a very promising start for a new role. 

I would consult a lawyer if I were on your shoes; I did not before signing my expat contract, being younger and more naive, and had it gone wrong I would be in big troubles (yeah, that kind of clauses "it never happened to us"...it sure did happen before, people gone sick, people that did not adjust well to the new country, people gone berserk with the new environment getting into drugs and drinking as I found out later through the grapevine ). Finally, a prospective employer talking you down about clauses of a contract is an huge red flag that should not be ignored. Remember, HR are not your friend. 

IMO, the form idea also doubles as a psychological effect of reducing the frustration of people leaving because you do not have time for them; I would leave there a field for Comments, or even service evaluation for people to vent their frustrations there instead of doing it on you. 

This blog article might be of some interest. It lists the twelve most powerful ways to meditate whilst sitting at your desk in work. However, it's all simplistic stuff - nothing like the whole-body meditation that you are describing. As others have suggested, if you are determined to do this, I would strongly advise doing it on your own time - either before work or after. If it absolutely has to be done in work, find somewhere quiet and alone during your lunch break. I can't envisage too many companies where you will be able to slowly meditate at your desk, on your own time, without most people raising eyebrows and wondering why you're not working. 

To me, this implies you will get back within the day with either an acceptance or refusal. Therefore, if you didn't do this, and dragged the process on, I would immediately have doubts about you and whether I wanted you to join the company. 

As a candidate, I have been involved in a very lengthy process because many people left the company. I honestly appreciate both the team lead and the country manager having telling me they were on their way out; part of the attraction of working there was dealing with them. Without them warning me, I would also not understand the cultural shift that´s happening right before my eyes. Whilst it will make me reconsider my position, it would be worse getting there and finding out only in arrival; I would feel cheated. Hiring someone besides a negotiation, is dealing with a person. If a company does not respect me in the dating/hiring phase, I wont probably be there for long. 

I had a couple of bosses that albeit often calling for valid reasons, did not respect my time. I was working a very demanding job, and putting lot of hours at work, so often the calls were not justifiable. Another one who was a (micro)control freak who called out of hours - often asking the doorman to warn him when I left and call me 5-10 minutes later - just to show who was really the boss. Using common sense to know when to ignore calls pretty much worked and/or saying I was in the beach/sleeping/having sex/driving pretty much worked out ok. 

Remember - its your tone and intonation that will matter a lot as well. I'm not advocating saying "yo" or "whassup", but if you answer the phone by saying "Hello", "Carel Nel", "Carel Nel speaking" or some other greeting similar you'll be fine. Both of you are wanting to get to business and as a fellow Software Developer I know how busy the work can be. Don't make it awkward or difficult, just identify yourself and let the conversation begin. One thing I would say though - although others have suggested it, and this is a purely personal opinion, I despise something along these lines "Hello, this is Carel Nel, how can I help you today?". Perhaps it's because I work in telecommunications and have had a lot of experience dealing with call centres, but it sounds mechanic and robotic to me. Maybe it's my Irishness and the fact I want to have some personality come out, but I just despite this approach! Instead, just say "hello", don't be afraid to be yourself, always remain professional and you'll be just fine. 

I would not advise doing it in the premises, you wont be as natural and you will be nervous. I usually worked around the availability problem for interviews during the day either taking the rest of the day off, or using lunch hours. If the GM wont want to change the time of the interview knowing you have a full-time job, it would not be probably a place were you would want to work. 

I would apologise if I happened to meet him. Otherwise why do you want to remember all the events? I would not advise to send the email, however if you absolutely need to send it keep it short. The point is lost, and not everybody has the patience for it. e.g. do not delve on the details. Try to trim it down to 2 or 3 paragraphs, and do not delve on the details. Something like you are writing here seems fine: Look, I am really sorry for the way things happened between us, if it were today, I would have done things differently; I also had this and this condition. I appreciated all you support on this difficult time, the grief that I caused, and that you were a real gentleman dealing with me. All the best, 

I don't see anything wrong with this. I've had to do it a few times when I've changed to different IT companies. It gives you a chance to meet the people you'll be working with, find out the technologies you'll be using and get an overview of what your project will be. It's not quite clear from your question, but it sounds like you're suggesting you'll be required to take time off from your current role to attend this meeting, which could be a problem. You could speak to your current employers and ask if this is possible, although I wouldn't be surprised if the answer was no (although you never know without asking!). If that is the case, speak to your new employees and explain this situation to them. Explain that you'd love to know more about the project, but you can't take the time off. They can either record the meeting for you (if the technology is available) or simply email you the minutes from the meeting. They obviously are aware of your notice period as it will have been raised when they hired you, so I can see no reason this would be a problem. All of this information should help prepare you for the role you're going into by giving you time to do any initial background research/reading you want to and by showing you things like the coding practices and work environment of your new company.