Hard science: No. That said, the best theory I can give you is that humanity has always had the potential ability to manipulate reality—something intrinsic to our intelligence probably. To activate the ability requires the right mindset, and maybe the right genes. The right mood or mindset creates the right brain chemistry to allow the ability to turn on, but then it also takes the right effort or skill to actually apply the ability. You can cite all the scriptural miracles as evidence. If your character isn't a prophet sort of person, then maybe his genes are a new mutation that allow for a wider range in brain chemistry to turn on the ability than the rest of humanity. 

Function Shield generators are great, but it's not like they can shield themselves, right? That's you need walls around them to protect them from the direction they don't project the shield. And even if you've got future tech that spits out balls of plasma at enemies, you've still got something that looks like a cannon. It doesn't hurt to elevate those on a tower to get a better angle at footmen while distancing it from the shield generators so they are less likely to become collateral damage. 

If the Hotlanders are warm-blooded, then given enough animal skins, food, and fire, they should be able to endure the cold. We humans like to live around 21C, but routinely endure -17C with proper attire and shelter. The Ice Hill people have a house. In the house, they've built two rooms. The first room has a fireplace with a raging fire. The second room has no fire. When they want to converse with the Hotlander, he exits his comfortable room, dons animal skins, and walks through the door in to the colder section of the house. The colder section would be warmer than the Ice Hill people like, cooler than the Hotlander likes but it would be survivable for both. 

In a world where there is no antibiotics, no surgery, no dental care, no false teeth, no refrigeration, no stable food sources, and danger at every turn, death came quickly and often. A scratch could lead to sepsis. Food could turn in the hot sun and lead to food poisoning. Starvation, war, plague, and violence were constant companions. 

Organic The quantum-powered hero gets headaches when perilous situations are coming up because he died in some other possibility and it collapses back through time to a point of low peril. Some possibilities collapse clearly; others don't. Naturally, boss fights are especially dangerous futures, so it's natural for collapses to happen right before such fights—it's a relatively—and for you to subsequently collapse back to this point. Unknown The small shrines to the ancient god of death aren't recognizable by most these days, and it might be the god has a shrine guardian preventing people from noticing. Regardless, you're in his employ, so you can pray at these shrines and the god of death will remember your prayer. Then you go assassinate someone as part of your beliefs. If you fail, well, the god of death isn't done with you; he'll reject your death and return you to the last shrine you prayed at. Perhaps a shrine is constructed there for your convenience since the god of death gave you this dangerous assignment and suspected you'd need it. It could also, be a natural feature the enemy camp incorporated into their layout. Maybe it serves as a common household decoration, and the unwitting decorators for your next target have helped you out. Immovable Due to the nature of the Ancient's engineering, there's no practical way to move the their restoration chambers. If only someone had the right genes to make use of them... If no one is known to be able to exploit these inconvenient chambers, then enemies will just build around them. If this spot is the best for the enemy boss, then the "unusable" restoration chamber outside the door doesn't make a difference—it's alien tech that they had to work around. Note: This one doesn't work in the long-run. Anybody finding out that an enemy can just respawn indefinitely in their base will relocate somewhere safer. Secret Some of your robotic compatriots have discretely embedded some reconstruction points in the enemy base. It's doubtful the humans will figure out about the reconstruction points: all robots look the same, so how could they know it's the same robot attacking again and again. Even if they were looking, it'd be hard to find them without a special robotic vision mode/mod. Your compatriots would naturally plant these points in optimal spots for you, and right before the Big Bad Boss is, I would think, very optimal. Note: This one doesn't work well in the long-run unless the antagonists are really dumb and don't pick up on the pattern, but it would probably work longer than the immovable solution. 

There can't be more than one omnipotent God unless, like the Christian concept of the Trinity, they exist in perfect Harmony (although, Christians believe in one God existing in three co-equal persons.) Omnipotence means that all non-contradictory things can be accomplished by the deity (for instance, God can't make a married bachelor or a square circle.) Omnipotence means that the being always accomplishes His will. Two beings mean two incompatible wills. 

Short Answer No, not really Longer answer There will be scarcity. I can think of several things in your city that there would be a limited supply, such prime apartments, more than the current allotment of a certain type of food, construction material, access to power, works of fiction, the cooking of a chef, or the art from an artist. Economies pop up anywhere where there is scarcity. In prisons, where food, shelter, clothing, and medical care are provided free of charge, the inmates trade for a myriad of things (often using cigarettes as a means of exchange.) In online games, the coin of the game has real-world value and is exchanged for real-world goods and services. Economics is the study of human behavior in producing and allocating scarce resources. Currency is just a tool. We use it as placeholders for exchanging value. Without currency, people would resort to barter. Currency makes trading easier, more flexible and faster. Free everything would result in the Tragedy of the Commons, where people use a free resource to the detriment of everyone. Also, you have the problem with work ethic. If everything is provided for free, there is no reason to work other than for fun. Sure, some people would work for free, but ask yourself if you'd go into work if there are no consequences to staying home? If not many people work, who will operate the food and energy production facilities which undergird the society? If these facilities are not manned, the city falls apart, and nobody eats. Therefore, the rulers would have to employ some form of coercion to keep the city from plunging into chaos. 

If they already have to speak verbally in so many situations, then it might become the default mode of communication. However, I suspect it would still be used to clarify assumptions/understanding or establish facts. Consider the impact on testing, teaching, and legal systems. E.g. testing an apprentice's understanding of your craft; teaching what front-line warfare is like; "Is my kindergartner lying to me?", ask for the memory. 

It seems for someone to fit your requirements, they can't instigate what they are famous for. Even if they don't instigate it, you may disqualify them for having an aforementioned trait whether or not that trait (indirectly) caused the thing or was utilized in their response to it. 

Notes: a) Depending on how aristocratic your future society is, it might make sense for tight-knit (or not-so-much) families to come together in a single home. b) The wealthy might opt to build their home on a less crowded planet, or build a high-class community on an artificial (and mobile?) island. 

What technology level? If the technology level is 1930's and above, simply slicing the hearing nerve(vestibulocochlear nerve) would result in total deafness. Certain drugs and chemicals can cause hearing damage. 

You can accomplish a higher birth rate without having to impose anything. In 1800, the fertility rate in the USA was 7 children per family. Now it's around two. People are having fewer children, so we need to ask why people limit the number of children they have? There are several reasons to limit the number of children. 

All times are given in reference to some specific event. Our current counting scheme, despite the new, politically-correct designations of CE or BCE, is dated from the birth of Jesus Christ (who was born about 4bc due to a counting error.) Most kingdoms either dated from the start of the rule of a king or from their founding. The Jewish year is based on the date of creation "In the fourteenth year of Larry the King, the 30th king since the great trouble..." "Now, 703 years past the migration" "Now, in the 1,239th year of the great teacher, Bob."