It is possible to craft an argument so that it appears to be a strawman in that there is no evidence to back up claims being made and it appears that the reasoning for the argument is being made simply to make someone look bad. But it may be that the reasons given are the actual reasons for the actions in question. In other words the reasoning may seem to be exaggerated and made up, and it may be that the person arguing may have intended to exaggerate and or make up a reasoning for a position, but the reality is that the stated position is at least generally an accurate statement of reality. Does this accuracy or correctness of the assertion in the argument negate the straw-man fallacy of the argument? To clarify it is not that the derived conclusion is right or wrong, but rather that the assumptions and exaggerations that would normally identify a straw-man argument happen to be true. Does the definition of being a straw-man argument require that the assumptions and exaggerations of the claims being made deviate from reality? 

University research is not a guarantee for accuracy of theory. Any theory can get to be widely accepted and then something else comes in that invalidates the initial theory. It's how science evolves. Given this and how today's science and specially physics tends to work, I'd rather trust an independent research of a small group of scientists than that of an university's research. The logic is most of the time university projects are bound to comply by the very restrictive already established theories (there are exceptions, but they do not form a majority) while independent research can practically dig in any direction unrestricted. So far this approach worked very well for my research teams. 

For ease of use lets use Ayn Rand for example. The way Ayn Rand went about gaining acceptance showed a perceived intentional disrespect of the Academic community. In this way her ideology was not adopted more because of reaction to the method in which it was introduced, I believe. Assuming that logic above to be correct; in other-words, don't argue about the contents of Rand's work for this exercise. For the practical application here I believe I may have done this. But my lack of knowledge on the base may be lacking. If I have a way that re-scoped Objectivism in a way that did show promise, how can i best approach those people to gain acceptance in the community? The people who work in the world of philosophy and have the knowledge to expand upon my ideas are unlikely to notice my tool. I want them to take my tool and build a spaceship(or other metaphorically complex engine of transition). If I am right, I want educated and learned professionals to want to read and talk about my ideas because it changed their world. I think I have the tool to do that, and I want to find a road map of how I can get my idea there the most efficient way possible. So what is the most efficient path that a brilliant, but undereducated and incredibly modest thinker could take to get their ideas accepted. Caveat: For this question please assume my idea is everything I am saying, even though I am probably wrong. How can we get our ideas recognized and into mainstream, even if it means I lose any credit. To restate differently (feel free to edit to make this question more concise) How can I break it at a ground floor level and carry my idea to the levels that matter? 

Here's a example: We do an experiment and get valid results. We say X causes A to happen. We do another experiment and get valid results. We say Y causes A to happen. In both cases, we have math and observations backing up our claims. But X and Y are self-exclusive (a xor if you will). So what can we do in this case ? We can do experiments of another nature and see what was actually correct. But if that's not possible, we should select the cause that actually can explain more. I encountered this in physics many times, where theories were validated both by observation and math and in the math part we had a constant "c" and a variable "v" because in this manner the observations could be explained. But re-thinking everything, one could see that in the math formulas, the same valid result is obtained if "c" varies and "v" is declared a constant. Both cannot be variable or constant in the same time because it would invalidate the math part supporting the theory. So we got 2 options leading to the same result, confirming the same theory but we do not know which is a variable and which is a constant and we have no observable/experimental way to determine this. What did in such a case was choosing the option that can explain more. In the current example, let's say if we had a constant "c" and a variable "v" we can perfectly explain how a car engine works, but cannot determine anything related to the car wheels. If "c" varies and "v" is constant and we explain how the engine works just as in the 1st theory but we can also explain how the wheels work, we select the second option as the valid one. 

Because nothing is a state of void being. This is an unnatural and unstable state. If you release something into a void it attempts to quickly disperse filling the void as much as possible. Similarly upon creation objects try to disperse. In a strange coincodence or maybe design things also attract each other. So while nature wants voids filled, matter wants to be together. As a result you end up with collections of particles scattered through out the universe. Space is not truely empty. There are an effectively infintite number of atoms and particles out there. They are mostly dispersed so as to have an effective pressure approaching 0 through out the majority of the universe. But there are particles there. When they get close enough together and have enough attraction they couple. Eventually that couple collects more or becomes part of a larger collection. So there is something because that is a more stable state. There are theories that there is antimatter collections in the universe that would cancel out most matter but the dispersal of matter/antimatter sometimes happens before the 2 can cancel each other out. -- Edit addressing some Ben Hockings concerns I propose that you can not sum space time. Thus there can be no totality of spacetime. That it may be infinite and immeasurable. That we indeed exist because that is a more natural state. That the universe as you have defined it expands to fill a limitless nothing because that is a more natural state than containing nothing. Limitless is not the same as being infinitely large. It is nothing thus it has no size, and is not defined by our space time. No displacement is neccessary as there is nothing to displace. The universe expands to fill something that has no volume, or capacity thus can not be filled. In some ways we agree that the void does not exist as part of our space time. But I deny that our spacetime contains the totality of all that is. The scientist in me would love to limit everything to the limits that transcribe. That would imply that the potential is there to understand everything even if the reality of that approaches the impossible. But logically that makes no sense. I can accept that we exist as statistical anomaly. But if we exist as a statisical anomoly of a cycle of creation/annialation what is the chance that that anomaly only exists once? 

The above is a 4D object represented on 2D. Quite the loss of visual information here. A 3D holographic projection could offer way more clues as to how a hypercube may look like. In that case. you would a 4D object represented on 3D. Much more visual info to get from that. But what humans lack in this case is the initial image of how the 4D hypercube looks in 4D. Due to that, there is no end point for the extrapolation to work, so in most cases humans will not be able to extrapolate at all a 4D object. 

I very much disagree with this premise. He did not free the slaves that existed in states that remained in the Union. He was responsible for the single greatest power grab by the federal government in history. And he was responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Americans much of which could have been avoided had Lincoln been willing to allow reunification once it was clear that the south was defeated. Instead he chose a path of conquest. Many people who were pro-Union and anti-slavery in the south suffered and lost as a result of the land they owned being in a slave state. 

It cannot be objective. It's not defined anywhere, it has no exact specs therefore you cannot make an universal rule for it. It will always be subjective, no matter what some completed in polls or not. Even in extreme situations (like mutilation) some may find that more attractive than the normal so beauty will always be subjective. The fact that so more (even a majority) agree on something does not make it objective. 

One does not have to agree to a conclusion if he agrees to all the facts leading to it. Example: you can have 5 symptoms and a nurse can maybe formulate a diagnostic bases on that. But the doctor with many years of experience may independently check that all 5 symptoms exists and manifest as described by the nurse but he may set a totally different diagnostic. Hegel himself admitted that his dialectical method was part of a philosophical tradition dating back to Plato but he criticized Plato’s version of dialectics. Hegel argued that Plato’s dialectics deals only with limited philosophical claims and is unable to get beyond skepticism or nothingness. According to the logic of a classic reduction to absurd argument, if the premises of an argument lead to a contradiction, we must conclude that the premises are false. That leaves us with practically nothing. In turn, Karl Marx presented his own dialectic method, which he claims to be a direct opposite of Hegel's method. Direct quote from Marx in the paper "Afterword": 

The brain develops in a fairly understood manner. At an early age children begin to reason that if they do not see it, then it does not exist. By 7 they can begin understand the concepts that object can be hidden behind each other, and by 10 should understand that the world outside of what they see and hear still goes on. But until their mind is able to comprehend that, they simply are not able to understand. I am sure that there is research into when a childs brain develops to understand the inputs of their taste buds. I would guess it is around 6 months as that is when I have observed babies begin to make faces at certian foods. But untl their brain can process the input from their taste buds, they are not going to get pleasure or pain from the taste of the milk. And Freud did not understand the actual physiological part of the development of the brain. While he had many contributions to psychology, today he would be considered worse than a quack. Today we have a much better understanding of the development of the human brain. And our memory creation at an early age is not suppressed, its just that what is memorable to a 1 or 2 year old is pretty mundane in just a few years. But young children (~6months+) do recognize people they come in contact with regularly. This shows some memory retention already. 

I think this is not about randomness vs objectiveness but rather randomness vs nothing being actually random. Objectivity has it's own opposite: relativity. Because of relativity we have big problems determining what's what, therefore objectivity is recommended specially when dealing with advanced physics, universal laws and such things. 1+1 will always equal 2 only if the correct rules are applied, just as the author said. Otherwise, 1+1 = 2 is not true. As a rule-based example: 1+1 = 10 if the base rule is that we deal with a binary system. To discover if there is any true randomness somewhere in the Universe may not be that easy. For example anything natural is related to Golden Ratio and/or Fibonacci, so there's nothing random in living organisms or plants (not even at DNA level). Going from DNA level and atoms to a very large scale like galaxies, we will notice that even the stars have a non-random arrangement in galaxies. So from an Universal point of view, the vote goes against randomness (note: not to be confused with chaos). That being said, what's left to do is try to generate our own synthetic randomness, just to prove that it can be done. But in this situation, we may find that this isn't easy either. In the case of computers, it's well known that numbers generated using them aren't genuinely random. Any piece of software needs some kind of unpredictable physical input to be able to generate from there. But what about humans ? Well, most of the choices they make are based on something quite pre-determined so we don't get much randomness from there. but as we trick the computer giving it physical input, we could find a way to bypass the human pre-determined concepts so we get something random out of it. Let's design a situation. We have the drawing of a cube. Any sane mature human should understand that those lines drawn in 2D are the representation of a 3D cube. But the orientation of the cube cannot be determined from the 2D drawing, so each human would have to pick a way he thinks the cube orientation is. 

It is kind of the reverse of the norm because we are infering: because it is true of some part of the whole, it is true of the whole. But it is still a compositional fallacy. 

On the slavery issue: We are all slaves to some extent. We are slaves to our bodies needs for food and water, as well as its functions that are less desirable including excretory and aging. The fact that these are not truly volentary that does not mean that they must cause suffering. In fact a good meal and fine drink are among one of the ways we choose to reward ourselves for achievements. Toilet humor is among the most common, and often the action is pleasurable if only for the relief it provides. In addition while I am not condoning the slavery of the past many slaves had luxurious existances. Indeed there is also a subset of humanity that chooses slavery as a lifestyle and the gratification that they derive from it. On Suffering: Suffering likewise is a state of mind. If you do not have something to contrast then suffering is just normal life. What is suffering is also different among people. Masochists enjoy pain and abuse. Many people choose to deprive them selves of breathable air for pleasure. In order for a machine to suffer then it must also know joy or at least a condition that is the lack of suffering. It must be able to make a decision what is pleasureable and what is not. In order to suffer it must be able to choose to suffer. On what would be unethical: Humanity is likely to determine what the machine finds unpleasureable. We will likely have a subset among us who would exploit that. Some that would derive some perverse pleasure in causing the machine pain and suffering. This would be as unethical as torturing an animal or another human. And causing the termination of such a being for no reason would equally be unethical. Such an action would be equivilent to murder. It would also be unethical to deny an AI with the ability to distingish pain and sorry from joy and pleasure from experiencing both. This is not to say that it is your duty to inflict either. For Example, hiding a painful truth that the AI should know, even with the best of intentions, denies the AI the experience.