If you've automated yourself out of a job, your company needs to find more jobs for you to automate your way out of. 

I would say if you live in an area with lots of tech jobs and lots of recruiters, just stop answering your phone when this guy calls. The odds are when you do need a job again, he will still be plenty glad to talk to you. Or he won't be doing this anymore. But either way unless he's the only recruiter in the area don't worry about burning bridges. In my experience the only thing that would piss off a recruiter bad enough to not work with you is if they placed you in a position and you never show up so they never get their commission (thinking commission-based recruiters here, not flat-fee ones). 

Something to add: there's a local large tech company in my area where the employees have an old saying, "it's the best first and third job you'll ever have" Meaning: there's rules in place on how large your salary can be and how much you can be promoted to that apply to existing employees, but not necessarily to people hired from the outside. For example, you might make $50k and your manager wants to promote you to a position where you can make $100k. However, the company has a rule: no more than a 50% pay increase. Which means you can't be raised to more than $75k. Crestfallen, you take a different job outside the company that offers you, say, $85k which is still less than the $100k you should have been promoted to but better than the $75k you were actually promoted to. After a few years though your original manager approaches you and can now successfully offer you the $100k because now you're no longer a current employee and so he can give you what the position deserves. It may sound stupid, and in the short run it probably costs the company some good employees, but in the long run it saves money (which is good for the accountants, stock holders, etc.) It also has one added benefit: it helps curtail the notion that managers can give giant raises to people they like based on things other than skill. I once worked a job at a company that didn't have this rule and we got a new director of our division one day and he brought in his crew of fellow coworkers from his old division and gave them all management positions with enormous raises and bonuses, despite their complete lack of qualifications. You can probably guess what happened next. So anyway the bottom line is that yes this is a thing, yes it may be antiquated or not properly account for highly demanded talent or what not but thems the breaks. You have to decide if you like the job or money more. 

Acknowledge the problem, make him show his notes, force him to improve [Edit: Worked in some good advice from the comments.] The recommendation to post this over on workplace.se is not a bad one, but this political problem has such a strong UX leaning, it's unlikely that site will provide you with the specific advice you'll find most useful. I think it's possible to make life easier with this guy, but not before stepping up, taking on the responsibility of Team Lead, and confronting the problem head on. This suggestion isn't going to make the problem disappear, just make it more livable-with, initially reduce his input by making more work for him, and eventually increasing the chances that his input provides actual value. Engaging in some candid communication is often the best approach in these situations, but it's not an approach without risks. The main risk being that this guy turns out to be a real asshole, develops a nice big bruise on his ego, and decides to make things even worse out of spite. I would call this guy aside and tell him that: 

Ex-headhunter here. (Mainly tech industry roles, Director level and above) I think you may be giving this situation, and this firm, a little bit more respect than is deserved. Here's the context in which you are making this decision: To a recruitment firm, you're essentially a name in a database. If that name comes up in search as a potential candidate, you temporarily become an important asset, but only for as long as you remain in the running for a role. While it's unfair to paint all headhunters as ruthless mercenaries, as is often done, few of them have truly have your career development in mind. You could say that this firm has dropped the ball when it comes to your case. Letting you know the details of the role early on, and now giving you the runaround when it comes to maintaining contact. It should be in their best interest to "keep you warm", even if they are scrambling on their end to reorganize after the departure of your recruiter. How you proceed here, I think, depends on whether the position is posted publicly not. If it's an open posting, then screw the recruiters - you owe them nothing. The likelihood of repercussion is slim. Them missing out on the chance to present you to their client is their problem, not yours. If it's a closed position, it's slightly different situation. There are two main potential risks. 1) The person at the company that hired this recruitment firm (and possibly others) will be expecting applications through those channels, and you risk not getting your application on their desk. 2) You "step on someones toes" as you put it. This should only be a concern if you think this recruitment firm is going to play a big part in finding your next role, either this one or another. By going around them, there a small chance you'll make someone there look bad, or lose favor, and that may negatively impact your standing with them. If I was in your shoes I would do the following: If the position is posted publicly, stop losing time and apply for it now. If you can't find the position on the company's site or elsewhere, then write to the recruiters and say something along the lines of "It's been n been days/weeks since I heard anything from you, and I'm growing increasingly concerned that I'll miss out on this opportunity, so I'm going to move ahead with my application, thanks." If that doesn't motivate a reply, then you really have nothing to care about. Give them a couple of days. If you get nothing back, apply to company as best you can, and say something like "I was a candidate with X recruting firm, but some personnel issues there have lead to complications and hold ups, so I'm applying to you directly out of concern that I'll miss this opportunity". Bottom line: Take a note of the recruiters book and be a bit more ruthless about this. Remember that even if you step on toes, you're probably still going to get the call from them if you look like a perfect match for the next role they're trying to fill.