I would probably respond back with something along the lines of "I'm extraordinarily busy in my current position at the moment (we're in the middle of project X) so I'm unwilling to take time away unless I'm certain this is a great fit for both of us, especially considering the large travel distance. Can you take a few minutes to answer these questions? Alternately, would it be better to talk on the phone first?" They'll likely respond in one of three ways: 1) They'll answer the questions, and you go from there. 2) They'll ask you to come in again, and you respond back "I'm sorry, I won't be able to make it this Monday. We can try to schedule something a bit farther out", where you actually have no intention of rescheduling. If they're not bothering to answer the questions, you probably don't want to work there. 3) They'll ignore your response altogether. 

edit: I've decided that a summary/profile is better then? I want to get out of the gaming industry and move into something more low-key. Is this effective? How would you change it? Do I need to explain why I want to leave gaming? I have a Skills Summary just below this 'profile' section. 

I hate my current job so much that it makes me physically sick. I've been there 2.5 years and on top of harassment I'm just not learning or growing. I have to quit because it's affecting my whole life. It was my first job out of university. Anyways, the tricky part is that my husband and I want to relocate in about one year as we don't currently have the funds to do so. We want to move closer to family. We hate where we currently live and it's wearing on us both. He's made up his mind that we'll go in a year with no exceptions. I've had an interview and it looks promising. It's much higher pay and a better company. I could try to transfer once I'm in as they have a branch near where we want to move but that might not work out. How can I minimize the impact this would have on my future career prospects? It doesn't look like I'd get a good reference from either places with my situation. Perhaps as a software developer who hasn't committed to being an expert in anything yet this won't be such a hit? 

If her behavior is beginning to cause others to notice, then you probably need to take her aside and tell her something like: 

I would suggest that you ask, given that mandatory is a synonym for required, so it appears they've misunderstood one of the words. If you're worried about seeming like you're trying to get out of it, you could just be fairly light-hearted about it: 

You can control the requirements you're sending to the offshore team - it sounds like there are gaps in the requirements, so spend some extra time to ensure that the documentation is correct and there's nothing missing before you send it, so there are less opportunities for them to slack off. If necessary, break things down into smaller pieces and send documents more frequently. 

I currently work as a game programmer at a startup company in a big city. I took the job out of desperation. I really hate living in a big city and would like to live in a smaller community of 300k people or less. When you approach 1 million residents you get more jobs but it's not really suitable for raising a family or making close friends with ease. It's also impossible to buy a house. 100k and less and it's still quite a small town. I also hate commuting - it's very difficult to commute when you have small children at home. I also find the gaming industry to be too intense for me - I like to have days and periods of time where it's not as extreme and I'm not scrambling to get things done all the time. Which kind of development would you suggest for my preferences? When I look there are jobs in the smaller communities but are they also going to be as picky because they have less people to chose from? Would you suggest just scoping out places that are more suitable for living and then check what the companies are doing there? Does anyone have experience with my situation? I don't necessarily want to stay in game development either. I have only been out of university for 2 years so I'm pretty green. 

Based on your comment, I feel like your real question is "what do I do about Jennifer?" Being honest with her is your best bet. If your only options are "promote her into a position that's not necessarily best for the rest of the group" or "she leaves for a different company", you may need to take that chance because as it stands, I'm unsure that you'd want to promote someone whose actions are "repulsive to other members of the group" and who "openly questions and mildly quarrels with" the person who'd be her boss. On the other hand, if she's got the technical know-how, a greater desire for the job than others, and if she could get along better with her coworkers and the Master Chief, then she could be a great fit. You need to sit her down and be straightforward with her. 

With that said, it may be legal in your area for the employer to monitor you without telling you ahead of time, so there may be no way to know. You probably want to consult a lawyer in your area to see if that is the case. How should adjust my behavior? You should be safe if you always follow your company's guidelines. If your company allows you to use their computers for personal business during lunch or after your work is done, then feel free to do so. If your company says that work computers are only for work-related activities and cannot be used for any non-work stuff, then follow that and do your personal activities on your personal computer at home. If you are not sure what your company's policy is or if your planned usage meets that policy, ask your supervisor or ask HR. If there are no company guidelines, the safest approach would be to only do work-related activities on the work computer so that if the issue comes up later on, you can defend your usage by explaining how those activities are reasonably related to the business. For example, I was asked why I was trying to visit some blogging site at such and such a time. I explained that I was googling an obscure error message while debugging an issue, and most of the google results linked back to a blog post of someone that had gone through the same issue and written up how they had solved the issue. They looked at the site in question, saw that it was what I described, and that was the end of it. Had I not had a valid business reason for trying to visit that site, I imagine that it would have been a bigger issue. Even if your company does not use any sort of employee monitoring software, there are other ways that the company could find out if an employee has been doing something not related to work on a work computer: 

The common response I hear is similar to yours ("be vague; don't give them something to write down later in case you apply with them in the future"), but I see a benefit (to the company) to telling them "I'm sorry, but your offer is below market rate for my services, so I'm unable to accept it". If the company gets enough similar responses, it could give them the bargaining power to go to the higher-ups and say "we're getting a lot of push-back on this offer, saying it's too low. We need to reconsider improving it, or at least opening negotiations if it's the right person". (The fact that it's a pay cut opens that door to a slightly different answer as well - "I'm sorry, but your offer would be a pay cut for me, and I'm not in a position to accept that." The effect is the same ("we need to offer more money to attract the right candidate"), but it's even more understandable - "this person's not even necessarily looking for a pay increase, just to not have a pay decrease".) However, as you say, there's the risk of upsetting them if they're not happy to hear what you have to say. In the end, the answer is up to you - if you don't feel like risking it, there's nothing wrong with giving them the polite answer. (Considering you've discussed the benefits and salary enough that they told you "HR tied our hands", they'll probably at least infer that that's part of the reason, even if you don't mention it.) 

too many meetings like 5 hrs a week are getting in the way of me doing much new to ReactJS and the concept of it colleagues and boss didn't provide much guidance or anything about what is expected of me and where everything is the code base is a complete mess that requires a lot of re-factoring and I feel uncomfortable doing this/takes a long time as I am new to ReactJS because my tasks take a while to do because I'm new to the job and no expectations for speed were communicated to me I feel very uncomfortable the lead developer is kind of rude and curt sometimes 

Forwarding Forwarding the relevant emails, as you mentioned, is another solution. The only major difference between a BCC and a forward (aside from icons in your mailbox client and the like) is that a BCC is the exact email that you sent, whereas a forward allows you to edit the forwarded message before sending to the other party. Again, this may be a benefit or a drawback, depending on your needs. Talk to the Manager As with most things involving human behavior, there is also a non-technical solution which may get you better results: ask your manager how you should keep the other relevant parties informed. As you mentioned, your manager is looking at external reasons that you are unaware of. It may be office politics or there might be some sort of larger email policy at play. Talk to your manager about what you are trying to accomplish and why and the two of you should be able to reach a mutual solution. You can always print/make local copies of the emails (or your manager's response to those emails) if you need proof that you told your manager about X. 

I feel very stressed out and under a lot of pressure. What could I do to improve the situation? I would like to feel more competent and comfortable in the new technology. 

The software company I work for often hires junior developers when there is a lot if testing to be done and there is time/room for them to get up to speed. however the senior developers get extremely irritated when asked 'easy' questions that might be googled. Well not everyone wants to use google as their main source. They are horrified that the juniors didn't learn it in school but it wasn't a job requirement and the juniors didn't put it on their resume so I feel like they don't have the right to get so angry. They even expressed their disgust and annoyance in the team meeting. I find this behaviour to be horrid. How would you deal with it?