Clients are still people. They will either understand or empathize with the fact you had a family emergency (after you've explained the situation, apologized and made it clear that "Yes, I'd still like to do business after this mishap"), or they will for some reason be incapable of handling your humanity. Ask yourself, in the latter case do you still want to be working with such a person, anyways? The way you'll rectify your perceived situation is by being professional. The only way you could screw up now is by being bad at your job. 

Your cover letter should convey at least three points: Why you are interested in the position, why the employer should be interested in you, and a good method of contact for you. So start by identifying the position, how it fits your career objective, how you heard about it, and why that particular position interests you. Then flesh out a couple paragraphs that draw attention to your resume, your qualifications. By no means rehash what's in the resume, think of this section as an opportunity to show how your skills and experience make you a good fit. Make sure you prospective employer knows that you understand the position, and that in the position you can churn out results! Make sure you close your cover letter by putting together a workflow for getting in contact with you, even directly requesting an interview. Make sure you sign it, make sure you personalize it for your position/employer, limit things to one page business format, and basically just remember to draw attention to yourself as a prospective employee! Some online tutorials and sample cover letter are helpful to sift through, find a format that's minimal, elegant and professional. 

As a valid query, I would tell the employee in question that you need a detailed account of why action B was done instead of action A because there are implications for SOP that may result in revision of protocols. Mainly so that negative consequences don't happen again in your department. 

I don't think we'll ever get enough information to stay objective here. OP has already perceived whatever happened as some kind of slight and that's fundamentally changed what the manager said, his tone and his demeanor. However, consider the following: you are the new person (<= 5 months). I'm going to let that preface the conversation here. Now, what if the manager leading the meeting: 1) Asked you to get the door out in the hallway. Someone is knocking or has rang the doorbell and reception is unavailable. 2) Asked you to go complete some other task, as the part of the meeting you're needed on is over. Those are just two cases where it might be a little awkward, but nothing so different from being asked to grab everyone some drinks. Especially in a meeting with nothing but managers. Who is whose secretary? The person leading the meeting has but two options: task someone below them or do it themselves. I think the major misstep here is letting your ego get in the way. So many office conflicts have nothing to do with anything but egos clashing. It's important to apologize because I see that the manager in question didn't make it about gender, and frankly if a subordinate told me "I'm not your secretary," well, subordinates don't typically have that relationship with their superiors. 

First, just email the recruiter or if they provided a phone number in their email sig, correspondence, etc. Tell them you weren't sent a description for the job and you require this. God forbid you're phone interviewing for not just a mystery job but one that you absolutely don't want. Basically, the hierarchy of contact is you > recruiter > company, so in any case the recruiter is point of contact #1, 2 and 3. If for some reason the recruiter is virtually unreachable, absolutely let the company know you need this info too. Just beware of closed customer service or slow response times and such on off-hours. As a side note, you can always try to find the job in the company's careers webpage, but from experience they're often unlisted positions that're being recruited. TL;DR Just contact the recruiter and say you need a description of the job. 

As a recent graduate, I can soundly confirm that doing something for 5 years doesn't make you proficient at it. Was he lying? Probably not. He probably has 5 years experience working with a technology in a manner that didn't make him an expert with it. We get it, the job market is tough and having documented exposure makes you a stronger candidate. The fact he was able to stumble through a demo better than everyone else means he's probably also more trainable, and also the best bet out of a pool of candidates singing the same song. If his experience isn't on-par with the company's expectation you have one option given you already offered him employment: train him and then put the training to the test. If he wants the job bad enough his 6mo probation serve as the make or break period. In the future you need to address the problem ahead of time: the guy stumbles through a technical demo: why? Ask him exactly what his experience was for 5yrs using [insert method] and you'll probably go "Aha!" as to why. e.g. 5yr experience in an analytical lab that uses gas chromatography. You worked in QC microbiology and occasionaly operated the GC to support operations, but never analysed the data. You write on your resume that you have 5yr experience in GC instrumentation, then, but in an interview question about analysing GC data you flounder, raising a red flag. Or even vice versa, you analysed the data but never operated the machine, still a red flag if it comes up. You can easily be trained either way, however, but most interviewers will never ask your exact experience unless you tell them. 

TL;DR Stay professional, administration/management must handle the abusive colleagues, there's no situation where you should handle them. Have detailed documentation of everything. Preface: IMO you would benefit from finding employment elsewhere greatly, however, I understand the hesitation to leave a company you've been with for a long time. The following advice is if you 100% intend to commit to resolve the issue internally. And remember: Always have an offer for another job before you leave your current job. I want to take a moment to point out that companies worth their salt do everything in their power exactly to avoid these sorts of conflicts of interest. I haven't applied to a company that didn't ask me: "Do you have any family members working at [the Company] and in which departments, or otherwise is there anyone you share a relationship with who currently works here, period?" These create conflicts of interest, and as you can see, the conflict here actually extends bottom-up quite a ways! I'm already pegging this workplace as largely unprofessional on these merits, and the resolution should obviously now come top-down from your managing director. Regardless of the relationship he has with his HR manager, the fact stands that no one want to get sued on the basis of bullying, possible discrimination, and obvious COIs put the employer at a disadvantage IMO. I'm not a lawyer but with the right kind of documentation and appropriate escalations, if your company simply does nothing they could be liable for some level of penalty. Now if I establish your company is to some level unprofessional, I'm not going to go and say you're unprofessional, so what you want to do first is go directly to your manager, the HR manager, and make a formal complaint. You have documentation, he himself is a witness, but perhaps he doesn't know how you feel. Make sure he knows that regardless of relative status or not, it isn't okay for them to treat you that way. He should resolve the issue himself. If he doesn't and the bullying continues after some time: you have documented that you're being harassed (I'm phrasing it this way because do it), you made a formal complaint to HR, you gave him reasonable time to resolve the claim, and nothing was done (or his relatives just ignored him). Make a second complaint, direct it to your manager, and CC the managing director. Include your documentation, and the fact that the harassment has not ceased, and that there must be a resolution. This will involve the managing director in the process, and he'll know that his involvement is contingent on a continuing issue. Don't threaten legal action until you've consulted a lawyer and been assured you have a case. However, if the abuse is physical and you've been assaulted, as noted in the comments you absolutely need to report the assault to the authorities (police). 

It's good to have in place some system of document control with active SOP enforcement. Ideally, you as the originator would put together a document for your process that anyone with some experience with the system could follow and get to the same endpoint. Then you'd have it reviewed by a direct supervisor, have QC/QA sign off on that and get it filed somewhere accessible. The other requirement, and most people miss this, is you need to train personnel on SOPs and have them sign off that they understand the document. Typically, you include a statement of scope: where does the SOP apply and to whom? That way it's understood that work on project X is, in part, governed by the methods outlined in SOP-ABC-xyz. From there on the SOP is enforced by management, and instead of emailing you or searching around to piece together the required know-how, all I have to do is go find the PDF (no questions asked). The primary issues are poorly written and/or unenforced SOPs, and my favorite: the documents exist but no one knows where. It's not a process to start alone, so I highly recommend getting a manager involved! 

1) Make sure your department sanctions and issues training sessions to the required staff members that go over information security best practices, and what your company expects at the level of their own policies. Also be explicit that the policies are enforced. Just because employees know best practices and have never had an incident, doesn't mean they simply don't do the wrong thing sometimes. Offer a mandatory annual refresher for those who've had the full session once. 2) Don't tiptoe around potential faults. The sad reality is in big, multinational corporations where everything is "professional," some of the nastiest confrontations will come out of you trying to do your job. Financial compliance comes to mind: Everyone has to do it, but if you get on an advisor's case about not doing it, you end up on the crappy end of the phone call. It's not about pointing fingers, it's about avoiding federal fines, lawsuits, and job-ending losses. To-date, I have not found a way to instill this understanding. The other issue I find is the more terse in your correspondence, the more likely others are to take it as an attack. An example conversation: "Stop doing that, because it will cause X and Y will happen, Thank you," or "Please file your X, it is past due," etc. I find that more often than not this leads to accusations against you that you're being accusational. You can try to pad your talks with hedges, but I'll probably never understand why you'd have to do this in the first place. My suspicion is that people who are more prone to perceiving slights or accusations will do so regardless of intention. 

Same position w/ the same exact duties, different department. Is there any adverse effect to applying for both concurrently? 

This is pretty normal, at least in my experience in US companies. Often times the company needs to protect its intellectual property and/or shareholder value by disallowing public disclosure of unpublished information, disparaging comments or even employee titles and contact information. Quite literally, Confidentiality and Non-Disparagement clauses. Not only will you see such clauses in your typical NDA, but in the event of termination or release these will be re-enforced, potentially as part of a separate severance or release agreement (which also typically makes it so you cant poach employees, sue for wrongful termination, or sometimes contains a non-compete clause). As an aside, it's important for employees in such companies looking to protect their IP to contain themselves anyways. US IP law works something like this: if you accidentally make a claim public knowledge, it makes whatever it is harder to patent, because the claim is no longer proprietary. All the company can do is sue you, and thus such slips can cause large monetary damage. Disparaging comments can also lead to PR nightmares that lose shareholder value or investors. So these contracts will look quite severe. As always, though, have a lawyer review contracts you're uncomfortable with. 

If you earned a certificate you want to report, add them to certifications. Basically you need to decide on whether its worthwhile to let readers know whether you simply received a certificate, or that you took specific courses. By listing them in education, as you have freedom to do this, you can also add in description what you did in the program to add to your qualification. I think that for LinkedIn people are taking rather nontraditional routes to get their credentials out there. 

Federal wage laws state plainly that you must be paid your agreed upon salary for all time worked unless otherwise noted, and we'll get to your specific exception below. You make this claim, and I just want to make sure first: "Rather than choosing to not pay employees on the scheduled outage days, they have are deducting a small amount from every paycheck throughout the year that will total 5-days-worth of no hours worked." Is this something you agreed to in writing with your employer or did they simply enforce these deductions independently? The reason for this question, and I'll quickly direct you to this CA excerpt on deductions, there are only so many lawful methods of wage garnishment or deduction an employer can make. I'll then direct you to this piece from 2009 about furlough, and the co-extensiveness of CA and federal wage law. Since you're a salaried employee, the worry here would be losing that exempt status, you want to read through 7 most importantly: 

I think there's some perception of immunity. They can obviously do whatever they want in unison and receive little or no backlash, that's at the heart of things here. If they all up and leave the company goes up in flames, they're that important. At least they think they are. But I don't think making it about punishing people is the right way to go when you're the new brass. There are some do's and dont's here, for me: 

You may find that it's difficult to present a case against your CEO other than "I object to this action, please don't do it again." At that, his response was "my way, no highway option," and so depending on this outlook you may want to consider how much you value your job at this start-up. At your own peril, you can also respond to your own emails to these recipients and state that you were not the one involved. This would be a much different situation if it were your personal email, but at this point the CEO can just as well claim he was simply sending business correspondence mail as it's his company, and his rules.