Practice : Meditation using breath I'm practicing sitting meditation using breath according to Thai Forest Tradition method. Mentally reciting of "Buddho" . I practice at home so would like to get help based on my experience so far I noticed my breath getting shorter and sometimes period of no breath or "nano/very short" size of breath . When it is a series of "nano/very short" size of breath , mostly what I experience is "waiting" for next "in" breath ? Is this right or where should I concentrate during such occasions ? 

I mostly practice "daily life" meditation and I found this specific question very important ( I have got some illnesses due to this too) I get intention to eat when I see "sweets" even I'm not hungry . Also eat more if it is a food I really "like" . So I use mental notes "Craving , Craving " and "liking , liking " respectively . Sometimes it passes away . But mostly it moves to " intending , intending " and then "eating" steps. "Suppressing" works temporally but I know this is not the purpose of meditation. I always try my best to follow below instructions, 

Practice Ven . Mahasi Sayadaw tradition I spend most of my unproductive time (traveling , when nothing special to do ) on reading Dhamma books using my iPhone. These moments are not appropriate for sitting or walking meditation , so I follow "daily life" instructions can be found here $URL$ But when I try to make a clear thought "reading" while reading I find it interfere with reading . How should I use clear thoughts to be mindful when reading ? 

Practice - Mindfulness of body When I move attention part by part in the body I don't feel sensations in every part . Is this right ? Or should I feel sensations in all body parts ? Sometimes I do quick sweep of attention from head to feet . I do this at any moment during the day when I remember to be aware of my body . Would this be helpful for practicing mindfulness of body ? Or is there any better way of doing this ? 

The life current is extremely strong, if I consciously bring my attention to a single breath, a single movement of my abdomen, a single moment of my weight or sensation of my sitting bones during daily life, would it still be beneficial to my inner transformation? Or is it long hours of (15min plus) sitting meditation, body scanning is only counted? 

And I found "- When you are aware of the taste, knowing" is extremely momentary compare to other steps (relatively longer when having a beverage like coffee or soft drink) . Sometimes I miss that step completely . How should I handle "intention"(cetanaha) of eating without "suppressing"? 

In five aggregates I'm bit confused when it says Perception and Consciousness are temporary . I can see form , feelings and formations are temporary by practice. Could someone provide me some more context to see this in practice ? 

Is there a version of Satipatthana Sutta in English AUDIO . I have got the pali version but I do not understand the full meaning when I listen to it.The idea is to listen every day when I go to work and come home after work. 

I'm looking for an accurate translation of "Satipatthana Sutta". Could someone let me know what is the best available accurate translation? I don't want to be confused by just reading all available versions. Thank you 

Practice : Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw Is there any "Gatha" (Verse) can be used to contemplate on "Death"? The purpose is to use as an aid to generate necessary energy to continue practice [mostly as the first thing in the morning] 

Now I want to be aware about myself while being absorbed in reading or be aware about the reader while reading Could anyone provide me a guide to proceed to that ? 

I want to know how can I develop patience. What Buddha said on this? And also what is the reason of being impatient? 

So, Gautam Buddha talked about the permanent, blissful self. But with this sayings Bhikkus became astonished as earlier they were taught the doctrine of non self. It goes like this. 

I want details of following quote by Gautam Buddha. Can anyone tell where (reference) & what completely he said? 

Non Abrahmic religions like Jainism, Buddhism, Hinduism & Sikhism believe in Karma theory & rebirth. I'm interested in knowing the proofs of Karma theory & rebirth presented by Buddhism. 

Yes, the blessed one Gautam Buddha talked about permanent self repeatedly as per the story goes like this in the Chapter 3 here. ( I recommend to read the complete chapter. ). 

I am an old student of S.N. Goenka Vipassana treat. I want to know whether Vipassana alone is sufficient to achieve Nirvana or not? Did Siddhartha Gautam became Buddha using Vipassana alone? Or If he employed some other techniques what were those? 

Being believer or dependent on God so far in my life, I'm clueless how exactly can I become independent without turning morally Bankrupt? Being devotee I'm automatically moral & lovingly but When I start believing in experience I become somewhat immoral, without any good feelings. How & Why to be moral without believing in supernatural entity like God? What are the ways to become independent because I want to be moral without being devotee or dependency on the God? 

But I'm unable to intuitively understand the meaning of Svalakshanam & savikalpaka jnana clearly. Can anyone help? 

Note that the journey is always like this. Enjoyer (Object) { Worldly people } -> Knower (Subject) { Meditators } -> Neither Enjoyer nor Knower ( neither subject nor object) { Enlightened being}. 

I was thinking to read this big text because the chapter claims to be the teachings of Gautam Buddha while departure from the Earth. Before buying I wanted to be sure whether the text is authentic or not & actually contains last teachings of Gautam Buddha or not. Can anyone shed light on the authenticity of the text Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra? 

I am in very dilemma- When I am inactive or lazy I meditate well, read good religious books etc. But whenever I come into action like studies or useful work I become very material & also get desires to earn a lot of money, respect or other material desires by which I stop doing meditate & completely become indulgent. Can anyone tell me the way to be active & meditator simultaneously. In this current globalized & dynamic world it is huge requirement to be active but that activity makes me material & forget to work for this birth to cross Sansara or Dukkha. So how can I be active & aspirant to dissolve Dukkha/future births simultaneously? 

The moment we talk about awareness, we must know we need to transit from being enjoyer (Object) to being knower (Subject). Insight won't help unless we are knower. Meditating being enjoyer won't work. From my own experiences, I will suggest these. 

Translator information: Translated into English by Kosho Yamamoto, 1973 from Dharmakshema's Chinese version. (Taisho Tripitaka Vol. 12, No. 374) 

There is an entity called Rohit (knowing subject) who has his own liking, disliking, habits etc. Or maybe these liking, disliking, habits etc make up the entity called Rohit. By constant awareness of self identification ( and eliminating things which I'm not) , I have started losing I-ness. It is difficult to explain in entirety but it is like death of the entity. Although this death of the entity giving a sense of peace and thoughtlessness, but it has started giving fears also. Fear of losing self - all liking, disliking etc along with social associations. It's kind of void & nihilism. It's like vanishing of selfhood & my own existence. So, my question is what should I do in this situation? Why it is happening? Should I go ahead against fears & continue my endeavor of non identification or I should step back (stopping the meditation & start identification again)? Or If I continue in unbecoming, what are the suggestions would you give? Note: I'm aware of paradoxes I used while posting details, ignore them as there is no any way to ask other than using 'I' wherever required.