Legal definition changed over time, but in practice the situation was perfectly defined by Constitution of USSR (1936), Article 6: "Land, its interior, waters, forests [...] and buildings are property of the state". (Note that USSR had not concept of real estate as a single entity - land, buildings on it and its natural resources were all separate legal entities) In fact, USSR law only had two types of property defined: socialistic (i.e state property) and cooperative (i.e. owned by a kolkhoz, for example). And since cooperative property was effectively a property of a government organization, they were in practice mostly treated as one and the same. Thus, anyone owning land and/or buildings in USSR had it confiscated - simple as that. It didn't happen at once, though, but the main point relevant to the question was August 20, 1918, when a Decree of VTsIK (which is surprisingly hard to find in English, so here's a Russian version) stated that in the cities with population over 10000 all real estate was transferred to state and its usage was to be regulated by municipal government. For example, in Moscow if a residential building housed less than standard (~9m2 per resident) it was to be converted to communal apartment - in this case previous residents still lived there, but had less living space. This gradual removal of personal property continued for quite a long time, and was only set in stone in 1936 Constitution of USSR, and after that any and all land and buildings were owned only by the state until 1988, when it was allowed to sell apartments and houses to citizens, although only one real estate item could be sold to a family, and it had to be either the one they are currently residing in, or a newly-built apartment or house. This situation remained until dissolution of USSR, and by then only 0.09% of residences in USSR were privately-owned. 

"I-ТЭ № 681711" includes also the issue series ID - the "I-TЭ" part (which in this case consists of a roman numeral from I to XXXIII and the issue region code (two cyrillic letters), by the way, so it is not "I-T3"). This way, while a single series can't have more than 1 million passports, you can have multiple series, which gives us 33 million passports per region (in 1939 USSR consisted of 138 regions). This ID number is unique only to the document, not to its holder! When the passport is reissued, one is required to register the new ID with all relevant institutions. 

As with many Soviet activists who did not get to publish their memoirs, early life of Pavel Mif (real name - Mikhail Alexandrovich Fortus) is a mystery. The only thing that is known for sure - he was born in 1901 in Bolshaya Alekseevka village of the Kherson Governorate of Russian Empire. His surname indicates that he might be a Jew, but that's not certain. Data on his biography is better available from his adulthood, starting with 1920, when he enrolled in Sverdlov Communist institute. For example, there's this article from 1972 in Russian, that deals with his work as a sinologist and a Comintern member. It points to Mif's critique of Mao and his faction as a reason for a negative opinion on Mif in China, but it might be biased against China in general, as it was written at the height of Sino-Soviet split. 

You found your answer already - after the January Uprising, the Congress Poland was stripped of any remaining autonomy and incorporated into Russian Empire. The process started in 1832 after the defeat of November Uprising, and after the January Uprising was crushed, Kingdom of Poland was transformed into a namestnichestvo (a type of region ruled by governor-general) named Privislinsky krai or Vistula Land. 

It is a Portate Cross, also called cross of St. Gilbert. There were some pages which stated that "portate" derives from Latin "portare" (carry), and that it symbolizes the cross Christ carried, but I found no reliable source to support it. 

Xenophon in his Hellenica (an account of the last yearsof the Peloponessian War and its aftermath) mentions several named ships, for example, "Paralus" and "Salaminia". Thus, we can infer that at least some of Greek ships were named in IV century BC, and maybe earlier. Also, Homer in his Iliad, which is dated to 8th century BC, does not give any names for any of numerous Achaean ships - that might be just a coincidence, but also may point to the tradition of giving ships names emerging later. As for the Romans - again, this is circumstantial evidence, but Aeneas ships' in the "Aeneid" all have names, so we can argue that by 20 BC Roman ships at least sometimes were given names. 

Not quite. Indeed, in transcript of interrogation of Bukharin there is a phrase "There is no point in making a pious face, accused Bukharin. Better admit what exists" (pretty accurate translation from Russian), addressed to the accused, but context matters. This is not the first day of the trial, and previous day begins with Bukharin pleading guilty to several charges, including participation in secret organisation designed to overthrow Soviet government and partition USSR. At the end of the transcript from the March 6th, the following exchange appears (translation mine, sorry for any possible inaccuracies): 

After that, Bukharin again denies his involvement, and gets that phrase in response. Sources: Сталин И.В. Cочинения, Т. 16, М.: Издательство “Писатель”, 1997. С. 327–353 (Приложение XVI) (Interrogation of accused Bukharin, sessions on 6-7 March, Russian version) Moscow Trials. The Case of Bukharin. Interrogation of accused Bukharin - Morning Session March 7 (thanks to sempaiscuba for finding this one), and Moscow Trials. The Case of Bukharin. Interrogation of accused Bukharin - Evening Session March 5. Source: “The Case of the Anti-Soviet Block of Rights and Trotskyites”, Red Star Press, 1973, page 369-439, 767-779; First published in English: “The Case of the Anti-Soviet Block of Rights and Trotskyites”, People’s Commisariat of Justice of the U.S.S.R., 1938; Online Version: Marxists Internet Archive (marxists.org) 2001; 

While Romans seem quite advanced to us in many fields, especially compared to the Middle Ages, thy still were a culture of antiquity. Ancient cultures, particularly Greece and Rome, viewed mental ilnesses either as a symptom of a physical illness (medical approach, inherited from Greek philosophers), or as a punishment from the gods (traditional approach, which prevailed with coming of christianity). If the patient was treated by an adherent of medical approach, he would be treated as physically ill - which meant bloodletting, emetics and purging, just as any other illness would be treated. In religious approach, no action would be required - the patient would be cured when gods forgave him. As no approach saw mentally ill as something different from norm, neither approach required any special words to be devised to designate mentally ill. Note that progress does not imply a uniform advancement - while Romans were ahead of their time in areas like architecture and military science, they still were quite level with their neighbors in other fields, like medicine and seafaring, and for the whole existence of Roman Empire, not much changed in medical treatment since the time of Hippocrates. Source 

Source And there you have it - the classical example of an experimentator versus a theorist, a natural scientist versus a philosopher. 

As far as I know, solid evidence of programs dedicated specifically to dissemination of false information in Soviet Union and Soviet-aligned countries is rare. As an example, there's this piece by Reuters regarding CIA false news campaigns. But there is quite a bit of evidence on COINTELPRO operations conducted by FBI against targets (not only communist activists and organisations, but also many other groups and persons deemed subversive, for example, the New Left movement and Ku-Klux-Klan) within the USA, which, amongst other methods, employed forgery and leaking fake accounts to the media. These operations were brought to light during the Church Committee investigation (the committee's final report). The FBI claims that it no longer undertakes COINTELPRO or COINTELPRO-like operations, although apparently that claim was challenged several times since (no information on any evidence presented, though). 

You have the difference in the last bullet points of your two lists. Galileo was an experimental scientist, engineer first - math for him was the most comfortable tool to describe the nature's phenomena he studied. From his works, it seems that "why" was less important than "how" for him. Also, note that Galileo's mathematical methods were not very different from the ones used by his peers. Descartes' position, on the other hand, is better captured in his Wax Argument. The experimental results for him are secondary - the thing that captures the nature of the phenomena is the mind. His focus was on philosophy, not on natural science - and success in applying his works in natural sciences only reaffirmed this focus: 

Chapter 6 of the book "Transnational Soldiers. Foreign Military Enlistment in the Modern Era" (the chapter can be found here, although paywalled) deals with recruitment policies of the French Foreign Legion in 1831-1962. According to it, during that period, while official policy was that any foreign national can join, and due to "anonymat" even French sitizens joined quite often, but in practice recruitment, save for some rare exceptions, was restricted to European nations, and sometimes even some of those were excluded, but this were mostly due to political and ideological considerations, not racism. For example, Algerians were not accepted into Legion because for most of its history Legion was tasked with control of Algeria, and locals were thought to be unreliable when deployed against their compatriots; recruitment of Jews in 1940 was discouraged because of rising antisemitic sentiments in French North African colonies due to influx of Jewish refugees; Russian recruits were declined in the end of WW2 out of fear of Communist infiltration, and so on. But by 1960s French colonies were largely decolonised, and recruitment policy in practice became closer to official guidelines. In 1950, by the end of French involvement in Vietnam, French Legion began recruiting Asian troops as well (although recruits from Indochina were given different headgear), and after 1962, recruitment standarts became the same as modern ones - anyone who can get to Legion recruitment offices can join. Of course, that involves getting into France first, and that itself introduces a bit of bias towards Europeans (or at least towards sitizens of Schengen states). Of course, recruitment policy does not indicate that there were no racial tensions within the ranks - in fact, Asian recruits in 1960s being given different uniform points to some degree of segregation. Some writers (this one, for example) argue that the Legion was heavily entrenched in the ideas of white superiority (unsurprising, given that the Legion was mostly German during the inter-war period). Thus, I would conclude that while it was theoretically possible for an non-European to enlist in 1930, it wasn't likely he would feel himself welcome there, and there was no significant percentage of non-European troops in French Foreign Legion in the first half of XX century. 

Ataturk was not the architect of this exchange. The idea of protecting minorities in former Ottoman Empire came from the western Allies - according to the wiki article on the Lausanne Conference, second-priority goals of Britain included "measures for the protection of the minorities in Turkey". Moreover, the article you linked names Fridjof Nansen, high commissioner for refugees of the League of Nations, as the architect of the exchange. On the other hand, for Turks this matter was not a priority - in fact, Turkish diplomats used acceptance of this point as a leverage to gain leeway in other cases (this article cites İsmet Pasha answering to Lord Curzon's accusation of trying to break down the discussion:"If there is a threat in these words, and if Turkey wanted to be held responsible for this cessation, then this matter should not be handled as such. Because we had already agreed upon the rights of minorities before Lord Curzon brought it forward. In any way, the Turkish delegation did not raise difficulties. So, despite this, if the minority problem wanted to be still used as a pretext, then when the truth is revealed, it would not only be the voice of Ankara who will be in favour of us, as Lord Curzon had guessed."). Thus, design of the transfer was left mostly on Nansen's hands. And whatinstruments could be used to that end? In 1923 Ataturk's government was just consolidating its power - secularisation would come only the next year. So, most Ottoman legal framework was still in place, and one part of it was the millet system - the closest thing to national politics the Ottomans had. So it was used as the basis for the transfer. 

An important point for the answer to this question - the entity governing the Russian America was the Russian American Company (RAC), not the actual government structures of Russian Empire. The act legalising distinction of creoles from Russians was passed in 1821, and the aim of that act was to increase the population of lands controlled by RAC - Russian workers had to return to Russia when their passports ran out, but their children (according to this act) had to work for the Company for at least 10 years before gaining freedom of movement. In exchange, they were given several privileges. The RAC effectvely was a "state-within-a-state" with only three "estates" - the workers, the creoles, and the aleutes. These estates were simply social constructs - there are records of aleutes being recategorized as creoles and creoles becoming common Russian sitizens due to promotion within the Company. But this estate structure was limited strictly to territories under RAC control and had no relation to official national politics of Russian Empire. In Russia proper, on the other hand, children of mixed marriages had nationality of the father, and their mixedness had no effect on their rights whatsoever. Nationality in imperial law mattered little - the only distinction was made between normal sitizens and "inorodtsy" (note that usage of this word was different in legalese and in common speech: former only applied this term to several explicitly named peoples, but in latter it meant "anyone who isn't Russian") - peoples who needed special arrangements for their traditional way of life, like steppe nomads: they were given special lands protected from settlement by other peoples and some self-rule by their traditional leaders, but also paid some taxes not levied from common citizens, for example. Non-Russians not classified as "inorodtsy" (and not a part of a group regulated by other special legislation, like Jews), like Germans, Lithuanians and other European nations, had the same legal standing as Russians. Sources: 1) Тихменев П. А. "Историческое обозрение образования Российско-Американской компании и действий ее до настоящего времени"// Москва, Рипол Классик, 2014 2) Николай Вахтин, Евгений Головко, Петер Швайтцер "Русские старожилы Сибири: Социальные и символические аспекты самосознания"// Москва, Новое издательство, 2004 

This document from 1926 indeed mentions the gold embargo as detrimental to Soviet-British trade, thus the embargo did exist, at least for some states. On the other hand, it also mentions that in the years its authors investigated (1917 -1925) Britain imported over 6 million pounds of gold and silver from USSR (while exporting about 7 million), so we can safely assume that by 1925 the embargo was nonexistant. But by 1928 the gold reserve of USSR was at a historical low - while the exact amount was undisclosed, it is estimated that in 1918 it amounted to ~1000 tons of gold, and by 1928 it was down to ~150 tons. Stalin's government took radical steps towards increasing the production, started actively confiscating gold and foreign currency, and cut down on imports (until 1941 Stalin was very reluctant to spend any gold from the reserves at all), but the reserve only started growing again around 1934 - for example in 1932 Soviet mining efforts yielded only 32 tons of gold. (Source: Л.В. Сапоговская, "Золотопромышленность Республики Советов - СССР - РФ: эволюция отрасли в альтернативных системах хозяйствования", "Экономическая история. Ежегодник. 2003" (М.: РОССПЭН, 2004. С. 266-308)) So, while USSR was not prohibited to export gold, there was not much of it that it actually could or wanted to sell, and while grain was not the only export, it was the main source of income in Soviet international trade.