I found this article particularly enlightening. The short takeaway is that balance is the most important thing (before direction) Keep going until the balance is good and everything else will follow. My wife and I are discussing at the moment the best time to get our kids onto balance bikes. 

I use a roll up suit bag daily between 10 and 30km each way. It also has space for shoes and lunch. I'm a strong supporter of backpack configurations because you can ride, run, etc with the same system. Important parameters are light weight, waterproof and comfortable. I leave a nice suit and shoes at work for the odd occasions when it's called for, otherwise pants and shirt are commuted in. Like traveling, remember never put a freshly ironed shirt in a suit bag, it will come out more creased than pre-iron! I bought a bag from $URL$ after seeing one at some markets and haven't looked back... 

I’d say it’s totally okay if the road is not closed for the event and still open for cars and other vehicles. 

Is the question about non-stop cycling or just riding over several days or weeks? For non-stop cycling it’s less about starvation and more about the maximum power you can get from burning body fat. For the Race Across America the record (without any food restrictions) is 27km/h average over 4860km in 7d 16h. Since stopping and sleeping is allowed (though discouraged) on the RAAM I searched for longest time spent cycling non-stop. A record I could find was George Hood who spent about 178 hours over eight days riding a spinning bike. They state a distance of 2,016 miles (3,244.438km) though I don’t know what kind of conversion factor they use (since you obviously don’t move while riding a stationary bike the only meaningful number would be average power or total energy output). If we just trust that number we get an average speed of 18.2km/h which is really slow for road biking on flat terrain. I don’t know what the limiting factor for such extremly long distances is, but at such relatively low speeds it should be possible to depend on fat alone without slowing down much. There are endurance athletes who deliberately stay on a low-carbohydrate diet to force their bodies into Ketosis while still training many kilometers per week. Thus I doubt that food makes much difference for low-intensity, very long distance bicycling. For bicycling until starvation the limiting factor is available body fat. With 400km per day you’d need about 8000kcal (assuming 16h of bicycling at 25km/h with 400kcal per hour (-> 6400kcal) and 1600kcal basic requirement) per day. Which is 888.9g of fat per day. Thus with 20kg of fat you could go for 22.5 days yielding 9000km. 

It's possible that during cleaning a grain of sand, for example, has become stuck in the chain causing a stiff link which does not travel cleanly over the cogs. Cleaning chains and cogs often involves a significant amount of moving dirt around before extracting it. A simple test for this is to move the chain through both hands bending every link. You'll find a stiff link very easily. If that's the problem, clean the link until the stiffness goes, re-lube and you should have no further problems. 

Short answer, no! Almost certainly the entire grip should be on the handlebar. Then the 2 pieces of steel pushed in by the screws will tighten against the handlebar giving much better security. The steel pieces should go in the cutouts on the hard plastic inner of the grip. I'm not sure how well the grips will work now that they are missing some of their structure, but it's worth a try. FYI, the reason that the hard part is more difficult to get on is that the multi part grips can get away with a looser tolerance under the rest of the grip, but not where they are actually attached to the handlebar. 

Appart from training you should make sure that you have enough easy gears available. Being able to pedal (relatively) easy with high cadence does make a lot of difference, both in efficiency and endurance. If your gears allow you to do that then I also don’t think that there is much specialiced training you can/should do for climbing. Using something like the typical road bike gears with 53/39 chainrings and 11–25 cogs in the alps is a bad idea. But I guess you know that already. 

Yes it is normal. You can carefully tighten the valve core with pliers or special tools. Medium strength Loctite helps a lot too. 

For a nice pic, see $URL$ For the specs see $URL$ Unless you read French, you'll need to translate the terms. (I see it says the tires are 700c, and on my reading it doesn't mention frame material). 

From my observation of your vid, the peak power is while you are accelerating, not while cruising. I note that you produce ~700 W at times. I am assuming that you are using power measuring pedals / cranks. For comparison, when I was a Physics student we did stair runs up 15 floors to measure our power output; I and a couple of other fit people produced over one HP (746 W) and if memory serves me, I produced 1.5 HP. 40 years later, on a recent lazy ride, Strava said I was peaking at 500 W (correction: as I learn to use Strava better, I see that was an average over 300m, the peak was 1200W for 10s over 80m). On flat cruising at 28 to 30 kph, Strava says I produce about 150 W. I weigh 70 kg (same as then). So I find your results to be reasonable. Edit: I should add, in answer to your question: no, weight doesn't effect speed on the flat. That is mainly determined for a given power level by your frontal area (but you knew that, it's why we crouch in a headwind). Better bearings can give a small improvement. 

You could try converting your tyres to a tubeless system. I run much lower pressures on my tubeless mountain bike than I used to - they are super resistant to pinch flats. Every now and then I can feel the rear wheel pinching in a way that would previously have caused an instant flat but to date no flats (touch wood!). I find (anecdotal) that the tubeless tyres seem to lose pressure a little faster than normal inner tubes. Combine that with regular pressure checks and you should be better off. 

Pilots have a concept of Aviate, Navigate, Communicate. This is the order of priority for them. To restate for bicycling it could be Balance, Avoid Obstacles, Signal Intent. I don't know whether it is strictly required legally for you to signal, but I'd suggest the practical reality is that you only signal when it is safe to do so and communicating with vehicles behind you could increase your safety. For example, I wouldn't signal stopping or turning left, but generally would signal turning right (in the UK context) well in advance so the car immediately behind me knows what I'm about to do. 

Is the hanger perfectly in line with the rear brake? A (free running) cable will always try to run in a straight line. If there is an offset the cable will bend the brake and the brake hanger into a straight line, which is bad. 

Is the axle flush in the frame/fork? Do you have rim brakes? If the rim is old and the brake surfaces already quite abraded, inflating with high pressure or installing a wider tire could have broken or deformed the rim walls. Was the the wheel true (i.e. no wobble) before? How much wobble are we talking? 1mm? 5mm? 

Where is the problem then? Saddle too high even when lowered as far as possible? The wheel size is completly irrelevant for that problem. Or are you unable to stand on the ground without your privates hitting the top tube? 

I believe Endomondo and Strava do all that you say you want, and I expect that MapMyRide would do also. They all provide a data export feature. 

This does not answer your question, but it's too long for comments. Summary: take it to another bike shop. Details This is an internally geared hub (IGH). I cannot tell what make it is; the ones I know of are Sturmey Archer, Shimano Nexus and Alfine, and SRAM. The whole bike has been left to molder - the chain has rust, and the tires are flat. The chain should be fine with some oil. The question is - why was it left to molder, and why was it sold? My guess is because of the gear problem. Advice See if you can identify the brand or make. Someone might be able to help more if you can tell them that. Once you know that, you can also look for a bike shop that knows about those particular hubs. IGH's can stop working for fairly trivial reasons, and often the new parts are not very expensive. The main cost is the mechanic's time. While you could DIY, the fact that you asked the question suggests that that's not a realistic option for you. There is no guarantee that after taking your first IGH apart you'll be able to put it together again. There are lots of springs and pawls and bearings and gears in there ...