In Arabic the word for “human being of either sex” is ʼinsān, from the same root as nisāʼ “women”. The usual word for “male human being” is rajul. 

I would say that "eigenvalue" is a semi-translation of "Eigenwert". There is no such word as "aqualite". 

“Originally” is a problematic concept. The letter “ä” was not used in Old and Middle High German. The plural of gast is gesti in OHG and geste in MHG. In early New High German the letters ä, ö and ü (or rather: a, o, u with a small superscript “e”, but I cannot find these in Unicode) were used to indicate the umlauted forms of a, o and u, but the distinction between e and ä was dictated by etymology and not by pronunciation; ä was used where there are obvious cognates with a, as in Gast > Gäste. The spoken distinction between “e” /e/ and “ä” /ɛ/ is essentially a spelling pronunciation adopted in the standard “Bühnenaussprache”. 

"Bigul" is not in Turner's Comparative Dictionary, nor in Platts' Dictionary of Classical Urdu/Hindi. It is evidently a borrowing from English, with simplification of the /ju/ in the first syllable to /i/. 

“Is there a logical canonical order of (nominal) cases across (Indo-)European languages?” I would say that the answer to this part of your question is “no”. The Nom Gen Dat Acc Voc order is traditional in Greek and Latin grammar since antiquity and it is imitated in modern languages like German and Russian. It is traditional, if you like “canonical”, but not “logical”. In Sanskrit, on the other hand, the traditional order of the cases is Nom Voc Acc Instr Dat Abl Gen Loc. This order does have a logic: in the singular at least the Nom has typically long-grade ablaut, Voc Acc and Instr have full-grade ablaut and the others have zero-grade ablaut. So the “fuller” forms are grouped together at the beginning of the paradigm. 

In old manuscripts the v-shaped signs indicate that a letter is not pointed (muhmal), but in modern practice they are used merely for decoration, or rather space-filling. 

This is the grammatical and rhetorical device usually called figura etymologica, but which the ancient grammarians called “derivatio”, where a finite verb (or a participle) is construed with an infinitive (or other nominal derivative) of the same verb. You can find some examples from European authors in Lausberg’s “Elemente der literarischen Rhetorik” par. 281, e.g. from Virgil (voce vocans Hecaten; ire iter) and from Shakespeare (Julius Caesar: most horrid sights seen by the watch; Hamlet: speak the speech). In Hebrew, Arabic and other Semitic languages the construction finite verb + infinitive is very common and usually serves to strengthen or to specify the action of the verb. Some Hebrew examples have been quoted above. In Arabic (for example) you say ḍaraba-hu ḍarban šadīdan, literally: “he-hit-him (a) hit, (a) hard (one)”; where ḍarban is the accusative of the infinitive of the verb ḍaraba “he hit”; in English you could say “he dealt him a hard blow”, or simply “he hit him hard”, avoiding in both instances the (for English ears) uncouth repetition of the same word in two different meanings. PS. This is a very good question. I do not understand why some people are trying to close it. 

Michaelyus has given a good answer to the "why" part of your question. To reply only to the last part of the question: there are not any "strange" rules you could learn to help you to pronounce a new word. There are not even any non-strange rules. You do have to look up new words in a dictionary. Some things in life require effort. 

Ossetic: first in Greek script; then in Church Slavonic script; then (in South Ossetia) Georgian script; then in amplified Cyrillic (Russian script with several newly invented characters); then Latin script; then simple Cyrillic script (Russian script with only one special sign: æ). Six alphabets, not bad for a still living language. 

Hebrew šɛmɛn שמן “oil, fat” is a Semitic cognate of Arabic samn سمن “fat, butter” (with Semitic s1). It is not related to šaḥm شحم “fat, grease” (with Semitic s2 and ḥ) or to the IE words mentioned above. It is true that šɛmɛn looks superficially like Latin semen, but the vowels of the former are the result of a specifically Hebrew development (Semitic qatl > Hebrew qɛtɛl; so-called segolisation). If you posit a proto-Semitic *šamn- the similarity with the Latin word becomes considerably less. 

In some Arab countries (e.g. Egypt) final ى is written without any dots, regardless of whether it is pronounced /ī/ or /ā/. This is also the spelling convention for Persian and Urdu. But in some Arab countries (e.g. Syria and Lebanon) it is usual to write ي if it is pronounced /ī/ and ى if it is pronounced /ā/. Usage is not standardised. 

No. English speakers refer to all countries as "it", not "he" or "she", except occasionally in a poetic or rhetorical context. 

I would say that “the angry with her brother girl” is not grammatically correct in English, though you might have a hard time finding a rule to that effect in an English grammar. On the other hand, the exact equivalent is perfectly acceptable in, for example, German (“das mit seinem Bruder zornige Mädchen”). So there is no “cross-linguistic” ban on this sort of structure. 

The linguistic reason is that in English a/an is not a determiner, but an indefinite article. Etymologically it the same word as the numeral "one". Its function is to indicate that the following noun designates a single indefinite thing. 

If you asking about languages that distinguish between (1) nouns for animate male beings, (2) nouns for animate female beings, (3) nouns for inanimate beings, then the answer is that very few languages classify their nouns in this way. One of these few is English, with its pronouns he, she, and it. If you are asking about what is properly called grammatical gender, where the nouns for animate male beings are of masculine gender, nouns for animate female beings are of feminine gender, and nouns for inanimate beings are distributed more or less arbitrarily between two (masculine and feminine) or three (masculine, feminine, neuter) genders, then this is the situation in most of the Indo-European and Afro-Asiatic languages, but virtually no where else. 

The distinction between long and short vowels is historic, not merely orthographic. It goes back to proto-Germanic and in many cases to proto-Indo-European. As for minimal pairs, they are not rare. You can start with “Wolle” /ˈvɔlə/ versus “(zum) Wohle” (ˈvo:lə). 

Lots of confusion here. Hebrew Elohim is morphologically plural but syntactically singular: it governs a verb in the 3rd person singular. Adonai is likewise syntactically singular. Dios is from Latin deus. It is singular. "Some languages" boils down to at most one language (Hebrew). 

“Aorist presents” is a term used by many (but not all) Indo-Europeanists to describe verb forms for the present tense with zero-grade ablaut (like the strong aorist). A classic example is Sanskrit tudati “he bumps into”, which forms its present tense from the zero-grade root *tud-, not the full grade *taud-. In this sense it resembles the aorist. 

They are all the same word. The first two use the old Qur'anic orthography, the third one follows the modern spelling conventions. The pronunciation is the same: /'aatinaa/ The older way to write initial /ʼaa/ is with ʼalif preceded by the diacritic hamza (ءا). In modern Arabic orthography this combination of sounds is written with ʼalif topped by the diacritic madda (آ). 

IE *sueigh- should become *εἱχ- in Greek. Beekes, Greek Etym. Dictionary 1327 suggests that σῖγα is "probably of onomatopoetic origin”. 

This depends on whether we are talking about phonology or about phonetics (you do not specify). If it is phonetics then there are lots of examples of allophones that occur only in clusters and not on their own, for example in English the unaspirated [t] in ‘stop’. But I suspect that phonology is another matter. 

Words like “policeman” and “postman” are indubitably compounds. Not only are they compounds historically, but they are still perceived as compounds by native speakers. This perception explains why it is possible to decompose them and stick them back together in neologisms like “policewoman” or “postperson”. By contrast “woman” is historically a compound (formed from the Old English ancestors of “wife” and “man”), but it is no longer perceived as a compound by native speakers. Thus we have been spared “woperson” – at least till now. 

In India it is commonplace to give children the name of a god or a goddess. The answer to your question is yes. 

Just for a beginning: ancient Greek and Latin did not indicate word boundaries. All the letters are evenly spaced. Sanskrit separates only at the end of a verse. 

τὰν πόλιν εὐδόκιμον is accusative because it is the subject of the infinitive ὑπάρξαι, “for the famous city to be at (his) beginning”. 

As Lemontree has mentioned "etwas von jemandem halten" is a very common phrase in German. "Was halten Sie davon?" = "What do you think of it?". "Ich halte nichts davon" = "I have a low opinion of it". I think it is a quintessentially German idiom. Presumably is was calqued from German to Dutch, Finnish and Yiddish > Modern Hebrew. 

I do not accept that this is a trivial question. In Proto-Indo-European (as usually reconstructed) the only one of the lower numbers that has the vowel /i/ is *tri-, the zero-grade of *trei- "three". This means that when the other lower numbers in IE daughter languages have the vowel /i/ this is a secondary development. Since Albanian has developed *treis to tre there is no reason why it should have /i/ in any of its lower numbers. 

Old Persian cuneiform script is an alphabet, not a syllabary. Despite a superficial resemblance to Babylonian cuneiform, all attempts to derive it from a Babylonian, or any other, model, have failed. It seems to have been invented ad hoc. Good discussion here: P. Lecoq, 'Le problème de l'écriture cunéiforme vieux-perse', Acta Iranica 1ère série, 3, 1974, 25-107. 

Despite the sceptical comments, what you say is main-stream linguistic thinking. In Indo-European, Semitic, and most other families the second-person singular imperative is identical with the present stem of the verb. 

The derivation of trouver “to find” < *trobare < *tropare, supposedly meaning “to compose poetry” < tropos “rhetorical figure” can be found in many respectable etymological dictionaries, but it is semantically very difficult as far as the French meaning is concerned. Another possibility that has been considered (e.g. by Meyer-Lübke) is that trouver derives from Latin turbare “to agitate, stir up”, then specifically in the sense “to disturb the water in a fish pond”, and hence “to find” fish. I think the jury is still out. 

The full brackets mean that these signs have been restored by the editor; the tablet is broken and nothing is visible at this point. The half-brackets mean that the enclosed signs are partially damaged, but at least partially legible. This is the standard convention in Assyriology. 

It is a superstition to think that all languages are predominantly SOV, SVO, VSO or some other combination of these hieroglyphs. This is not true of Latin, and certainly not true of ancient Indo-European languages like Sanskrit or Avestan, where the word order is almost completely free. As TKR has very rightly pointed out, the “proverb” “errare humanum est” is not an example of SOV because humanum is not an object but a predicate adjective. By the way, this “famous proverb” is not actually quoted by any ancient author; the oldest attested version of it is in St Augustine of Hippo, who in fact wrote “humanum fuit errare”, so: predicate + verb + subject. This said, I would actually agree that in the modern Romance languages the usual sequence is SVO. In cases like “je t’aime” one could argue that “t(e)” is not a direct object but part of the verb complex; it is not a word in its own right. We also say things like “Toi je t’aime”, which you might want to analyse as OSOV, though I would analyse it as topic + (clitic+clitic+verb). Neither “je” nor “te” can be used as an isolated statement in French. The response to the question “Whom do you love?” is not “te” but “toi”. 

They both come from Greek συμφωνία.This was used in ancient and mediaeval times as a name for various musical instruments, including a type of drum. 

I am answering the part of your question referring to vowels. Reconstructed Indo-European is essentially a set of quasi-algebraic symbols for the purpose of establishing regular sound correspondences between the attested languages. No one knows how proto-Indo-European was actually pronounced. The currently fashionable doctrine is that PIE had only two real vowels, namely /e/ and /o/. The vowels /i/ and /u/ are explained as syllabic variants of the semivowels, and the long vowels and /a/ are explained as the result of laryngeals. But this means only that to account for the forms occurring in the attested languages the assumption of two vowels is sufficient. This does not necessarily have any consequences for the real pronunciation of PIE.