Erratic Climate Lets take Broome, Australia as our example. Broome gets 615mm of rain a year (24 inches), including 58/182/180/102mm in Dec through March. Coupled with average highs in the low 90s, this would be fine for the sort of agriculture you see in South Texas. However, Broome's rainfall is very erratic. For example, in 2016, the rainy season started January 15th, with 23 mm of rain over three days. In 2017 (really 2016, again) the rainy season started December 4th. December 2016 also featured 222mm of rain (remember the average is only 58mm) including 113mm on Dec 23rd and 24th. 2016-2017 featured 222/230/249/114mm of rain, with significant rainfall later into April. 2015-2016 featured 0/119/26/28mm of rain. One year saw too little rainfall to grow even millet, while the next year had enough rain to support paddy rice. Laterite Old tropical soils in rainy or monsoonal rainy regions tend to have their soils leached of useful nutrients. The resulting soil is called laterite, and it is heavily enriched in aluminum and iron ore. On the one hand, this explains the mineral wealth of tropical Australia. On the other, laterite (alternately called ferralsols, especially by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) ) is hard to farm, with few minerals for the plants, poor moisture retention, and the tendency to form an iron-hardened crust in the dry season. Not enough people This is sort of a meta-reason, but Northern Australia is a long way from anywhere. Without very many people, it is hard to build a stable agricultural economy. If a bunch of people where sent there and forced to survive, they'd probably eke something out (for example, like the people who first populated Sydney, or South Africa). But since that never happened...population of the reason never happened. Sort of circular reasoning, but without ever having a reason for a lot of people to show up in Northern Australia (prison colony, religious persecution, etc) no one has ever made the infrastructure that successful farming operations could be based off of. 

On 11 sep 2016, the Australian Herald Sun placed an opinion piece by Andrew Bolt titled Drowning in cash: Pacific islands love this scare* about the $300 million** financial aid pledged by the Australian Prime Minister, Malcolm Turnbull, at a Pacific leaders’ forum in Micronesia last week (I guess that's this meeting), to help the Pacific “manage climate change and improve disaster resilience". Bolt's critique is that these islands do not actually face much danger: 

On the robustness of predictions of sea level fingerprints J. X. Mitrovica, N. Gomez, E. Morrow, C. Hay, K. Latychev, M. E. Tamisiea 14 October 2011 DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-246X.2011.05090.x 

* A long pole, often heavy, e.g. along the foot of a sail. In this case, sheets/screens are hanging down from it. 

In those locations however, there is a stronger effect: The ice masses themselves exert a large gravitational pull on the surrounding water, resulting in a lowering of the sea level around those masses (Greenland, Antarctica) when the ice melts. This may seem counter-intuitive, and is best explained by looking at what happens when the ice masses grow: The gravitation of the growing mass pulls water towards it. The resulting sea level rise on the edges of the ice mass is therefore larger than the eustatic (global, uniform, across the world) sea level decrease that occurs because of the water moving into the ice. The effect is that near the ice mass, sea level actually rises, and far away it falls faster than 'expected'. When the ice melts the reverse happens: sea level close to the ice mass will drop, sea level far away will rise more than 'expected'. To give this some actual numbers: The eustatic sea level rise corresponding to the melting of the Greenland and West Antarctic ice caps is both approx. 6 meters. Here in Europe (I live in the Netherlands) however, the Greenland melt would 'only' result in approx. 3 meters rise, because that is relatively close, but the West Antarctic melt would result in something like 8-9 meters extra water. This picture shows the relative effect calculated for water running of West Antarctica. You should read the numbers as a multiplication factor to apply to amount of sea level rise in the case of a uniform distribution. 

The 1967 International Biological Programme has a handbook of suggestions for various methods to calculate primary productivity of forests. A subset of these measures would be effective for measuring litter production. Regarding leaves and other falling litter, 

I believe this is biology related, not weather related I think your story is a bit anecdotal because there is no measurable evidence that the sunlight energy deposited into your skin is actually stronger in New York as compared to Ukraine. Let me offer two lines of evidence that this change is more likely to be related to you and your skin than it is to the weather. First, Rostov-on-Don, (the nearest large city I could find sunlight data for) has sunnier summers than New York. From NOAA via Wikipedia, Rostov has 286/314/293 hours of sunlight in June/July/August. New York has 257/268/268. This is largely because New York sees two more rainy days per month (and about twice as much rain on those rainy days) during the summer. Sunlight intensity at a certain latitude is directly related to the angle of incidence of the sun. The declination of the sun is the relative angle from the sun to the horizon given your latitude and the time of year. The sun moves (well the Earth moves...) from the Tropic of Cancer to the Tropic of Capricorn each year, from 23.45 N to 23.45 S. During the northern hemisphere summer solstice, the sun is directly above the Tropic of Cancer. From New York, the angle of incidence of the sun is thus 41.07 N - 23.45 N = 17.62 degrees. During an equinox, when the sun is directly over the equator, the angle of incidence of the sun is 41.07 N - 0 = 41.07 degrees. The cosine of the angle of incidence is the percentage of full equatorial sunlight energy that you would receive at that latitude. Thus, in mid-summer in NY, you get cos(17.62) = 0.953 of maximum possible sunlight; at the equinox you get cos(41.07) = 0.754; at the winter solstice you get cos(64.52) = 0.430. For any point in the Northern Hemisphere outside of the tropics, sunlight intensity will always be greater at all times of the year at lower latitude. Thus, New York always has greater sunlight intensity than Ukraine...but the difference is not very significant. At summer solstice NY gets 0.953 of the max sunlight, but Ukraine gets cos(23.3) = 0.918 of max sunlight. This is the difference between early July and mid-August in NY; not very significant. Given the close latitudes involved, you would expect to have gotten more net sun in the summer as a child than you do now due to fewer cloudy days. Since this is not what you observe, there must be some other explanation. Secondly, I grew up near Boston, and my mom made me wear sunscreen in the summer. I used to get sunburns pretty bad. Now I'm 35 and I live in Virginia and I never wear sunscreen, even when I get to the beach. I don't remember the last time that I got a sunburn. Things change, I guess? This is a purely anecdotal observation, but then so is yours. Without any data to measure the changes (maybe I am smarter about being in shade in my older age?) all I can offer is guesses. I think you should be looking at either your skin or your behavior as the cause of this change, not necessarily at the climate. 

I know of two live video channels showing live feeds of rover dives: Okeanos Explorer for dives with the NOAA Ship Okeanos Explorer. Nautilus live for dives from the Nautilus, operated by the Ocean Exploration Trust. Does anyone know others? 

There is another factor not yet mentioned contributing to the effect you notice: global warming is related to the total cumulative amount of CO2 in the atmosphere, not to what we are emitting in this instance. The atmospheric lifetime of CO2 is estimated to be of the order of 30–95 years, i.e. if we stop emitting now the warming will continue into the future before reaching a peak and declining. If you look at the Mauna Loa graph in Gordon's answer: the warming in year X is not related to the Y-value for X, but to the total area under the graph to year X. Quoting from e.g. the PDF Cumulative Carbon and Just Allocation of the Global Carbon Commons: 

Reference [6] under that Wikipedia article on spontaneous combustion gives you some answers: "The Fire Below: Spontaneous Combustion In Coal". DOE/EH-0320, Issue No. 93-4. US Department of Energy. May 1993 

For frogs it seem to be coincidences of bad weather and frog migration.Well, not really coincidence: they probably migrate more (often) when it's wet. And for fish: 

(emphasis mine) Note that this page mentions the WeatherOnline (UK) Climate of the world page as its source. There you have descriptions for many countries. 

First off, hurricanes form in tropical seas over warm water. In general, they form in places where it never snows at all. Also, they form over the ocean, and it is hard to have snow on the ground in the ocean. So in that sense, the answer is: No, hurricanes cannot form in a place where there is snow on the ground. However, you may mean to ask can a hurricane show up to a place where there is snow on the ground. This is a little more difficult. Wikipedia's off-season Atlantic hurricane page lists 21 hurricanes that formed in Dec-Feb. Of special interest is the 1952 Groundhog day tropical storm which hit Cape Cod on Feb 4th and Maine Feb 5th of that year. Hyannis, MA had 2 inches of snow on Jan 28th of that year, which melted by Feb 1st (temp data found here). It dropped to 30 degrees F the night of the 3rd before the hurricane hit. The airport in Bangor, ME had snowfall the 28th and 29th of January which persisted on the ground until the 3rd of February. The night of the 4th dropped to 21 degrees F before the hurricane hit on the 5th. In both cases, temperatures got into the 40s and heavy precipitation while the storm was passing assuredly melted the snow on the ground. But in that sense of your question: Yes, hurricanes can strike somewhere with snow on the ground, although the warm air and rainfall of the hurricane will probably melt that snow. 

There are no circles, it is an image artifact. Here is another picture from Dingo Gap that shows nothing at the exact same position. Your mind is a well-trained pattern-matching machine that makes up patterns even when they are not actually there. In other words don't jump to conclusions. You are claiming that there are actual structures, which is one step too 'far'. (Credit: Emily Lakdawallah blog post) 

This is probably not the specific video you are looking for, but here is one: The video Latent heat of fusion shows the effect that you mean in a real world situation where the water is not mixed well. The video Determination of Melting Point of Ice shows it under more controlled conditions. The video Heat in changes of state explains it with a graph. The video Energy required to melt ice and warm the water gives you an actual calculation example and shows the energy involved in melting ice vs. heating water. 

Paul Kench's page at the University of Auckland lists several of his publications, and maybe the blog post refers to this one: Destruction or persistence of coral atoll islands in the face of 20th and 21st century sea-level rise? From the abstract: 

Brian Dunning already went into this extensively in episode 4170 of Skeptoid: It's Raining Frogs and Fish 

But as you get from the comments below your post, how useful that data is remains doubtful. As an example: The first hit for the austria monthly rainfall search says: 

Reality is not as simple as your thought experiment The problem with your thought experiment is that, even though you are holding sunlight intensity identical between your two planets, there are too many factors that actually affect the planet's temperature for any one measurement to give you conclusive proof of the greenhouse effect. There are two primary factors affecting the planet's temperature, given constant sunlight energy: 

Depends on what type of pollution you are talking about Moreno et al., 2015 studied this problem in Barcelona, and compared Metro (subway) to trams, buses, and walking in various parts of the city. There is a massive overabundance of data in this paper that mostly speaks for itself, but let me summarize. The subway was in first place or last place in most measures; it was the only system that didn't occupy the environment of the city streets. So these comparisons are probably exactly what you are looking for. Subway air had the lowest count of particulate matter, and the highest modal particle size; both of these are good. However, at the same time, the PM$_{2.5}$ (fine particulates which are particularly dangerous carcinogens) for subway and bus were notably higher than for tram and walking. The black carbon levels were in the middle of the road; lower than for pedestrians but higher than bus or tram. However, the authors note that black carbon may have been overestimated for the subways; so these levels could have been lower. Carbon monoxide is largely related to combustion engine usage; CO levels were lowest on the electric trams, and higher on the other modes of transportation. Carbon Dioxide, on the other hand, is largely related to other passengers breathing; CO$_2$ was highest on the crowded vehicles and much lower for pedestrians. CO$_2$, unlike the others, I don't think is a chronic health risk at the observed concentrations. Conclusion There is a lot of information in that paper, and I am not really qualified to judge the health risks from one factor against another. I can note that in no health measures does the subway have the worst air quality between the four transportation modes; and there is no other mode that has better air quality than the subway in all measures. I suppose it is safest to say that, in a statistical sense across multiple measures, the subway air is not significantly more unhealthy than street level air.