If you divide the world into two hemispheres, with one centered in France and the other on the opposite side of the world, around New Zealand, then the "Francocentric" hemisphere has about 7/8 of the world's land. So the Earth is already pretty close to the situation you describe. I'd say that makes it possible. See, for example, $URL$ 

As several others have noted, it is unlikely that such a transition would happen overnight. There'd be plenty of time to work down the size of the herds. I'd add that many animals are kept for reasons other than meat. Cows give milk, sheep give wool, etc. Skins of many animals are used for leather. Etc. Maybe these uses would decline also, maybe not. But suppose human use of, say, cows did eventually end completely -- if we not only had vat-grown meat but also some sort of synthetic milk, if people abandoned leather for canvas or plastic, etc. Some number of cows would be kept in zoos. You'd probably have a few people who kept them as pets, just as people keep other exotic animals as pets. And I'd expect that there would be some movement of people trying to figure out how to transition cows to living in the wild, through breeding, training, genetic manipulation, or whatever. It wouldn't have to be a great political movement with millions of people. I'd expect more like dozens of people. Just like there are people today seeking to preserve endangered species one way or another. If nothing else, there would surely be SOME number of conservationists buying land for cow pastures to preserve this creature that has now become an endangered species. 

I thought the whole point of the story was that the Minotaur ate people, the various condemned prisoners sent to die in the Maze. If you want to get all sciency-y and realistic about it, you could speculate that when there aren't enough prisoners to sustain him, they force some animals into the Maze. Presumably they'd be trapped there as easily as people, and the Minotaur could find and eat them. Of course the Minotaur is supposed to be half man and half bull, and in real life neither men nor bulls are carnivores. But I don't think the writer of the original worried overly match about that. He's a fictional monster: giving him inconsistent eating habits is the least of the unreality about him. 

For their day to day lives, people in different parts of the world would associate different times with different activities. While to someone in Greenwich 11:30 am might mean "lunch time", to people in the Eastern US it might mean "time to wake up", to others it might be "dinner time", or "middle of the night". No doubt if time zones were abolished tomorrow, people would find it very confusing for a while. But I presume that after, what, a few years?, people would get used to it, and the idea that the sun rises at around 3:00 pm seem natural and familiar. Once people were used to it, the only time when it would make a difference would be when someone travels to other parts of the world or talks to someone from other parts of the world. Today, for most of us there is some confusion when talking to someone far away as to what time of day it is for them. When it's 10:00 am at my home, what time is it in Tokyo? Etc. If there were no time zones, then this question would be meaningless. If it's 10:00 am here, then OF COURSE it's 10:00 am everywhere in the world. But you'd still have to think about where the other person is in their daily cycle. When I ask, "When it's 10:00 am here, what time is it in Tokyo?", my reason for asking is likely to be, "Is this a reasonable time to call, or will it be the middle of the night over there?" You'd still have that problem. Well, I'm assuming that when you say there are no time zones, you're not thinking that everyone works to the same schedule. That, say, if people in London begin the workday at 9:00 am, that this means that everyone begins the workday at 9:00 am, even people for whom that is the middle of the night. So on the one hand it could be simpler. We don't have to ask what time zone a person is in, because there's only one. If someone says, "the meeting is at 2:00 pm" or "the train leaves at 2:00 pm" or whatever, we don't have to ask what time zone. It could eliminate a lot of potential confusion. For people who regularly work with schedules across multiple time zones -- like people at railroads and airlines -- this could avoid a lot of potential confusion. I'm a software developer, and every now and then I work with computers located in different time zones, and this can get confusing. Like if I check a computer and see that a certain file was last updated at 3:00, is that my local time, or the time where that computer is located? And where is that computer physically located? Sometimes I don't even know. Etc. On the other hand, it could make it more difficult to talk about different daily schedules. With time zones, it's easy to say "when it's 9:00 am here it's 4:00 pm in Tokyo", and we now have a good idea how our daily schedule relates to theirs. But with no time zones, how would you express this idea? You'd have to say things like, "people there usually start work at 4:00 pm". Then if you want to know when they might have lunch or go home from work or go to bed, you'd have to count hours from start of the day for you, and add it to their start time, and so do a bunch of arithmetic in your head, which could get awkward. So, I'd say pros and cons. 

On the individual level, presumably people would switch to other beverages. I imagine tea would be a popular choice. There'd probably be a boom in kava sales. And some would go to totally different beverages, fruit juice or soft drinks or whatever. People might look for other mild stimulants, or alternative sources of caffeine. Even if no suitable alternatives were found, I doubt the effect would be that great. I suspect people would just get used to it. This would be the biggest question mark in my mind: Would worker productivity suffer measurably for lack of a convenient mild stimulant like this? I'd guess the effect would be very small. As anyone done any studies on the effect of coffee on worker productivity? Companies would look for ways to make synthetic coffee. Perhaps someone would find a way to synthesize coffee from inorganic materials. People today drink artificial lemonade and barely notice it. Even if they couldn't exactly reproduce the chemicals making up coffee, I think it's very likely chemists would come up with something that tastes similar enough to satisfy people. Economically, obviously the coffee industry would have problems. But besides that, I'd think the impact would be small. People would just switch to other beverages, so what the coffee industry lost the tea, juice, soft drink, etc industries would pick up. There are so many alternatives, I'd be surprised if this would have any serious economic impact. 

Well, of course the REAL reason is because aliens on TV and movies are played by human actors, and it's just too difficult and expensive to have an alien that cannot be "constructed" by applying make-up and prosthetics to a human being. Yes, it's possible to make a puppet alien manipulated with sticks and strings, or to build an alien with hydraulics or servos, but it's difficult to operate such a create day after day as you try to put on your show. And actors generally pride themselves on their ability to display emotion. That's tough to do through a mask and pretty much impossible through servomotors. Actors would hate it. But assuming real aliens and not actors ... Presumably some body forms would not be conducive to an intelligent, tool-making creature. It's hard to see how a creature with no hands or reasonable substitute could use tools and build machines. Such a creature might be intelligent, but it is very difficult to see how it could be technological. A race of dog- or turtle-like creatures who build starships is rather implausible. Maybe a sufficiently clever sci-fi writer could come up with a way to make it plausible. If you assume an evolutionary scenario. the probability that creatures would evolve on another planet to look at all similar to humans seems quite remote. Even allowing for what I said in the previous paragraph, why would you expect aliens to evolve with five fingers instead of, say, six? Or with arms coming out the sides of their bodies and hanging down instead of, say, coming out the front of their bodies, or coming out the sides and sticking upwards, or thousands of other possible arrangements. Is it inevitable that sight, sound, and smell organs must all be on a "head" of some sort, and that this head must stick out the top of the body? Why couldn't ears be on the stomach? Etc. Suppose you found someone who had never seen any creature other than humans, and you showed him a human being, a Star Trek alien, a horse, an eagle, and an octopus, and you asked him which one he thought came from a different planet? Which do you think he would pick? A creationist might be somewhat more likely to believe that aliens could look so much like humans. A creator God could create very similar creatures on two different planets. It would at least be plausible to the creationist. But I'd think it would still be unlikely. God created many different kinds of creatures here on Earth. If he had that much imagination and variation here, why would he then recycle terran designs on another planet? If the environment on another planet is different -- significantly hotter or colder, or driver or wetter, or different gasses in the atmosphere -- than any creature there would have to be different from humans to thrive, maybe even to survive if the differences are great enough. And to suppose that a creature would have different body chemistry and significantly different internal organs, but still look like a human -- that seems very implausible from either an evolutionary or creationist viewpoint. To the evolutionist it would have to be a coincide of mind-boggling proportions, surely trillions to one odds against. To the creationist it would be "why would he do that"? God didn't make dolphins look just like people or some other land creature but with different internal organs so they can live in the sea, he made them look completely different. Why would he break this pattern on another planet? 

The requirement that the map can be used while on a journey, presumably under Medieval conditions, is a tough condition. I can think of all sorts of ways of encrypting a map using technology available in the Middle Ages, but most of the ideas I come up with would require considerable time to decrypt, tools that might not be so convenient to lug around, etc. But here are two ideas that I can suggest: 

If there's a 50% chance of dying from one cigarette, that would become pretty obvious pretty quickly. You wouldn't need extensive scientific research. People would figure it out within a few weeks, tops. (Well, I'm assuming that you mean people smoke the cigarette and die almost instantly. If they smoke a cigarette and there's a 50% chance that they'd die 10 years later, figuring out the connection would of course be tougher.) Presumably at that point almost all smokers would quit, and the few who didn't would be dead within weeks. (If you smoke one cigarette per day, the chance of surviving a week is 1 / 2^7, or less than 1%.) The tobacco industry would go bankrupt. If this happened overnight, they'd have no time to switch to another product. Maybe some would figure out a way to survive. I'm not sure what that would be, but people can be creative. Places where tobacco production is a major industry would be hit hard. If your town is surrounded by big tobacco farms that are bringing in a lot of money, than many people in town will go down with the tobacco farmers. The people who sell them farm machinery, the restaurants where they eat, the shops where they buy their clothes and furniture, etc, will all suddenly find that their customers have no money and so aren't buying any more. Off the top of my head I don't know if there are any entire countries where tobacco is a critical industry. If so, it could have international political implications. Well, it would have at least some political implications in the U.S. States like North Carolina where there's a lot of tobacco farming would be hurt economically, people would move to other states looking for work, and so North Carolina would have fewer representatives in Congress and fewer votes for president. (Not sure why you see this as a "wish dream". You want to see millions of innocent people die and millions more lose their jobs? Sounds kind of creepy to me. I can see saying "I don't smoke because of the health problems." But if there were no health problems, why would anyone be against smoking?) 

My first thought was observing the horizon, but others have mentioned that. Second thought: You say there is artificial gravity, which I presume means a uniform force over the entire surface. Then you say there is a dome to hold in the atmosphere. If by "dome" you're implying a curved surface, then the dome is closer to the ground near the edges than at the center. Which means there is a taller column of air near the center. Which means the air pressure must be higher. If the scientists travel far enough, the difference in air pressure will be noticeable. If the scientists travel far enough, sooner or later someone should notice that there is a fairly uniform average temperature over the entire world, rather than cold poles and hot equator. Which brings to mind that sooner or later someone is going to try to figure out their latitude and longitude and calculate the size of the planet, at which point they're going to figure it out geometrically. 

Sometimes people of one religion manage to convert others through missionary activity. Christians have been very successful at this, converting people all over the world to Christianity. Sometimes this was done after or as part of military conquest, but quite often not. Buddhists and Muslims have also done this successfully. Sometimes people hold on to their religion despite incredible pressure from the conquerors. The Jews are probably the best example of this. They were conquered and their nation was destroyed and they were scattered across the world, and there was no such thing as a "Jewish country" for almost 2000 years. Yet Jews kept their religion. The conqueror might exterminate the local people and replace them with their own people. This is pretty much how Muslims converted north Africa and the Middle East. But no one is really converted here, the people who believe in the old religion are simply wiped out and their land taken over by people with the new religion. As AlexP discusses, the Romans came up with the interesting -- and highly successful -- plan of merging their religion with that of the conquered people. They'd say, "Oh, you have a god of the sea that you call Poseidon? Why, we worship him too. We call him Neptune." This worked at least partly because the religions were similar enough that making these analogies might have been a stretch but it did not sound totally insane. This didn't work with the Jews because the idea of many gods and the idea of one God were just too far apart. You can say, "We have a god of thunder, a god of the sea, and a god of war. You have a god of thunder, a god of war, and a god of the harvest. So okay, let's put them together and then we can both have 4 gods." It doesn't work to say, "We have 100 gods and you have 1 god, so let's put them together and now we have 101 gods."