I wonder what are the historical circumstances that led to lack of speed limit on German federal Autobahn network. There is an advisory 130 km/h limit, but it is not mandatory one nor obeyed practically. (As a side note, Wikipedia says, there used to be a mandatory 100 km/h limit in former GDR and it was not retained after re-unification.) Please provide the reasons (plus sources) that would differentiate Germany from other "comparable" countries (for example, France) that did introduce the limit on some historical occasion. 

I think the place is Washawng in northern Burma/Myanmar, it's near Ledo Road. The date could be 3rd May maybe 1944, but I cannot find the exact NCAC unit stationed there. 

Native Americans did not have advanced economies and there is no evidence of mass movement of bulk materials (river barges, canals etc.). In China, river/coastal boats would be rowed and sailed. There was canal/irrigation systems that used towpaths. I am unsure about the Tigris and Eupgrates. In Europe, river boats were often see-faring or specialty galley with sails/oars. There were also canals and tow-paths as economies became more developed. For the Nile, ships were primarily oar/sail. There are too many time periods/regions to list sources. Most of this is common knowledge of ancient economies/military transport and can be found from contemporary images depicting war and trade. Archaeological evidence exists as well. In short, the answer depends maybe - where and when? 

Nationalism largely originated with Louis XIV. Political structure prior to this was local government by nobility with the nobles having allegiance to Royalty. There was little concept of a nation as such. Louis XIV decoyed the nobility to Versailles and replaced local administration with educated third estate officials under direct control of the king. Thus the Sun King, where all the rays of power converge. While very effective for Louis IV and his wars, Louis XVI proved to be superfluous as the third estate converted to French nationalism rather than French royalty. This is discussed by Jacques Barzun In From Dawn to Decadence, The Monarch's Revolution chapter. Nationalism clashed with colonialism and areas of influence by foreign powers as when Austria asserted rule over its empire. Various nationalisms, often religious based, are still in conflict. 

No, this interpretation is misleading. Let's say that you analyze the ancient level of inheritance where you had one hundred grand-grand-parents. Using mitochondrial DNA you can only research only one of these 100 grand-grand-parents, the single grand-grand-mother that is in the most maternal position in the tree. In other words only mother-of-mother-of-mother(-of). This is because mitochondrial DNA is only inherited from a mother (Wikipedia). If mother has only sons, they do recombine her DNA further, except mitochondrial DNA. This mother has her line of mitochondrial DNA lost forever. So even if a scientist determined that only seven distinct most-maternal-grandmothers exist it still says nothing about the giant number of the rest of grandmothers and nothing at all about grandfathers. PS. It is impossible to determine if these seven women lived in the same generation (quite unlikely!). PPS. And seven women aren't a "founding population" because they are not even a "population" per standard definition. 

A likely if unspoken reason for the Viet Nam war is the Theory of Containment put forth by Kennan, i.e. avoiding direct military confrontation with the Soviet Union but stressing the Soviets by opposing its expansion. The dominos were tumbling in Asia and Viet Nam appeared to be the next Soviet gain. An argument can be made that the delayed communist success did in fact allow for changes in China and further diminishment of the Soviet Union But even assuming arguendo that this is so, the price was very, very high. 

The Japanese were a rather obedient people –probable more so after the long U.S. bombing campaign. There was the palace revolt against the Emperor which was a closer thing than generally recognized. However, both before and after the occupation the extremist seem to have followed orders and then expressed their individual feeling by committing suicide. In some cases, unarmed freed U.S. POWs left their camps and traveled through a largely unoccupied Japan. 

I do not know of this incident. Check naval archives or with a librarian in naval archives. This does, however, seem highly likely. The castle itself would be a smoldering ruin (as it was almost entirely wood, designed in such a way to better absorb earthquakes). The stone/Earthwork, on the other hand, would be extremely resilient to artillery fire. Getting troops out of hastily dug positions using artillery fire alone is very difficult/in-effective. A modern position dug into pre-existing earthworks would be very difficult to shell and destroy. 

One of the great things about economics is that, in a way, it is self regulating. If slavery was unprofitable then plantation owners would exit the business and stop investing capital in unproductive capital goods (slaves). Please take into account the source of this comment, a former slave and anti-slavery activist. Which is more likely? A biased commenter was attempting to disparage an industry for political purposes or that there was mass-insanity where business men would allocate capital in such a manner so they often died in debt and year after year would not make a profit. 

Don't think so. At all times, Nazi party seen Jews as a problem to be solved; they've seen them as people that shouldn't be in Greater Germany. In 1941, they didn't know what to do with Jewish citizens they already had; this was the time of ghettos and concentration camps, but Germans didn't yet consider extermination camps (like Chełmno, Bełżec, ...), nobody envisaged the Holocaust. I guess last thing they wanted is to capture even more Jewish people in 1941. In fact I would investigate the opposite cause-effect relation: maybe capturing large numbers of Jews in the East later indirectly provided argument for the complete extermination, as opposed for example to alternative variants of internment/enslavement/expulsion? UPDATE: By the way it came to my mind to check the numbers. True Wehrmacht could expect some 150.000 Jewish civilians there, but would they worry about them? I think they were much more worried about some 500.000 Soviet troops, armed and dangerous, which they have just being encircling when closing two pincers in Minsk. 

During 1943 it was inaccurate to claim air superiority on behalf of the Allies. The American Eighth Air Force strategic bombers were being (on occasion literally) decimated during the daylight strategic raids over Germany. Other than the short range Spitfire the Bf-109 and FW-190 were the superior planes and capable of operation AT 20,000’ and higher. American P-38s, P-39s, P-40s and P-51As were not in the same league. Only when the high altitude Packard Merlin Powered P-51 B was introduced at the beginning of 1944 did the tide change. The P-51Bs had the range and altitude performance to escort the bombers. The escorts were permitted to leave the bombers to engage German fighters as per a directive from Jimmy Doolittle. The Luftwaffe weakness was not planes but pilots (and fuel). The experience of the average German pilot was marginal when pressed into combat. By D-day the Allies established air superiority in Eastern Europe. The Soviets also greatly improved their planes and pilot skill. However, the American planes that were inappropriate in Western Europe were much better suited for conditions in the Soviet Union in that most combat there was at low altitudes. Still the Luftwaffe developed the best interceptor of the war with the ME-262 jet. But it was too little too late. Once the Zero’s weakness was identified it became less of a threat. While it had great maneuverability at medium to low speeds, it lost its aileron command at high speed. When confronted with high speed vertical tactics it as much less of a factor. 

This exact phrasing is asserted as being the original one by French Wikipedia article. A less-trusted, secondary source mentions another secondary source that reportedly attributes a similar phrase to some unspecified 1831 work by Enfantin, see Crisis and the Apocalypse of Man footnote 8 on page 315. But I would expect it to be as far as "from each according to his abilities, to each according to his work", which is quite a different idea. Enfantin was one of saint-simonians, which might explain why someone would attribute the quote (correctly or incorrectly) to Saint-Simon. 

Vienna was besieged in 1683. In the Treaty of Bakhchisarai, Russia agreed not to fight Ottoman Empire for the time between 1681 and 1701, and actually kept the promise... until 1686 that is. Then it joined the European coalition and started Russo-Turkish War (1686–1700), which it won, gaining Azov and Taganrog. Both were lost soon in 1711, Azov re-taken by Turks and Taganrog self-demolished.