I just read most of Wikipedia's article on the Giant Impact Hypothesis. Basically a large object impacts Earth and creates debris that soon coalesces into the Moon. But there is something I did not find mentioned: How would the Moon get its circular orbit? A debris field from any impact would at first follow a very elliptical orbit, with a perigee very close to the surface of the Earth and an apogee much farther away. In orbital mechanics, where you start is where you end up. In fact it doesn't even have to be where you start. Pick any point in the orbit and you will return there again. In other words, the original elliptical orbit doesn't change its shape. ...Unless there are pertubations or impacts that change your velocity. How exactly did that happen? Does the GIH just assume something else did that fortuitously? I've also seen youtube video simulations like this. It's hard to tell if the camera angle is changing or if the orbital plane is unstable (how?), but you can clearly see the debris goes around and impacts the surface again and again. I.e., the orbit remains highly elliptical. I've never seen a simulation that shows the debris circularizing. I also want to note that this question is highly relavent not just to the Moon, but many other things like orbital capture as well. I've never understood orbital capture theories as they all seem to leave out how the initial elliptical orbit later becomes circular, e.g., Triton. 

I am a member of Astropeiler Stockert e.V., and we are fortunate enough to be able to approach this problem coming from the "large side" :-) We have a 25m, 10m and 3m telescopes as well as an interferometer made from two 1m satellite dishes available. All these dishes can be used to do interesting things, but you'll need to match the instrument to your target (and, in a hobbyist setting, often also the target to your instrument). First of all, you should think about what frequency band you want to work on. 21cm (1420 MHz) is the classical hydrogen line, which lends itself well for mapping neutral hydrogen in the spiral arms of our galaxy. You can expect comparatively strong signals in a quiet frequency band there. Lower frequencies (and large bandwidths) are interesting for pulsars, higher frequencies give access to more interesting phenomena but will require a lot of work on the high frequency side. So my recommendation would be to start out with 21cm. Secondly, what to look for? In general, the following areas of observation are easily accessible for amateurs: 

I've been reading about SN 1054 and how most professional investigators believe that it is the Crab Nebula today. But the wiki article has this to say: 

It's referring to Hubble, but does not cite any source or math. How do you calculate the faintest (apparent) magnitude that a space telescope can detect? 

Edit: this is my attempt to draw something approximately to scale. I think I got the Earth/Moon sizes about right, but the Moon-Earth distance should around 4x greater. And the solar rays are of course not parallel but I don't think it's possible to draw or perceive tiny angles for this scale. The green line is the ecliptic. The Sun and Moon are supposed to be aligned along a horizontal line, but for some reason I drew the solar rays half and half beside the green line which is deceptive. I'll try to edit the pic when I can. In technical parlance, the Moon could be slightly above or slightly below its Node. If the Moon was exactly at its node, then the umbra would absolutely be centered somewhere between 28.5 N/S (actually 23.4 N/S because the Sun never goes beyond that). But as you can see, the farther it gets from its node, the steeper the shadow impacts Earth and the farther towards a pole it gets. Too far from the node, and the shadow will not intercept Earth at all and we won't have an eclipse. If you draw a line from the center of the Moon to the center of the Earth, you can see that the sub-lunar point is definitely within 28.5 degrees N/S. But the shadow does not necessarily follow that imaginary line. The shadow always follows the line from the Sun to the Moon. You could even imagine a very extreme case where the shadow falls on "the other side" of the pole. I think that may be the case here since that eclipse looks really short. 

Let's look at them in detail: Continuum measurements are easily done using dishes of any size, but I'd start from 3m upwards to get more interesting results. Calibration of the backend receiver is not trivial, and you should plan a bit of time for it. Spectral measurements also benefit from larger collecting areas, but you'll also need to set up a suitable backend. They are, however, possible from 3m upwards if you are happy with a bit of mapping of intra-galactic velocities. Pulsars require a lot of collecting area and bandwidth, so they are mostly the domain of large instruments. We are currently observing several dozens of the brightest pulsars on our 25m dish. The 10m might be sufficient for some of the very brightest. And while there is a report of pulsar measurements using a 3m dish and an RTLSDR frontend, this is a feat that requires experience and dedication. So, I'd recommend this only for 8m and above dishes. Interferometry with 2x1m dishes (20 GHz) is rather interesting, but very involved in terms of analysis. Two receiving systems help mitigate local fluctuations, and with that setup, we can observe sources down to 2 Jy (with a looong integration time). This setup will give you access to one or two handful of interesting targets like M1, W51 or Cyg A. Finally, I'd like to recommend the EUCARA conference series (European Conference on Amateur Radio Astronomy) and the SARA group as great starting points. They have conference presentations available online that show what other amateurs are doing. 

The Sculptor Dwarf Galaxy is a small satellite Galaxy of the Milky Way. There are many such satellites galaxies and I'm trying to compile basic data on them. However, I can't find an estimate for the number of stars in the Sculptor Dwarf (and many other satellite galaxies too). I'm disappointed that Wikipedia doesn't have this basic information, and that makes me suspicious that estimating the number of stars in other galaxies is not very easy or reliable for current astronomy. Googling these things has resulted in nothing but a bunch of pop science sites...which is no surprise except that these sites don't seem to have the number of stars either. This lack of basic data is surprising and only adds to me worries that no reliable estimates exist. Can anyone find a link to this info? It would also be very helpful to point me to a database that has the number of stars for all galaxies in the local group, if such a database exists. 

In radio astronomy, many common objects are refered to by their designation from the 3rd Cambridge Catalogue of Radio Sources, e.g. 3C 353. For hobbyist purposes, I would like to create a catalogue for Cartes du Ciel that shows the location of the 3C objects. However, the catalogue exists in three versions, 3C from 1959 being the original, and 3CR (1962) and 3CRR (1983) updating the original. Later surveys at different frequency bands used similar designations, e.g. 4C, 5C and so on. Looking at the databases linked above, however, it seems that both only list the updates to the original catalogue (e.g. 3C 353 is listed in neither of them). Is there a digitized, comprehensive catalogue of all 3C objects? Or, even better, is there an archive where I could combine entries from several C surveys based on, say, 21cm flux?