This way the big part of the VM needs to be copied only once to every host and the differencing part will be synced via Dropbox. You just need to place the parent disk file(s) intelligently, as the differencing disk in the Dropbox links to the parent disk on the hose, so the parent disk has to have the (symlinked) same path on all hosts. As I mentioned, I’m currently just setting this up and haven’t solved the problem that each differencing disk split file gets up to 2GB and thus the syncing would again perform really bad. I think is able to adjust the size of the a split disk, but I can’t confirm this at the moment and also don’t know how the VM performs with small split disk parts. (I’ll update this, when I get to know more.) 

I don’t know ESX, but on ESXi you can edit its network settings with connected KVM by pressing F2. Or on older ESXi you could press Alt+F1 to enter the local console as described here. 

This question may be a bit old, but I just ran across this as I’m currently setting up some similar thing (syncing one VM across multiple hosts via Dropbox) and discovered that my approach is not mentioned here: 

Create a VM with a single HDD, split into 2GB files Create a snapshot (now all new changes will be written to a second, differencing disk file) Move the whole VM without the original/parent disk file (but including the new differencing disk) to the Dropbox Manually copy the original/parent disk file to every host where you want to run the VM 

Nice summary, HopelessN00b! I’d like to add the following, regarding the operation of two 2012 Essentials in parallel (which I wish I had known before I purchased two of them): First: As you already mentioned, Essentials needs to be a Domain Controller, i.e. it must have the DC role installed and properly configured, otherwise it shuts itself down every 7 days. (If it’s installed but not configured properly it shuts down every 31 days.) Second: There can be only one Essentials on your (discoverable) network. If you run another one on the same network they’ll find each other (via NetBIOS?) and one of them shuts down. You can, however, run an Essentials side by side with an Windows Server Standard (2008/2012 doesn’t matter) without problems and even connect their Domain Controllers, as long as the Essentials has the primary DC role. BTW: In my tests, it turned out you actually can connect two Essentials’ DC roles to one Standard DC without them shutting down each other, but as only one of them can have the primary DC role, the other one will shutdown itself within 31 days (as it’s not properly configured regarding the license requirements). Of course, if you’d dig yourself through the whole Essentials licensing documentation, you’d find those information, but if you’re like me think »I don’t need all those Standard features, I just want a small server for XY« this could easily get you in the same trouble as I got. Hope this saves someone some days (and money, as there is no upgrade pricing from Essentials to Standard.) 

I have 3 servers with 2012 R2 RDS Session Host, where my users log on. I have 4 printers. What is best practice to deploy these 4 printers to my users?... 

How can I delete the Exchange Security Group? How can make sure, my old Exchange server isn't discovered? 

If I delete the printers and log off and back on, all the printers are popping up again. Sigh! This is driving me nuts. This script doesn't show any of the "SVFREJA" printers... 

(sry for the big picture) My problem is not with the "redirected" printers, my problem is that I have several printers with the same name (on SVFREJA) and I can't get rid of them. Any idea why I can't get rid of the "ophaned" printers?? 

My RDS clients (Win 8.1) needs to use Web Cam (in Lync) on their Win2012R2 RDS (Session Host). How do I set this up? I've found several of articles online, but they are all for Win2008R2. Is it still by using RemoteFX? Thanks 

Using GPO shared printers or Deploy Printer? Use GPO "User configuration" or "Computer configuration"? Should I remove printers when user logs off - if so how should I do this? 

I've tried Google it, but has found a solution. I've also deleted all DNS records of the server. Questions: 

I've set up a Win2012R2 RDS Session Host farm. Only some users must be allowed to log on outside our network (external) while everybody must be allowed to logon on internal network. How can I do this? 

When my users opens RdWeb (eg. from home) and enter their credentials, then they are presented with this dialog... 

I deleted my old server with my Exchange server - I did not uninstall Exchange first, so I'm afraid that some stuff still floating around about my old exchange server. We've moved to Exchange Online (Office 365), but when a client of mine tries to set up Outlook, it discovers my old server which doesn't exists anymore. In ADSI I've deleted... 

I have several users using RDS to my Windows Server 2012 R2. Only one of my users have this problem... He can't click the start button. If he hover the start button, it flickers. Furthermore if he minimize apps, then he can't click them in the taskbar to restore the apps window state. I have many user on the same box, but it is only 1 user having this problem. Any idea how to fix this? 

Problem solved by calling MS. They changed CAP and RAP to default values and lowered the security on collection to low. Furthermore I found out it's only possible to use collection by using webaccess. I thought I could use Remote Desktop App and the broker address as "Computer Address", but that's not possible. 

If you control the application, you have a couple of options. If it's web-based, you could launch the URL without a location to menubar using a JavaScript link like: 

Given that you indicate you are copying to E:\Backups that it represents another server, it sounds like you are using mapped drives. Whatever agent you are using is probably being run in non-interactive logon mode, which precludes the use of mapped drives. I suggest you try to use UNC paths instead, ex: \\servername\backups 

You should use a UNC to the directory to which you want to backup. ex: Since mapped drives are only created on an interactive logon, if you schedule a backup to a mapped drive, the service account will not have access to it and fail. I can only presume this is why Microsoft excludes them from this dialog. 

We're planning a roll-out of MS Lync without the telephony, for at least the time being. The presence indicators in Outlook and SharePoint include links to call telephone numbers (Call Home..., Call Work..., Call Mobile...) in addition to the voice chat (Call Name). Invoking the first set will fail since we are not integrated with the phone system. Note: These links are only appearing in the presence indicator, not in the Lync client itself. Is there any way to disable/remove the links for the telephone numbers, while keeping the links for the voice chat? 

Beyond space, there are at least a couple of reason why rack mount servers are desirable. First, it is easier to implement air circulation and cooling systems when you can control the airflow by closing the gaps between machines. This would not be easy to do with non-standardized case sizes. Second, some might find it helpful to be able to physically secure a group of machines via a locking rack. There's probably more, but space would be the primary. 

Is it possible to require Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) be enabled for specific/all IAM accounts in Amazon Web Services? There are options for password requirements and it's clear how one can choose to add it to one's account, but it's not clear if there is an option to force users to have MFA. 

After a bit of looking around, it appears that the answer is "kind of". In IAM, an administrator can configure a MFA for another IAM user. Although this may be a bit tricky if you are setting up a virtual MFA, it's possible. Then, if the user has not been granted permissions to update/remove their MFA, it is effectively required. While I have not yet determined the complete list of actions that should be denied (or simply not granted), this post seems to have the information, and I will update this answer once I have tested it. [Update] I was able to setup users as power-users (thereby not granting them access to an IAM functions, although I'm sure you could get more granular), and implement their MFA with them. Using this methodology, they will be unable to disable it.