Setting In the near future a group of explorers land on Mars and proceed to explore the cave system under Pavonis Mons. While exploring the gigantic interior of the lava tube, sensors indicate the presence of an unexpected kind of emission. Using remote probes they detect radiation levels that are safe for humans - but still, being on the safe side, they continue to explore using drones only. They manage to locate the source while exploring the deepest parts of the cave system. As they send in a tethered drone packed full of sensors (CCDs, spectrometers, radiation detectors, environmental detectors and atmospheric detectors, among others) a huge stream of data start to pour from the sensors into the expedition computers as the science officer orders it to focus on a central piece standing atop what looks like a obsidian pillar; It clearly look like an artificial object. The drone maintain its emotionless glare as the science officer asks for a few more minutes to analyze the incoming data, followed by a request for a couple more hours - and finally another for a day. The science team then communicates to mission command, to the shock of all involved personnel, that the data points to an extra-galactic origin. Question: How could they, based on remote sensory information only, reach this conclusion? Assume: 

By using the universal language of Love "You look kinda down, Jimmy." He (it?) immediately recognized the guttural voice. "Oh, hi Pappy. It's just that... oh, nevermind." "Let me guess: You want to play with the mortal inhabitants of Earth. Am I right?" "Well, yeah." He (it?) looked gloomily towards the ball, and gave it a push with the tentacle closest to it. "I see," said the voice, approaching the youngling. "Well, I'll teach you a trick I taught your cousin a long time ago. He wanted exactly the same thing - can you imagine? He may look all busy and important, but deep down he just wanted to be loved and have someone to play with him as well." That piqued the young Eldritch Monstrosity's attention. Pappy smiled(?). "You see, the trick is to understand them. Like delicate toys, you need to care for them. They're skittish, so don't show yourself at first. They're curious beings, though: leave clues, and tell them about yourself at a gentle pace. That will get a few of them acquainted to you - some can't, but some will. And they'll come to you, wanting to play with you. Reward those, so others can see their happiness and desire to join the fun. They're fragile, and may catch a mind-disease or two, so make sure you inoculate them against most mind-germs. Do these things, and I'm sure you'll have a bunch of new mortal friends to play ball with in no time." Jimmy looked pensive for a while, but then his appendages erected in excitement. "Wow, Pappy, I think you are right! I'll try that, thanks!" Pappy observed satisfied as Jimmy teared space and time itself, rushing with new purpose. He truly loved his great-great-grandson. 

As part of Fortnightly topic challenge #3: Creature Design I am looking for a realistic way to create a particularly nasty creature. What I would like: 

Shields are great for covering distance while under fire, that would be their primary use in the period you describe. They are also exceptionally useful in formation, you know, a phalanx or tetsudo. With mid to late medieval tech these types of formations would have limited usage. But I can see a walled city's gate going down and the attackers facing a line of armed, shielded knights. As mentioned before blunt weapons do serious damage to an egg...er knight. Either way they end up scrambled. As you mentioned landing a two handed blow is still the way to go. 

Given that life develops to the levels we are talking in the first place these don't really make things much different other than it will take more time for the species to colonize and explore their entire planet. So yes given that a humanoid species developed (intelligence wise...their anatomy would still be very different). It would be a matter of time until they looked to the stars. This of course depending on them having the natural resources to do so. 

The only way this is going to be possible/practical is if water is constantly available in your desert, which is a little counter intuitive. A couple options 

Additionally you need a transfer medium for your information. I would suggest some form of electro-chemical transmission, ants already use chemical trails to mark paths and others to announce intruders...but those aren't real precise...sapience is going to require more precision. In nature, energy efficiency is paramount. The more complicated the creature the less energy efficient it becomes. Complex organs and systems require far more upkeep and energy. They just happen to offset the energy requirement by increasing the creature's survivability. Size is an issue here...any organ(s) is going to require energy to maintain it and keep it functioning...can an ant maintain the level of energy required to support such a communication method? So. To wrap up you need to. 

The Moon IS the weapon The Eel people agrees immediately, which confuses the lizard people. 'We're their betters, and they know it', say a Hawk lizard in triumph; the Dove lizards aren't so sure, but can't put a finger on it. The Eel people asks for more time - there's a lot of eels to move around, you see. given the swift acceptance, the lizards add another year out of 'condescending acknowledgement'. (Or maybe that's a condition: 'If you give us two years, we'll accept your terms.') The Eel people starts moving to the moon. One day before the 2-year period expires, they issue an ultimatum: The Lizard people must now pay tribute, or face consequences. The lizard people laugh it off in disbelief. A couple of hours later, their military centers are vaporized. At the end of the day they capitulate, with minimal loss of civilian lizard life. The Eel people now rules the system. How, you ask? They cut hundreds, maybe even thousands of large chunks (10-tons or more) of moon-rock and put it in orbit around the Lizard planet with the help of rockets, or a highly precise mass driver build on the moon's surface. Less gravity means less fuel to move things around, and you have two years to position them. Using simple ballistic calculation, they can make them drop over military bases, cities and other strategic points. Once these enormous kinetic projectiles start falling, they can't be stopped. (Just as a comparison, a 10-ton falling rock from around our Moon's orbit (384,400km) would carry the energy equivalent of roughly 627 Hiroshima atomic bombs.) Disclaimer: Idea totally stolen from 'The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress' by Robert A. Heinlein. I used this calculator for kinetic energy evaluation. 

Floor Metal Plate 02, Filter Forge, CC BY 2.0 I know, not really 'gravity', but hey - Nostromo wasn't any space Ferrari either. Advantage: UHV-free proposal. 

Should it be done... If you simply must have this city, it demands magic, and not the kind where we have to discuss conservation of energy etc. The magic is necessary for a couple things. 

The US military is arguably the best in the world...and generally (Vietnam excluded) has enjoyed popular support. (if you want to argue ping me in chat) With that in mind here is a chart of defense spending for the US military in the 20th Century: Clearly during peacetime spending drops rather drastically, it did so especially during the era of total wars, which is the type of war it sounds like you are planning for. While well trained and experienced today, even the US military is not trained/manned/equipped for a total war. Your planetary government would not support a standing military, let alone a large well trained military during peace-time. So experience is a problem yes, but having a large standing force trained in the basics is also implausible. The second issue is military technology. Again, with no driver for development for over half a millenia odds are things have not progressed significantly. Perhaps technology has but its application for war and proven effectiveness just wouldn't be there. 

Final Notes: On the nature of power. Power in a modern geopolitical sense is often broken down into a few parts. 

If on the other hand they hand they are willing to bend the rules a bit they could define pacifism as I will cause no direct harm to any other creature. Well now we have some wiggle room for them to defend themselves. In this case they would need to rely on geography and traps, or mercenaries, probably best to go with both. A small area surrounded by lava works nicely (I may have been playing mine craft lately...). But if they can hire mercs to keep an eye on things and can also make it perilous to get near their village/town/whatever, they should be able to survive as well as anyone else. 

(Assuming average word length in English (according to Wolfram Alpha): 5, ASCII representation of a single character: 8 bits) So yes, books are very slow bandwidth, but hey, they work. So the answer to: 

Of course! Both Arctic and Antarctic midnight suns stay in the sky for 6 months, alternating: $URL$ Quote from Wikipedia: 

Prologue A kid finds an abandoned iPhone. Excited, he picks it from the floor. As the camera focus on his face, we can hear Siri saying... 

LOTS. Let's forget for a second that we're talking about creatures, and just assume that our focus is Von Neumann machines. Quoting Wikipedia, 

He woke and found himself lying in bed. At first he thought that he had slept late, after a long unpleasant dream that still hovered on the edge of memory. He opened his eyes to an unknown ceiling. 'We are in the House of Healing, Dae son of Aik,' he heard a familiar voice say. 'We're back home.' 'Hidr!...' he shouted, but only a mewling left his lips. 'Shh, rest now. You have been asleep for three days; your body is broken, and it's a miracle that it survived that long. But your feats of courage where witnessed by all, and this morning the Voice of Malik called for you. Today you join the Immortals,' She said, that lovely smile in her face. They won. He would join his famous grand-grand-grand-grand-grandfather among the sacred warriors of Malik. And, most important of all - she survived. And the kiss they shared afterwards would be the last he would experience while still breathing. 

So higher intelligence would correspond to a higher capability in information perception and in cross-correlation in order to derive possible outcomes, and transcribe these as behaviors. Let's pick humans for example. Its units do show fairly decent processing capabilities, and stores information in both transient internal (as in, personal experiences) and permanent external (books, movies, oral tradition, etc.) memories. Now, for communication - here's some human bandwidth measurements: