You're very close to exactly right. There's one (very) fine distinction to be made in what you write, however. Kant didn't necessarily mean to say that the categories were innate in us. Rather, he meant that any experience requires categories to exist, if an experience is ever to be had at all. I don't have a copy of Kant's CPR right here, so you'll need to verify this for yourself in the literature. It's a very narrow distinction, but very important for clearly grasping the concept of the "deduction" part of his argument. Whether this implies that categories must, in fact, be innately held prior to having experience by us -as perhaps encoded in the brain for example- or whether experiences have categories as a property in and of themselves, will almost certainly guarantee an interesting evening at any dinner table that has a sufficient number of both metaphysicians and bottles of wine. 

...and so on. If you just look at the statement alone, though, it's only making one mistake. I can demonstrate as a haiku: I've x'ed in the past, Thus I'll x in the future. Gambler's Fallacy. It's the classic Humean problem, that outcomes of the past dictate - or even relate - to outcomes in the future. The rest is just additional evidence, there to obfuscate the answer by distracting you from the logical statement. Suppressed evidence, and similar charges related to the additional information are only rhetorical fallacies, not necessarily logical ones. 

This is a vague question as stated, and I'm afraid I can only narrow it down by throwing together what I think are related ideas: that there may be a differential use of "f*** you" in a particular conversation against someone in one of a couple cases. There are, first, clearly invalid uses, such as attempts to silence an opponent or just in the manner of standard ad hominem attacks, but then there's other cases where I might be tempted to think an f-bomb both appropriate and justified, such as 

All this is, is a way of stating very specifically that the laws of nature are just those laws which are our own laws of nature, for the actual world. If we're talking about possible other sets of laws, such as a possible world P where photons experience relativistic effects (e.g., in Greg Egan's The Clockwork Rocket), then our speed of light is a law of nature, and the laws governing light for P are not. It's an astoundingly complicated way to make what may seem to be a trivial statement, but Van Inwagen is concerned with preserving substantive possible outcomes of human decisions. Putting this in the verbiage of modal realism is hard work, but what he wants to say is that determinism is false. If determinism was true, then any possible world could not have all and only the same laws as our world. It would require some other law of nature to obtain for it to be some world other than our actual world. Thus there must be a real set of natural laws which can "lead to" more than one possible world (loosely speaking), if determinism is false. 

From your response to Michael's comment, I think I see what you're looking for, and why it's confusing. There's no current "list" of meanings for the word "intention", as you'll probably find that such a list will be exactly as long as the number of philosophers there are. However, there are two broad senses in which the word gets thrown around, and it's clear you want only one of them. Most of us here at this site, when hearing "intention" will immediately think of intentionality, which is an unfortunate piece of philosophical jargon that gets newcomers very confused. I've heard it said that the word is just a poor translation from German (Husserl's word was "Intentionalität"), but regardless of it's origin, the term corresponds roughly to the actual, subjective perception of a thing's qualities: the "redness" of the color red, or the intense smelliness of an acrid smell. The idea being reached for is what a given perception is about- that is, the perception's content. For this reason some people replace the term "intentionality" with "about-ness". I'm fairly certain from your response that you want nothing to do with intentionality. Instead, it's clear that you want a way of recognizing what it means for someone to intend something, in the way that you intended a certain meaning by your question here. If I'm right, and I've successfully accomplished what you want your program to achieve - that is, to recognize what you intend - then I'd hazard to say that what you're looking for isn't intention per se, but a philosophical description of will. At least, it seems to me that you're looking for a way of capturing the algorithm we all supposedly use to recognize when someone else has a desire for some outcome, and is making an effort of some kind to acheive that outcome. The notion that "will" captures in philosophic discussion is a much better fit than "intention" for your search. -- Edited -- I'm trying to separate the verb to intend from the noun intention in order to distinguish between the subjective, first-person sense of having an intention towards a thing (which is to say that person intends a thing), and the objective, observable state of an organism's brain while that intention is being had. To recognize the subjective, mental intention of another person is either impossible or currently unrealizable, so the latter sense of there being an observable part of an intention must be what we're talking about. To clarify, take the following cases: 

Andy intends to raise his hand the moment Barbara stops speaking. Andy shuffles in his seat as he waits for Barbara to stop speaking. 

So far, I've only been able to dig up a partial footnote by Kripke in his essay "Wittgenstein on Rules and Private Language" where he tantalizingly writes that 

Goodness, no. Don't ever rely on Wikipedia for accurate philosophy-related information. That said, I think everyone here would recommend plato.stanford.edu as a resource, but your current question's easy enough to answer. Firstly, they are all different, but you're right in picking out the relationship between circular reasoning, tautologies, and (some) paradoxes. They are all similar in that they refer to themselves in some way. However, What makes them clearly different from one another is the nature of this reference. Tautologies have the simplest relation. They are statements which must be true by virtue of what they say, such as "all unmarried men are bachelors", or "mortal creatures die." If you know the definition of the terms unmarried, men, and bachelors, or mortality and 'to die', then there is no further assessment you can make, and the statement is "trivially" true. We ought use the word "trivial" here because these statements contribute no new information.To assess the truth of these statements, I must must first consult the meanings of the terms used, but by acquiring the definition of the terms to evaluate the truth of the statement, I've already answered the question- so "that the statement is true" isn't itself even new information. Circular reasoning, on the other hand, occurs when someone wants to prove that a thing is true, but assumes that it's true as a condition for their argument. It results in the nasty problem of having the truth of an argument's conclusions resting on only the results of the conclusions, instead of separate premises that can be independently verified. The classic example is Descartes, who claims 1) He has "clear and distinct" ideas, and when ideas are clear and distinct, it means they cannot be doubted. 2) Because he has a clear and distinct idea of God, thus God cannot be doubted. 3) Why does he know that clear and distinct ideas are true? Because they must be given by God, and God wouldn't lie. 4) Therefore, *clear and distinct ideas cannot be doubted. And so the circle goes on... Paradox, on the other hand, comes in different flavors. The word is used in a looser sense to indicate that there is a state of affairs other than we would expect, but this sense is not the one which is similar to the others. Self-referential paradoxes are the wicked creatures here. These kinds of paradoxes exist when an argument contradicts itself. Contradiction is simply one statement which makes another false. "All ravens are black" is contradicted by evidence of a white raven. So a paradox is similar to circular reasonin in that the result of an argument has an impact on the truth of one of the premises, but this impact is negative instead of affirmative. Typical examples of this are "I am a Creatn, and all Cretans always lie." If the statement is true, then it must be that the person saying it is lying. If it is the case that the statement is a lie, and false, then the speaker is telling the truth. "Dialectical" is in a different category altogether. It's not a descriptive term about an argument's validity, but instead is a method for argumentation- one that involves a back-and-forth conversation of challenges and counterchallenges to a claim or statement, with the goal of arriving at or approaching the truth of or refinement of the claim being made. Just read anything by Plato to see how it's done, but I would specifically endorse reading Meno for an xplicit use of the method in teaching and learning. For more information on how to separate these things, try Baggini's "The Philosopher's Toolkit", or Schaum's Outlines - the one on Elementary Logic (workbook). All of these terms are defined in fill and far more clearly than I can hope to on SE. I hope I've made their differences a little clearer, though.