A Barlow lens doesn't multiply the focal length of your eyepiece, it multiplies the focal length of your telescope. Example: Let's use a telescope of 1000mm focal length. 8" f/5 Newtonian, for example. And you have a 10mm and 25mm Eyepiece and a 3x barlow. Then the barlow turns these 1000mm into 1000 x 3 = 3000mm focal length. The magnification is always: FL telescope / FL eyepiece. That means, with the barlow, you have 3000 / 10 = 300x magnification or 3000 / 25 = 120 x magnification. Without barlow it's 100x (10mm) and 40x (25mm) An eyepiece is a magnification lense. You can put two eyepieces on top of each other. You just won't see anything useful with that. Lens systems are carefully designed to result in an eyepiece that works. Eyepieces with a bigger focal length give smaller magnification. 

Unless you happen to watch a nuclear explosion or a gamma ray burst or anything like that (very, very unlikely), no ordinary object in the night sky reflects or emits enough light to damage your eyes or fry your chip. Partly because they are very far away. The only thing in the sky that can and will do that is the sun. So if you are watching at night, you are perfectly safe. So is your camera. What can happen is that watching the moon or Jupiter can wreck your eye's ability to view faint or dim objects. Eyes need up to 30 minutes (give or take) to adapt to solid darkness. Brighter objects will partly or completely reset that ability so you have to wait a while until your eyes are truly sensitive again. Imagine this: The moon is the brightest thing in the night sky. You can watch it all night long. If you use a bigger telescope, a gray filter might be nice, but it's not bright enough to heat your eyeballs. Numbers on the internet range between 1/400000 and 1/1000000 as bright as the sun. 

I am interested in current estimate of distribution of planets of various radii in various distances from their parent star. There is many sources, where one can find database of presently known exoplanets, for example exoplanets.org, www.openexoplanetcatalogue.com and others. However, the known exoplanets are, of course, subject to conditional probability of detection by various methods. One cannot take the database as representative distribution, because, for example, hot Jupiters or big planets in general would be greatly overestimated. What are the best resources to obtain current unbiased estimates of exoplanet radii and distances? 

Is there freely available and reliable source, where one can find positions of planets and moons of the Solar system at given time in cartesian coordinates? (I am writing a simple gravity simulator and it would save me a lot of work with conversion.) 

There is an interesting discussion about whether there could be life on Saturn's moon Titan. (For example here.) The life could use reaction of hydrogen and acetylene which are being produced by photolysis in Titan's atmosphere. I would like to know what total energy is available for such life per square meter per day, or at least how much hydrogen is produced in Titan's atmosphere per day. There are some estimates in article McKay and Smith, Icarus, 2005, but I have problem translating the quantities they use for the estimate to total amount of hydrogen produced per unit of time or energy produced per unit of time. 

Eyepieces are carefully designed. They try to achieve a sharp image with good contrast over a wide field of view. Even the simplest eyepieces of type Huygens consist of two lenses that match up. Good eyepieces can have 7 or more lenses. In the end every eyepiece is a fancy magnifying glass, so your CD ROM lens will work. It will just not make for a good image. It'll be much worse than the 10/25mm Plössl eyepieces that so many sell for cheap or sometimes even give away. They sell them for cheap because even though they are much better than any single lens, they are still on the lower end of the quality spectrum. Another problem is: the CD ROM lens has a tiny focal length which will result in very high magnification and a very dark image. A rule of thumb says: twice your mirror diameter in mm is about the useful upper limit for magnification. If you have an 8" reflector, that would be 200mm x 2 = 400x. Nonetheless an interesting experiment. You can try to put a cardboard ring in front of your telescope to give it a longer focal ratio. It might help a little while costing a lot of light and resolution. You can see 5 planets without any magnification. To see details, I'd say the fun starts at around 150-200x even though they appear as a disc at much lower magnification. 

No - the decreasing energy in the CMB is already well modeled in the Friedmann equations. The term in the density parameter that is proportional to $a^{-4}$ is the contribution of radiation energy density to the evolution of the universe, the term proportional to $a^{-3}$ is matter density (mostly dark, but includes ordinary matter), $a^{-2}$ is the contribution of the curvature of space-time itself, and the term without any factors of $a$ is the contribution of dark energy. The size of the radiation density, today, is already a small fraction of the matter density (about 0.03% of the matter density, 0.01% of the density of the universe overall - ordinary matter is about 5% overall). The last time the energy density in the radiation fields was the same size as what's in the matter fields was around $z=3,300$. I also disagree with @J.Chomel's answer - the energy stored in the radiation field is decreasing. Then energy density in the radiation field scales like $a^{-4}$, and the volume scales like $a^3$. Since the total energy is the energy density times the volume, the total energy scales like $a^{-1}$, just as you would expect with the number of photons being fixed, but the energy in each photon scaling as $a^{-1}$ as the wavelength increases. 

Your question is difficult to answer exactly, because it touches the question of consciousness, which is problematic in general. But the answer is basically this: Theory of relativity describes the space-time as four-dimensional space that exists as a whole. You are described by a world-line, which contains all states you go through from birth to death. There is many slices, which describe "you" in different times. What you can see is given by what information reached your sensory inputs (your senses) and how they are processed by your brain. The brain creates a model of reality based on your sensory inputs, which is stored in space-like slice of your world-line in the space-time, which we call present. This is what "you" can see. So the reason basically is in how the brain processes the data it is getting. Along you world-line, there is many versions of you at different ages and each version feels its own present and the versions more in the future also have memories of the past (because the brain stores the past sensory inputs). There is no single "present time" in the theory of relativity, only the space-time as a whole. But you should't forget that the theory of relativity is still only a very well working model. Even within the theory of relativity, the question whether space-time exists as a whole, or whether there is "present state", which evolves in time, is rather philosophical than scientific, because there is no observable difference between the two.