Given the ways we have chosen to frame relativity and thermodynamics, we have backed ourselves into a place where information is already a subject of physics. The infamous Hawking equation that indicates black holes eat themselves involves information as a primary factor. But that does not mean we are headed back to anything like Lucretian atoms. We can frame the part of a control equation that is guided by information as a field effect from a different kind of 'substance', if we really want to. But we cannot jump from there back to the notion that there are consciousness or entropy 'particles', in the same way there are plasma particles or gravitons. We see what entropy is, and it spreads by sheer combinatorics, not particle exchange. His hierarchy of relations (which just seems to be Leibniz's with better knowledge of physics) captures this, and betrays the idea this is a state of matter. Besides, we know that the small, smooth things that allow us to perceive are metallic ions in nerve channels. To indicate that information is a real part of physics does not mean neurology is false. We know what yellow is, and it is not a wavelength of light, or any other single physical thing, because we can use mixtures of other colors to make it up. The idea that qualia encode wide ranges of physical causes in the same way prevents them from being physically represented by identifiable mediating particles. The information still needs to be mediated by all the effects we observe it working through, unless we decide God is prone to joshing us to a degree that is just plain mean. Big swathes of psychoanalysis, including the one I was trained into, do maintain that order is communicated and held trans- or interpersonally, and that it may therefore be thought of as a substance independent of an animal base. But this notion of substance is not the same notion of substance as we seen in the four states of matter. At best, it is a form of substance related to energy, which is indirectly a form of matter, but the framing in this paper is just misleading in a very basic way. One would never assume 'solidity' or 'gaseousness' to be a direct factor shaping the Hamiltonian of a system, as one might see energy. So his explanatory approach and his stated framing don't even match. 

No, it is the same as that in "we have laws" or "we have nations". By the laws we do not mean their impressions upon paper, we mean the expectation they encode. Likewise, by a nation we do not mean its people. When all the Romans had passed away, there was still Rome as an exemplar 'nation' upon which other nations built their legal systems, and even their languages. These things are not physical objects, they are abstractions that hold our expectations of how things should happen -- they reify social processes. They are 'the content of language-games', which occupy one side of a natural duality between things and the rules we insist upon applying to them. 

Starhawk argues, from a basis in traditional pacifism and radical feminism, that rich and poor, even defined in terms of 'needs' remain a false dichotomy founded on an artificial notion of scarcity. For her, this is the ultimate combined source and cause of our difficulty accounting the lasting costs of war and the value of care-giving in our society. Without a constant fear of scarcity, we have no historical evidence that people measure their 'means' against their 'needs'. Among various pre-modern cultures we see that although people have private property, they still share resources as they become available, even if the structure is time-based trading or other 'lightweight' versions similar to modern economy. In such a culture, a community may be in good or bad stead, but it is not rich or poor, just currently lucky or unlucky. One may plan to do the best with what is given, saving and managing resources. But there is no objective measure of too much or not enough, because needs are flexible and can reduce as needed to survive difficulty or increase as allowed in a way that enables future austerity, and value is relative as different things are more or less available at different times. When there is 'too much' or 'not enough', only an economic perspective sees this as a gap between resources and needs, because neither of those can be honestly quantified. Other streams of history express these as periods where life is easy or difficult, and more or fewer people survive, not periods where groups or individuals are rich or poor. What really matters in life is reduced to these two abstractions by this differentiation, which would not exist otherwise. If we did not measure 'what matters' in this way, we would realize that a large quantity of what really keeps us alive is provided by discoveries, efforts and actions that take place outside the economy. In those terms one may be both rich and poor simultaneously. So in any honest accounting, there is no dichotomy here. And while in economic theory this mismatch can be addressed through trade, giving us a single scale that is simply in flux, in reality we can attempt to control things like river courses or pollution, good or bad family culture, rising water and excess rain through markets and timely intervention. But we ultimately fail. In the U.S. even in Texas, one of our most conservative pro-market and anti-interventionist states, water rights are communal because you can be rich in everything else, and if someone sucks up all your water upstream, you are concurrently poor to the point you cannot survive a season. 

This is logical, because if I am already killing, it is no longer possible for me not to be killing, and "should implies can". 

This is primarily a genetic fallacy: you are deciding that origin or position explains outcomes. But then you are layering on the assumption that correlation implies causation. C.S. Lewis suggested this use of a genetic fallacy to hide another simple fallacy was so common in use that it needed a name of its own. He decided to call it Bulverism. 

History suggests this question is really a 'category error' in which an unanswerable question arises from asking about the value of a property that the thing being asked about cannot have. It is not wise to pointlessly apply human concepts to God. There are long traditions of not attributing to God whatever can be avoided. You can expect trouble applying limiting notions to what is by definition unlimited. And we are not good at realizing that most of our notions are limiting. Things like motion are especially ill-fitting to any sort of defined perfection. They lead us directly into paradoxes. Looking at them too closely yields, e.g. Zeno's paradox. Why would any concept with internal flaws of its own be an attribute of any kind of perfect being? Particularly, from a Kantian point of view, space and time do not accord perfectly with logic. They produce 'antinomies' like the impossibility of time either beginning or not beginning. So they are not absolute and do not apply to all things. Kant decides ultimately that those concepts, and therefore the concept of movement, which is just the combination of the two, are limiting principles that humans generate to organize their own perception. Movement is not a universal concept, and it does not apply to non-animal sorts of intelligence like God. Going back even further, Augustine had already suggested that God is outside time on more basic theological grounds. If God is always the same, he must already remember the future, for discovering it would alter him. Therefore God does not experience time. If he does not experience time, how would we describe him as moving or standing still? We might do so from our own perspective, but He could not agree. Why argue with God? So there are at least three traditional reasons to insist this question has no answer. 

Popper himself believed that Darwin does not fit his criterion, but that it appears to be useful scientifically. Today it is basically invaluable to several important subfields of biology. He admits this cannot be explained on his proposed basis, and is not crushed. (So your answers are 'yes', 'no', and 'yes'. To the extent it is falsifiable, it has been disproven by his own observation. And to the extent he kept supporting it as valuable anyway, it must not have been meant to be falsifiable.) So, evidently, the proposition has exceptions, and there are other ways of providing scientific value, even in Popper's own estimation. Lakatos, coming immediately after Popper, emphasized that Popper's criterion is good in spirit, but that theories can abide a certain limited range of exceptions as long as nothing truly better and equally simple comes along. In fact, he gave historical examples of theories that continue to protect themselves from known counterexamples almost indefinitely, without becoming truly compromised. There is a difference between admitting a range of exceptions and admitting tortured constructions that continually rescue the theory. Popper's main objection was to things like Marxism and Freudianism or religious impositions of Idealism on physics. We can accept his criterion as a 'smell' that makes us look for these distortions without simplifying the procedure of science into a mechanism that uses clean, potentially falsifiable hypotheses as its lynchpin. To my mind, we need to see Popper's criterion itself in slightly less rigid terms. It has become something one teaches dogmatically in schools, which is sad. Because it has come to pass that the view is held more tightly by Popper's adherents, including too many teachers of basic science, than Popper seems to have held it himself. 

NOW paid for legal suits to drop the draft. They continue this kind of work. It was/is gender oppression. And they once saw the end of this obviously gender-based oppression of men as a class as lying near enough to the core of feminism that they invested in it openly. There is a long thread in feminism that does not see women as the only ones oppressed by patriarchy. If women are not the oppressed class, then no particular aspect of only the position of women can be a part of the central problem. Period. So there is no productive role, when approached appropriately and freely, that is in itself intrinsically oppressive. Some extend this to rather ludicrous extremes. But they are not entirely wrong. To imagine that being a housewife is intrinsically oppressive would require that being a soldier is too. Nobody wants a world where only women can be military leaders, or where only men can be released from economic obligations and focus on their homes. Just as we cannot mandate that every soldier have children, we cannot mandate that every mother have a job. This notion that everyone needs to move to a middle ground where they combine family and work in a given way is not feminism, per se. It is a single solution, and not a very well considered one. It pushes into the economic sphere forms of labor that should not be subjected to the judgment necessary for economic quality: childrearing, care of the dying, religious duty, etc. One could claim that the incidental cruelty of modern agriculture proves this is true to some degree even of gardening and farming. This trend optimizes the ability of corporate, economic influence to extend more deeply and into our lives and to reshape our interpersonal connections and affectional lives more to its own liking. This state where everyone is financially embedded all the time for the vast majority of their lifetimes is not new, and it is not being newly introduced to women. Women at the rising edge of the lowest social class have always worked for money (or worked for others without involving money, as in tenant farming) on parallel tracks with their men, and sometimes right alongside them, in ways the higher classes could not understand. From a different view of patriarchy, that from pacifism, next to artificial war insinuating the elements of martial law into our culture, this is just the model that gives economics the most power over our lives. So it is being pressed upon us as the logical solution to patriarchy by an excessively powerful economic system. All previous productive roles are still viable and useful, and we need for those called to them to work to maintain them.