United Kingdom The rules for compensation in the UK were set out in the Compensation (Defence) Act 1939. These covered requisitions of land, vessels, vehicles and aircraft, compensation in respect of taking space or accommodation in ships and aircraft and finally, the catch-all 

So although their great coats are not mentioned, the fact that they "ran in amongst the Russians" does suggest that their attire may have caused some confusion. 

These new Norse kingdoms in what would become the Danelaw were pagan. We know that there were raids from these kingdoms into the remaining Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. It is probably appropriate to refer to these raiders as "Vikings". They did attack monasteries, they were certainly "pagan", although perhaps not necessarily "foreign". 

As it says on the coin, the portrait is the German poet, philosopher, physician, historian, and playwright Friedrich Schiller. Schiller's portrait was replaced by that of Paul von Hindenburg from 1935-1939. 

Source From a talk on Wikipedia titled About King of Hungary, of Dalmatia, and of Croatia nominal titles attached to Spanish Crown (not Bohemia). Testament of Charles V we see the following: 

It is this last aspect of "value" that fuels the market in illegal antiquities and has led to the looting of many ancient burial sites in Egypt - not just for ushabtiu, but also any other antiquities that can be stolen from the burials and sold. 

Information regarding mass murders of Jews began to reach the Allied leadership soon after the invasion of the Soviet Union in late June 1941. The volume of those reports increased with time. This was some six months before the Wannsee Conference and the formalisation of the Nazi's "Final Solution to the Jewish Problem". I'm not aware that this information was made public at that time. On 17 December 1942, the British Foreign Secretary, Anthony Eden, issued a proclamation on behalf of the "United Nations", condemning the "extermination" of the Jewish people in Europe and declared that they would punish the perpetrators. From that point, the general public were aware that the Nazis were murdering Jewish populations in the countries that they had invaded, but I don't think anyone really understood the the true horror until the camps were liberated by Allied forces. Anthony Eden's full statement and the House of Commons debate can be read on Hansard. 

Apart from these few exceptions, English monarchs seem to have been pretty scrupulous in their application of the law in these cases. Even Henry VIII had to follow a form of procedure (often through acts of attainder passed by Parliament). Of course, as @TheHonRose has pointed out in the comments above, Parliament was likely to do what it was told in the case of a powerful king like Henry VIII. Nevertheless, he still had to go through the process of the law to get what he wanted. 

It seems that while they were living at Bethesda, Harald attended the Whitehall School. They arrived in New York aboard the American Legion on 28 August. From late 1940 until 1945 the family lived in a house on a 105-acre estate named "Pook's Hill," in Bethesda. Several sites state that they lived there from October 1940, but do not quote sources. They were certainly living there by 12 November 1940, when the Pittston Gazette, and other newspapers, reported that President Roosevelt had visited for tea after laying the cornerstone of a new naval medical building at Bethesda. (That property had been purchased by the Norwegian government and would be sold in 1946.) So, they could not have lived at the White House for more than 2 months (late August to late October). It was probably rather less. 

The earliest evidence for keel-hauling that I'm aware of is actually from ancient Rhodes (~800BC) in the Lex Rhodia. There are also depictions of the practice known from ancient Greece (one is included as the frontispiece of Henry Omerod's Piracy in the Ancient World). As the Wikipedia page notes, the Dutch Navy introduced the punishment in an ordinance dated 1560, although it may have already been used prior to that date. They didn't actually abolish the practice until 1853. The keel-hauling of the ship's surgeon of Admiral Jan van Nes in the late 1600s was commemorated in a painting by Lieve Verschuier now held at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. Records of punishments meted out during a voyage would be recorded by the individual ship's Captains. As far as I'm aware, no serious analysis has yet been carried out on the surviving records. I believe these are held at the National Archives of the Netherlands, but are not available online (and would - obviously - be written in Dutch). The Royal Navy certainly did use it as a punishment, but I don't know how widespread the practice was. I've only seen a couple of instances (both were fatal). Again, instances of keel-hauling would be recorded in the individual ship's logs, together with the punishments meted out for other infractions. Many of these are held at the National Archives in Kew, as Captain's logs, Supplementary Logs, or Ships logs. Most of these would need to be viewed in person as they are not yet available online. (It will probably make for part of an interesting PhD research project for an aspiring historian some day). 

Click on the "election" link in the Wikipedia list of UK Parliaments for more details about each election. 

if the United States recognised Red China. Obviously, by visiting China in 1972, that was precisely what he did. 

A lot of filling stations were established during the first world war. There is a list of initials used by filling stations in 1918 in Explanatory List of Service Markings to be found on ammunition and ammunition packages in use with the Field Armies. 1918. Sadly, it doesn't include the markings on your shell casing. Unfortunately, I couldn't find an earlier edition online. The 1915 treatise on Ammunition from the War Office also has more detail about the 18-pounder ammunition. 

A further important factor that may have influenced Nero's decision is suggested the statement in Tacitus that he was worried about the negative effect of the publicity surrounding the executions. When Seneca's wife Pompeia Paullina attempted to emulate her husband's suicide, she was prevented from doing so on Nero's orders because he: 

tl;dr Was the loss of life in the Bengal famine of 1943 the largest British empire human loss in the Second World War? Yes, without doubt. Did Churchill expressly refuse to alleviate the famine with food aid, or veto US and Australian offers to send food? Absolutely not. The evidence shows that statement is completely untrue, although it might be argued that he might have done more to alleviate the situation, had he been blessed with the gift of 20/20 hindsight (like his modern critics). Indeed, as the historian Arthur Herman wrote: 

As to the question of why medieval Norsemen who visited North American were not credited with its "discovery", that is probably largely due to the prevailing attitudes in Christian Europe. Most texts were written by men of the Church (which brings us back to those "traditional structures of authority and knowledge" I mentioned above). Given the depredations of Viking raiders against Christian Abbeys and Monasteries, it is probably not surprising that they were rarely reported in a positive light. In all probability, few had even heard of the Norse sagas, even fewer thought they were worth recording. Because their settlements were ultimately unsuccessful, the story was simply lost. 

When attempting to understand a particular aspect of a specific period in history on the basis of its material culture, it is often helpful to consider assemblages of artefacts, rather than single artefacts in isolation. So we are often interested in groups of artefacts of a similar type from a broad historical (or prehistoric) period. This is why it is not unusual to see terms like "post-medieval or early modern period" in archaeological reports or databases. The distinctions can be useful when people search the databases by period to identify assemblages. That artefact will show in in searches for both "early modern" and "post-medieval". 

Baden-Powell had been besieged in the town of Mafeking during the Second Boer War. He had formed the Mafeking Cadet Corps, which was a group of youths that supported the defending troops by carrying messages and similar tasks. This freed up men for military duties and kept the boys occupied during the prolonged siege. Back in the UK, the newspapers, had followed the progress of the Siege of Mafeking. When the siege was broken, Baden-Powell became a national hero. On the back of this, people bought the small manual, Aids to Scouting, he had written some years earlier about military scouting and wilderness survival. This fuelled public interest in the subject of scouting. When he returned to the UK, Baden-Powell became involved with the Boy's Brigade, becoming a Vice President of the organisation in 1903. This was already a large youth organisation (in 1910, there were some 100,000 boys enrolled in about 2200 companies across the British Empire and the United States). When Baden Powell re-wrote his manual and published it as Scouting for Boys he fundamentally changed its ethos. He left out many of the military aspects and applied the techniques to other, non-military, heroes of the day like explorers and backwoodsmen. He also added the Scout Method which was an innovative, informal educational system intended to develop good character. Scouting for Boys was originally published as a six-part series in 1908, and contained activities and programmes intended for use by existing youth organisations. It was an immediate success, but it seems that Baden-Powell had no intention of setting up a separate and distinct movement at that point. "Scout patrols" which followed the principles set out in Baden-Powell's book were set up across the United Kingdom, and spread rapidly across the British Empire. The first Scout rally was held at Crystal Palace in London the following year. Some 11,000 Scouts attended - including some girls who dressed as Scouts and called themselves "Girl Scouts". When Baden-Powell left the army in 1910, he founded the Boy Scouts Association and, shortly afterwards, the Girl Guides. In reality though, both organisations already existed in nascent form. People were attracted by the chance to emulate their heroes, and also by the fact that Scouting emphasised more adventurous, outdoor games than were usual in other youth organisations of the time (like the Boy's Brigade, for example). Then, as now, the skills learned by Scouts were seen as fun. Initially, many groups made dual registrations with the Boy's Brigade and the Boy Scouts Association. This capitalised on the existing infrastructure and fuelled the rapid growth of the Scout movement. The fact that the Scout movement also catered for girls widened its appeal, since many of the youth movements up to that point had been for boys only. As noted above, the Girl Guides were formed by Baden-Powell and his sister, Agnes, just months after the Boy Scouts Association. (Agnes Baden-Powell would lead the Girl Guides until 1918 when Olave Baden-Powell took over as Chief Guide.) The programme offered by the Girl Guides was radically different from those being proposed by other organisations for girls at that time. For example, the precursors of the Girls' Brigade had the goal of: 

Wages were not just higher in England and the Low Countries than they were in the rest of Europe. They were also relatively high compared to the cost of living: 

Philip left Acre and returned to France via Genoa in August 1192. Richard continued with the crusade, eventually coming to terms with Saladin and signing a treaty in September 1192. Richard left the Holy Land a month later. 

Perhaps the best known manifestation of the Inquisition in the popular mind is the Spanish Inquisition, established in 1478. One of the earliest accounts came from a former Spanish secretary to the Inquisition named Juan Antonio Llorente (1756–1823). According to Llorente, nearly 32,000 “heretics” were burned at the stake during the Spanish Inquisition, and another 300,000 were put on trial and forced to do penance [Roth, 1964; p123]. Now, Llorente was an outspoken critic of the Spanish Inquisition and, although there are some who have argued that he actually underestimated the total number of deaths, there has been a tendency for modern historians to assume that his 32,000 figure is an exaggeration. The currently accepted view was set out by William Rubinstein in his 2004 book Genocide: 

The Indo-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation was signed in the aftermath of General Yahya Khan's imposition of martial law in Pakistan and Pakistan's military intervention and genocide in East-Pakistan. The Indian government clearly wanted to intervene in East Pakistan, if for no other reason than the growing humanitarian and economic crisis on its border. While they may have been confident of victory against Pakistani forces, the question of how China and the United States may have reacted would clearly have been a concern. This would have been particularly true in light of the defeat that India had suffered against China in 1962. The Indian government found the Soviet leadership open to negotiations on a treaty, and those negotiation culminated in the signing of the treaty on 9 August 1971. This sent a clear signal to Washington and Beijing (and may even have helped to hasten Nixon's visit to China in 1972). The Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 was fought in December of that year. 

A good recent book about the Egyptian pyramids is The Complete Pyramids, by Mark Lehner, who is currently in charge of the Giza Plateau Mapping Project. This book covers the history, building, and use of every major pyramid of ancient Egypt in some detail. 

In fact, there were surprisingly few extra-judicial executions after 1215. The exceptions seem to have been mostly during the Wars of the Roses (1455 - 1487). Richard Neville, 16th Earl of Warwick was allegedly executed following the Battle of Barnet (although this might be construed as being part of the battle), but his family were not targeted for revenge, despite his acts of rebellion. A more egregious case was that of William Hastings, 1st Baron Hastings, who was summarily executed without even a pretence of a trial by Richard, Duke of Gloucester (the future Richard III) in 1483. But even in this case, Richard made no effort to persecute Hastings' widow and children. In fact, Richard explicitly allowed Lady Hastings to retain her husband’s land and goods, with the sole exception of Hastings’ royal grants, which were seized and returned to the crown. 

There is further detail about the minor ports in a further table, although it doesn't provide a monthly breakdown: 

As a side note, and as noted in the comments below, the Queen's role as monarch of Canada is entirely separate from her role as the British monarch. She is Queen of the United Kingdom, and also, Queen of Canada by an act of the Canadian Parliament (The Royal Style and Titles Act). The fact that the Queen is head of state of both the UK and Canada (and also in 15 other Commonwealth nations) does not affect Canada's sovereignty as an independent country at all. 

Given all the above, it is hard to see what the source of the information in the Wikipedia page might be. For now, I'd be careful about reading too much into an unsourced article on Wikipedia. 

The letter pages of several subsequent issues of Time Magazine were filled with responses to Brown's article from readers who either vilified or praised Sweden's supposed progres­sive policies of sexual freedom. Now, it is worth noting that the stereotype of Swedish people in America was very, very different, and often quite negative, in the decades before the Second World War. Stereotypes change, albeit often very slowly! 

which is translated as "divine offerings" (the determinatives making all the difference there). I have certainly never seen it in a name. Indeed, it would be surprising if it were. As the article you quoted notes: