You can look up, for example, the maximum SAR generated for different mobile devices - an iPhone 6 has a measured maximum SAR value of 1.18 (depending on the precise model) see here. Note also that the text instructs: "Carry iPhone at least 5mm away from your body to ensure exposure levels remain at or below the as-tested levels." Other answers have pointed out that the radiation in this part of the spectrum is non-ionising, but they inaccurately conclude that it is harmless or inert. There are many scientific studies that show biological effects from radio- and/or microwave radiation well below current exposure limits. One of the most comprehensive reviews of the literature was performed by the BioInitiative Working Group, revised in 2012. Access that material here. There is scientific research to the biological mechanisms for EMF exposure to cause biological effect. For example, this paper reviews 23 studies of the interaction of EMF radiation with the voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs). The author of this paper says: 

The type of device demonstrated in this video can be very useful for those that wish to understand their environmental exposure to radio- and microwave EMR. These devices are not laboratory-grade but can be used as a useful tool. They can measure both power (mW/m2) or field strength (V/m). The video demonstrates that the high-frequency switching circuits used to drive compact fluorescent globes actually emits EMR at levels significantly higher than background. However, I can't tell what unit of measurement is being used, nor the frequency range being measured. So, to the substance of the question asked: 

Some people develop Electromagnetic Hypersensitivity, making them feel physical symptoms when exposed to electromagnetic fields. In Sweden, this can be officially recognised as a 'functional impairment' and treated accordingly. While the direct cause of electromagnetic sensitivity has not yet been established This paper from 2014 suggests myelin damage from EMF exposure may help explain it, saying: 

The ICNIRP guidelines form the basis for country-specific regulations, for instance the Australian ARPANSA "Radiation Protection Standard: Maximum Exposure Levels to Radiofrequency Fields – 3 kHz to 300 GHz" notes: 

So, my personal take: I would think twice about putting that globe in my underpants all day long. However, I have held my own EMF detector (A Cornet ED65 'Electrosmog meter', range 100Mhz-8Ghz) next to spiral CFL and round CFL in my home and not detected any increase in reading. In my opinion there are many other domestic EMF sources that would be more concerning. I would be more concerned about the light spectral quality, flicker and mercury content of these lights. Edit notes: thanks for the feedback on my response. I hope I have provided more adequate citation for the statements made in this answer. 

Unfortunately, the previous answers take a poorly-worded Newegg product listing as an accurate description of the product, which is a shame. Look closely at the actual product photograph and see that it claims to be an "Electromagnetic radiation detector" which is an accurate description. It appears (from this alternative Amazon listing) to cover a frequency range from 50Hz up to 2GHz, which is of interest to domestic users with devices operating in the radio- and microwave spectrum. The exposure safety limits of this part of the EMR spectrum are under intense debate because it is the part of the spectrum used by mobile phones, DECT, WiFi, Bluetooth, Zigbee (including 'smart' meters) as well as your domestic microwave oven. Without opening the 'conspiracy' can of worms, there are massive commercial interests which utilize this spectrum. In Australia, exposure limits are regulated by ARPANSA. The "Radiation Protection Standard for Maximum Exposure Levels to Radiofrequency Fields - 3 kHz to 300 GHz (2002)" and supporting material can be downloaded here. Exposure is limited to less than 10,000mW/m2. Other countries have other limits - a good list is here. Note for interest that Russia and China limits are 100x less than the US. The radiation from wireless devices is quantified as 'Specific Absorption Rates' in W/kg. The 1998 guidelines from ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) state: 

In addition to @pericles316's detailed answer, Summary: As I understand Ames (cited paper and a letter, see below), there are indeed cases where plants bred for increased resistance with the intent of avoiding man-made pesticides had to be withdrawn from the market because of acute toxicity to humans. Ames does not claim that all (nor on average, nor usually) organic plants have higher pesticide levels than conventionally grown plants, (Slightly OT: but he argues that there is some trade-off between man-made and natural pesticides and that breeding plants for pest resistance does lead to increased levels of natural pesticides. He seems also to be worried that an irrational level of fear of man-made pesticides is going on, to an extent that resources that could be used more efficiently against other causes of cancer are blocked by this fear. He also talks about the trade-off between pest control and harmful consequences of not having pest contol, e.g. of toxins produced by molds. Sources: see the papers @pericles316 linked and the one below). 

This should really be a comment, as I have only partial information and am neither able to conclusively strengthen or refute the claim, however I can throw some information into the debate. I'll start with the part of the claim that "specifies" what happens: 

(The mechanism and dangers in the claim are discussed in one of the a popular science book about statistics and statistical fallacies by Beck-Bornholdt and Dubben (afaik available only in German), either "Der Hund der Eier legt" or "Der Schein der Weisen" or "Mit an Wahrscheinlichkeit grenzender Sicherheit" - I don't have them here, so I cannot look up the exact quote nor the papers they refer to. In any case, these books were published 2001 - 2005, so the general problem is well known since a long time. They also propose a study design for ongoing comparison of medical treatments that avoids the ethical issue of subjecting one patient group to inefficient treatment.) 

However, I agree with @sklivvz that you don't need to worry too much: while we humans have not much vitamin C storage (compared to say, vitamin D)* getting a bit more and less on alternating days is not going to be a concern. And anyways, eating an additional fresh orange on those days will get you almost your whole DRI. * update: Matissek and Baltes: Lebensmittelchemie, 8th ed, Springer Spektrum lists both vitamin C and D in the 2-4 months reserve capacity (humans) category (table 3.3, p 45). They also state (p. 605) that after destruction of the cell walls, fruits undergo rapid enzymatic degradation, but do not give quantitative information on freshly prepared juices. They explain, however, that fruit juice (in particular the unfiltered varieties ("naturtrüb") usually undergo heat treatment to inactivate enzymes. 

There is another wear-related problem with the Möbius-band: conveyed material rests getting between belt and the rolls (e.g. if you convey sand or stones, you will get little grains in between there, and that will cause lots of wear) So you probably could use it only for certain applications, because for other applications you may end up with even more wear than not turning the belt at all. Note that if the surface wear does limit the life time, but is different on the material and on the machine side of the belt, you may not get any benefit from turning - but then it is questionable, whether the Möbius-band helps at all. However, I'm not sure at all whether this kind of surface wear was/is really what limits the life of these belts. Maybe someone else can add wisdom? I have a bit of experience with flat transmission belts in "ancient" machinery. They don't get "thin" at the surface, they will usually rip across (the old leather belts regularly needed to be repaired), maybe because of a little cut at the side that propagates quickly. 

It is, in fact, hard to source many of these meme-type stories from the internet. In this case, the story does, indeed, appear in many forms and with many attributions, including Einstein. However, to discard this as false "because we can't source it" is a logical fallacy. To discard it "because it appears with other people's name" is a similar logical fallacy. To discard it, using broken logic, is also a logical fallacy. I have seen the excuses, "Einstein didn't say it because he didn't believe in a supernatural god"... when in fact, Einstein didn't believe in a PERSONAL god (God), which isn't the same thing as not believing in a supernatural god (God). I have seen many other logical fallacies applied to say "Einstein didn't say this" or "Einstein didn't believe in god"... and to say that, "it is false because Einstein didn't say it"... Therefore lets do this: Lets break this up into the two arguments: 1) Did Einstein have this conversation with a Professor? 2) Did Einstein believe in [god, God, or gods]? 1) Without being able to source this to anything written about or by Einstein, we can "assume" or "suppose" that he probably didn't say it. With all the writing about or by Einstein, one would thing something of this magnitude might have been confirmed in their writings. That it is not, is not proof that he DID NOT say it (proving a negative) but it is proof that it is unlikely that he did say it. Moving on: 2) We do have many of Einstein's writings, either by or about him. He, at one time, was, in his words, "religious". Later in life, he became "agnostic" with a leaning toward the existence of a "god" or "God", but not the belief in a "personal god (God)". We do know that he respected Religion, in general, but was not a follower of any one specific religion, including his own (previous) Jewish faith. It is also repeated that Einstein said, "The more I study science, the more I believe in god (God)". Which cannot be sourced either. We do have this, from a reply to a telegram from New York's Rabbi Herbert S. Goldstein on 24 April 1929 and reported in the New York Times on 25 April 1929, "I believe in Spinoza's God, Who reveals Himself in the lawful harmony of the world, not in a God Who concerns Himself with the fate and the doings of mankind." And we know from his other writings, he doesn't believe in a "personal god (God)" which doesn't mean he doesn't believe in "a god (God)". For instance, from a letter to Guy H. Raner Jr. on 28 September 1949, "I have repeatedly said that in my opinion the idea of a personal God is a childlike one. You may call me an agnostic, but I do not share the crusading spirit of the professional atheist whose fervor is mostly due to a painful act of liberation from the fetters of religious indoctrination received in youth. I prefer an attitude of humility corresponding to the weakness of our intellectual understanding of nature and of our own being." This puts Einstein in the same camp as many of our Founders who believed in "Nature's God"... a deist view. I'd imagine Einstein believed in a god (God), just from this little bit from a statement to a German anti-Nazi diplomat and author Prince Hubertus zu Lowenstein, from around 1941, and as quoted in "Towards the Further Shore : An Autobiography" in 1968, "In view of such harmony in the cosmos which I, with my limited human mind, am able to recognise, there are yet people who say there is no God. But what makes me really angry is that they quote me for support of such views." I'd also imagine he would be just as upset by the false quotes of him supporting anything but a Deist, or Nature's god (God), or Spinoza type view of "god" (God). There are many other quotes that support this view over at WikiQuote. $URL$ Conclusion: While we can, safely, say that Einstein probably didn't argue with a professor on the nature of god (God), the view of the god (God) expressed in that exchange isn't inconsistent with Einstein's view of god (God). But to say that Einstein was anything less than "agnostic" or anything more than a "deist" might be stretching the truth as well. The last point to make: The exchange's purpose is to highlight the nature of God (god), or the nature of Good and Evil. Comparing this concept (these concepts) to "light and dark" and "heat and cold" are valid, in their own right. And maybe they deserve some further discussion, ignoring the actual author of the exchange. In other words, to dismiss the exchange as false because the author is unknown or misattributed is also a logical fallacy. The actual question, "Is this story supported by factual evidence or is it merely an anecdote to exemplify a point?" would need clarification to address some of these issues, but as it sits, the answer might well be: The story, while almost certainly not an exchange by Einstein and a professor, attempts to describe the "nature of God" in an anecdotal way, which isn't to say the story is not "factual evidence" of God, which could be the epicenter of a very large discussion, but it is to say that Einstein most likely didn't have this discussion with a professor. Topics for further review: 1) Is there a God? 2) What is the Relationship between God and "Good and Evil"? 3) Do "good" and "evil" have the same type of relationship as "heat" and "cold" or "light" and "dark"? 4) Is God a "personal God" or is God more of a "Nature's God" (Deist or Spinoza type)? 5) Does Einstein's view of God (deist in nature) contribute to the possibility that he may have said something like what the student says to the professor? Or is his view incompatible with the story's point? (in other words, does the story take a "deist view" or a "personal god view" or some other view?)