A prerequisite for your question is the question "is what the neural networks do really 'thinking?'" Obviously this question is contentious even still (although each year more and more researchers seem to think "yes"), with Searle's Chinese room argument being the canonical objection. It seems that if the status of AI, specifically neural networks, as something that 'thinks' is rejected then we cannot use Google's recent findings to support the language of thought hypothesis, because we don't have a model of something using thought. If, however, we do agree that a neural network, or at least a sufficiently powerful more complete AI system that uses neural networks, does "think," then this might be a showing of evidence for a language of thought. It seems that if we reject that AI can think we are stuck with a no answer, but if we accept that they can think there is room for discussion as to whether this does or does not support the idea. Considering the dead-ended conversation if we reject AI as being able to think, we should proceed by accepting it as a correct model of thought (whether it is synonymous with human thought or not can be left aside). UMD professor Christoph Schulze defines the language of thought hypothesis as follows: 

Semantic externalism, or more broadly externalism about mental content, is the idea that propositions, intentions, attitudes, etc. derive their meaning from the external world as opposed to internally from the mind itself. Some of the most famous arguments for this view are Putnam's twin Earth thought experiment and Davidson's swampman thought experiment. The most common, and widely accepted as being the most philosophically well founded, semantics of modal statements are possible worlds semantics which say that a modal statement, either something about necessity or possibility, derive their meaning from a set of possible worlds. If a proposition is true in all possible worlds then it is necessary, if it is true is some possible worlds then it is possible, and if it is true in no possible worlds then it is impossible. David Lewis was a proponent of modal realism, the idea that possible worlds are all physically real. He argues that in a statement that begins with "In the real world," "real" in this context in just indexical and refers to our own world. Saul Kripke, who put down the foundation for modal logic with possible world semantics, rejected modal realism and argued that possible worlds are absolutely not physically realized but are instead just linguistic and philosophical tools. 

Constructivism says that the only mathematical objects that exist are those that can be constructed and therefore it rejects proof by contradiction, or any other proof that does not explicitly construct an object. Finitism is an example of constructivism and it maintains that the only mathematical objects that exist are those that can be constructed but purely finite means. This means that a finitist would agree that there could be some arbitrary large natural number N, which is constructed by applying the successor function to 0 N times, for example. However, a finitist would reject any infinite number, such as an infinite ordinal or cardinal, because they are unable to be constructed via finite means. Ultrafinitism is an even more extreme form of finitism which says that finitism should also be restricted to only constructive processes that are plausible in practice. They reject construction of numbers that are arbitrarily large and say the only numbers that exist are those that could feasible be created given the physical limitations of the universe. There are estimations of the number of sub atomic particles in the observable universe but this number is already too large to construct in a practical way, so some ultrafinitists would reject its existence. The main connection between intuitionism and constructivism is that both of these systems reject mathematical objects that cannot be constructed. As such, they both reject the law of the excluded middle (the law that says, for every proposition P, either P or ~P is true). Intuitionistic logic is a formal logic that follows the ontological views of constructivism and intuitionism. Due to this fact, most theory done in these schools of thought are done in intuitionistic logic. From the SEP: 

(6a) is intensional because the truth of that statement does not rely on whether or not the object of the verb, the unicorn, actually exists (also notice that it falls under criterion (ii) but that is not important now). (6b) is not intensional because in order for that proposition to be true, the unicorn in question must actually exist. (6a) could be true or false, depending on how I feel towards unicorns, but either way it is not dependent on whether or not unicorns actually exist. In this way, (6a) is intensional and (6b) is not. Other verbs that fit our criterion (iii) include: "seek" (the SEP article gives the example of a fountain of eternal youth, consider "Ponce de León seeks the fountain of eternal youth" is true whether or not the fountain exists) and "paint" (I can paint a unicorn whether or not one exists), among others. Most of the verbs covered before also apply: "I believe in ghosts" may be true whether or not ghosts exist. 

Philosophy of Mathematics The philosophy of mathematics has a long and storied history. One of the major questions asked in the field is that of "ontologically speaking, what are the objects studied in mathematics?" Generally, schools of thought in this field can be split into two kinds of theories, mathematical realist theories and mathematical anti-realist theories; further differentiation is made by how the theories formulate those positions. Realism and Anti-Realism Mathematical realism asserts that the objects of mathematics (numbers, functions, sets, sheaves, Kälher manifolds, etc.) are in fact ontologically real, abstract entities. Mathematical anti-realism asserts that those objects are not real in the slightest, and are either inherently meaningless results of the manipulation of symbols, "rules of a game", or else that they are entirely made up by humans and have no real existence in the world. An important differentiation that the two types of theories make, which may seem innocuous but is actually very subtle, is whether mathematical theorems/techniques/etc. are discovered or invented. Platonism One of the most important views of mathematical realism is mathematical platonism. This view takes its name from Plato and his theory of Forms. Platonism is the view that mathematical objects are real, abstract entities which we experience. This implies that mathematical objects exist independent of humans, in whatever abstract realm abstract objects exist in. From the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: 

This is part of Dummett's explanation of Frege's principle of compositionality. As stated, this is taken from only the 5th page of a very detailed and intricate 700 page book. If the terminology or concepts seem unfamiliar, then you would probably be better off getting a firm background in the philosophy of language before reading this work. As an introduction to the philosophy of language I would highly recommend first reading a historical overview that touches on some of the main ideas, such as The IEP's article on the topic and then reading Scott Soames' Philosophy of Language. Soames' work is a little bit more technical than an introductory textbook but it does a great job of explaining the entire field from Frege onwards. 

As I pointed out in the comments, I think that there are some points in your question that are left fairly vague and to get as concrete an answer as possible would require them to be made very explicit. However, given this problem and taking it at face value I think that we can answer the problem like this: Let's assume that there are many different subjects, we can call them subject A, B, C, and so on. Each of these subjects has a list of problems that pertain to them, and this list might be infinite. Furthermore, we are able to categorize each of these problems by the skill level of somebody who wants to solve them. The levels start at 0, where anybody at all could solve them, and then move upwards in increments of 1 (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, ...). If we know of some person Alice and are told that she has a skill level of L in subject A, that means that she would be able to solve any problem in A that is of the skill level L or lower. This means she can solve the problems in levels L, L-1, L-2, L-3, and so on until we get to 0. As an example, suppose she has skill level 5 in subject A, she would be able to solve any problem that requires a skill level of 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, or 0. So far, this all seems to make sense just based off the idea that we want to quantify someone's ability to solve problems in a specific subject while those problems are also quantified in terms of how hard they are to solve. If we only quantify someone's skill and don't quantify specific problems, I have no idea how you could come up with an answer to that question (how else could you quantify skill level?). Will there always be a problem that she cannot solve? That depends on two things. First, is there an infinite amount of levels of difficultly with at least one problem at each difficulty in any subject? By that I mean, for example, does A have levels 0, 1, 2, 3, ... to infinity with at least one problem? Secondly, can Alice reach higher levels of skill at a subject if she practices that subject? If there are infinite levels to a subject with infinite problems then Alice will never be able to reach the top, there will always be one more above her that she cannot do yet. That's assuming, of course, she can increase her skill with practice. If Alice cannot increase her skill and there is a subject, B, with at least one level higher, L+1, question than her level, L, in that subject, then she will not ever be able to answer that question because she can never get to a skill level of L+1. So, in answer to the question "could we give her a sequence of problems that would trip her up?" Well, again if we are defining everything in the way above, we don't need to give her a sequence. We only need to give her one question that is L+1 in a subject where her skill is L: give her a 6 when she is at 5. If you want to give her a sequence of problems that are level L, a sequence of problems that are level 5 in our example, then of course she will be able to answer all of those problems, she has a skill level of 5 and they are all level 5. However, this is where things get very vague and I think a more specific question is required to understand what is going on. If you are asking about how this works in practice, then sure anybody would eventually get tired of doing problems over and over again, let's say math problems, and eventually they'd get one wrong that they could easily do if they weren't tired. Everyone messes up basic arithmetic every once in a while, especially when they're tired. But again, this is subject specific. Are we talking about math? Science? History? Philosophy? Engineering? There isn't an objective answer to the question "can we give her a sequence of problems that will eventually trip her up" unless we know 1) what kind of problems these are, 2) what subject we're talking about, and 3) are we talking about a real person or some idealized person who has a perfect ability to do problems that are at their skill level. A perfect Alice would never mess up a level L problem, no matter how many we give her. A real life Alice would probably mess up a 0 level problem every once in a while even if she's level 5. It depends on myriad factors about the situation and for that type of answer we need to have a more specific question. This goes double for the question "is there a subject where she could lie about an answer and get away with it?" That completely depends on what these subjects are. Are you asking about the entire list of anything that can fall under the title of "subject"? That would require the entire list of subjects and I don't think any person has such a list. That question is entirely dependent on the specifics of what you're talking about, the domain of discourse we could call it, and it seems that the domain is fairly vague right now. On the other hand, if we assume some things and take a mechanical approach to this like we did above, then as long as there is someone who can do a problem at level Q, Alice will never be able to fake a question at level Q because that person could just do the problem themselves and see if she got the right answer. Could Alice lie and convince this person? I do not know, that depends, again, on a myriad of factors like "are these idealized people or real people", "do they have completely rational thoughts", "do they ever make mistakes", and so on. Hopefully this helps clarify any of the problems you were thinking about, and as was talked about in the comments to your question, if you are inspired to reformulate a new question into a more specific problem there will undoubtedly be a more specific answer. 

is an analytic statement. (Also, prime factorization isn't even an NP-complete problem!) It only requires the understanding of what a prime factor is. If you have access to the definition of the word you would be able to figure those numbers out while sitting with your eyes closed in your arm chair. It might take more time for you to figure it out than if you were trying to add 2 and 2, but the only difference in these two examples is time. Both of these statements are analytic, whether or not one takes more time to verify than the other. One last thing to note. If we decided to adopt this redefinition and we had the sentence: 

The problem with the idea that consciousness lasts forever because information is preserved is in the fact that information is being used in two different senses in your question. The differences lie in these two descriptions of the note example you gave. One sense is the physical description of information. 

(Karch provides an account of progress in gauge/gravity (introduction provided by Polchinski) descriptions of quark-gluon plasmas.) Now, it is true that a confirmation of the mathematics behind string theory should not cause an empiricist to believe in string theory; however it also is not, of course, irreconcilable evidence that disproves string theory. At this point the position of empiricists should be agnostic and they should be seeking more evidence. They should not have an a definitive opinion on its truth as of yet. String theory, as well as all other forms of quantum gravity, are in desperate need of experiments. Empiricists need experimental data to validate their hypotheses. As such, empiricists should be working with theoretical physicists to come up with ways to test string theory. Whether they should then believe string theory to be true or believe it to be false depends on the results of the experiments. If it turns out that string theory cannot ever be experimentally verified then empiricists would have to abandon it.