A possible origin for stories of this sort could be reports about the effects of severe cold on German soldiers at the russian front: 

Original The link in the question shows the image credited to fotojajt The photographer at www.fotolajt.pl calls themselves Pawel and is based in Gdansk, Poland. The photo is in a blog entry dated 30 January 2016 where it states "eclipse on 28 September 2015." (presumably when the photos were actually taken) Composite Another photo in the same website uses the same moon image, strongly suggesting it is a composite. In the time taken to travel around Gdansk the real moon would almost certainly have changed lighting during an eclipse in the time a solo photographer would have taken to pack away camera gear relocate and set up again. Size Another image showing the same building from further along the harbour includes a moon that appears to be somewhere around a tenth of the size. EXIF info says that this other image was captured by a Nikon D610 35mm full-frame DSLR using a 50mm focal-length lens. The apparent size of the moon at syzergy-perihelion (supermoon) is only 14% larger than at aphelion, and the surrounding buildings at this location constrain the use of longer telephoto lenses to distort the scale from a viewpoint close to the water level. here's a comparison with a more realistic photo at the same location. We can see the difference in size is more than 14%, even taking into account likely differences in focal length and viewpoint. 

The youtube video replays this part over and over again, here is the "flash" under the plane alleged to be a missile launch. 

None of those was signed in July 2009 at, or near, the date of the handshake. Conclusion (re image 3) This photograph does not represent the forging of a strong alliance between Obama and Gaddafii or between USA and Libya. 

The EPA list the parts covered but do not say that replacement parts must be manufactured, provided or sold by the auto manufacturer, only that the manufacturer must pay for any necessary repair. 

European Crop Protection Agency China The case study linked in the question is from China. This country has suffered from several high-profile food scares which some have attributed to corruption. Ref For example, some Chinese mainland mothers still prefer to buy milk-powder from Hong Kong (some brands in HK are imported from western europe). Ref HK testing suggests that food safety standards there are good. Ref 

However, one of the researchers are reported as expressing some skepticism that this could be used to communicate audible speech in non-ideal conditions Why Microwave Auditory Effect Crowd-Control Gun Won't Work 

Only a small number of these "Baghdad batteries" were discovered, by contrast the number of Egyptian mummies is in the millions. Several alabaster oil lamps were found in Tutankhamen’s tomb (but no batteries) This isn't consistent with electricity being "widely utilised" in "ancient Egypt". Soot At 1:18 the video claims "No soot has been found in the corridors of the pyramids" and this is used to suggest thet they therefore must have used electric lighting. However this is untrue, there is plenty of soot found inside the pyramids. Most of it from visitors in the 18th or 19th centuries, who used oil lamps and candles. When the pyramids were built, the chambers and passageways were constructed in the open, in daylight. The roofs of these spaces were only closed after the work on the spaces was mostly completed/ After that the upper layers could be placed. Reference. In ancient times, visitors were not permitted to enter the sealed tombs of the pharaohs. Once completed there was no need for lighting within. Pharos Lighthouse The video says "the arc lamp used in the lighthouse of alexandria is further proof that electricity was used in ancient Egypt, the energy required to power the lighthouse for 24 hours a day could only have been supplied by a regular electrical source" Early European and American lighthouses did not require a regular electrical source. They were lit by open fires, candles and oil lamps Granite is a conductor This claim is made at 02:35. however this is untrue - by any reasonable interpretation of "conductor" in the context of practical transmission of electrical current for powering, for example, a lighthouse. 

It is viable, it is old technology and it has been done before (but perhaps not in exactly the way referred to). There is existing technology for extracting energy from garbage. Sometimes the process is described as gasification. Gasification was allegedly developed in the 1800s. Existing gasification technology may not be the same technology as described in the NYT article - which may represent an improvement. 

Susheela, A.K. and Das, T.K. 1988 Fluoride toxicity and fluorosis: diagnostic test for early detection and preventive medicines adopted in India. [Abstract], International Symposium on Environmental Life Elements and Health, Beijing, 89. World health organisation - Fluoride in drinking water 

Conclusion? I've no other evidence but over the centuries many many people must have heard of the technique. It seems inconceivable that there has not been at least one sadist (or gang of small boys) who have succumbed to the temptation to try it out. I can find no easily accessible evidence that it has ever been a widespread, popular or effective method of torture routinely employed by the sort of agencies that are known to have used torture. So yes - but it probably ranks pretty low on the list. 

Orientation and Colour Other photos of the supermoon published in polish websites (example) in 2016 seem to show a more normal colouration and a very different (but consistent) orientation. Suggesting that the moon in the image in the question is not taken in Poland in mid November 2016. 

In the UK (for example), tyre repairs must, by law, conform to British Standard BSAU159f:1990. It is likely that equivalent standards exist in your locale. 

2012 According to Nancy Bilyeau, "a writer and magazine editor who has worked on the staffs of 'Rolling Stone,' 'Entertainment Weekly' and 'Good Housekeeping.'" : This story states that Henry VIII dies on 1547-01-28 and his body was in transit from Westminster to Windsor on 1547-02-14 about two weeks later, when, during an overnight-stop at Syon Abbey, after the seams of the lead coffin had been split by the bumping of the rough roads, some seepage of fluids ("blood") was observed and the coffin re-sealed. 

The Black Hills Institute appear to be selling a Camarasaurus sp. Tibia with Bite Marks - Fossil Replica of which they say 

Provided that the repair is made to the standard, the tyre will be safe to use. I imagine the standards apply to normal road use, not when the vehicle is to be used for motorsport or under extreme conditions. 

2,4-Dichlorobenzyl alcohol and Amylmetacresol A throat lozenge containing amyl meta cresol and dichlorobenzyl alcohol has a direct virucidal effect on respiratory syncytial virus, influenza A and SARS-CoV. There's evidence the ingredients are effective at killing some viruses (e.g. in mucus but perhaps not in cells?) Therefore whilst effective and working in some sense, it may not reduce the length or severity of the infection. 

Djordjevic et al performed measurements with pressure transducers on 133 smokers and found puffs of around 46ml at around 20 second intervals. 

You're helping your friends and family? Levomenthol Also, if I correctly understand Local anaesthetic activity of (+)- and (-)-menthol, the third ingredient, levomenthol, may reduce the perceived severity of the symptoms (though having no effect on the viruses) If you seek a mild anaesthetic effect, the lozenges may be effective (to some extent). 

In short: An upper estimate might be of the order of half a million birds per year in the USA. However it seems that hundreds of millions of birds are killed by collisions with other man-made structures. So wind turbines account for a small percentage of bird deaths attributable to human activity. Nevertheless this can be a significant threat to the survival of some important bird species. 

This is untrue. Note, I am treating "put in place" as different from say "destroyed and replaced". It implies there was previously nothing similar in orbit about the Earth. 

You ask about "excessive running" but the actual article is about "chronic training for and competing in extreme endurance events" "excessive running" sounds like a lesser amount of exercise than the subject of the study, though you need to quantitatively qualify terms like excessive. A single instance of "> 1 hour of maximal/near maximal running" may not qualify, perhaps doing it twice every day for five years would? The article says "further investigation [is warranted] to identify at-risk individuals" - unless you are continuously training for and competing in ultra-marathons it may be too early to start worrying.