I'm trying to index my rear gears after replacing my 6 sprocket freewheel. I've set the limit screws fine, but I didn't have enough play in the barrel adjusters to make much adjustment, so I undid the clamp to release the cable, tightened both adjusters up then let them out a couple of turns, then reattached the cable finger tight. I'm finding, though, that I can get the smallest cogs to change okay, but by the time I reach the lowest gear, it won't move to the largest cog, just this awful clacking of gears, even though by eye the jockey wheel is in line with it and the b tension gives plenty of room, about 1cm. I thought I was meant to tighten the cable with the adjuster to amend this, but nothing makes a difference, I feel like I need to loosen or tighten the cable overall with the clamp bolt, but I don't know which way to go, am I doing something drastically wrong here? 

I find Clif Bars to be a pretty good solution. They're easy to open, they go down relatively easily, they don't melt or freeze (ever try eating a powerbar on a cold day?) and they have about 200+ calories. On rides shorter than 3 hours, I just take a couple of packets of Gu, one bottle of water, and one bottle of lightly-mixed gatorade (I mix from powder since the full-strength stuff leaves the mouth quite sticky on a ride). On longer outings, I'll take the Gu and a Clif Bar per 2 hours, and lots more water. 

I've never ridden a belt-drive bicycle, but I've ridden both belt and chain drive motorcycles and the belt drive is considerably smoother and quieter. One of the features being used to tout belt-driven bikes is that they don't require lubing, so that would be a plus. In addition to not needing to take the time to properly lube your drive-train, the lack of lube would mean less attractant for dirt/dust etc. Each manufacturer would probably have their own recommendations about operating temperature range and how often to change them. 

The following study, carried out in 2009, seems to have attempted to answer the same question: Kwan I, Mapstone J. Interventions for increasing pedestrian and cyclist visibility for the prevention of death and injuries. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2006, Issue 4. Art. No.: CD003438. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003438.pub2. This looks like a meta study, the full text of the article contains links to the various sources they examined and the articles they found. Their conclusion was that the research is inconclusive: "the effect of visibility aids on pedestrian and cyclist safety remains unknown". If you go beyond visibility and look at changes you can make to your appearance and their effect on driver behaviour then you might like the 2006 research on overtaking by Dr Ian Walker who has sparked some controversy with his research concluding that cars leave cyclists more room if the cyclist does not wear a helmet or if they grow their hair long. 

Lube your chain frequently. As in every time it rains if you need to. Depending on the drive-train, you can get Shimano or SRAM chains at places like Nashbar or Performance Bike, but even top-of-the-line, expensive chains will get rusty if they're out in the rain all the time. The same will hold with a Brooks saddle. No matter how awesome it is, if it's exposed to poor conditions without proper maintenance, it will deteriorate quickly. So lube your chain frequently, and dry it off whenever you get a chance before storing it. Disclaimer: If you go riding around with tons of lube on your chain in dry, dusty conditions, you'll pick up lots of dirt in your drivetrain. 

It may also depend on the material and year of manufacture. The Campagnolo spare parts list uses different codes for the carbon and alloy replacements. For the carbon crankset, there seems to be a different code for the power torque (2011+) and ultra-torque (2010) versions too. The image shown in the previous post looks like the 2011 and later Chorus/Record bolts (which all go into special threaded chainrings). I would expect something like this product from BBB to be more likely to fit the Athena 11 speed carbon crank (there is a good picture here): $URL$ I recently bought a set of FC-AT300 bolts for my Centaur Carbon chainset, this part is listed in the 2012 catalogue as being suitable for Athena Carbon 11-speed and all other 10-speed cranksets (with black bolts). 

You can also create semi-studded tires by wrapping zip-ties around the tire, with the lock in the same position the screws are shown in the illustrated answer. You'd need a bike with disk brakes for this to work. So for a road bike it would probably be slightly less than practical. 

If all these things hold more or less true, and you're comfortable when you ride, don't stress what you look like. 

In small neighborhoods like this it's also not a bad idea to stay out in the lane and not hug the curb. This gives you much more time if a car or child comes hurtling out into the road and you're not going to be slowing down a following car very much. Edit: include the warning to watch for dogs. This is pretty important. 

According to my copy of "A Guide to Cycling Injuries..." by Dr Domhnall MacAuley "Knee pain is almost an occupational hazard of cycling". So some knee pain is common. MacAuley does go on to say that, "For some, knee pain is inevitable". In the context of this question it seems like the rider has some tendency to knee pain but has not experienced chronic problems with a properly fitted bike so it should be possible to accommodate the change in pedal and return to comfortable rides. If it proves impossible to get the position (including saddle height) adjusted as per advice in the previous answer then it is possible that the change of pedal has restricted the freedom of movement of the foot causing stress on the knee, to continue from MacAuley: