There are a lot of smart people who think that highly skilled developers are irreplacable and that's why you do want them. But you've seen the other answers to your question - most managers don't want to deal with the problems of a team with highly varying skill levels, and don't have the option of going purely high skill. They aren't necessarily wrong either, the problems are real, and the benefits of high quality code that's beyond the abilities of most of the people they are able to hire are greatly lessened. If you are even roughly as good as you say you are then you are mismatched with your job. It sounds like you should try hard to work at a place where you can learn from your co-workers and your co-workers can understand your code. If you have lost a few jobs due to this then you are going to look fairly bad to HR, recruiters, and managers. Hopefully you can network into a job by meeting developers of similar skill level who can vouch that the problem really is that your skill level is too high. Finally, I have to add that you should do your best to honestly evaluate if your skill level really is that high. It sounds like there is evidence that it is, but most people believe they are better than they are. Also many developers go through a stage where they get very good at one approach, but don't yet always put everything together into a globally optimal solution, and still lack flexibility. For example, sometimes it might be best to go with an inferior solution that you know the people you have can maintain, if you know they can't mantain a more sophisticated one, and aren't likely to hire anyone else who can. 

It's not an obvious double standard because you are not in the same position to begin with, being male. You just wrote you hadn't actually thought about it before, that's a luxury women don't have in general. That's just a fact. That's why it makes perfect sense to consider that the exact same words don't have the same meaning when uttered by a woman. That context makes all the difference. From that perspective, what you should do about the whole situation is educated yourself about the issues and focus on the more pressing problem (it's not men's rights or your boss relatively minor inconvenience…). 

It's not unheard of but certainly not a given so it's completely normal to provide one but also completely normal not to. It can be something you can negotiate individually before you take the job or something that is available to all new hires under certain conditions or provided for in collective bargaining agreements. But if your contract and/or company rules don't foresee it, you are out of luck. It's not something you can expect or that your employer necessarily has to provide. You can always ask (but it seems you have done that already) but there is no point in pushing it, especially if, as you wrote in a comment, you are not willing to walk away. Another solution to your rental problem however could be to ask for a salary advance from your employer. Unlike a relocation allowance, it will probably be taxed like regular income and you would have to pay it back in the coming months but it could save you money compared to staying at hostels and avoid a lot of stress. This is something I have seen in your situation (new hire from abroad who need money for a deposit - as opposed to being in debt or spending it on something crazy). 

To answer the actual question, it is rude if you don't offer an adequate explanation, but not inherently rude. The normal course of events is that an interviewee stays until the end of the interview. If you break that expectation it is rude not to explain why. "I'm done with the interview and I want to leave" (probably not a verbatim quote, but still) isn't very explanatory. Simply giving a reason that doesn't criticize the company or the interviewers is probably sufficient. If a frank explanation would be critical simply saying that you don't feel it would be a good fit isn't too bad. It would be more polite to recognize that your decision has wasted their efforts, which you can do by thanking them for their time and conveying a degree of regret in your tone, or perhaps explicitly, as in "I'm so sorry it didn't work out but I don't think I would be a good fit here and I don't think it's fair to take up any more of your time." So, it's not inherently rude but it is inherently awkward and requires special effort not to give offense. 

Trying to provide a somewhat more nuanced answer between Alec's and Joe's, I would say it feels a bit mean but he does have a point. While it might feel intrusive, there are certainly other jobs in which this could be a problem. On the other hand, it's absolutely not true that it's going to be a problem everywhere. It all depends on the type of job, whether you clock in or not, etc. I have had jobs where I was mostly free of my use of time. I hope that if someone would have spent hours on the loo, people would notice and worry a little but, whether I came at 9 or 11 and went to the loo right after arriving, before leaving, or after lunch made absolutely no difference. In those type of jobs (i.e. outside of an assembly line or call centre in which every minute is controlled and accounted for), it's also illusory to think you can micromanage employees and increase productivity by curtailing toilet breaks. As long as you are not spending hours on the loo or otherwise slacking off in a big way, whether you do it just after coming to work or later in the day should therefore not make any difference and your boss complaining about that has more to do with asserting his power and control over you than anything else. Still, that's a factor in many workplaces so, even if I don't agree with some other answers' attempt to legitimate this, you have to recognise that it's not uncommon and be prepared to deal with it in the future. Practically in this case, since you are already on your way out, there is no need to overthink this. If preserving your relationship with that manager is important and you really can't help but go to the loo around that time, try to arrive earlier and do it before 11. It's just one month, after all. 

Why not tell your colleague that you need to run it by your boss to see how how, and whether, it should be prioritized against your other work? You make it sound like he is just pawning off his work on you for no good reason, and if this is really the case he won't want you discussing it with your boss at all, and will probably back down on the spot. If not, your boss will probably try to put an end to it. If that doesn't happen, maybe there is a good reason for you to work on his tasks, and at least you will get some credit for them. If you do talk to your boss, be clear that you are willing to help out a colleague but you don't want to spend significant time on things your boss isn't even aware you are doing. And, by the way, you really shouldn't spend significant amounts of time on things your boss isn't even aware you are doing. 

Many useful answer but I feel another perspective might be useful. Sounding arrogant is to some extent in the eye of the beholder. In some cultures (national and/or corporate) sharing knowledge or correcting a superior might simply be unacceptable. One answer is therefore: Realize this, try to accept it and do your job as good as you can. If you feel this is impairing your own development or future career or if there are legal ramifications or risks for third parties, this might not be the right course of action but ultimately you are not responsible for the whole company and all your coworkers. Besides, is your team unable to function or deliver anything of value? Can you explain some practical benefits to your preferred approach (as opposed to it being new and considered a “best practice”)? If not, it would suggest that your coworkers' approach is good enough. 

Although this won't make you look unprofessional to a professional (the vast majority of the time) you might want to use caution in front of a naive customer or manager. Just as you, with almost a year of programming experience, aren't sure if professionals need to look things up, so people with even less relevant experience might also be unsure. In fact, I have defended other developers on a few occasions when a customer of a consulting engagement said something along the lines of "why am I paying good money for someone who can't even write code without looking it up on the internet?" This has been rare, but of course I don't know how many people got a bad impression but remained silent. 

In countries/jurisdictions where the law does not provide for clear limitations like this, employers might be tempted to slap a broad non-compete clause on everybody's contract – that might be the source of the story you read – but that does not mean they would necessarily bother with enforcing it in each and every case. And I currently work for a very large company, in a locale where the rules are pretty lax, yet my contract only has a very reasonable non-compete clause so don't let this stop you from applying wherever you want. If that's really a show-stopper for you, you can always ask about it after you got an offer and before handing in your notice for your current job. Finally, a friend of mine once switched from an employer to another one that was clearly covered by her non-compete agreement but her new employer was willing to cover any damages/penalty she might have to pay for breaking her contract and approached her former employer to negotiate directly with them. 

It occurs to me that in the specific case where you know the employer reliably shows employees the door the day they give notice, you could probably wait until the day you want to leave and give notice then. This leaves them nothing to badmouth, and you get to leave on the day of your choosing. Of course, if they actually want you to work those 2 weeks you have a problem. Possibly you could tell your new employer (in advance) that there is a chance your current employer may need you a couple of weeks more than you expect, and, though you think it's highly unlikely that you won't have everything wrapped up on the expected date, it is a possibility, and if it does happen you want to leave on good terms. 

Yes, that's what the text you quoted means (but then I am not a lawyer and have no idea what other German statutes or case law might be relevant – note that this is the German implementation of an EU directive). But even if taking all 30 minutes before the six-hour mark is not mandated by the law, it does not seem forbidden either (“Die Ruhepausen […] können […] aufgeteilt werden.”) So your employer is probably within its rights by implicitly forcing you to take your breaks in that way, as long as you never have to work more than 6 hours in one chunk and have at least 30 min break in total (what the employer has to do is plan a break, not let you take it whenever you want). At the same time, it's not uncommon to see time tracking systems that implement such requirements incorrectly and your recourses are typically limited (I have seen much worse, to the point that it became a contentious issue in the organization). Employees or their representatives can ask to have the system fixed but until then, you don't necessarily have any basis to be compensated for those 15 min. Now that you know how the system works, it's up to you not to lose them, for example by taking a 30 min break in one chunk. You also have to ask yourself if you really want to make a fuss about this (and if you do, it's probably best not to do it alone but, e.g., through a trade union).