Different countries and rock climbing disiplines have different grading systems, for example the the British trad grade system (e.g. grade HVS 5(a)) and the US point grading system (e.g. 5.9) If I climb HVS 5(a) in the UK, how do I know what this grade equates to in other countries? 

I'm still a little unclear what your asking but here goes. This tally's reasonably well with my own experience. I've spent a lot of time in the mountains of the UK (Mainly Snowdonia in North Wales where I live). My long term ambition is to move into more alpinism type route in France, Germany, etc. (much like yourself) As such I'm going to answer your question slightly indirectly and tell you what I've been doing to get up to where I wish to go (and this will hopefully help you too) I've been rock climbing for a number of years. This has helped me develop a number of skills that you will likely need for alpine days, specifically: 

It's a revenue stream to pay for the maintenance of the areas It's a way of controlling numbers It's a way of enforcing that the person with the permit has an understanding of the activity they are undertaking and has agreed to some kind of terms and conditions for said activity, it also means that if you don't have a permit or break these conditions you can be convicted Counting people in and out to ensure people return when expected (sometimes this may trigger a search) 

The mountain is a scramble route so it's not overly simple. The group is very inexperienced. I've taken inexperienced people up said mountain a couple of times but never such a large group. I've managed to rope in a couple of experienced friends to help out as I was wary that I couldn't keep my eye on everyone. I'm taking a rope (just in case). The route should be easily doable without a rope but I want to have a safety backup for anyone who is unsure. I've also ensured everyone is bringing the following kit: 

So what should you do? I'd invest in a decent ground mat (some in cotswolds here). Ground mats have come a long way from the thin peices of foam rubber you stuck under you sleeping bag. Most (good) ground mats these days are inflatable. This allows them to be much thicker than the old foam ones. This keeps you warmer and more comfortable. You can also adjust the pressure depending on your preference. 

(hold on a second while I get on this high horse) The BMC is really an organisation that promotes climbers rights and interests in the UK, that's why you should join it. 

What your describing is flocking. It's an extremely complex behaviour where individuals react to their immediate neighbours giving the sense that the whole flock moves as a whole. Birds naturally flock (in the air or on the ground) as a defensive mechanism against predators, etc. Though complex there appears to be some basic rules to the mechanism as a whole: 

This depends on your sleeping bag a little. Don't apply anything the manufacturer says you shouldn't. That said it should be fine to add DWR to a sleeping bag. 

Two reasons really Feel You want to be able to feel what your standing on, how you foot moves, is it gripping, etc. This also aids precision. Compression allows you to put more weight though your toes Try and stand on one toe without anything on your feet. Impossible right? Now this is the kind of thing climbers need to do all the time. So if you bind all the toes together (in a tight fitting shoe) then you can do this. This is because all the toes can work on one point at the same time. I like to use an example, open you hand so your fingers are sprayed apart: 

Anything smelly! Though crabs can't smell (as we think about it) they are scavengers by nature and detect their food by "smelling" microscopic particles in the water. So something really stinky and rotten will generate more "smell" thus attracting more crabs! Keeping them on the line is more tricky... 

Keep notes and try and beat your number of ascents (next time of after a rest) This keeps things more interesting and has the added bonus of being good training. If you do this enough you should find the easy routes too easy and can move onto the harder routes. 

I'm not sure I'd fancy trusting my life to wrapping the rope around my leg. The conventional way to escape a belay is to tie it off, see here 

You want waterproof, so that's your staring point. Then it comes down to price and fit, like I said try not to get drawn into all the nonsense, your not doing anything overly difficult. 

Scarpa B2 winter boots and crampons for winter Asolo medium weight (B0) boots for spring/summer/autmn hiking Salewa approach shoes for scrambling, approach to climbs and walking the dogs Red Chilli rock boots for climbing/high grade scrambling on occasion 

Prominence Is it's height above the surrounding ground (so the ground level is height above sea level, the mounting is height above sea level, it's ) Isolation Is the distance between it and the nearest point at the same height. This is all based on the "footprint" on a map of a peak. This can be straight forward, or it can be very complicated. 

A brown paper bag should allow them to breath and keep your dignity. Don't keep them in it too long though, it's better than plastic but still not as good as something that allows the air to circulate. 

Like a lot of decision made by a manufacturer it's a case of profit! At some level they've made a commercial decision. Waterproof fabrics are expensive, so if you make a bag using them then you have pass this onto the customer or take a hit on your profits. I would imagine that they've researched this and decided the demand for this doesn't match the outlay they'd need to invest in such a product. 

In my experience, no, The only reliable way to not slip on ice is to use something with spikes (yaktrax, crampons, football boots, running spikes...). I've fallen when being extremly careful and when I've been moving fast. Ice has a way of catching you out. This is why all mountaineers use crampons above the snowline. It's the only reliable way to gain traction. It also depends on what type of ice it is, how warm the air is, how cold the ground is, etc. 

This does not mean all Goose down is better than all Duck down it just means that the Goose down is gernally better lofting than duck. 

It's hard to tell without all the details. As a rule of thumb I'd apply whatever was applied to the coat originally. If it didn't have a coating at all then the waterproof spray is likely the best option. The spray is likely going to produce the best result. Wax can discolour and make a jacket stiff. These day's wax is only used on "wax jacket" type coats. Whatever you do don't apply wax to any breathable jackets, it will likely ruin them. As a side note you said the spray was a "fluropolymer compound". Just as an FYI these compounds are frowned upon these days, PFOA type compounds (which this almost definitely is) produce significant environmental and health concerns. Most manufacturers have moved to biodegrable, more environmentally friendly compounds these days. e.g. see this Goretex statement 

Hanging game birds is very common in the UK. All Pheasant shot in the UK are normally hung (whole and unplucked for several days). Pheasant are shot in the autumn here, the temperatures normally being <10C. The idea of hanging is to improve flavour. Game birds can be pretty tastless if not hung or aged correctly. I wasn't sure about hotter climates so I did a bit of research and came across this site. It states (quoting good sources): 

Don't camp in enclosed fields, these will be owned by someone (farmer) and they will likely not take kindly to someone rocking up and camping. Leave no trace, don't spoil it for everyone else, if hoards of people start appearing in the mountain areas leaving rubbish everywhere, it's going to get clamped down on and you'll ruin it for everyone, take everything out with you! Be discreet, don't camp in the middle of a busy footpath at 1pm (though I have seen this done and no one really complained). Find a quiet remote area, pitch late and leave early (you'll enjoy it more anyway) Keep away from roads. You don't want your camp site to be visible from the road. This will likely result in a knock on your tent from the police or the local landowner who will move you on. Ideally you want to walk about 1/2 an hour away from the nearest road to be safe. 

I think the answer is, it depends... :) Snowboard back protectors come in several guises, some better than others: 

I'm after a new pair of gloves for the winter. I've found plenty of gloves online but I'm wary of buying them as I want some really warm winter gloves (for use in -10C or less). In a shop I can try them on, etc. but online I can't. this is particularly difficult for some place like Sportspursuit where I can get them dirt cheap but it could take a couple of weeks of them to arrive, Is there anyway to tell how warm a pair of gloves are? Like some kind of rating system? 

Of the 30 men that were marooned with him, all survived and only one one man suffered severe frost bite. He was pretty bad ass. 

Garlic is proven to lower blood pressure. Not balance it. Though this study also suggests that the . So no garlic does not balance blood pressure, neither does it (scientifically) lower it a significant amount. 

TL;DR answer: Unlikely. The issue is the sheer amount of water your body will secrete during physical exercise. It would be impossible for anti persperant to prevent this amount of moisture. To clarify Anti-perspirants work by: 

tl;dr I climb with a guy who's better than me. He's also a lot shorter than me. It really annoys him when I can just reach something that he can't. But 9 times out of 10 he'll climb stuff I can't. That is simply because he's better and height is almost irrelevant. So don't let height be a disadvantage. Keep practising and getting better and it will become less and less of an issue. 

this should now more evenly distribute the weight on your shoulders and allow you to continue, in relative comfort 

Source As you say, sweating is an important part of your body's thermoregulation. As you exercise, your body heats up. Your body regulates this heat by sweating. Even in cold climates you will need to sweat to regulate your body temperature. An important part of this is the waters potential to evaporate off the skin (taking the heat with it). If the water didn't evaporate (because it was being stopped by some kind of super antiperspirant) and your temperature didn't lower your body would simply produce more sweat. The best way to deal with this is to allow this process to work as it naturally should, i.e. to allow the water (sweat) to evaporate away from the skin and though your layers (breathable clothing). This will cool you when you need it to but prevent the moisture from becoming trapped and "chilling" you. 

I was at X they we're at Y. Each Square on this map is 1km. Whats the process that allowed me to hear this person over such a long distance? I've experienced this phenomenon several times. Always in Cwms. 

They have special ridges on their feet to aid with traction, they also spend a lot of time sliding on their bellies over icy ground. 

The UK has something called the "Countryside code". This is not a legal requirement but a blueprint about how to behave in the wild in the UK. Full information is available from the ramblers association. Some of the more important points here: 

Turns out this is actually quite difficult. Apart form the scarcity a major issue is that Kingfishers in the UK are a Schedule 1 protected species. This essentially means it's illegal to go anywhere near their nest, etc. If you can find somewhere not near a nest then great but this is going to be difficult. 

My girlfriend was walking the dogs this am when she came across what she thought was a road kill rabbit. One of the dogs ran over to the "dead" rabbit and tried to take a bite out of the stomach. The rabbit screamed and hobbled off! So the rabbit wasn't dead just critically injured. I wasn't there, but if I was I would of wanted to put it out of it's pain. How would I do this most effectively? I do not routinely carry a knife or a gun (illegal in the UK)