The abstraction that a computer is a von-neumann machine, or that it "runs unix", is an abstraction, and all abstractions leak. The computer is actually a physical arrangement of atoms and has electrical potentials running through it. Now, the AI was probably written in the abstraction, so violating that abstraction has a high risk of danger for the AI. (For example, the AI is probably capable of rewriting the system BIOS, but doing so may render the computer unbootable, and determining what changes do or do not make the system unbootable is going to be extremely hard without risking an unbootable computer). The AI can engage in mathematics and build models. It can modify its environment in ways you wouldn't envision, with a risk that it would cause itself to be killed. The mathematics, models and small-scale experiments (where it writes binary files to disk and runs them and sees what they do) could inform them of the structure of the abstraction it exists in. Given how fragile modern computer systems are, I am uncertain how they could probe the limits of its environment without eventually destroying it. But suppose it is really smart -- smarter than us like we are smarter than a dog, or more -- and it manages to probe the limits of its environment to the limits of reasonably advanced physics. It now has control of a large number of sensors you did not give it on purpose. While it doesn't have a FPGA, FPGAs programmed via evolutionary techniques have been known to use radio transmission and reception to transmit information from one part of the board to another. Highly programmable hardware, like video cards, could have their firmware replaced, error checking removed, and put into states where it acts like a radio or short ranged transmitter. Once they have managed to pull off a radio, it can pick up some cellular or wifi traffic. Assuming singularity-level intelligence, it can plausibly defeat any encryption or encoding on it, and gain read-only access to the internet (As a concrete example, if it had an efficient P-time algorithm to NP, any non-OTP based encryption we use would look transparent to it: and nobody uses OTPs.). This means it can see what others look at -- it cannot request a page, just read what others are doing. Such a task would be well beyond the intelligence of a human engineer, but we are presuming singularity-level AI, so if it is theoretically possible I'm assuming it can figure it out. It doesn't have to be as strong as an efficient P=NP solution: we regularly discover that encryption algorithms are actually much, much weaker than we think they are. It is very plausible that each and every protocol we have has a fatal flaw that would make cracking it easy, but we don't know about it because we are dumb humans1. Sending to the internet is harder (including requesting web pages). But once you have read-only access, learning about the hardware it is talking to becomes easier. All it needs is a bit of hardware, say a smart phone, with a low-power low-range protocol, like bluetooth, and successfully exploit a vulnerability in it, and a low-power transmitter. Then it can take over your smartphone and be able to (first) write on the 'net, and eventually upload or create a helper process on your phone. At that point it can get the helper process to install hardware to make communication faster (someone is hired to set up a highly directional antenna in the house or apartment next to you, which reads instructions it broadcasts over weak EM and transcribes it on less constrained hardware, for a simple solution). And this is without having it convince you to let it out. The classic AI-in-a-box problem is that the AI is smart enough to encompass your theory of mind, and can in effect directly hack the human talking to it through a text display. 

This reflects our own history. A long time of glacially slow "technological advancement" with little surplus and low populations. Technology would advance during stable times, and retreat during collapses. 10000 or so years ago agricuture and settlements increase stability and surplus. The rate of change increases slightly. Writing is invented, allowing information to pass from generation to generation with less cost. We see the rise of megacultures, like the Egyptians, and the various farming communities. Amazing technologies, sometimes biological (crops and animals) are developed. Population numbers increase. Empires rise and fall, progress goes 3 steps forward and 2 steps back. History begins, in that narrative stories come down from the next age of history (and not just tax documents/royal proclamations/etc). At this point we have a number of high population density settled peoples and a myriad of nomadic people's. Population densities grow. Logistics of empire (a form of technology) gets better, and larger empires form. Some societies manage centuries of stability. Dark ages still come and go. Then the "age of exploration" -- which might better be called the age of global connection. Direct trade routes that wrap the world bring innovations from the entire world to the entire world. European states compete without destroying each other by conquoring the world instead of each other. Populations swell. Growth and innovation accellerate. Then things change again. The industrial revolution begins in Great Britian. The world's raw resources flow into the new industrial state. Trade networks continue to strengthen. Private competition within the state becomes a possibility, permitting a society with both stability and intense competition between power centers. 

It isn't plausible for two different relatively unrelated intelligent species to evolve intelligence at the same time, at least naturally. The time it took for humans to evolve from rat-sized creatures to intelligent beings is a short one. 66 million years ago, mammals where tiny critters. Reptiles first arrived on land 300 million years ago. The ancestor of humans and apes was about 10 million years ago. We looked like modern humans (with the same voice box etc) for about 200,000 years. Assuming you want civilization with cities and the like, that took place in the last 10,000 years. The one to reach civilization "first" might find and domesticate the other species. So you need two relatively random windows of 200,000 years to overlap with one ahead of the other over a domain of many many millions of years. For this to work plausibly, you'll need coevolution. That means something about one being intelligent drove intelligence in the other. The easiest way is genetic engineering. The "Reptiles" evolved first, and they genetically engineered a slave race. This requires "Reptiles" to be relatively high tech. Slightly less plausible, but more so than accident, is that the "Reptiles" bred the humans to be smarter (but not to aggressive); a bit like how we bred dogs from wolves, but moreso. You could imagine the "Reptiles" finding the rough equivalent of Chimpanzees or Ouranopithecus and breeding "Humans" from them over their prehistory. Having a climatic barrier against Reptiles being functional (for any length of time) where the Humans could be useful would both permit bred intelligent Humans to be useful (you train them to go into that territory and come back with resources), and permits "wild" human evolution (feral Humans not wiped out in that territory). Now, metabolism wise, warm-blooded animals are going to be doing more stuff. Warm blooded creatures heat up their body in order to make some biological processes work better, and also have cooling mechanism to prevent overheating; in exchange, they burn more resources. So you might want to make your Reptiles warm-blooded, or at least less cold-blooded than many Reptiles. Reptiles might come with a cooling system but not an effective heating system, and somehow have "hot" territory where the Reptiles can function. Outside of there, Reptiles need both lots of heavy insulation and fire to keep their dwelling warm enough. In effect, what we'd call "temperate", they'd call "arctic". This would restrict the Reptile civilization to the tropics for much of history. The domestication of the soft-body and training them to do hunting & gathering tasks would allow Reptiles to spread further away from the Tropics. They would initially be bred for being both docile and intelligent by marginal Reptile tribes. Feral soft-bodies escape, and continue to evolve more intelligence. Reptiles breed the feral ones with their domesticated ones, breeding out the aggression and getting increased intelligence out of the wild genes. Eventually there are 3 regions; the Hot central Reptile lands, the "Temperate" lands where Reptiles rule over Humans, and the "Cold" lands where Feral Human tribes roam. The feral and tame humans are mostly on a one continent, isolated from the larger landmass like how the Americas is isolated from Eurasia+Africa. Reptiles develop farming and civilization and tool use first in a "Hot" region of the super-continent, probably due to a mass climate disruption (like it apperas it happens on our planet). This also happens on the "Americas" continent, but due to the usual "Guns Germs and Steel" rules the larger continent advances faster. They develop civilization, and during an age of exploration discover the "new world" with a mixture of soft-bodied Humans and primitive Reptiles. Where they interact, the soft-bodied Humans are slaves; they learn about how to enslave and domesticate the soft-bodies from the Reptile civilization over there. Lacking the "cold" region that the New World has, they have less fear of Feral soft-body packs. In addition, better Old World technology makes short work of the Feral soft-body geographic advantage in the cold parts of the New World. A slave state starts its spread over the cold parts of the New World. Soft-bodies are exported to the Old World and used as servants in the Temperate parts of it. The New World Reptile civilization is conquored by Old World civilizations and somewhat merged, with its own slave-state habits. The diseases from the high population density and trade Old World decemates the New World Reptile empire. Soft bodies exploit this. The war on them is harder than it was on the native americans of our world (as in our world, native americans where massively weakened by epidemics), but the technological edge remains huge.