But, at the same moment, if I am seeing this correctly, Arsenal is free today. How important is this Boxing Day as a match-day, and how did it became that important?Also, if it is important, then why Arsenal is free? Why not let the players celebrate Christmas with their families, as the fans will get to the stadiums on other days as well? 

Now Wimbledon is going on for over a week, I wonder why some players enter mutliple events on the same Grand Slam, e.g. the Williams sisters that in the past participated in the Women's Singles and Doubles. There are plenty of players that start in the Single or (midex) Double. My question is why do tennis-players do this? I can imagine that playing in multiple events is exhausting if you survive a few rounds, and playing in the doubles does negatively affect once performance in the singles. On the other hand they might earn more money, or don't expect to get far in either of the events, but that does not hold for the Williams sisters. 

Stumped (assuming no other fielder has touched the ball). Part (b) above makes it clear that stumped takes precedence over run out. 

The slugging "percentage" is "the mean number of bases a batter obtains per at bat". As such, multiplying two slugging percentages together doesn't have an intuitive "physical" meaning - it's a quantity with a dimension of "bases squared", which isn't something that really means anything; it's not like multiplying two batting averages which are just probabilities, and therefore their product is also a probability. 

The puck has to entirely cross the line. If it happens to be on edge, and all of the puck is across the line, how is that not entirely across the line? The disposition of whether it is a goal or not has nothing to do with it's final resting position. Many pucks entirely cross the line, strike the netting or a back post, and come back out. One that hit a part of the top frame, deep, might never touch the ice, at all, while across the goal. And yet, those goals all count. Why? There is nothing in the rule that specifies any eventual position on the ice as part of the criteria. All of the puck being physically across the line is just that. What it does after being entirely across the line is meaningless, because there is no requirement for anything else. 

No, the cyclists are not allowed to get back on the bike for the next stage if they do not finish. This has as a consequence that the cyclists continue with very heavy injuries just after a crash, because they hope that tomorrow will be better. (For example, Dutch cyclist Wout Poels, continued racing for 10km after Fridays huge crash, but is now still in the intensive care in a French hospital with torn spleen and kidney and three broken bones in his chest) Also, I found this article ( $URL$ ) on the UCI website. 

There is no immediate recourse, as mentioned by Mastermind_Ed, but, long term, if there is an issue, a team can let the league know they have concerns, and the officials are constantly having their work reviewed, graded and evaluated (as they are in all sports at almost all levels). If an umpire can't consistently call balls and strikes, they will be replaced and will not be assigned to those duties at that level. Letting the league know one has concerns, especially with today's technology in looking at where the ball crosses the plate in relation to the strike zone, can probably bring attention to and accelerate a review where necessary. 

(16.2 refers to one-innings matches so is not applicable to test matches, 16.3 refers to umpires awarding a match and 16.4 refers to agreements to alter the result conditions; no such agreement exists in the standard ICC Test Match playing conditions). 

You're misinterpreting "strength of schedule" - that refers to the combined record of every opponent the team has played in the current season; it's nothing to do with how those teams performed last season. Quoting from SB Nation: 

My question sounds easy: why is Boxing Day used as a match day in the English Premier League (EPL)? The Wikipedia article on Boxing Day states that: 

For cycling it is more important to have ambient cooling, so they designed a helmet with holes to accomplish this. This does make sense to me. However, in the time trial, maybe comfort is sacrificed Time trial helmet (source) 

Recently, in Dutch amateur football, a linesmen died after being attacked by players. This terrible news was directly the reason for the Dutch football association, KNVB, to apply some rules with respect to protesting a lot stricter after the winter break in the professional leagues. I've been annoyed a lot when watching soccer on television (Champions League for example), when I see a bunch of soccer players protesting against the referee in a quite agressive manner. When watching rugby matches, it doesn't happen as far as I've seen. What is the reason that is does happen in (professional) football, but not in rugby? 

This is all completely valid. As part of Neymar's contact, both Neymar and Barcelona agreed to the value of the release clause - note that under Spanish law, all employees have a release clause in their contracts, and this applies just as much to footballers as to anyone else (for more details, see this ESPN article). PSG made an offer for Neymar which met the value in the release clause, so after Neymar paid Barcelona the appropriate fee, he was then free to move to PSG - and that's what he did. Nobody has "broken" the contract here, as Spanish law mandates that any employee can release themselves from a contract - the only question is over the fee to be paid, and in Neymar's case, that was specified in the contract. There are no legal complications, because the lawyers who wrote the contract already thought about it. (This ignores any possible question as to whether PSG will be in breach of UEFA's financial fair play rules due to their expenditure; that's a different question from the validity of Neymar's contract as it's between PSG and UEFA, not PSG, Neymar and Barcelona). 

The catcher stands where he does, for an intentional walk, to give the pitcher a big, fat, easy target so far out of the strike zone that a player could not lunge and hit it with the hope of decent contact without leaving the batter's box. This insures that the batter can't twart the intent of the intentional walk and get a hit, instead. If the pitcher is sloppy and the batter can reach it, there's nothing that prevents the batter from taking a swing at it. Likewise, there's nothing that would stop the pitcher and/or catcher from changing their minds and throwing strikes. 

Nobody is out. When the wicket was put down at the non-striker's end, the batsman who owned that ground (whichever reached that ground first) was in their ground so are not out. After that, no wicket is put down so there is no dismissal. The batting team would also score one run as the batsmen exchanged ends. For reference, see Law 29 (Batsman out of his ground) and Law 38 (Run Out). 

This is a change in the rules from the 2015-2016 rules to the 2017-2020 rules. The 2017 casebook does not contain the "It may also be double contacted with the fingers" statement. In the 2015-2016 rules, rule 9.2.3.2 is the bit which allowed double contact on a hard-driven ball: