Ok, so I know one of aims of Metaphysics is to encode these fundamental truths, by way of example, primarily via Aristotle. So, you have things like The Law Of Identity, in that anything is equal to itself, and The Law Of Non-Contradiction, something either exist or does not (nor partially, as stated by The Law of Excluded Middle). However, with such truths being paradigmatically Metaphysical, what of other truths, like Newtons laws? So would the law that states that 'every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction', be considered Metaphysical? What of Descartes Cognito Ergo Sum? i.e 'I think, therefore I am'. Is that Metaphysical? In comparing what definitely is a metaphysical truth (Aristotle's Laws), I suppose it would also help to declare truths that are obviously are not, for instance, 'My name is Illuni Cocomoso', or, 'Ducks exist'. The primary difference here is that it doesn't seem necessarily true, e.g all ducks may not exist in all possible worlds (a depressing thought indeed). A second distinction is that of universality, so Aristotle's laws are universally applicable to everything in existence, but not everyone is called Illuni Cocomoso. So is it that necessity and universality is thee criteria for a Metaphysical truth? Or is there some other criteria which is also necessary, where when combined with the criteria of necessity and universality, is sufficient enough to be deemed a Metaphysical truth? 

Beyond these, there are other categories as well, but it would take too long to go through all of them. To summarize, what you are looking for is not really two categories, but multiple categories, including: Atheists, Strong Agnostics, Weak Agnostics, Theistic Satanists, Misotheists, Dystheists, Ignostics, Nontheists, etc.... 

Compatabilism is one approach to the problem of freewill in a casually closed world. If a person is free to choose among several possible courses of action, doesn't this violate the laws of causality? The compatibilist response is to state that we have a problem with our definition of freewill: Freewill is not the ability to choose among multiple possible courses of action, it is instead the ability to act freely according to one's own motivations. Once we have refined our definition of freewill, then causal determinism and freewill are compatible, hence the name of this position. Compatibilists consider an agent to have freewill if such an agent is able to act according to her/his own desires and motivations. But it seems to me that this definition is problematic, because what constitutes a person's own motivations is problematic. Consider the following scenarios: 

I think there are wrong assumptions in your question. Actually there is no need (on a purely physical ground) for the thoughts to correspond in any way to a reality "outside" of the mind/brain. Thoughts are just linked to electric activity inside your brain, this is the only direct physical link between them and a physical reality. The reason why the thoughts often actually do correspond to real things outside is evolution and natural selection. And it happens that having also the ability to depart a little bit your thoughts from this correspondence is an evolutive advantage (you can build complex models, imagine scenarios before you meet them and be driven by fear or desire for those uncertain furure scenarios increasing your probability to survive, as explained by Rex here). 

Your question is connected to several other linked philosophicsl problems. I'll mention two of them: 1) The teleporter paradox: suppose you have a technology like this which can teleport things by destroying their physical bodies and recostructing them in a distant place. If you teleport yourself will you still exist when the process ends? 2) The hardware-software dualism and the location of the self: if you have a perfect copy of one's brain and body there is no way to decide who is the original person and who is the copy, so you might be lead to think that the self is connected to the concrete matter of the brain (and not to the information): if you replace matter, you replace the self. But the brain has a lot of matter which is not strictly necessary in order to make things work, and there is a lot of substitution naturally going on in any brain (cells which born/dies in adult brains) and apparently you cannot identify a "core" where the self could be. If these issues fascinate you maybe you will enjoy the famous book "The mind's I" by D. Hoftstadter. 

The primary reason why I ask is to try to contrast the concept of a proposition, with that of a fact, the latter with which I more certain about. A fact, to me, is something that is 100% mind-independent, is always true, always discovered, and tells us something about reality, unless trivial (like the tautological statement all wives are married). A proposition though, seems to be in part a linguistic construct, that encodes a belief about something, which is why they can be false, for we are fallible beings and can at times be wrong about our assertions. Propositions thus to me seem to be mind-dependent, and if so, would be a construction derived from the human-mind expressed by way of language. However, I am less certain about where I stand with propositions than I am with facts. Facts to me are more concrete (literally and figuratively), though propositions seem to take on a much more abstract nature. So some clarification and/or validation would be very much appreciated. 

The idea that quantum mechanics fundamentally challenges the rules of logic was popular for a while, but has fallen out of favor in recent years. While intuitively it might seem that quantum superposition (i.e something being in more than one base state at the same time) is what challenges the rules of logic, by invalidating the law of non-contradiction, this is not the case. An electron in a superposition of spin |+> and spin |-> might seem like a contradiction, but it can simply be treated as being in a distinct third state of being "either |+> or |->". The real challenge to classical logic from Quantum Mechanics comes from the uncertainty principle, which leads to situations where: [(p and x) or (p and y)] is different from [p and (x or y)]. Birkhoff and Von Neuman proposed in the 1930s that the paradoxes of Quantum Mechanics can be explained if we abandoned classical logic and used some form of Quantum logic instead (Birkhoff, Garrett; von Neumann, John. "The Logic of Quantum Mechanics". Ann. Math. 37 (4): 823–843.). Such a Quantum logic would change or abandon all together some of the rules of classical logic, and would be a perfect case of logical axioms arrived at by observation. Hilary Putnam discussed this in depth in his paper "Is Logic Empirical?", later republished as "The Logic of Quantum Mechanics." ("The Logic of Quantum Mechanics" in Mathematics, Matter and Method (1975), pp. 174-197). In it, he argued that, just as empirical physical results - relativity - forced us to abandon Euclidean geometry, so it is possible that the results of quantum mechanics will force us to abandon classical logic. Von Neumann, Birkhoff and Putnam all seemed to have moved away from this position in later years. Quantum logic didn't really solve any physics problems or provide any new insights into the epistemic challenges posed by Quantum Mechanics. Although Quantum logic is still an active field of study up to the present day, it does not get much attention from most philosophers and has been abandoned completely by physicists. The only people who are paying attention to it are pure mathematicians who study different types of logic as mathematical structures (Quantum Logic's relation to Orthomodular Lattices and its relation to Fuzzy Sets), without paying any attention to the semantic or epistemic value of such non-classical logics. See for example "Quantum Logic, M.L. Dalla Chiara, R. Giuntini, arXiv:quant-ph/0101028". You will occasionally come across the term "Quantum Logic" used in the quantum computing literature, but by that they do not mean the QL of Von Neumann and Birkhoff. Instead, what is meant by that is classical Boolean logic applied to quantum states and quantum bits. 

The government rules that everyone who wants to play a lottery has to buy the ticket before 20 December. The prize is told to be 1'000'000. After 20 December (and before the game ends) the government decides to increase the prize by 10 times the original amount, but it is too late to buy tickets now. Since the prize has been increased nobody who bought the ticket can claim to have been damaged (they have been gifted actually). But what about those who didn't buy the ticket? They would have bought the ticket if they knew the price would have become so big. Can they legitimately claim to have been damaged by the government decision to increase the prize? (Suppose that the prize is completely irrelevant compared with the government budget so that the public finance is actually not affected)