The manuscript letters are I and h making the word Ihs. ΙΗΣ is the Greek contraction for Jesus. $URL$ 

In England the the Parliamentarians' New Model Army of 1645 was arguably the first state army, not controlled by the monarch or nobility. It comprised mainly professional full-time soldiers rather than a casual militia. 

Despite being outnumbered and outgunned Finland managed to repel a Soviet invasion in the Winter War of 1939-40 although they lost 11% of their land area. 

It's a punchbowl with lemons, sugar, a strong spirit in the brown stoppered bottle, and a some nutmeg or cinnamon in the silver "pepperpot", and a large serving ladle. Why is it on the floor? I don't know, just to display it clearly? I don't think it has any significance other than indicating they'd been drinking hot punch. 

This story is not present in the 1815 book, A History of the Western Division of the County of Sussex: Including the Rapes of Chichester, Arundel, and Bramber, with the City and Diocese of Chichester, Volume 1, p.134, which says East Marden is "ill supplied with water." According to A History of the County of Sussex: Volume 4, the Rape of Chichester (1953) pp.107-108, the church dates to the 13th century and none of the parish's other buildings earlier than 1728; it makes no mention of the well. (Note that the word Rape in the titles of these two cited works is a term for a territorial subdivision of (apparently only) the county of Sussex.) 

Indian here means "Red Indian" or Native American. His readers would be aware that Indians used bows and arrows so the writer is mocking the duelists' choice of weapons by calling it "Indian artillery" (and of course mocking the primitiveness of Indians). It's just a joke. 

Cromwell had become irrelevant by now given that Parliament had fundamentally redefined its relationship with the Crown, effectively gaining supremacy. This could reasonably be argued to be Cromwell's legacy. The primary issue now was to present William as a great Protestant champion and how normality had been restored. The official propaganda was that James had been leading the country to Popery and denying the basic rights of every Englishman. 

In regards to marrying into noble houses, if a noble man marries a noble woman from a different house, I would assume one of two things happens: 1. The woman takes the man's name and the two houses become allied to one another. 2. They make their own name and marshall the coat of arms. If this is incorrect, please do correct me by all means. But say a common man marries a woman of a noble house. Does he take their name? Does she take his name but he is of her house? Or, assuming the noble woman is the heir, does she take his name and the name of the house changes also? I would point out I am speaking in general for fantasy purposes (and yes, I know I can technically say what I want because I'm making it up, but I'd like to have strong basis in fact), so I understand that this exact situation may in fact never have actually occurred; but even so, I'm supposing there'd be a set precedent in case. EDIT: As it's fantasy it isn't strictly European but drawing from pretty much anywhere with a similar social structure. Information from any European country or elsewhere (Russia, for instance, but anywhere) would make me very grateful, especially if the area could be mentioned in the answer. Also, let me stress, this isn't like a plot point or anything, I'm just curious but as I'm thinking about it in terms of personal fantasy fiction it doesn't have to have a real-world example of it happening to satisfy me. I realise it's an unlikely thing to happen but the point is it is possible. 

I only know about the London guild system but his family would arrange it because it required a considerable payment to the master. Contracts were drawn up by the relevant guild then confirmed at the Guildhall. Apprenticeships were taken pretty seriously and the master could not just use the apprentice as cheap labour. Some tasks such as 'fetching water' were not to be given to apprentices as they were classed as 'servants work' although in practice I imagine there was some leeway. The master had a responsibility to train the apprentice in the 'mysteries of the craft' and after a set period (never longer than seven years) the apprentice would be admitted as a member of the guild. It was common to end the apprenticeship up to a year early on payment of a further fee to the master and, of course, admin fee to the guild. Many former apprentices continued working for their masters on 'graduation' only now they got paid a salary or had some share in the business. They were free however to work for any guild member or set up on their own. Minor disputes were settled within the guild but major breakdowns in the relationship were brought before the Mayor's Court and many accounts survive. Having read through several I would say that the apprentices got a very fair hearing despite their relative underdog status. Only the most egregious cases of master bad behaviour may have come to the court though. The distinction between a journeyman guild member (paid by the day) and a master came in much later (16th century) with a "masterwork" having to be produced. It was a response to overcrowding in some guilds but never universal. 

Both of which are close enough to the translation in your book. The metaphor here is that consciousness is an eye, seeing either the outside world or one's inward nature. But a vile veil distorts what it sees, and (B goes on to say) the veil was first lifted in Italy. The larger question, of what Burkhardt meant, or whether he was right, or why he was sure he was right, or what a well-educated mind should make of all of this, is beyond my ken or care. 

You should first read the Wikipedia account of the Revolution of 1905 for the general background of your ancestor's story, and try to see the movie Battleship Potemkin for a dramatic presentation of the events in Odessa. (This movie is a prime example of victors' history, but is a good watch.) It is not an oversimplification to say that there were many political parties in Russia in 1905 with a variety of subtly different reformist and revolutionary positions, and from your description alone it would be hard to pinpoint which particular faction your great great grandfather adhered to. 

First of all, perhaps my terminology is dodgy here, but by nobleman I mean A member of a noble family, of noble birth and by lord I mean a ruler -- that is, the Duke of Somewhere would be a lord; his second son (no land, no title) would be a nobleman. Probably not right, but for the purpose of this question I'll stick with that. Also, by Middle-ages I (perhaps incorrectly) refer to Europe, roughly 11th-16th Centuries. Could a nobleman join the clergy (and become a priest or whatever -- my knowledge on church titles isn't massive)? If so, would he still be a nobleman? I mean, he'd be of noble birth (in most cases) but would he be considered a nobleman still after joining the church? Perhaps further, could a lord join the clergy? And if so would he have to relinquish his title and lands? I hear of, for instance, the second son of a king joining the clergy while his older brother becomes king: it's one of those things that one hears, but I cannot actually find any evidence of it -- and again, even if it's true, would he still be considered a nobleman? 

As justCal suggested, the symbol in question is a ligature of Tls, used as a unit of currency, the value of one tael's weight of silver. The Reports on Trade at the Treaty Ports in China for the year 1870 has many instances of un-ligatured "Tls", the word "Taels", the ligatured form of "Tls", all in contexts making it clear they are used synonymously. If you search about in that book for "tls" you will find instances of amounts like "Haikwon Tls. 1,496,293.6.3.8", unligatured, and elsewhere tabulations headed with currency labels, in some places just the ligature, and in other places "Hk. Tls. m.c.c" with Tls ligatured, and figures like "68,873.4.3.7" underneath. The tenth part of a tael is a mace, the 100th part is a candareen and the 1000th part is a cash (see, eg, this); I surmise the m.c.c. refers to these fractions, much as L.s.d. refers to pounds and their fractional parts, shillings and pence in English financial tabulations.