One thing that has not been mentioned is to consider which trail head you park at. Some trails/areas have multiple trail heads. If you have a choice in trail head, it is worth talking to locals to determine if any are particularly problematic. In my experience the most problematic trail heads are those with easy access. What this means is that often if the only available trail heads are problematic, that there are alternatives to parking directly at the trail head. Sometimes you can park in town (e.g., Walmart in the US or an outfitters) and catch a shuttle, hitch, carpool, or even bicycle to the trail head. 

Freezer bag cooking refers to cooking by boiling water in a pot, add the boiling water to a zip-lock type freezer bag filled with the meal, placing the filled bag in an insulating cozy, and letting everything soak/heat/cook until edible. I have read varying views on the safety of the method concerning adding boiling water to the plastic bag and chemicals leeching into the food. Andrew Skurka says: 

The law of conservation of mass, tells us that the total mass/weight of a solution is equal to the sum of the masses of the solute and solvent. So if you add 100 g of sugar (the solute) to 1000 g of water (the solvent), which is roughly the ratio of sugar to water in soda, the sugar water solution would weight 1100 g. There is no such law for conservation of volume. Sugar has a density of about 1.59 g/ml and water has a density of 1 g/ml. When you add 62.90 ml of sugar (which will weigh 100 g) to 1000 ml of water (which will weigh 1000 g) the sugar will dissolve into the water and the total volume will change. I am not sure how to calculate the exact volume (or density) of the solution but it will be more than 100 ml and less than 162.9 ml. What this means is that there is no weight benefit of premixing the sugar and the water, but there is a volume benefit and possibly a taste benefit. Since sugar has a relatively low caloric density (2.4 cal/g) compared to fat (9 cal/g) you would be better off carrying fatty foods to eat with pure water. 

The Skytop area at the Gunks has a number of stellar climbs including Foops (5.11) and Super Crack (5.12+). From what I can piece together, climbing there requires a guide and buying a meal/pass at the resort. Despite the ridiculousness of paying over $500 to be escorted by a guide, is it possible to hire a guide who will sit back and just let my partner and I climb the routes we want? As I was not strong enough to climb Super Crack back in the days before requiring a guide, if we are in over our heads are the guides strong enough to retrieve our gear? 

The MSR Pocket Rocket is a classic and minimalist canister stove. I would like to compare the efficiency/total weight of these two stoves for the use case of boiling 2 cups of water once a day. To make the systems comparable the MSR stove needs a pot (lets assume something like the Evernew Ti Ultralight Pot 600ml) and a pot cozy. The Jetboil setup is listed as weighing 415 g while the MSR stove, pot, and cozy would be about 240 g. I would assume if you are out for a single day the MSR setup wins since you need to carry a single canister in both cases. Is there a break point where the Jetboil fuel savings offsets the heavier weight? 

There are a lot of factors that influence survival/exhaustion times (cf, $URL$ but you could probably manage to keep your head above water for somewhere between 15 and 30 minutes (maybe 60 if you are in shape and a good swimmer/water treader). 

From a technical standpoint, it depends. For example, for the Petzl Falcon line of rescue harness, only the Mountain is rated fo operations involving technical climbing. The Ascent is not suitable for progression using rock climbing techniques. You will need to carefully read the instructions for your rescue harness to determine its suitability for rock climbing. Sport climbing harnesses lack many of the features (e.g., good padding and compatibility with a chest harness) and durability of rescue harnesses. From a practical vantage, many SAR teams require dedicated equipment and using your rescue equipment for personal use would be a violation of their policies. 

I've always folded it on itself. One of my OCD things is getting other things sticky via the use of duct tape so I never wrap it around a bottle or pole, however I've seen plenty who do this with no trouble... Anyway, I prepare it by folding about quarter inch patches over each other (kind of like packing a tent that you fold instead of roll). I would not roll it because that can do some weird things when you get to the end. Your end result is a "nugget" of duct tape that, hopefully, has no exposed sticky sides and is entirely "self contained." I like this because it makes a neat little "clump" of duct tape that you can throw anywhere. I usually make a bunch of medium sized ones and stick them all over (i.e. first aid kit, backpack, day pack, pants pocket). 

I've been with the Boy Scouts for many years and one thing that we always did when backpacking in remote areas was to not get too cozy. By that I mean don't unpack everything. We always kept as much of our gear as possible in our backpacks so if we needed to leave in a hurry, like if a tornado is coming, all we had to do was break down our tents and sleeping bags, grab our packs, and we were good to go. Living in Northern Texas for 6 years has also taught me a few things about tornadoes. The general rule of thumb is to stay away from things that can be blown away (hey, that rhymes). This includes cars, tents, and canoes. The reason behind this is that the tornado can pick these items up and throw them all which way and can easily kill you. Sure, a car has a roll cage and an air bags, but what if you land in water? Good luck getting out in time. Anyway, back to the original question. Your best bet is to get down. The further down you go, the better. If you have time, I would try to "baton down the hatches" as best as possible to keep your stuff from flying away. I like the idea that someone suggested to get into some low brush. Once there, get into the tornado position and wait for it to pass. Keeping your pack on may help protect you from the hail/rain/debris. If you are in transit, same rules apply but bonus! You already have your stuff together! Another option would be to turn your canoe over and use that as protection from the elements when waiting for the storm to pass. That means your shelter can "break away" without taking you with it. So in conclusion (TL;DR): 

In better response to your question, what we would do that's a bit different is to play survival themed games and sometimes some more serious wilderness first aid (for the older scouts). A good game is the classic "see who can patch up billy the best after his 'tumble.'" Also who can't resist a good game of capture the flag? I would caution against pioneering because using logs and trees goes against Leave No Trace and you probably are not going to want to drag a bunch of poles wherever you are going. Also keep in mind Safe Scouting so don't build anything platforms for standing in that are over shoulder height without proper safety precautions (sorry, not my rules!) If you want a really good scare, plan a "Whodunnit Party" but instead it's survival camping. I'm not sure how you would make that work, but I think it would make a really memorable camp out. Just remember that after surviving the weekend on minimal food and sleeping on the ground your scouts deserve a hot meal. After survival weekend, we would always go out to IHOP afterwards... 

When I went survival camping my troop always pretended that it was a day hike that turned into an overnight survival situation. We only brought what we would normally bring on a one day hike. Obviously we packed huge lunches and brought extra clothes acting all like "My mom sure packed me a big lunch! Maybe I should save most of it for later." Once we got to our campsite (our leaders only gave us the location of the camp, we had to do everything else; we got lost), we did things like lighting no-match fires and building survival shelters. Day activities would include things like: 

Rock climbing cams often have integrated slings. Like all webbing, these slings can be degraded by UV and wear out much sooner than the cam themselves. There are numerous companies that will "professionally" resling cams. One of the advantages of reslinging a cam professionally is the loop of the sling will closed with a bartack (as opposed to knotted). While sewing machines capable of bartacking are not cheap, anyone can buy one. Is there some sort of accreditation that one should look for in a cam reslinger? 

The longer hiking trails in ME, NH, and VT, apart from the AT, like the Long Trail and the Metacomet-Monadnock Trail and Cohos Trail just have too much extreme weather on exposed peaks to be safe for a solo hiker. The New England Scenic Trail in CT and MA could be a possibility since it stays at lower elevations. 

It is a lot of trial and error. Setting bouldering problems tends to be easier since they are shorter. The biggest thing to consider is height. Assuming you are reasonably tall individual, solicit feedback from some of the strong junior climbers. They will often be able to tell you where they need an extra foot chip to make a reach or even use it as a hand hold to make a bump. One rule of thumb is if you cannot make the reach with your elbow, the move is too long. If you are short, it is often very hard to judge just how far a tall person can reach. Another thing to consider is injury potential. Reaches around features can cause people to bend in weird ways and odd body parts to rub against the wall. No one likes banging an elbow/knee when they fall or rubbing their wrist raw. Gimmick moves are over rated. I would avoid trying to set move that requires a knee bar, figure four, dyno, or heel hook. Just stick with straight forward moves that flow. Setting below your max grade is much easier than setting at, or even worse above, your max climbing grade. Everyone needs to warm up so good easy routes/problems will not go to waste. Overly tweaking a move is generally not a good thing. If the quality/difficulty of the move changes drastically with a few degree change in a hold, it is probably not a great move. Eventually, the clean hold will get slimy and it might even twist a bit, essentially reversing all your tweaking. Further everyone climbs differently and has different reaches and balance points. Making a move fit you exactly, or not fit you, does not mean it will fit/not fit other people. Makes routes consist of moves of consistent difficulty (and quality). No one wants a route with a single killer move. 

I take public transportation to my work and the climbing gym. This means my climbing gear stays in my office all day with me. My climbing shoes stink and are really offensive to have in my office. When at home I tend to store them in the garage. What is the best way to contain the stench so that my office does not smell like rotting feet? The solution needs to be suitable for being carried on public transportation. In an attempt to mitigate the XY debate, lets assume that I am either unable, unwilling, or unsuccessful at cleaning rock climbing shoes. 

I don't think it is great practice, but lots of people top rope off of a single biner attached to the belay loop. The belay loop is plenty strong for this purpose, but the carabiner adds an additional single point of failure into the system. Two locking carabiners that are opposite and opposed would provide redundancy in the case of failure. Using the belay loop is generally more desirable as it reduces the change of cross loading as there are only two points of contact (the rope and the belay loop) as opposed to using the harness where there are three points of contact (rope, waist loop, crotch loop). Some climbing gyms may allow this, others will most definitely not allow this. I believe, but cannot find it on line, that some gyms actually require you to clip into pre-tied knots. The idea being the chance of the carabiner failing is lower than the chance of the knot being tied incorrectly.