I know I have acted in ways that were bourne of nothing but good intent, yet caused great suffering in those close to me. I do not feel guilty about that, but I do feel sad. Intent is crucial, but ignorance can live underneath, leading us to act in ways that seem reasonable, but actually cause harm. In the end, what is it you want? Do you want to look after your own karmic legacy, or do you want to reduce the suffering of those around you? If the latter, then intent is very important, but the actual consequences matter too. There was a case where the Buddha taught an insight practice to some monks. He came back a few days later and they had committed suicide. He undoubtedly learned from this! So, in terms of consequences, none of us are immune from 'unexpected' ones. Yet we can continue to learn, and find ways to increase the effectiveness of our actions in bringing about increased wellbeing in those around us. 

Analyze it with a "Cause and Effect" rule. Once you find out the cause, analyze what are the root causes and why your negative minds are being triggered. Ask yourself some of these questions: Is it only you that are experiencing the Anger, or both? If both, is there some fundamental difference that can never be settled? If only you are experiencing this mind state, try position yourself in his/her shoes? Do your family members know? what are their thoughts? Is there a win-win solution? 

Take it back to first principles. Particularly the first precept: not to cause harm. If I engage in sexual activity with someone who is at the time too young to fully consent, I set in place conditions for future suffering. If I engage in sexual activity with someone who has committed to sexual fidelity with another, I set in place conditions for future suffering for their partner. If I engage in sexual activity with someone over whom I have excessive power (e.g. as a school teacher, meditation teacher, etc) I set in place conditions for their future suffering when they realise I am not perfect. In relation to the quotes you mention. Engaging in sexual activity with someone who's parents deem themselves to be protecting. This is difficult. I could deem myself to be protecting my (fictional) 45 year old daughter. But do I have the right to do so? When is that protection actually in the best interest of the child? In modern societies we usually accept that once someone is an adult (over 18) they have the right to decide who they have sexual relations with, and given no other mechanisms for deciding, that would seem a reasonable approach to follow. Although, if I were to engage in sexual activity with someone whose parents would seriously disagree yet was over the age of consent, I would be sure to discuss with them the potential consequences for themselves (e.g damaged parental relationship) before doing so. Thus, what matters is the first precept: not doing harm. 

Your Karma, good or bad, will depend on how you treat, raise, and teach your child. It is What you do with him/her, that will result in good/bad/neutral karma. Hence, by just bringing a child into the world, it is neither a good or bad karma, it is neutral. 

It might be a cultural thing; But we should all stop trying to please the whole world and start to action what is practically good and with good intentions. Follow the dharma and action without fears. Think about it, is it justified to do bad deeds just because somebody threatens you to? 

I have seen many effects of meditation on sleep. Similarly to you, before and after sleep. I have had times when my need for sleep is vastly reduced, and I've had times when I don't want to do anything but sleep. It seems meditation can release stuff. Sometimes it seems to release a kind of 'repressed tiredness' that just needs time to get out. Sometime it releases energy that means sleep need is reduced. As I've said on another post, what would it be like if, when you wake from sleep with troubled thoughts, you take the time to turn towards those thoughts, and importantly the feelings that go with them, with kindness, gentleness and care? The troubledness, in my experience, is just something in me asking for attention. Wonders can happen when you pay less attention to the rational content of the thoughts, and more attention to the emotional content. 

It was never about blind belief. It is about faith in the direction of the path. By the time you reach the path's end, faith is not required, because you already know. Without faith or belief, you would be on your foot, forever questioning about your own belief, without taking one step for eternity. 

You will have to be very distinct whether your attachment is towards: 1. Your positive influence to the world; 2. Your reward, no matter big or small; 3. Your egotistic sense of success; and/or 4. Your self/improvement, enlightenment, etc. If you are towards 1-3, you are not achieving enlightenment. If you feel you are towards 4 but you are not reducing any suffering, you are not achieving enlightenment either. Remember, enlightenment is not just about letting go, but void of suffering. Are you following the 4 noble truths? and the 8 folds paths in what you do? And by the way, egoistic achievement is NOT necessary for progress in science and technology. You can say it is a motivation for some people, but it is not the only possible motivation. Therefore, the "individualistic roots" are neither permanent nor necessary. 

Great answer from Namrata. Can you turn towards the experience with curiosity and kindness? If you can't give your attention to other experience because this is too overwhelming, perhaps it is just something that is asking for attention. Sometimes, the issue with something like this is merely that it feels ignored. Once we really become interested, in a kindly way, it feels seen and met, and quietens down. Or, it has a story to tell, perhaps of past trauma, etc. Curiosity and kindness are crucial. Along with gentleness. Just look, see what you can actually know about these. Perhaps as Andrei suggests, it is connected with smoking. Perhaps turning towards the sensation with kindness might help you see more what is there? 

You can always build your "worldly success" while practicing Buddhism. There is no conflict of each other. If you are talking about go the monastic direction and live like a monk, that's a totally different story. 

In Buddhism there are concepts that are so complex that transcends beyond common reasonable, objective thinking. Therefore to your question, the answer is obviously "No". The question instead should be: Does common 'reasonable and objective' thinking downplay the depths of true Buddhism teachings? This will eventually guide you through your doubts. 

I've also heard it said that the term Hinayana was mostly referring to traditions that are long since dead. To identify the term "Hinayana" with the Theravadin tradition would be mixing up history. Sorry that I can't provide references other than an ages old recollection :-( 

Let's separate this out. If you watch a recording of a crime on a website, does it impact the victim of the crime? Not in itself. It DOES give a "view" to the video, and thus you are, in a sense, giving your tacit support to the recording, and publishing, of the event. THAT is, for me, the reason not to watch such events, as far as the world impact is concerned. I guess one needs to attempt to assess the motive of the publisher - was it to shock? Or to educate? As far as impact upon oneself is concerned, this is another question. Are we adding to our own karma? It depends entirely upon the intent with which we are watching. Sooooo much consumption of internet material is quietly mindless - which means we are blindly watching with no concern for what impact it might have on us: because someone has published it, it must be okay. This attitude allows others to have control over our minds! As a meditator, I'd rather that weren't the case! Thinking about karma is tough - does it affect my Karma? Can I ever experience my karma as a tangible sensation? I'm not sure I ever have. Can I see impacts on my experience that demonstrate that certain kinds of actions have noticeable impacts on my experience? For sure, and some have impacts on my experience in meditation. Some I can learn to work with. For others, I just practice "guarding the gates of the senses" and avoid that stimulus. 

Buddhism views suffering as coming from 8 different forms, as below: Suffering of birth; Suffering of old age, Suffering of sickness, Suffering of death, Suffering of getting what you don't want, Suffering of not getting what you want, Suffering of getting what you want while not being able to hold onto it forever, and then there is the most mysterious one of all, which is all pervasive suffering or misery. Therefore, in mainstream Buddhism, it is widely accepted that "Suffering is inevitable" so long as your are still in the wheel of re-incarnation. (Un-enlightened). The core of Buddhism teaches about treating suffering (4 noble truths) through enlightenment (8-folds path). Hence, from the above list, there was no further dissection of pain vs suffering, because that would be redundant and further complicate matters. In comparison, it seems DBT basically replaced the word "Suffering" from Buddhism's context, with the word "Pain" in DBT's context. Not saying DBT is less comprehensive, after all it is a researched therapy with Buddhism flavors. I believe it's probably more useful and easier to be accepted to treat those people with different conventional/religious backgrounds. Always be mindful that - Suffering and pleasure are two sides of the same coin.