Melʹc̆uk also has a more recent book that focuses on semantics. I haven't looked at it personally, but I imagine it is going to have a detailed account of semantic predicate-argument structures. Note as well that Melʹc̆uk is Russian. But also beware, Melʹc̆uk's works can be difficult to access for those who do not have a firm basis in the theory of grammar. If a typology of lexical verbs is actually what you are interested in, many dictionaries provide sentence frames indicating how verbs are used. For instance, I have Wahrig's Woerterbuch der deutschen Sprache here in front of me now. It classifies verbs into about 100 different types according to their valency. Perhaps this is what you are actually interested in. If so, I imagine that there are dictionaries of Russian that also provide sentence frames indicating the valency of verbs. If the term "valency" does not call up clear associations, try reading this article here. Now on to actual predicate-argument structures. A typology of predicates would have to be able to accommodate the following data: 

I think the confusion is due to the varied use of the terms attribute (attributive), predicate (predicative), argument (≈complement), and adjunct. Depending on how one wants to use these four terms, one can cut the cake in various ways. One can, for instance, emphasize the distinction between attributive and predicative adjectives, e.g. 

There are two types of answers to this question, depending upon whether a multistratal syntax (deep syntax and surface syntax) or monostratal syntax (surface syntax only) is assumed. In monostratal syntax, information structure is encoded by linear order alone. This is the same for both grammar types, dependency and constituency. For instance, a topic can be construed as the constituent that appears at the left edge of an utterance. Note that I have used the term "constituent" to describe the syntactic unit at the left edge of the utterance in a dependency grammar. For example: 

In this case, good functions syntactically and semantically just like one hell of a. This process is a common occurrence in many languages. A verb and a noun together form a noncompisitional meaning that at times can be expressed with a single verb. Consider the following cases: 

Lucien Tesnière, the father of modern dependency-based theories of syntax and grammar (i.e. dependency grammars, DGs), famously wrote the following in Chapter 1 (paragraph 5ff.) of his main oeuvre Éléments de syntaxe structurale (1959): "a sentence of the type Alfred speaks is not composed of just the two elements, Alfred and speaks, but rather of three elements, the first being Alfred, the second speaks, and the third the connection that unites them – without which there would be no sentence. To say that a sentence of the type Alfred speaks consists of only two elements is to analyze it in a superficial manner, purely morphologically, while neglecting the essential aspect that is the syntactic link. [...] The connection is indispensable for the expression of thought. Without the connection, we would not be in a position to express a single continuous thought and we would only be capable of producing a succession of isolated images and ideas, with nothing linking them together." [Translated from the French] What Tesnière calls a "connection" here is what most modern DGs call a "dependency". The passage demonstrates that Tesnière had a mentalist understanding of dependencies. One could call it a cognitive perspective. He viewed dependency structures as cognitive structures. I disagree with the sentiment expressed in Olivier's answer above ("an illegitimate theory is a quite rare beast"), and implied in a sense in Jlawler's comment above ("A large number of serious syntacticians believe that one needs both dependency and PS relations"). An extreme version of that sentiment states that all theories are legitimate theories. The one theory, no matter its nature, is every bit as good as the next. That is a kum-ba-yah view of science that I reject, i.e. "your science is as good as my science; let's all be happy", and if we take it seriously, it would actually mean the death of scientific progress. Science -- in this case theories of syntax and grammar -- are not all equally good. Some are better than others, and if we are interested in scientific progress, we should constantly be comparing the predictions that theories make. The theories that are making accurate predictions with the least effort are the better ones. I think that a comprehensive theory of syntax needs both dependency and constituency, but not in the way that Jlawler's comment seems to imply. Constituency is needed only for coordination; it is not needed for subordination. Coordination aside, dependency beats constituency hands down. Dependency makes more accurate predictions than constituency with much less effort. It is in general the better approach to the syntax of natural languages. But that is of course just my view; each linguist has to decide this issue for themselves. 

Many forms ending in -ed stem from full past participles, e.g. scared, angered, annoyed, pleased, destroyed, fixed, touched, relaxed, etc. These forms actually line up somewhere between adjectives and full past passive participles. The one form may be more participle-like than adjective-like, and the next may be more adjective-like than participle-like. There is a participle-to-adjective continuum of a sort, whereby a given form ending in -ed appears somewhere on the continuum. Many forms ending in -ing stem from present participles, e.g. pleasing, annoying, touching, relaxing, etc. These forms line up somewhere between adjectives and full present active participles. The one form may be more participle-like than adjective-like, and the next may be more adjective-like than participle-like. Thus there is also a present-participle-to-adjective continuum, whereby a given form ending in -ing appears somewhere on the continuum. Present participles express active meaning, whereas as past participles often express passive meaning. There is therefore a clear difference between the forms pleasing and pleased, the former indicating active meaning associated with a cause and the latter indicating passive meaning associated with a patient. Forms such as scary, angry, touchy, etc. are simply adjectives. Whether or not they derived from verbs is not clear (to me), although they seem more like active participles than like passive participles, since the meaning they express is associated with a cause or an agent. 

I do dependency grammar (DG), and my personal view is that dependency gets the job done more efficiently than constituency by far. The average constituency parse (= phrase structure parse) contains almost twice as many nodes and edges as your average dependency parse. Automated dependency parsing is significantly faster than automated constituency parsing. The point is illustrated with the following trees taken from the article on DG in Wikipedia: 

The context free rewrite rules - as associated most with early Chomskyan syntax - can easily be reworked in terms of dependency: G = (T, R), where T is the set of terminals and R is the set of rewrite rules. The distinction between nonterminal symbols (V) and terminal symbols (T) disappears, only terminals remaining. If one needs a start symbol, it would probably be V (verb). Standard context free rewrite rules (i.e. constituency-based rewrite rules) have the folllowing form: 

The answer C, the one you chose, is somewhat better than answer B. However, passive participles like found straddle two syntactic categories, verb and adjective. They can behave like an adjective with respect to a noun that they modify, i.e. they can be dependent on a noun as if they were a clear adjective, but they clearly maintain their verbal quality with respect to the material that they head. The verbal quality of found in the example can be seen in the fact that reduced relative clauses like found dead on the southern Spanish coast allow an analysis in terms of ellipsis. One can construe the words that was as having been elided: A whale (that was) found dead on the southern Spanish coast was... The verbal quality of found is also visible in the fact that true adjectives cannot be modified by adjuncts such as on the southern Spanish coast, e.g. *A whale enormous on the southern Spanish coast... Further, when attributive adjectives modify nouns, they usually precede the noun in English, e.g. an enormous whale. The fact that the passive participle follows the noun that it modifies is thus a further indication that it is more verb-like than adjective-like. Whoever wrote the question is valuing the one criterion more than these others. They are taking the fact that found modifies the noun whale like an attributive adjective would as decisive. In so doing, they are shortsighted and ignoring the verb-like qualities of found. In sum, I think you are justified in protesting.