Generally it's not a good idea to bring it up after you have already agreed on something. As an employer, people that go back on their word is a warning sign. It might just lose you the offer from your potential new employer. What you could do, is mention that you did get a much better offer from your current employer but that you like the new company more and need a few days to think and talk things through with your significant other / a friend before you make a decision. That just might get your new employer to raise their offer without you having to go back on your word. 

Ask questions that would be needed for you to a good job and make sure you're the right fit for the job. Ask about the tech stack, about how services interact with each other, about the company culture and who you would be working with. Asking the right questions make you more productive and a good hiring manager sees this. 

First of all, ask yourself if you really want to work for the company in the long run. Do you like what you do? Do you feel important? Do you enjoy going to work every day? If the answer is no, ask yourself if it's likely to change to the better. If not, look for another job. I've been in a similar situation myself and decided to leave, only to realize I should have done it much earlier. 

They want to anonymize your resume before submitting to the company to ensure the company does not side step them to contact you directly. They want to add their own letterhead to the resume. 

I've never had this specific benefit, but my wife has. She's worked at the same company as long as I've known her, and the privilege seems to have been slightly modified every summer, but the general concept is that Fridays in the summer have modified hours. Some years have meant that every other Friday is a half-day. Other years meant that they can leave an hour or 2 early every Friday. And some years, the benefit was not offered. The only way to know what the specific benefit means is to ask. 

One other reason I have found is external recruiters want an editable version of your resume for several reasons. 

This also happens for internal recruiters who are hiring for a specific project. It is not out of the question for a consulting company to submit candidates to their customer before hiring them for a project to ensure the customer is satisfied with their experience and skills. By submitting in a PDF, you make it much more difficult for the recruiter to accomplish either task. 

But I don't mean that in the way I think you will interpret. From the contents of your question, it sounds like you want to use an "anonymous" survey as a soap box to rant against the company. Regardless of the anonymity of the survey, you have to wonder how seriously they will take a survey if it is nothing but a list of complaints. I've taken many similar surveys in my time and I've always tried to offer constructive criticism because no place is perfect. At the same time, I always counter negative (but constructive) feedback with something positive. My belief is that negative feedback will be more easily accepted if it is balanced. Someone who just responds negatively to everything may be seen as a disgruntled employee or an unhappy person that is never satisfied. As I mentioned (and want to reinforce), make any negative feedback constructive. Don't say "You guys suck, I hate all of you because you make me work 160 hours a week and only pay me $10/hr". Instead focus on how to frame the feedback in a constructive manner. "In similar positions in my locale, the pay rate is $x but my rate is far below that" and "the quality of my work suffers because I am expected to work more than y hours per week". Explain how it is better for the company not to work the employees so hard for below average pay, not that the company is the worst place in the world to work. 

First of all, it depends on if they want a very in depth presentation or want you to do something from scratch. Do they want your presentation skills (not likely) or your analysis skills (likely)? When I ask candidates for a work sample, I usually send them a specific task because I want to see what they will create in a very limited time. I'm less interested in what they can create given unlimited time, since most people can produce something good given enough time. That would be a counter argument to basing it on your previous work. Also think about if your Masters work is complex enough to fit into what they want. As for your last paragraph - there are sometimes hidden demands testing your judgement. I don't ask my Ruby on Rails candidates specifically to do tests, but I expect a good RoR coder to know that it's very important by themselves. Seeing if you chose something close to what they do or not might be a judgement test. 

No, just change the headline from Past Employments to Relevant experience or something similar. This is especially important if the jobs were a long time ago (judging from your question it was probably not that far away in time?). I sometimes get applications that list work as mailman 20 years ago for a programming job. It just takes up space and is wasted time for me when going through resumes. If leaving a job out of your resume would leave a big gap, leave it in but just use one line for it. 

Everyone's going to run into quirks or issues when working with another person. The fact that John decided to call these issues out in public is unprofessional and erodes morale outright. 

I'm sorry for your loss. In the real world, time off is time off, regardless of if it's for bereavement or for leisure. In either circumstance, only your supervisor is authorized to grant you the time off or to decline it. Since you've lost a family member, I also doubt that they're going to decline the request, but in the context of an office setting, the only people that need to know why you're taking the time off is you and your supervisor. Once it's been cleared, then and only then should you make any kind of announcement. The last time I had bereavement leave, I was coming off of a week-long vacation. I had informed my supervisor the instant I knew when I'd be out, and declined to make any public announcements to anyone else when I had came back to work the following day. I had felt like it was handled professionally and succinctly, and the person who needed to fill out the appropriate paperwork was acutely aware of what was going on. If anyone else were brought into that loop, it'd add unnecessary channels of communication since they don't have to do anything while I'm out except their individual jobs; they can't handle the time-off request or anything like that. A lot of people are thinking that the manager was in the wrong here, but I would say they'd only really be in the wrong if they gave you this feedback in the open instead of in a one-on-one setting. Even worse if they jumped down your throat about the matter. Since you're still learning, it's not unfair to expect to get feedback on something like this. It also wasn't unfair for them to say that it wasn't good to announce this to the entire floor. (Note that I didn't mention them saying it was "unprofessional" since you yourself didn't state that they explicitly used the word "unprofessional". I'm sure that they understand what you're going through - or at least can sympathize - and aren't going to chide you for your actions based on that alone.) 

There are no true "rules" when it comes to jobs and job hunting. I left my first job out of school almost exactly 6 months after starting. I felt the same as you. My position was very unfulfilling, involved managing the maintenance of equipment built before I was born. If felt that if I stayed, it would impact my future career prospects. I ended up changing jobs and my career has not suffered at all. I even left the company I moved too after only 2 1/2 years, which led to a series of company/title changes due to my company constantly getting bought and sold (2 sales in 5+ years I was there). After 5 years in the same role though, I interviewed with a massive corporation that has very strict hiring policies, and I got the position. So despite the job/companies changes after 8 years of my career, I have not had any issues, nor have I ever been asked "why did you leave you first job after 6 months". In short, frequently changing jobs can be a red flag, it usually will not be an issue if you show that you do not make a habit of it. Leaving 1 job (even if it is your first) after 18 months is not a significant problem, but if you change every job after 18 months, it could be an issue later in your career. 

I'm currently looking for a job, but due to extensive and exigent family matters, I've not really had the time or focus on requests by hiring managers, or really follow up on leads. Worse, I don't know when it will be resolved enough to allow me to focus again on the job hunt. I've talked to the recruiters that have been working with me in what I'd describe as cryptic terms - analogous to, "I'm going through an exigent family matter, and haven't managed to look at this yet," or "I'm going through an exigent family matter, and unfortunately have to withdraw from the interviewing process at this time," and for the most part it seems like they're amicable to the situation. However, I really don't want to make this seem like I'm slacking off; I'm genuinely dealing with family matters which require my near-constant attention. I don't want to burn bridges or miss out, as these recruiters have opportunities I have a genuine interest in. To that effect, I'd like to inform them of what's going on so that they have in their minds when I'd be reasonably available. However, I'm not sure how much sharing would be necessary or professional. What degree of specificity should I be stating when I say, "I have an exigent family matter"? Is simply mentioning it enough, or should I look to go deeper? 

I find a greeting line of some sort very important in exactly 4 scenerios in emails. I almost never use them otherwise 

It is very unusual in my experience for a company (at least not a small company) to begin the on-boarding procedures and schedule a start date without a signed offer letter. While this wouldn't be a contract, it is your official signal to them that you are committed to joining their organization and accepted the terms of their offer. But it wouldn't be out of the question they they took your verbal acceptance at that signal of commitment. The fact that they gave you a start date and started a background check indicates to me that they think you have accepted, even if you don't think you accepted anything. On the company's side, this likely means that they have informed the other potential candidates that they have filled the position, and the manager has begun whatever processes are needed to get your started (ordering equipment, getting accounts set up, etc). Since there appears to be no real legally enforceable contract based on your description, you aren't committed to anything. You can walk away without fear of legal repercussions. However, you will likely burn your bridges with company A and it would be a surprise if they ever considered you for another position in the future. Depending on the industry and what the competition is like, you would be surprised who you run into in the future, and who will remember your name. You may even encounter Company A as a client, or someone from Company A in a management role of another company you wish to work with. So the decision should come down to two questions...