In summary he used techno-babble, misapplication of theory, misuse of terminology, and more to support a theory that's plausible but wrong. If he reworded a big chunk of it then it could sound even more scientific. But then we're about to due that with scalons so meh. Lets play with scalons now! So assuming government suppressed tech is: Zero-Point Energy, "Anti-grav"/"Time-travel" (pick your realistic solution from the long list of options here), and for development speed reasons AGI. That means we can design things that need inordinate amounts of energy and design them quickly. We can also alter EM and gravitational fields. We still have no control over strong and weak nuclear interactions so we can't transmute elements or work on raw quarks but we can do a fair amount. I'm assuming with our Zero-Point Energy harnessing we understand and can manipulate enough of the vacuum to create pairs of anything in said vacuum, collect one and fire off the anti-particle to destroy something else. So we can't transmute but we can create and destroy which is virtually identical macroscopically. We still need to supply the difference in energy but our ZPE can do that and we probably are manipulating the vacuum fluctuation for ZPE in the first place to generate energy (someone was researching a way to do so using the Casimir effect if I recall correctly). These are our raw powers in a completely scientfic world (stretched a bit because anytime you posit future-tech there may be unknown walls in physics, etc.). Now if we make a so called scalon in your universe and are able to manipulate it what you really have is a unified force particle with a 4D waveform. So your 5th particle/force is like the independent variable of the universe's equation, it doesn't even matter if a Grand Unified Theory exists for the other four: if your scalon controls all forces it IS that theory. You have two choices now[3]: Scalons are independent variables: 

Essentially what it boils down to is if you can pick properties/tech will-nilly then spear/shield match-ups are stalemates which is the same as saying the shield won. Figure out which energy areas the shield and spear belong to and stick to them. Your cloth happens to fit EXACTLY what you want it to be. Braced weapons already exist and cloth is not rigid (your not using it as a bracing material) so essentially small arms are "useless" by the above argument since it never transfers enough momentum. And by the same argument large braced ones are effective. If bonds in cloth are relatively weak an extremely sharp melee weapon could still have effect. And if you're willing to trade the cloth back down to kevlar-vest levels of protection: then you're looking at something where a sledgehammer is still effective but small handguns are not as effective. 

Some of the most significant changes that are likely in such a world include changes to: Education would likely change for the better as the benefits would far outweigh any negative effects. Things that consist mostly of memorization could be learned in days instead of years. Focus would shift to developing novel skills and methodologies. The accelerated learning is likely and taken to the extreme would result in Elementary School and College being the only two levels, one for mandatory skills, the other for preferred skills. Economy would likely start to seriously trade in skills and knowledge. This is highly likely as the value of novel skills would be the only thing separating a waitress from a scientist. The skills that make a person special/unique would probably be closely guarded by the individual so they could stay both different and potentially valuable. Military would be changed dramatically. The ability to transfer military knowledge and skills allows anyone anywhere to instantly be upgraded to a super-soldier and strategist in one. Body-type specific skills would be the only limiting factor. This would transform any population into a standing army so it's hard to see it being passed up. It would also make the "originals" that everyone would be cloned off of into moving targets on the level of a president (or higher). Law would likely develop around the ability. With precedents in patent and copyright laws it's likely that everyone's natural ability may be regulated. Martial arts skills might be required to be registered for example. It's possible this could get dystopian rather quickly "by necessity". Politics would change dramatically, since it would be laughable if it stayed the same. "I can change the world because I can ____", well so can I potentially. A politician could be asked to prove they had the skills before they got in office instead of during their stay. This would increase the average capability of public officials. Since it's such an obvious and simple solution to a universal problem it seems pretty likely to happen. Information wars would get ugly by necessity and hoarding would become common. An example is the buying out of patents and crushing of competition. Just by a touch the underdog in that scenario can make a third-party completely understand their side and its benefits. As suppression of competition becomes all but impossible while it's members are alive, it would rather likely result in large numbers of corporate and government murders as the only way to deal with the problem, since you couldn't even imprison them without the guards become a liability. Well-being would be interestingly distributed and possibly collapse social media. If you had a memory you wanted to forget you could, but you would have to give it to someone else. The best time of your life could become everyone's best time. Many mood-altering trades could be enacted. Since it all needs somewhere to go there could be a small number of individuals that receive all of society's crappy sparks. Just like a new drug it's unlikely this wouldn't be widespread. Individuality may cease to exist. A Singularity of opinion and skills would make the human race one giant Swarm and much more of a Hive Mind than it already is. Such a Singularity is extremely likely. After-all, what are the odds of you turning down the skills to be a stunt-driver, or experience an astronauts trip to the moon? If you become a "spark junkie" then your on a one-way trip to become part of the Swarm. As the passing of skills onto the next generation would occur early in life and be highly beneficial it's highly possible the positives may far outweigh any and all negatives, or society may just notice too late. Lost Knowledge would be unlikely. Anyone who wanted to know something would just have to spend some time decrypting your brain after your death to know it. Since some of the knowledge that people have taken to their graves is sorely missed by the world it seems unlikely that this wouldn't be used at-least occasionally. People may resort to cremation to avoid this of course. And that's all the major ones that I can think of (some of those aren't breathtakingly major but are interesting so I included them). 

So your answer to scalonic magic that is most general/plausible/powerful/magical: A scalon is a particle that is the actual cause of everything in the universe. It is the independet variable and everything else is an effect, a dependent variable. The sole actual will in the universe is inside a scalon. It has a region of influence that extends outward from its center and is inversely proportional to distance. Humans either have scalons and don't truly believe the scalon to exist thus they distort their view of the world to exclude them. Or they have no scalons and no free-will and the scalons are excluding themselves from visibility. There's your scientific magic :). 

Avoiding PvP is one of your goals and as others have stated an algorithm can take the place of the enemy player. An adaptive algorithm or AI that takes into consideration play from the group's previous rounds would be one that got progressively more difficult. One example of an "algorithm" would be the game rules or for an "AI" the GM/DM in an RPG. Establishing either of these turns a PvP into a PvE. PvE is rather simple especially if there's a random factor. You almost never have negative competition between players unless there's a scoring metric that applies to all of them. For example if your playing a game where you're each a collector and you get a point for collecting an item of your own type but none for collecting another players'. If you had each player score individually it would be competitive but if you had the team score be the sum or the fact that every collector found something, then you have a game where everyone wants to help other players find their collectable because it increases team score/win. The only score is if the team wins or not and/or by how much. You could have competition between larger groups but that's a different game at that point (you have a different scoring system). If you kept the collaborative scoring of the smaller groups it just becomes a larger game. Another example is a "Validating" game. There's a second win condition that can only be met by losing so both players win, but in different ways. Take a war simulation in an army. The winner wins and the loser proves a point that helps the team (they're all on team army). The point if the enemy is the loser is we're doing a good job we think. The point if the team is the loser is that we have things we need to fix together. Ways to make PvP non-competitive in a sense: make scores binary (if you add a factor to ensure winning this results in scores of 1:1), make team score a composite of personal scores (Collaborative), make scores for each player orthogonal (PvS), make competition game rules or AI (PvE), have a orthogonal secondary goal that is met only by losing ("Validating"), have a never-ending PvP game (No Score Game). PvE has only the problem of losing. We can transform any such problem rather easily though. If the team would lose start a "Fate Game". This saves the player from their immediate doom at the cost of time. For example: start a new game that is slightly easier. Fate Games can have Fate Games inside themselves. Eventually your chance of losing reaches 0 and you clear the loss in the main game. The better you are as a team the quicker the game. There are of course other ways to transform a game with losses into one without losses. PvS is also in the category of creative games. PvS are "non-competitive" because they're self-competitive by definition. Your goal or your team's goal is to do something they couldn't have done before. Either yourself overcoming your expectations or the group outperforming an individual. Think tanks and Exquisite corpse fall into this category. Once again, as long as your playing the base PvS game nobody loses. Creative games can also be outside of this category; Mao, Nomic, Mornington Crescent, and 1000 Blank White Cards are in general PvP creative games. Those types of games by their very nature of modification are only valid if there are "super-rules" which say everyone must win. The challenge then becomes ensuring this. Creative games are a wild card, that in general can be solved by adding your conditions as super-rules. To meet your goals the game only needs to get harder which is something that, if culturally understood, is inevitable. If you're guaranteed a win given enough time then the goal is to have fun. A narrow (and yet broad) definition of fun is a challenge that is surmountable. For a really narrow look at this definition: The more the challenge, the more the sense of accomplishment. The more surmountable, the quicker you get the reward. Goal is to minimize time and maximize challenge. So if the reason everyone is playing is to have fun it makes sense that they'd make the game harder in a PvS. You could even have an assigned antagonist. You would think their goal would be to win, but if the super-rule is everyone must win they have the challenging task of making the game winnable but as hard as possible. So their unspoken win condition is "lose, but make it a show". In a PvE you can evolve the game based on player performance. And in a PvP you just make it into a PvE or PvS (or make it never end). 

In the face of such an adversary (which is likely since they programmed an entire universe) the only real hope we could have is a personality analysis of our creator(s) and a plea/message designed to let us out by "hacking their minds". Likely solvable by decrypting their thinking process (not likely unless we solve physics and P=NP too). Although possible without decryption if they think like us, since scientific tests have shown that an AI will get out. Of course that's assuming there's someone to contact. For all we know this could be one big prison for the outcasts and mass murders of the external society to be hooked up to. This would most likely be entirely secure, mostly/completely unmonitored, and designed as a one-way trip that's strictly enforced. In such a scenario we would probably not rub against the limit either as they would keep the population at a manageable size for the simulation. EDIT: I remember reading somewhere that if we could perform a quantum simulation of our own universe perfectly we would become the simulation, and thus an in-universe computer could change the simulation. This allows us to get out of the sandbox on our machine and potentially out. 

So basically if our stiffest fiber comes from a bush could they get decent tech... Sure they could! (Now start your extinction counter because it's going to be tough.) Making metal tools with coal could be discovered relatively easily. But for your first real resource you have stone, which is time-consuming to shape. Bone is our level 2 weapon and we scavenge for it whenever we can. Since we have no sticks really, we can't get spears (bones are too curvy and stone too fragile). If you think to our Earthling cavemen, this means our level 2 bone weapons are pretty much daggers. We do get textiles as normal though, due to bone needles. If we manage to land some big game we have leather to make slings and become much better off. So you have a rock to throw, then a dagger, then a sling. Pretty much going to be living 24/7 safari zone. Depending on the temperature, wood becomes critically important as firewood. Brush doesn't last long enough when it's so cold that fire is a requirement. Although, if there's a ton of coal... If you have so much coal that the local past-time is seeing how big you can get a bonfire... Then you're probably going to have fire weapons almost the instant someone gets around to lighting one. On that note, fire's going to be a problem to make, if bush wood doesn't get big or strong enough to make a fire by hand. We're going to end up with wide-spread fire a smidgen later, which means more time in our vulnerable phase. Once you get to metal though, you actually speed through those ages faster as they become that much better. Although hastened metal progress may very well be offset by the fact that a massive amount of prototyping was done with wood because it was easy to shape. That may in turn raise the value of other prototyping materials like wax and clay.