Clouds Different types of clouds sit on different layers based on altitude, air pressure, and relative humidity. You mentioned your atmosphere has breathable air, does it also have water vapor in the atmosphere? Are there rain clouds? Methane clouds? Sulfur Dioxide clouds? Maybe an enterprising character notices that the moisture collectors are collecting more methane than before, or that when they head into a storm cloud, they get more violent turbulence than before. Depending on how far up they are, maybe they are used to riding out some of the more violent storms that happened lower in the atmosphere, but the protagonists have a rude awakening when a storm that they previously wouldn't have paid mind to 10 years ago tragically destroys their town. 

Servals are solitary creatures that are highly territorial. Usually that means they make poor targets for human hunting companions (they much prefer to hunt on their own). Contrast this with dogs, who were most likely bred from wolves, who are pack animals. Check out this video for explanations on traits that make animals more domesticable. Servals have a short lifespan (compared to humans), reach maturity fairly quickly, and are fairly intelligent (all traits that are helpful with domestication). There is no reason why they wouldn't be useful in vermin patrol, setting up shop near fields and grain stores to protect them from being eaten by rodents. That's how modern cats were domesticated. This means that servals are probably able to be domesticated but would not do well as a hunting companion. 

This means, that as people spread out along the river and travel up and down it and more importantly down the river, you're eventually going to end up at a sea or lake or ocean. Then, everything that made the river so appealing to follow will be cranked up to overdrive as people move up and down the shore in both directions, and eventually people would be so interested in what is beyond the sea/lake/ocean that they build big honking ships to go and try to see what's on the other side. If this whole scenario super plausible that's because this is exactly how early civilizations evolved and expanded. 

Give them a super good river You're a benevolent God, so give your people a nice, reliable, tamable river. I'm not sure what is irrigating your farmlands, but I'm going to argue that a river naturally will get people to move and explore. 

A river will make people want to spread out, gradually extending out the civilization and causing them to build towns and hamlets farther and farther away from the main city. Here's some reasons why: Fish Fish are a great source of protein. Fish guts are a great source of nitrates which can improve crop yields or reduce the amount of time a field must lie fallow between usages. Fishers would gradually spread out over the length of the river to try to find different pockets of fish or just to go upstream of a popular spot that is being overfished. Farmland A good river deposits nutrient-rich silt and irrigates the landscape, meaning that all up and down its banks would be super fertile, especially compared to the surrounding landscape. Nearby animals would come and graze on the grass growing near the river, as well as drink there, meaning the river banks would become great spots for hunting, too. Any enterprising farmer would want to settle away from the rest of the other farms to try to get more good land to till. Washing, Water and Waste I assume your city has people who wear clothes, get thirsty, and use the bathroom. The river will naturally be a super convenient place to dump your trash and, you know, take a dump. I'm sure some of your more well off citizens would want upstream water so that it doesn't taste so... earthy, or to wash their clothes where they know their neighbors don't dump their garbage. This means that more downstream city folks might find themselves more vulnerable to cholera, or in general get a dirtier river, causing more wealthier folks to try to move upstream. Trade Eventually, people in the one area of the city are going to realize it's really easy to move heavy objects if you put them on a raft than dragging it along by yourself. This will mean there will be warehouses and markets on the banks of the river. Merchants will associate the river with more trade and more wealth. People will build up their houses around these markets, and then it comes to pass that the only way to really expand your business is to build up more river docks. This and the waste problem will cause people to: Riverfront Spreading It's a treat to be able to have riverfront property. The views are nicer, you get better breezes, quicker access to water, your own little private quay. People will grab property on the riverfront, and as your city develops, more and more people will have to build farther and farther up and down the river to grab that good riverfront property. 

A river will also make people move downstream, eventually leading people to an ocean, lake, or sea. Here are some reasons why: Floods There will naturally be periods of heavy rainfall, and since lots of people have their houses built on the river (some of them perhaps less well off than others), naturally some of these buildings would be swept away in floods. Since floods cause things to go, you know, downstream, plenty of people will have reasons to go downstream to go look for their loved ones or to try to recover valuables that have been washed away. You don't need floods either, plenty of people might fall in the river after a night of drinking or have boats capsize, for people to want to look downstream. Curiosity This is the biggest one. Once it's super easy to go downstream (just get in a raft and go!) people would want to. Some of them might be thieves who want to avoid the law. Some of them would hear about vast treasures to be had downstream. The river, cutting itself through the vast landscape, would be an inescapable lure, pointing itself down and out, away from everything you've ever known and giving you a path to follow into the unknown. 

Those images are from a very packed system I created a few months ago: $URL$ Here is another example with one planet and 5 Suns: $URL$ 

This setup does require some special conditions (e.g., several planets around one of the stars, and a binary star system with the right properties) but it is plausible. The planet would not be in a permanent goldilocks state but it could go in and out of a "habitable" setup. 

The key thing to know is that planets on horseshoe orbits don't strongly affect each other's spin. Both Janus and Epimetheus are tidally locked to Saturn, meaning that they always show the same face to Saturn. So, relative to the Sun, each moon spins once for each orbit it makes around Saturn. Imagine a more general setup, where the central body is a star and two planets share an orbit in a horseshoe configuration. If the planets are close to the star it is likely they will be tidally locked such that the same side always faces the star. But the planets could well spin at a different rate and that would not be affected by the horseshoe setup. The only really interesting thing is what Artiflexian pointed out, that the other planet would get big in the sky and then retreat. This is likely a very rare setup -- in running thousands of simulations of planet formation (my day job) I have only encountered this once or twice. Much more common are Trojan planets: configurations where two planets share the same orbit and remain roughly 60 degrees apart -- FYI see the second part of this post: $URL$ 

The key question here is: what is the definition of the goldilocks zone? Assuming the key is to maintain liquid water on a planet's surface, then there are many different parameters: 

My goal was to keep a planet in constant dalyight (like in Asimov's story Nightfall). So the details are different than your idea but the jist is the same. So here is how to set this up. Stick a 1 million Solar-mass black hole in the center. Take as many stars as you want, but make sure there are at least 7 of each specific type. Make a ring of each set of stars, with successive rings spaced out sufficiently to maintain stability (see here). Throw your planet in there on its own orbit, in between rings or interior/exterior to the rings. Or the planet could orbit one of the stars in one of the rings if you prefer. And boom, there you go! Celestial mechanics can work nicely if you set it up just right. Of course, such a system would be prone to breaking if there were any significant perturbations. But left to itself it's totally stable -- to reiterate, I've checked with N-body simulations. 

This simulation is from this paper: $URL$ Note that there is also a chance that the planet is not rotating synchronously but instead in 3:2 spin-orbit resonance, like Mercury orbiting the Sun (see here: $URL$ In that case there might be huge icecaps with liquid water along the equator. See here for explanation and a couple more animations:$URL$ Or here in rhyme: $URL$ 

I think what you are talking about is not really the stellar metallicity but the heavy metal abundance relative to rock (e.g., measured as X/Si). To have a planet with a high abundance of heavy metals, you need the ratio of metals to rock to be high. I think that is what you are after: rocky planets with lots of heavy metals, right? The stellar metallicity is the grouped abundance of everything heavier than He relative to Hydrogen. So, a higher metallicity gives you more planetary building blocks but not more metals relative to rock. One important fact is that the occurrence of low-mass (presumably terrestrial) planets does not correlate with metallicity. This is an observed fact (for example, see this paper: $URL$ Higher metallicity stars form more gas giant planets, which tend to become unstable and destroy terrestrial planets. Back to your setup. First, it's definitely plausible to imagine lots of planetary system in relatively dense stellar clusters. There are plenty of planets in open clusters. Globular clusters are an extreme example but why not. As long as there are no encounters closer than, say, 5 times the planets' orbital distance. Now, how to get your planets lots of heavy metals? Well, to enrich them in, anything heavier than iron requires R-process nucleosynthesis and therefore a supernova. Different types of supernovae produce different elemental patterns but I don't remember enough from grad school about the differences ($URL$ I know that supernova ejecta is clumpy, so it's easy to imagine some stars being polluted by heavy metal-rich clumps while others are not. Of course, there are other ways of packing lots of rocky planets within 1000 AU (shameless plug: $URL$ 

There are 42 Earth-mass planets at 1 AU orbiting a Sun-like star. I was super skeptical of this idea, so I ran billion year long simulations (in computer time of course) and it is totally stable. There are some restrictions: the planets must be equal-mass (within a given ring) and evenly-spaced. To adapt this to your many-star system, we need to add 3 ingredients: 1. We need to make stars be like the "planets" by including something much more massive than them in the center; and 2. If you want different types of stars then you'll need multiple rings; and 3. Your planet can also orbit the massive thing like an asteroid to the stars' "planets" It turns out I already did your setup (pretty much) in a recent blog post. I put a super-massive black hole in the center. Then I laid down rings of stars analogous to the ring of planets in the image above. Here is what the system I built that was most similar to your setup looked like: 

The more Earth-like possibility is the "hot Eyeball planet", which is very hot on the sunlit side and cold on the night side. The night side has ice caps that slowly melt and provide a trickle of water. The best place for life is in a narrow ring around the planet at the terminator (where the Sun is always near the horizon). See here for more details: $URL$