I love the idea you're going for here; an army of magical warriors driven by their love for each other is rife with drama. I think it's a skosh homophobic to say that only heterosexuals can have true love, but no more than Harry Potter was. There are a few things you may want to consider melding together to get your answer. First: Look at ancient Sparta for a bit. Few armies in history have relied on romantic love for your fellow soldier as a tactic. It was an intrinsic part of their culture that men would train young soldiers and naturally develop a romantic relationship with them. You might find some inspiration for cultural elements that would shape this society in there. Blend that with maybe a bit of chivalric love, only a version where both are fighters and you might have some cultural elements to play with. Next you're going to want to think about the concept of true love as an instrument of the state. This is pretty contrary to its use in most fairy tales and other literature. Most often, true love is used in contrast to order and obligation, i.e. Breaking the curse of the evil queen, or a reason not to marry your betrothed. If you're a military high council, or whomever rules this country, how are you going to try and turn that instrument toward your ends? How do you get lovers to fight in an army in the first place? Military service is going to have to be heavily glorified and rewarded, and the glory of the state made a high aim. (You may want to watch a few of the heavy Cardassian episodes from Star Trek Deep Space Nine. Their focus is on the interplay of familial love vs. patriotism, but you'll still find a goldmine.) Finally, if you want to build an army, you're going to need a plot device. In most things featuring "true love," consensus seems to be that it's fairly rare, that finding your soul mate doesn't happen to everybody. So maybe, somewhere among these ancient scrolls, is a way to find a person's soulmate; some kind of ceremony or artifact. Otherwise, as others have mentioned, you're going to have to find a way to fake it until you make it, introducing the necessary hormones into the drinking water. 

Plenty of species already evolve with us in urban environments (at least 'evolve' in the sense that they thrive and benefit from the urban environment). 

I don't know if this future is a whole lot different than what we have now in terms of general human behavior. Lots of humans live in very close proximity to each other without major (ie, population-level) destruction. Most 'postal' types of incidents are usually somewhat targeted and aren't necessarily out to destroy a whole city, for instance. Granted if any one person could destroy the entirety of civilization would someone attempt it? Probably. But we'd have to get to that point first, and I would imagine that we'd see that coming and some form of checks and balances would hopefully detour any such finality. As to whether these humans could remain human...that seems like an entirely different question and I'm not sure how it'd directly relate to access to energy. 

Species that are adept at changing environments and opportunistic in terms of leveraging human environments will thrive. Others will not. While not urban-centric, the PBS documentary on Dogs talks about one particular species that has thrived with humans: $URL$ 

I'd look at all sorts of coastal islands. Sea stacks, for example. There are plenty of naturally occurring islands out there that are inaccessible by boat. Typically due to: cliffs, reefs, and the sea itself (rough seas). Cliffs make it impractical to build infrastructure for shipping, but you are correct in that people could always build trails. So I don't think it's the cliff that are necessarily the key element. Just one of the barriers. The bigger barriers would be shallow sands (possibly fixed via dredging), rocks and reefs (possibly fixed via demolition), rough seas (possible fixed by building sea walls). All surmountable, of course, but typically highly impractical. If you look at the west coast of North America, you'll find a lot of of the coast is not easily accessible by large ships. Most ports are in fact inland (up river or within large bays). 

Think of space mines as missiles which are already close to the target. Invaders want to avoid missiles, including your mines, so they just stay away. You want to avoid your own mines, so you need safe zones in the minefield. You don't want safe zones for the enemy, so there are forts or patrols in the safe zones. 

That's not the nature of heroes. A hero doesn't want to rule; he wants things to be right. That things which should be done, are done, and things which should not be done, are not. He makes it so. He doesn't think he is special. Talk with any real-life hero and you'll always hear it: "I only did what anybody would do." The hero would like to just be ordinary and competent, and live in peace, never even thinking about whether there is a king somewhere, but things keep coming up and he has to deal with them because, well, that's what you do when things come up. As for the ruler who wants to use a hero to conquer the world, he runs a grave risk: the hero may ponder his orders and decide that his king has become evil, and thus sadly the hero must now destroy him. 

Like others, I think [wave hands] gravity tech. will do. But you want details. Put the machinery inside a spherical, one-way radiator. There is no gravity inside, so the machinery isn't crushed by its own weight. (It is inaccessible. This star contains no user-serviceable parts.) Also provide antigrav. bracing inside the radiator so it isn't crushed by the effective weight of the fuel above. (Maybe it is two-way: tractor outside, pressor inside. Maybe they know tricky ways to make gravitons spin, or something, so the two effects nearly balance and the net energy input is small for a star.) The machine uses monstrous amounts of energy which just happen to be the amount of thermal radiation heading inward, so it stays cool. I suppose the radiator was sized to make this happen. No, I don't know how they achieve 100% conversion. Sizing. Orbital period determines the altitude. Temperature of the photosphere determines the spectrum, which they will want to specify. I think temperature also determines the output per unit surface which, together with the desired level of insolation and the altitude, should tell you the necessary size of the photosphere. I have no idea what the math looks like for any of this. Is it practical? What is the strength of tidal forces from an object with that surface gravity at that distance? How often do they have to drop another gigaton of H2 on it to keep it fueled? (How big is its fuel supply anyway? Where do they get it?) What are the safety margins you need in order to avoid roasting the planet due to a control hiccup? How much gamma and particle radiation does it deliver to the planet's surface? 

One thing the other answers miss is: pride. Building large, tall skyscrapers is very much about bragging. The pyramids weren't built for practical purposes. They were built as status symbols...as are most of the worlds 'tallest' buildings. Tall buildings are used as personal symbols (Rockefeller center), business symbols (Transamerica Building--later a symbol used by the city), and City symbols (1 World Trade Center). 

This is a thought provoker! But, since we're talking about stories, my mind immediately jumped to the 'gotchas' that would make forming a society difficult. Would people still work? If each day was a repeat, would there be a compelling reason to clock in each morning at McDonalds to cook for people? Would a bus driver bother getting the bus going? Why plow the snow if tomorrow is the same? Would basic infrastructure be working? Would anyone bother to reboot the web server for the day? Change that lightbulb? Or, perhaps the bigger issue...would anyone that works for the power company bother to go into work to actually provide power for the day? I'm thinking that would all fall apart pretty quickly. The next question would be...would it return? If everyone remembers each same day from day to day, perhaps verbal agreements could be made. Joe, you come in 'tomorrow' and fire up the generators. Bob will come in the 'day after' that. Then Sam. So, initially, people may go the free-for-all route. But that can get old. And at some point, humanity may wish for a semblance of routine and return to the routine and start going back to work to bring back a bit of order. The success/failure of that may be varied from locale to locale but, over time, if enough regions leave the power on, and the cable on, word can spread. If all of that succeeds, one scenario is a form of Utopia. No one gets older. Everyone works minimally (only infrastructure and service jobs are really needed). And there's plenty of time for leisure. Everything is free (as why bother with money for a day?) There is a catch, though, and that, of course, is that society somewhat stagnates as there's no way to record information for the next day. It all has to be stored and shared verbally. Day by day. That might slow down the progress of human knowledge significantly. On the other hand, with each day a repeat, and all that leisure time, perhaps word of mouth is ideal and we all slowly learn all of the things we never had time to before. There would be casualties, though. As others have pointed out, for most people, this would be a nice way to spend each day. But for anyone that is suffering at any level, this could be a nightmare. If you in your last days of a painful disease, or are injured every day in the first 10 seconds. Or simply depressed. Having to spend every day in agony over and over will surely create despair. Or those that are alone somewhere without an easy way back to civilization within 24 hours. Being alone for the rest of your life could drive someone insane.