The outside temperature changing all the time. At evening the temperature is higher then in the night(morning). So it's normal that you fell colder during night. It's very much depends on how much tired are you. How much do you walk or work on the route during the day. 

One of the most important thing in ski mountaineering is weight of equipment. So you should take only what you really need. That will allow you quickly move and enjoy a trip. Regarding what to take (Piolet(s), Whippets, ice tools): 

It's important to be prepare for survival situation and here is how my kid prepared(I have 7y.o. daughter): 

Older people better tolerate high altitude. For that altitude you don't need to do any special trainings\preparation. It would be enough to do any sport activity like running swimming or bicycle. The more sports you do the more comfortable you will be during your hike. 

I think it does not matter which lighter you use if it's filled with butane. Lighter would not work if gas temperature close to boiling temperature. For butane it's -1C. For isobutane it's -11C and for propane it's -42C. Also propane has better evaporation properties. That's why gas stoves filled with 20% propane and 80% isobutane. 

In the group there should be one leader. This is the most experienced person. This person responsible for the route planning, amount of food required also this person checks equipment and cloth required for the trip and decide who take what. Leader should be able detect when group is tired and when to stop for a night\make a camp. Leader should be able detect if a member does not feel good and he\she takes decision what to do in emergency situation. 

As some people already suggested: before going to sleep you have to eat and drink hot water(tea). For example after I'm walking 8 hour with heavy bagpack in a snow I can't even get asleep. It does not matter how warm my sleeping bag is and how much cloth I wear. Only one thing helps: eat and drink something hot. 

The problem seems to be not in the socks. She should prevent her legs\socks from getting wet. I suggest to take off the shoes while driving. Especially shoes with Thinsulate. If her legs\socks are wet then it will be cold in any socks. 

The answer from @Nate Wengert, far away from reality. I don't think that kid will be able to dig snow cave or build a shelter even having hatchet and shovel. It might be easy when you do it in good sunny weather on your backyard. Try to do it at night when you got lost, when you have frozen hands and legs. This is shelter build by adult. The guy had basic instruments like axe and saw. He wanted to try to survive in forest during winter. He died in 2 days. this guy was with his friend which decided to return to people and survived. 

The one way I know to remove the twists from a climbing rope, requires for the rope not to be hanging nor in use in any way. The procedure is quite simple but may require help from your partner: 

Granted... mountaineering is not really my thing, but I'm still curious: Why would belay devices like the Verso and Reverso useless in this scenario? 

Have your parter attach an ATC with a carabiner to the belay loop in her harness (if your partner is otherwise engaged, you can tie the ATC and carabiner to a rock or tree with some webbing). Push one end of the rope through the ATC in the way you'd use it to belay (through the top of the ATC, around the carabiner, and back out through the ATC). Pull the full rope length through the system. 

We have a new puppy and can't wait to take him to TGO. Since he's still growing he'll grow out of any harness that fits at the moment. I'm considering tying a harness out of webbing, but all instructions I've found so far require D rings, stitching and cutting. But aside from my current needs I'd really like to know how to tie a makeshift hoist harness for my dog in case I ever need it. How can I tie a one-piece harness out of webbing? Some tidbits: 

And that's good advice to stay hydrated, but offers little insight into optimizing urination stops. My races so far have taught me quite a bit about how my hydration works. I stress that it's my hydration because I've seen that it works differently for different people, so YMMV. Nonetheless, these are a few tips that may work for you. Many of these tips are often recommended by some professional trainers and long-time athletes: 

I usually do sport-climbing so I've never owned a static rope. However, most rope-related Q&As in TGO.SE don't bother specifying dynamic vs static ropes. I've been told that for rappelling (or even canyoneering) it's not only pretty common, but actually advised to avoid elongation when you're not expecting it. On the other hand I know you should avoid at all costs using a static rope when climbing. But other than that, when is the use of a static rope recommended? 

Several years ago I sprained my ankle. I was lead-climbing a route that was a bit over my technical skills. I was in an overhanging segment above and sideways to my last bolt. I fell, swung, got tangled with the belay rope, started spinning, and hit my foot against the rock. I stopped climbing and started recovery. At this point I became careful about all my physical activities. A month later I embarrassingly fell on even floor in a supermarket and hurt my ankle further. At this point I became a bit fearful. Six months later while trekking I stepped on a loose rock, fell, and hurt myself even further. At this point I became panicked and maybe close to depressed. 

If you want to get Webbing & Whoopie set, this is a good option. Note: All links and Images take from Dutchware's site. I am not affiliated with them but did purchase a set of whoopie slings that I was very satisfied with. Note 2: Stay away from any kind of climbing or boat rope. Even if they are marked as 'will not stretch' - they will. Rope stretch for the purposes of hammocking, is different than other uses. 

You may also want to have a ridgeline so that you can pitch your hammock between trees that are farther apart. This could be a good option. 

Drop it in the water where you want it to catch. Slowly backup your boat, spooling out line/chain. Don't drop lots of rope or chain at once, because you risk tangling it When you have reached a reasonable scope, stop letting out rope/chain and use your engine to reverse on your anchor. Your anchor should be as strong as your engine. Enjoy Fireworks 

Rope to attach your webbing to your hammock. Armsteel is gold standard for hammocking setups. It has zero stretch and is super small and light. For convenience, I would strongly recommend a set of Whoopie slings. These are the easiest way to adjust the height of your hammock - no knots required. 

What anchor? I have personally had good experiences with both personally Bruce Claw Anchors and Danforth anchors. More info. 

Interactions with other boaters This is probably the top thing that I would consider when anchoring. Key questions include: 

Planning a camping trip for next weekend. It is looking like it may be the end of winter. We have about a foot of snow right now. What problems am I going to run into if the weather is above zero and/or we get some rain? Anyone have any tips on staying comfortable, happy and dry? So far on my list: 

Webbing or Tree Straps - These are critical so that your rope doesn't damage the trees that you are hanging from. You probably don't want to use webbing between your hammock and the tree, because it will stretch and your hammock will become lower over the night. 

The Claw works great in mud and sand, although on harder surfaces, I sometimes had trouble getting it to grab. How much scope? How much rope or chain do I need? Typically, if you are using chain, you need to use 3 feet of chain for every foot of depth. In your case this would mean 30 feet, if the water is 10 feet deep, and 60 feet, if the water is 20 feet deep. If you are using rope, you need to us a 7 to 1 ratio. The key is that you don't want to pull up on the anchor, you want to pull it a long the bottom. Setting your anchor