I am trying to include some extra stretching in my workout routine so I was looking at some Youtube videos and blog articles about it. However, a lot of people say you must do stretching in order to avoid "injuries". I am confused about what do people actually mean by injuries in those resources. Are they referring to avoiding sore muscles you tend to get after gym or actual injuries, such as dropping a heavy barbell on your foot? 

You are a programmer like I am; that means that your most important feature is your brain. "Oversleeping" is not a problem. Overweight is a problem. Insufficient sleep is a problem. Sleeping is very important for keeping your brain working properly. Without your brain, you have no job. That 10-15 hour sleep on the weekends is your body's way of recovering what you've cheated it out of during the week. Sure, I'd love several extra hours per day, who wouldn't? You and I have the exact same 24 hours per day that every other human has. There is no other way around the fact that we're both meat bags and the bag of meat requires maintenance. Yes, we can be a lot more productive with 25+ hours per day, but reality doesn't allow that. My body prefers 9 hours of sleep per night: my lifestyle requires that I get 6 hours of sleep per night. Both things cannot be true - something has to give. For me, the weekends are for recovering what I can't get during the week. As you age, you will realize that your body is more important than your desired lifestyle. Get the sleep your body wants. 

Flat Bench presses 8 reps x 4 sets (I usually do extras) Smith machine squats 10 reps x 4 sets repeat 1 repeat 2 Deadlift 8 reps x 4 sets 

The below list is not exactly how I usually eat but approximately correct. Furthermore, I've used calories calculator to check their calories just to help you give me better recommendation. In addition, I've included my body detail below. 

Flat Bench presses 8 reps x 4 sets (I usually do extras) Incline bench press 8 reps x 4 sets Smith machine shoulder press 10 reps x 3 sets Dumbell rows 8 reps x 4 sets Standing Barbell Bicep curls 10 reps x 3 sets skull crushers or dips 10 reps x 3 sets Dips 10 reps x 3 sets 

I find that compression shorts help me reduce chafing when biking. The spandex in the typical ones tend to wick away moisture to keep things dry enough to minimize chafing. I've been obese enough that just ordinary walking would abrade the hairs off my inner thighs. 

I don't like short socks. My ex was a dancer and she hated long socks (she'd wear ankle length ones). Most of my socks don't quite go halfway up my shins, but I have some that make it to my knees, and those are hiking socks (and are for a small amount of padding in case things go up one's pants, or you're banging into things with your legs). For sports like footy/soccer/rugby, the length of socks is more like part of the uniform of the sport, like basketball shorts are for basketball. 

My goal is to overcome my "skinny-fat" body. I am already working-out passionately but I want to hear advises from you guys about my workout routines. I have listed 2 different routines that I normally do, I'm currently doing routine 1. However, I think it is too complicated. Should I give up on routine 1 and start doing routine 2? Do you think either of them are ideal for me? Can you revise those workout routines for me? Thank you. Body detail (In-Body measurement) BMR: 1631 kcal BMI: 23.7 kg/m2 Height: 177 CM Weight: 74.4 KG Total body water (TBW): 40.9 Workout routines (2 variations) Routine 1 (I've been doing it for 3 weeks) Monday (Compound workout day) 

Yes, walking will help lose weight. As you get older, you may find yourself able to run less and less (before the onset of knee pain), so continuing walking will be helpful as exercise. I find that the difference between daily 30-45 min of walking (I have a desk job) and 0min walking is about 5-7 pounds (or maybe you'd rather prefer this explained as "if I walk 30-45 minutes per day, after about 2-3 months, my baseline weight is about 5-7 pounds lighter than when I have no time to walk at all"). When I was carless, I had to walk about 90-120 minutes daily as part of my commuting and was about 20 pounds lighter than when I later got a car and was able to drive everywhere. Your experience will probably be different. 

Smith machine squats 8 reps x 4 sets Leg curls 8 reps x 4 sets Leg press 10 reps x 3 sets Leg curls 10 reps x 3 sets Standing calf raises 10 reps x 3 sets Seated Calf Raises 10 reps x 3 sets Deadlift 8 reps x 4 sets 

Flat Bench presses 8 reps x 4 sets (I usually do extras) Smith machine squats 10 reps x 4 sets repeat 1 repeat 2 Deadlift 8 reps x 4 sets Standing Barbell Bicep curls 10 reps x 3 sets 

In my opinion, it is a throwback to the fashion from the movie Rocky. Although I like Christopher's idea of heat conditioning [B]. Notes: A - I live in Denver, CO. We can get some very severe weather changes. Also, with the altitude and humidity here, it is possible to get 50°F (28°C) temperature swings during the day. B - Summer highs (here) are frequently over 100°F (38°C) for extended periods. During heat waves, the night time lows are rarely 20°F (11°C) cooler. 

Flat Bench presses 8 reps x 4 sets (I usually do extras) Incline bench press 8 reps x 4 sets Smith machine shoulder press 10 reps x 3 sets Dumbell rows 8 reps x 4 sets Standing Barbell Bicep curls 10 reps x 3 sets skull crushers or dips 10 reps x 3 sets Dips 10 reps x 3 sets 

Leg curls 8 reps x 4 sets Leg press 10 reps x 3 sets Leg curls 10 reps x 3 sets Standing calf raises 10 reps x 3 sets Seated Calf Raises 10 reps x 3 sets 

Layering clothing is a smart idea if you live in cooler climates, or where the weather may change suddenly [A]. 

Well, part of the answer depends on how/why you've got GERD. If yours is like mine [A], you need to do things that do not compress the abdomen (road biking [B] and sit-ups) as well as keep ones' head raised above one's body (so no hanging upside down). None of the nearby gyms [C] have pools, so I can't test swimming. Notes: A - I shouldn't eat chocolate, alcohol or fatty foods, as those irritate the situation. B - With the ram's horns handlbars. Ones where I sit upright (such as hybrid, mountain or commuter bikes are fine). C - In the chain I'm a member of.