'Ataraxia is untroubledness/ tranquillity. Ataraxia and aponia, pleasures of rest, as we may call them, are katastematic pleasures. (Dionenes Laertius, ibid.) From now on katastematic = catastematic.) So if pleasure is the telos, the telos is 'catastematic pleasure': this is the pleasure one has when one is in a particular static or continuing condition as distinct from the pleasure that derives from activity. Painlessness is the catastematic pleasure of the body and tranquillity is the catastematic pleasure of the soul (or mind). I don't see how either painlessness or tranquillity can be maximised : there are no degrees of painlessness, for example, and so the condition cannot be maximised. One is in it - or not. ☛ Kinetic pleasures These are pleasures of activity, pleasures one get from or in doing something. Thus Epicurus says in 'On the Goal (Telos)' : 

Let's start simple. There is a branch of philosophy called precisely 'the philosophy of action'. The larger branch to which this belongs is the philosophy of mind or (a less common term these days but the same thing) philosophical psychology. Typically the philosophy of action concentrates on human action and poses such questions as : 'what makes an action intentional' ? 'How does a voluntary action differ from an involuntary action ?' 'What type of reasoning lies behind intentional action ?' 'Can we do intentionally what we believe is a wrong course of action ?' This is only a sample from a long list but the list is often defective. At this point we can delve a little deeper. How so ? Because there is no conceptual necessity to restrict the philosophy of action to the philosophy of human action. Yet this is precisely the characteristic scope of philosophy of action. But surely a monkey or a hippopotamus can act. It may not be able to represent the world as humans do when they act intentionally from beliefs. To deny that they act and that we can conceptualise their actions seems mere dogma. Another point is that traditionally Western philosophy has centred on human beings as knowers. What can we know ? How can we know ? This has given epistemology a priority over the philosophy of action. Our relation to the world through action, however, may be just as important, if not more so, than our relation through knowledge. What would we know if we never acted ? 

SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE FROM EVIL SOURCES One way in which ethics can constrain knowledge arises when knowledge has been obtained so unethically that scientists refrain from using it. There was a practical instance of this when Allied doctors refused to use medical information gained from German concentration camp experiments. Much of the 'information' was rubbish, not not all of it; yet it seemed wrong to use any of it because of its provenance. SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE AND SENSITIVITY TO MORAL REPUTATION The case above concerned coerced research participants. Another ethical barrier to scientific research, to the pursuit of scientific knowledge, can arise from a research institution's concern to protect the institution's interests by avoiding research activities that will attract moral criticism. Such criticism may occur if, for instance, a research programme involves animal experimentation to test the human risks of cosmetics. The institution may or may not care about animal welfare; but it does not pursue certain forms of research in order to avoid the ethical backlash. SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE AND ETHICAL UNCERTAINTY Synthetic biology is capable or soon will be of generating organisms de novo - from synthetic genomes and programmed for certain behaviours. Some but not all scientists and ethicists have qualms about this work as 'playing God' or 'interfering with nature' in ways that can have unforeseen and undesirable consequences. Such qualms can also rein-in the acquisition of scientific knowledge. The topic is vast and diverse but these ideas might help - might be something along the lines you are looking for. REFERENCES Stephen G. Post, 'The Echo of Nuremberg: Nazi Data and Ethics', Journal of Medical Ethics, Vol. 17, No. 1 (Mar., 1991), pp. 42-44. Marilys Guillemin, Lynn Gillam, Doreen Rosenthal & Annie Bolitho, 'Human Research Ethics Committees: Examining their Roles and Practices', Journal of Empirical Research on Human Research Ethics: An International Journal, Vol. 7, No. 3 (July 2012), pp. 38-49. Thomas Douglas & Julian Savulescu, 'Synthetic biology and the ethics of knowledge', Journal of Medical Ethics, Vol. 36, No. 11 (November 2010), pp. 687-693. Annika Forssén, Eivind Meland, Irene Hetlevik & Roger Strand, 'Rethinking scientific responsibility', Journal of Medical Ethics, Vol. 37, No. 5 (May 2011), pp. 299-302. 

The basic terminology of justice was set by Aristotle. It still controls contemporary debate. Aristotle in the Nicomachean Ethics, BK V, distiguishes, besides a general sense meaning something like 'righteousess', three kind of justice. The first is distributive justice, which involves the proper distribution of benefits and burdens (e.g. equal slices of cake at a party); the second is corrective justice, which restores to the injured party the loss s/he has suffered (e.g. the restoration of money stolen or adequate compensation for harm); and commutative justice or fair exchange (e.g. not over-charging for a service, or deceptively accepting something valuable for something cheap or worthless). Aristotle's name for corrective justice (for the record) is diorthotic justice. This label occurs in the Oxford Greek text, ed. I. Bywater, at 1131b24-5. A helpful discussion of corrective justice is given in Gerard J. Hughes, 'Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics', London : Routledge, 2015 : 96-8. 

▻ MARXISM AS DIAGNOSIS Marx and Engels were political and economic theorists and revolutionaries who analysed the nature of capitalism as it stood in their time - 150 years ago - and diagnosed its inherent faults as these appeared to them. Though capitalism has transformed itself in many ways it is still an economic system in which the main pattern of ownership is private property. Private property, in particular capital goods, served the interests of owners of private property : wages were kept as low as possible, prices were kept as high as was practicable for profit, goods and services were created regardless of human need, and whoever could not afford to buy the essentials for life (food, health care and so on) were left outside the economic system - they were the concern of charities and the state. Workers were exploited through low wages, with the owners of capital picking up the difference between the cost of producing goods and services and the wages paid to labour. Along with exploitation went alienation; the worker sold his or her labour in order to live but had no control over what they produced. The economy was seen as the basis of the political and social system, with the law and morality accommodating the economic system. This sketches Marxism in big, crude lines. The enduring attraction of Marx and Engels is that not a few people see in Marx's depiction of capitalism the economic system that prevails in the West and increasingly elsewhere today. Marx's diagnosis seems to them penetrating and sound, no matter that the precise forms of capitalism have changed. To the extent that this is so - on which I make no comment - Marxism has not been disproved or exploded. Marx offered a permanently relevant diagnosis of the ills of capitalism. I am not trying to make Marx appeal to you; I am only trying to explain why he continues to appeal to a not inconsiderable number of people. ▻ MARXISM AS PREDICTION What was exploded was something with which Marx and Engels had nothing to do, namely the Communist regimes set up in Russia after 1917 and China after 1949. Marx left no blueprint for how to conduct politics or to reform the economy beyond what can be read off from his critique of capitalism. But one point is that while Marx expected capitalism to collapse under the impact of class consciousness - basically, of the working class realising that they were being exploited and rising en masse to overthrow the capitalist economic system - what happened in Russia and China was nothing of the sort. Communism, supposedly an embodiment of Marx's ideas, was imposed by revolutionary elites on the masses. The masses did not impose the system; they had the system imposed on them. Whatever Marx had, it was not a predictive science of politics. ▻ TWENTIETH-CENTURY COMMUNISM A CARICATURE OF MARX'S IDEAS ☛ Dictatorship From the elites who imposed communism arose the dictatorships of Lenin, Stalin, and Mao. While Marx envisaged 'the revolutionary dictatorship of the proletariat' [mainly industrial working class], a period of transition in which the proletariat would wrench control of the economic system from capitalists ('Critique of the Gotha Programme, 1875, 327), what they got was dictatorship over the proletariat in which the revolutionary elites imposed an iron-grip control over them. None of this derives from Marx. ☛ Central planning What also came with communism was a centrally planned economy. This again was not Marx's idea. He wanted the workers to run the economy, and said nothing about the state organising the economy from the centre. Von Mises and Hayek and many others have argued on epistemological grounds that a centrally planned economy is inherently flawed and inefficient. This is a matter for technical economic debate. Practically both Soviet and Chinese communism were mired in inefficiency. Whether this was inevitably so, as von Mises and Hayek would argue, or just because they were badly planned and miserably mismanaged, is a question not to be settled here. ▻ CONCLUSION Marx's diagnosis of capitalism still seems relevant to not a few. No comment. The regimes that were set up in Marx's name in Russia and China, with their personal dictatorships and central planning, cannot bear the imprimatur of Marx's approval. Marx once said he was not a Marxist - was not as he was interpreted. He would not have recanted that remark in Soviet Russia or Communist China. [I have given priority to Marx over 'Marx and Engels' because Marx was the creative thinker, Engels the lesser figure.] ▻ REFERENCES K. Marx, 'Critique of the Gotha Programme', Karl Marx & Frederick (sic) Engels, Selected Works in One Volume, London : Lawrence & Wishart, 1968. Cliff, Tony, Marxism at the Millennium, ISBN 10: 1898876665 / ISBN 13: 9781898876663 Published by Bookmarks, 2000. Renton, David, Classical Marxism: Socialist Theory and the Second International, ISBN 10: 1873797354 / ISBN 13: 9781873797358 Published by New Clarion Press, 2002. Brown, Archie, The Rise and Fall of Communism, ISBN 10: 0224078798 / ISBN 13: 9780224078795 Published by Bodley Head, 2009. F.A. Hayek; Ludwig von Mises; Georg Halm; Enrico Barone; N.G. Pierson, Collectivist Economic Planning, ISBN 10: 1610161629 / ISBN 13: 9781610161626 Published by Ludwig von Mises Institute, 2015.