Ideally get a moisturiser that is cream or oil based. For lips and between the fingers, vaseline is excellent at moisturising, then keeping the moisture in. 

Have you thought about Google Sky Map for Android or Star Walk on iPhone? These may give you what you need. (I know, batteries run out, phones get wet etc., but these will show sky at a particular time) 

At night it is very easy to find true north using the stars (true south doesn't quite have an equivalent.) First identify Ursa Major, the Great Bear or Big Dipper. Then take the two stars at the end of it away from the handle, and follow the line they make for 5 times its length. The star you hit is Polaris. Head towards it and you are heading towards true north. During the day you will need a compass and the value of your local declination angle (the difference between true north and magnetic north.) Unfortunately you do need local values of this as it varies over the whole globe. And you just subtract this value from your navigation plans. This compass (image from geographyfieldwork.com) is a typical example with a bezel you can use to set in the declination value so you can automatically work to the correct direction. 

I have never seen what you are describing in many years of sport climbing. Every climber I know uses the belay loop correctly as it is one of the strongest parts of the harness and like the old harness loop has been designed to take the strain of falls and distribute it evenly to the leg loops etc. Maybe it is different in different areas, cultures. I don't know. And it appears that in the past the belay loop was not the strong point it is now, so as DavidR mentions, a lot of the legacy beliefs may not be applicable after years of development. 

This gets complicated and annoying very fast, so for most purposes, you can approximate to 'a bit over' a single right angled triangle. My preferred solution: 

The Chincoteague Pony Swim is an annual event where around 150 adult ponies and their foals from the North and South parts of the island are rounded up and swim at slack tide from Assateague Island to Chincoteague Island. From assategueisland.com (highlights mine), 

In my opinion, the single best feature would be low battery consumption. You only really need a gps and map, so having a low consumption version of these would win for me, possibly with local maps rather than trying to download each section. 

Buckles, straps and zippers are all relatively easy to replace, but it can be worth taking a spare strap with you in case one fails in the wild. I usually keep one spare 6 ft strap and a pair of 2 ft bungee cords in the bottom of my camping pack - they also have other uses, so aren't entirely dead weight. 

Any pole will have a fractionally greater chance of attracting lightning than a piece of flat ground or a dome tent - but this doesn't mean the increased chance is that high. If you are in the middle of an entirely flat field and your tent pole is the highest object for miles, then it will be a slight risk, but some points to consider: 

The South Herd is rounded up first on the Saturday, then on the following day the larger North Herd is rounded up. On the Monday they have the Beach Walk where both herds are joined. Tuesday is for veterinary checks, and the final Wednesday in July (this year Wednesday the 27th) is the actual swim. There is also the auction on the Thursday, and then the return swim on Friday. On Assateague Island's website, they recommend if you don't like crowds and want to see the ponies, "Go any other time during the summer...see them best on the nature tour." If you do decide to go to the Pony Swim, chincoteague.com says: 

Technical is a measure of the hardest move on that route, and it runs as follows (there aren't any for 3 or below): 

Is in my opinion nonsense. You can have a massage just as easily with hairy legs (disclaimer - I don't have hairy legs; I'm going on hearsay from colleagues and friends) The other answer, around wind resistance, may or may not be true - but in any case it does not apply to climbers :-) 

Update - to answer the specific point about sleeping: Sleep itself is not a problem, however if you are on your own, you should take certain precautions - eg if snow is heavy, an alarm set every hour so you can check you aren't getting buried or having your oxygen cut off is a good idea 

It can happen, sure, but because of the way a climbing harness fits (you sit in it) and because of the way falls typically happen (you fall straight down from an upright position in many cases) it is generally very easy to remain upright. There are various pros and cons on holding the rope when you fall (the main problem being grabbing the wrong rope and getting your fingers crushed) but most climbers agree that in the event of a fall grabbing the rope immediately in front of your waist point gives you a safe point (which also keeps your hands away from gear.) If you are deep under an overhang and your hands slip you could drop head down, but that would be a rare case - and hopefully your belay point will keep you away from hitting the wall head down anyway. Benedikt did point out a rare, but dangerous issue - catching a foot in a loop of rope on your way down, this flipping you upside-down. An argument for always handling your ropes carefully - as your health and life do depend on them! 

Beyond that you can start looking at jumps, or getting out into big surf. A lot of the fun comes once you are comfortable with speed, understanding where the energy is in the plane, and knowing how to use the sail to your advantage - then you have a wide range of gybes you can use. Jumps also become fun at that point, as landing a big one requires fine balance between aerodynamic effects, kinetic energy, rotational energy and hydrodynamic effects on take-off. 

The kayak mounts I like are J-shaped, with foam, allowing the kayaks to be securely mounted on their sides, with decent padding. 

If you want to remain stationary, you need a solid anchor, and the best option is going to be to attach to a tree or something that you can securely fix to on the bank. Not knowing that river, I can't say whether that would work or not, so I'll discuss anchoring to the bottom. This is the same procedure for anchoring in a tide or a river, except in a river you only need to worry about water in one direction, which is a lot more straightforward. In the sea the rule of thumb is to use an anchor rode 8 times as long as the water depth. This way, you are never pulling the anchor up, but always along the bottom - which aids friction. 8 may be overkill here, but perhaps 4 times is a good idea. Ideally, you'll want two anchors, each on a short length of chain (to help weigh down the rope nearest the anchor - to help further with keeping it on the bottom) with a nylon rope; and row so the two anchors are each 45 degrees off due upstream. Once they are both set, allow your raft to drift out to the full length of the ropes. With each rope attached at one corner of the raft, you should have a nice stable platform. 

You would use the rope doubled, so that when you are at the length of it, you anchor off and release one end of the doubled rope so you can pull it through the anchor. Then re-anchor at your current position in order to continue your descent. 

While that construction has no shelter currently, Scouts and other outdoors groups will often make a frame like you describe, and then cover those branches with leaves, moss or even a tarp in order to provide a shelter. Using the tree trunk gives a solid support for this sort of thing, and often the tree itself provides some shelter from its own branches.