Usually a translator would be found. People like Marco Polo who lived in foreign locations learned the local language, Mongolian in the case of the Yuan empire. Note that Mongolian was spoken widely in Central Asia at that time, so Marco Polo could have started learning it even before he reached Cathay. 

The Wikipedia article is inexact. The TDB is the oldest existing commercial bank in Mongolia. Before 1990 all the banks in Mongolia (and the Soviet Union in general) were state-owned banks. The first bank in Mongolia was the Trade and Industry Bank of Mongolia, opened in June 1924. This bank became a possession of the Mongolian government in 1954 and was renamed the State Bank of Mongolia at that time. Since then it has been renamed the Bank of Mongolia, which is how it is known today. It is a central bank, owned by the government of Mongolia. 

China did have colonies. All of the islands in Asia reachable by junk have been colonized by the Chinese at one time or another: Malaysia, the Phillipines, Taiwan, etc. The far ranging colonies of the European powers made in the 1500-1800 period cannot be compared because China did not have types of sea-faring vessels necessary. Another factor is that China lacked a cohesive zealotry that is often the impetus behind colonization. For example, the Arabs colonized many places, including southeast Asia during the Islamic expansion, but this may be attributed to their religious zealotry. In China, a place having many different nations, peoples and languages this kind of force did not exist. Also, one of the most common religions in China, Buddhism is a passivistic religion that does not encourage conquest and attack. 

This apparently refers to a Gettysburg study. The story is that after the battle of Gettysburg, the ordnance department collected all the abandoned rifles from the battlefield and examined them. In some cases rifles were found with multiple loadings, ie, ball, wadding, powder, ball wadding powder, ball wadding power, etc, one after the other in the barrel. The reason for this is that once a misfire occurs you are screwed because now the ball is stuck in the barrel and you have to clear it--a timeconsuming operation. So what would happen is that soldier would simply reload his weapon and fire the cap which makes it APPEAR as though he is shooting, even though he is not. Note that some modern authors have claimed this is evidence that soldiers were relunctant to kill people and just pretended to fire to avoid harming anyone. I find it far more likely that reloadings were a consequence of misfires and jams, not altruism. Old Answer Here I am assuming (A) the guns are old muskets, and (B) they were found in a random place. Based on further info this is probably not the case. Possibly what you are seeing is the guns being used to simply store the balls. Typical ball bags of the period held 20-30 balls. If you wanted to carry more ammo than that, an easy way to do it was was to just drop the balls into the bore and plug it with a rag. This is even better than using a bag because the musket is hung on your back and so the weight of the balls is distributed across your back, whereas a ball bag has all the weight in one place, so it is more annoying to carry. (this is probably not applicable to the case here, because the OP is almost certainly relating the Gettysburg ordnance study) 

This French and British fleets were government-sponsored fleets containing official Navy ships. Their expeditions to China were conducted as part of official government policy with expansionist motives. The large majority of American ships involved in the China trade were private merchantmen, not Navy warships. The Americans had a few isolated warships in the area, such as the USS Portsmouth, however those ships were only there to protect American vessels, not embark on an expansionist policy. They had orders to maintain American neutrality and the Americans moreover refused to make an alliance with the British and French in the wars, because we had a policy of neutrality and non-interventionism. 

Your contention that "Romans seemed to outfight Macedonian phalanx pretty easily" is not really true. The critical source for you to read here is Plutarch's life of Paulus Aemilius, the Roman general who conquered Macedonia and was the victor at the key battle of Pydna (168 BC). You may also want to read the Wikipedia article on the battle. If you read Plutarch, you will find that at the beginning of the battle the Roman army was shattered on the phalanx. The Wikipedia article downplays this, but at the time it was a serious setback. Paulus lost a large number of men for no losses to the enemy at all and was in great danger. Eventually Paulus won by waiting for the phalanx to move into hilly terrain and attack in the spaces in between their ranks. Now, you may ask, why could not hoplites do the same? There were three key factors that aided Paulus: (1) Plain old soldier strength. The Macedonian empire was very old and rich, and its soldiers weakened by luxury. When Paulus conquered Macedonia, he took immense riches and booty. The Macedonians had ruled the whole Middle East since the time of Alexander and had grown rich and fat. It's a small factor, but do not discount it. (2) Signalling. The Romans had developed a very elaborate system of signals that allowed them to do complex maneuvers. They used both trumpets and flags to direct men around. For example, mounted officers could race on horseback with a new message from the commander with a flag and direct a maniple to move in a certain way. Without this capability Paulus would not have had the control he needed at Pydna. The hoplites lacked such a system. (3) Erosion of the Macedonian Cavalry Advantage. Economy grows better over time. As you are able to grow fodder more cheaply, it becomes cheaper and easier to have horses. In Alexander's time Macedonia had a big advantage in that they were an equestrian culture and usually had a larger cavalry than their opponents. This is very important for the phalanx, because the cavalry protects the phalanx's weak spots and acts as a scout for it. The cavalry is also required to chase the enemy and deliver the crushing blow. If the enemy has greater or equal cavalry the phalanx is weaker. This is exactly what happened at Pydna. The Romans had an equal cavalry, and using their signalling systems used their cavalry better. This was what let them find and exploit the weak spots in the phalanx. Comeback of the Phalanx In Medieval and Renaissance times there was a comeback of the basic form of the phalanx as "pikemen". The key invention was to put hooks and wide, forged blades on the pikes to fight horses. If the pikemen could take down horses easily, they became very powerful, just like the old phalanx. An example is the Battle of Falkirk in 1298. There was a military genius named Bertrand du Guesclin (1320 – 1380) who was famous for using massed pikemen. 

The existence of the "sea peoples" is known only from the inscriptions at Medinet Habu, not directly from archaeological remains. As you say certain aspects of artwork of Medinet Habu show, for example, ships that are known to be contemporaneous with LHIIIC which is immediately post Troy, which occurred in the transition between LHIIIB and LHIIIC. There is probably no direct connection between the two. The reason for this is that one of the members of the sea people confederation appears to be the Philistines, a Levantine people. Other vague links connect Crete and Cyprus to the confederation. The Greeks who attacked Troy were from the Peloponnesus and mainland Greece. Therefore, it appears the groups of people involved were different. However, the events could be related in the sense that multiple wars often occur at the same time, one triggering the other. 

The first use of the term golden section (Der goldenen schnitt) was by the German mathematician Martin Ohm in his book "Pure Elementary Mathematics" (1835). Since Ohm, various authors have theorized about the presence of the ratio between the extreme and mean as defined by Book 2, Proposition 11 of Euclid, notably Jay Hambridge in his book "Dynamic Symmetry: The Greek Vase" (1920). The mysticism of the section dates back to the Renaissance and is best exemplified by the book Divina Proportione (The Divine Proportion)(1509) by Luca Pacioli and Leonardo Da Vinci. In modern times, the theory was developed by Theodore Cook in his 1914 book, The Curves of Life: being an account of spiral formations and their application to growth in nature, to science and to art; with special reference to the manuscripts of Leonardo da Vinci., which was 400 pages of showing how the "golden ratio" was supposedly everywhere. Cook is the first one to make the connection to Phidias, even calling the golden section, the "ratio of Phidias." The actual relation to Phidias, however, appears to have been popularized, not by Cook, but by Le Corbusier and is mentioned in several of his books, for example, Towards a New Architecture (1923) in which he writes: 

This is a very valid question and the answer, traditionally, is that the historian uses their judgement in combination with logic and collateral information to evaluate claims. First of all, many historians make no claim as to the authenticity of the information they are reporting, they just report it. For example, Herodotus will just say "so-and-so told me thus and such". Sometimes he will say "I found this unbelievable because..." and then give his reasons. Many historians do not even do this, they just accept what they read and repeat it uncritically. For this reason you can find the same mistake being repeated over and over in many books. For example, the main source of information on the American Revolution is the book Storia della guerra dell' Independenza d'America (1809) by the Italian Carlo Botta. This book was translated into English and widely used by American historians to "document" the American revolution, even though Botta did not speak good English and had never even been to America. Consequently, American history books are loaded with incorrect or garbled information that Botta either made up or exaggerated. To answer your question more specifically, a historian can infer what happened by using logic and collateral information. For example, you will see the claim sometimes that the Soviets colonized Prussia with Russians after they conquered it in World War II, but if you actually go to Kaliningrad, formerly known as Konigsberg, you will find many Poles there, and they are in fact by far the dominant group. From this you could infer that a systematic effort was made to introduce Poles into conquered Prussia, even if you did not know this from documentary evidence. You can use collateral evidence to infer what must have happened, even if it is undocumented or documented incorrectly. 

There have been constant attempts, mostly by cities, to ban guns throughout the entire history of the United States. Nearly all of these thousands of attempts to ban guns, in one form or another, were voided by state court decisions. In some cases states have actually enacted modifications to their own state constitutions expressly making gun possession a right, just for the purpose of shutting down various city and town governments which try incessantly to ban them. The decision by the Georgia State Supreme Court in Nunn v. Georgia (1 Ga. (1 Kel.) 243 (1846)) is exemplary and typical (although in this case it was an actual Georgia state law that was being stricken down): 

Thus in Tokyo we have 400 English students in a nation of 16 million people, but a "general desire" to learn English and other foreign languages. This was the situation in 1889: 

Óengus Olmucaid was a high king of Ireland who also conquered and ruled Scotland in approximately 1000 BC. Around the time of Jesus there was a large emmigration to Albion (Western Scotland) at which time the kingdom of the Dal Riata was firmly established. Later Scottish rulers invariably descend at least in part from this kingdom, the Kings of the Dal Riata. The Dal Riata was founded by Riata Rugaidh (Red Hand). Kingdoms are founded by force of arms. A king derives his right from being recognized by the soldiers who have conquered a place.