The fair maidens do indeed get the lesser deal in that realm, much like women get the lesser deal in this realm. Since being a woman is an inferior birth (according this person anyway) the similar must apply to these so called nymphs, which I can't find any information on. If now Queen Maya was born a male deva, that still doesn't make the entire realm not-sexist. It arguably makes it more sexist that she couldn't be born a highly regarded nymph/maiden if female devas simply don't exist. One wonders if there are nymph suffragettes in these higher realms, who demand to be treated equally and dishy servants... 

In this article $URL$ One definitely gets the impression that morality and karma are part of nature and not just some artefact we've created. 

I know my answer might be perceived as silly but the argument I'm going to put forth really does convince me. Martin Heidegger (one of the greatest philosophers of the last century, according to most) had a concept called Geworfenheit. This is translated as "throwness". It relates to the feeling we have that we feel "thrown" into this world. If I have already experienced myself "thrown" into a world (this one) I think it's sound to believe that it might happen again! 

Buddhism is not about ignoring, denying or suppressing any feelings, it's about seeing them objectively- as feelings that have nothing to do with the self, states that simply arise and cease in the mind and nothing more. There is nothing unhealthy about this, in fact I think it is more unhealthy to obsess over strong emotions, crave for them to be returned and become blind with jealousy and rage when they aren't. People commit murder for these reasons. An extreme example, but I would argue that sure, if one wants to indulge in pleasures and are ok with the impermanence and risks, fine, it's your call. But people who are are devoted buddhists can develop into very genuinely selfless and compassionate beings and whether or not you believe in karma and rebirth, the world could use more selflessness and compassion and less craving and entitlement. Just because it's normal and natural doesn't mean it's healthy. 

Could we not just ask ourselves, "do we have ups and downs in our lives. If so, then is this not a sign that Buddhism does not strip you of humanhood, but teaches you to assume a more mindful perspective. a more extensive study can be found here $URL$ 

Well there are more than one meaning to the lotus image. It is a multi-layered symbol. $URL$ the meaning of the muddy waters, physicality being the ground out of which the nirvana experience grows. 

"How can I understand when it's kindness toward another and when it's "stepping over me"?" Like it's been said, there is no "you" to be stepped over. I would add that it could depend on what is asked of you. It is kindness if the service genuinely helps the other person in some way or has a positive effect, but if they only call when they need a ride to a party then it is not wholesome to encourage their partying nor is it wholesome for them to party. If they ask you to teach them to meditate, then it would be very kind of you to do so and it would benefit you as well. 

Dogen tried to demystify the practice of meditation and put things in an experiential reference point. One must choose a path that is inclined to the ways that are your own inner orientation. Both of these examples offer evidence of the Buddha and Dogen being free of being firebrand preaching in favor of sticking to the plain, essentials of the path. This question remains open to various interpretation as long as no reliable sources exist directly from the time of Buddha. However, Dogen's life is well documented and may give us clues to the Buddha's style and intensity. 

The real issue with creating art, I think, is that you can't be mindful while doing it. Writers, especially, have to imagine a lot, create images and basically delude oneself. And also, there is a great deal of attachment. As an artist, one has to be very dedicated to one's work, force things, alter things all the time, be a perfectionist. So maybe there is no specific text forbidding it, there may even be texts that could be interpreted as art-positive. But in practice, I really do not see how it can benefit. It's another craving, and strongly linked with the ego. I believe it is more harmful than, say, plumbing. Who'd be attached to plumbing? 

I don't know a lot about those two, but I hear that they are full of wisdom. Since they date farther back than buddhism, I was wondering if the Buddha ever mentioned them. What did he think of them? If he didn't mention them as such, he probably mentioned some concepts that are contained in them; Apart from obvious concepts contained in those two that also are within Buddhist thought (E.g. Karma). 

Assuming you have to pick one and "not telling" is too much of an easy way out, I would say be honest with the hunter. The hunter is a hunter, has hunted plenty and if he fails to catch one rabbit, that is hardly going to, for want of better word, "save" him from an undesirable rebirth (because he still wants to kill it). He breaks a precept for a living, but if you're honest, at least he has a chance at making the right choice if you also try to appeal to his compassion. If the rabbit is killed, then that isn't so bad for will it really be reborn as something lesser than a rabbit? Just my two cents. Not sure how this option would affect you, the person that has to make the choice, karma-wise. You're indirectly responsible for killing, if that is what the hunter decides to do, but your intent is still good. 

It is my understanding from reading Dogen that everyone already has Nirvana within them and it is hidden by a mask and revealed through sincere practice $URL$ 

Of course whenever you talk about clapping and Buddhism you get the sound of one hand clapping, a traditional koan. I replied to hopefully get some discussion going on this interesting topic. Unfortunately my googling has not show me much more. Thank you for the question. 

My decrease in creativity does most likely not have anything to do with my feeble meditation attempts, because it is natural to have ups and downs, even when it comes to creativity. But still, meditation deals with ridding oneself of attachments by observing mind states objectively and I think that following through an idea and turning it into a finished piece of work requires quite a lot of attachment and devotion to the project. I suppose my real question is: is it possible to balance being a practicing Buddhist and a creative artist?