Stocks are not money. The valuation of a company - the market captialisation - is the number of shares multiplied by the share price. The share price is the price people are willing to trade at right now. It does NOT mean all the shares have been traded at that price. If a company issues 1 million shares, at a starting price of £10, the market cap is £10 million. They may only sell a few of these shares, so much less than £10 million actually changes hands. If the price rises to £20, only a few of the shares changed hands at that price - but the market cap is reflected in all the shares, and is now £20 million. People have commented on the flaws in this methodology. The same happens in a crash. Only a fraction of the shares actually change hands, but the media report on the change in the market cap. If you want an analogy, consider a house burning down. You buy the house for £200,000. Then it sadly burns down (and without insurance). It is now worth £0. However, no money has been created or destroyed; it's a loss of value of an asset. 

This is not a reasonable assumption. Constant prices would imply that there is government control of prices, in which case none of the usual economic models apply. 

You are overthinking the definitions of inflation and deflation. There is much simpler terminology for this effect: "getting richer" and "getting poorer". I won't repeat the definition of inflation; it appears you understand what it is. But it only refers to the changing nature of prices; it doesn't account for people's ability to afford things. Regarding your assumptions: 

We often hear of countries securing foreign investment. Stores like this are trumped as major achievements. Foreign investment also has criticisms - profits generated in a country end up going abroad, and there can be national security issues. Would it make sense to print money instead? The usual argument against printing money is inflation. However, in the linked story, 30bn of foreign money is coming in, so the economy has to cope with that additional spending. If that was printed money instead, it seems that effect would be the same - at least in the local economy. The other side to this is currency markets and reserves - foreign investment creates demand for the local currency, which printing money doesn't do. 

The applications of this benefit many individuals when used to show , but this is merely the result of a more broad result that has been proven. How are these proofs constructed? Through definitions. To prove the above result, we could not assume that ; instead, we needed to use the definition of a "ring" which, by definition, allows for line (1). Similarly, we needed to use the definition of a "ring" in order to know that we were allowed to use in line (2). Definitions in Economics Economics, however, does not use definitions in the same capacity. Here, definitions are used strictly for the "defining of terms" rather than the "relation of terms." In Economics, one cannot prove that, in the short-run, expanding the money supply (which causes inflation) will decrease unemployment. The definitions in economics are not set up to do that; even more so, they cannot do that. Part of the reason that the definitions in economics cannot do this is because of the definitions. Think of the terms "good," "market," and "demand." All of these terms have sloppy definitions. They do not really relate to anything else. On the other hand, we have terms such as "currency" and "GDP" that have extensive, precise definitions. These definitions have been chosen purposefully, and measurements of "currency" and "GDP" are precise because of this. Another part of why Economics has "poor" definitions is due to the study of economics itself. Economics relies heavily on the demand of individuals. This demand cannot be quantified nor is there any guarantee that it will remain the same from one moment to the next. Thus, no real way to construct a proof that will be true beyond any particular moment. Because of this, economics does not need rigorous definitions. In Mathematics, however, we can construct proofs regardless of the numbers we use and, thus, transcend the limitations up to a very broad context. In the proof above, we used instead of a number so that we did not have to rely on using that number and only that number. By using , we know that multiplying any number by will give us . Response to Edesess Edesess is mostly (probably 95%) correct. In truth, most of the definitions of economics are not "precisely defined" to the same level that mathematical definitions are required to be. In Mathematics, the definitions are carefully considered and decided upon by the Mathematical Community as a whole (not to say that Economic definitions aren't, but that's outside my knowledge). Also, by the nature of Economics, the use of the definitions cannot be used to prove anything. In response to Edesess, however, economics should not be treated as Mathematics because of the fundamental differences in how they make discoveries. Economics is advanced through polls, market data, supply and demand graphs; Mathematics is furthered by research, proofs, and theorems. 

I'm from the UK, where there is an extensive welfare system and extra investment in education in deprived areas, called the Pupil premium. Although, not nearly as much as suggested by the paper you reference. Many people do not support the pupil premium. There is a large "squeezed middle" in the UK, not poor enough for extra support, not rich enough for private schools, and this group sees extra support for deprived areas as unfair. 

It won't ever happen for all players. As a counter-example, consider an engineer who invents software that can predict when a jet engine needs maintenance. It's worth millions to the airlines, who will happily pay him for the software. He has no incentive at all to release this software as open-source. The same principle applies to all sorts of specialist software. In contrast, open-source works well for common building blocks. For example, there are all sorts of companies who need an operating system for their product - cloud providers, home network kit, super computing, all sorts. While they could build their own, it is much more efficient to have a common pool, like the Linux kernel. This environment means that companies can put paid engineers on open-source projects, and still run a profitable business. 

There are 22,000 Vietnamese Dong to a USD, making it one of the world's least valued currency units. But denominations under 1,000 are rarely used (in tourist areas at least). They might as well say it's 22 Dong to a dollar - the zeros make no practical difference. The zeros remain because back in 1985 they revalued the Dong (1 new dong worth 10 old dong) and this led to inflation. So I understand their reluctance to repeat this. There is a general trend that poorer countries have less valuable currency units. But it's not a strict rule. Vietnam, for example, is not the poorest country in the world. Before the introduction of the Euro, the Italian Lira was a notable example of a developed economy with a low-valued currency unit. You see the locals' attitude to money expressed in the currency. While in developed countries people throw small change into jars at home, this is not the case in poorer countries. In India, coins are rarely used, and you can see from the heavily worn low-denomination notes, how these have been carefully kept inside clothes and shoes. Money is more precious with extreme poverty. I find the Thai Baht to have an especially convenient value - about 35 to a dollar. A very pleasant currency to use. Although technically subdivided into 100 satang, the satang is not much used. That makes the Western practice of pounds and pence or dollars and cents look like unnecessary complexity. 

The concept is actually the other way around. Think of it in the same way as the Law of Demand. If you go to the grocery store and you see a food that you like selling for \$.25/lb, you would buy a whole lot of it before the price rises. Conversely, if you go to the grocery store and you see a food that you like selling for \$100/lb, you would probably wait to buy this item until it is cheaper or at least buy a small amount of it. In economics, the price drives the quantity demanded by the consumer. Now let us look at the Law of Supply. Imagine that you are the owner of a company. You go to the store, and you see that the item you are producing and the similar items produced by your competitors is selling for \$.25. You would not necessarily want to produce a lot of the product because the margin between the selling price and the production costs (profit) is small. Conversely, imaging going to the store and seeing that the item you are producing and the similar items produced by your competitors is selling for \$100. You would want to produce a lot of the product because the margin between the selling price and the production costs is (presumably) large. In this case, as in the other case, the price drives the quantity produced by the supplier. 

For a course in international trade, our professor touched on the idea of immiserizering growth. He emphasized that immiserizing growth was a theoretical outcome from specialization of trade and did not provide the class with examples on the global market. What are some real world examples of immizerizing growth? 

Definitions in Mathematics The field of mathematics is much more than just the applications. In fact, the applications are a result of actual mathematics which comes in the form of proofs and theorems. For example, in ring theory, mathematicians needed to prove that for all values of . Below is the proof: 

When the government causes inflation through printing money, the individuals who saved their money in the bank are poorer. Is there a way to determine how different inflation rates impact the welfare of the economy? I tried answering this question myself using the production function, and, though I was able to come up with some conjectures, I was unable to come to a definite conclusion. 

I have the following task: At some moment of time (1953), the government of a country (Israel) signs an agreement with another country (West Germany) stipulating that West Germany would pay reparations to Israel during the following N years. For simplicity assume that N is large enough, that the amount or reparations is proportional to Israeli output, and that the economy of Israel reaches the new steady state while the reparations are stil paid. Need to use Solow model. But I really do not understand what the change will happen. Probably it is the same as an increase in s. Help is needed. 

Faced a task in microeconomics which is rather complicated with probability. The task is as follows: A university has to hire a new assistant professor. The university can offer two kinds of contract: a teaching contract, which requires lower research output q and specifies a wage t, and a research contract, which requires higher research output q and specifies a wage t. The value of the research output for the university is $16 - (4 - q)^2$. A candidate arrives for a flyout and can be of two types, $\theta=2$ or $\theta = 4$, determining the candidate's effort cost of producing research $\theta q$. There is a common prior that the candidate is of type в with probability 2/3. The university does not observe the type of the candidate and, ex-post, despite understanding the type of the candidate, cannot punish a candidate of type $\theta$ low for having chosen the teaching contract, or vice versa. However, the university at the flyout can test the candidate. The higher the effort put by the faculty, the higher the precision of the test. In particular, the test reveals the correct type of the candidate with probability $1/2 + е$, where $е$ belongs to $[0,1/2]$ is the effort exerted by the faculty at the flyout. The cost of effort is $4e^2$. Questions is the most complicated for me in this task: 1) Find the contract offered by the university for a generic value of $e$ in case the test gives negative response about the candidate being $\theta$ low. 2) Find the contract(s) offered by the university for a generic value of e in case the test gives positive response about the candidate being $\theta$ low. 3) Suppose that the university can only ask the faculty to exert effort $e_{1} =0$ or $e_{2} = 1/2$. The effort is observable by the university, but the faculty has to be compensated for the cost of effort. Will the university ask the faculty to exert $e_{1}$ or $e_{2}$? I do understand that this task is a screening with audit one. I've studied this framework. At the same time I understand that Bayesian probabilities should be applied. Unfortunately, I do not take in how and where to apply it. Any help will be valuable.