The asteroids (which are mostly found in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter) and more distant, icy bodies found in the Kuiper belt and the Oort cloud were formed at the same time as the rest of the solar system. The sun and the planets formed from a molecular cloud, containing mostly hydrogen and helium, but also some other elements that came from the remains of stars, including supernovae. This gas cloud collapsed under gravitation to form a star, surrounded by a disk of dust and gas. The matter in the disc formed the planets, and the Kuiper belt. More distant matter in an extended halo around the star, formed the the Oort cloud. Thus the sun neither captures nor produces asteroids and other solar system bodies. They were formed at the same time as the Sun. Note "Kuiper" not "Kepler" belt, and the Oort cloud is the source of comets, not asteroids. Asteroids are rocky; Oort cloud bodies are made of ices. 

This includes some "famous" stars: Tau Cet is a nearby star that is similar to the sun. Alf CMa is Sirus. Alf Boo is Arcturus. Alf CMi is Procyon. Tet UMa (Theta Ursa Major) is circumpolar in much of the Northern hemisphere. One arcsecond is a very small change. You should simulate the motion in software to understand the accuracy needed to detect such a motion. There may be a difficulty insomuch as these stars are so bright that they will outshine any nearby stars making their relative motion harder to measure. You may be better searching for dimmer, but faster moving stars. 

The position of the ecliptic does change, due to perturbation of other planets, but only very slowly. The invariant plane is the plane of angular momentum of the whole solar system. This is dominated by the orbital momentum of the planets, particularly Jupiter, and since other stars are much too far away to perturb the solar system, it is invariant with respect to distant stars. The ecliptic does vary. It is currently decreasing by about 1.4 degrees per 10000 years, as indicated by this graph, (from Wikipedia). This variation is one hundredth of the variation in the Earth's rotational axis. 

The stratosphere and the troposphere are defined by the variation in temperature with height. Within a troposphere, the temperature drops as altitude increases, and drops fast enough for convection to occur. Whereas within a stratosphere, the temperature rises with increasing altitude. Since convection requires that the rate of temperature cooling with height (the "lapse rate") exceeds the rate at which a gas cools due to a reduction in pressure, in the stratosphere the atmosphere will be stable. Tropos means "turning" and stratos means layered. The stratosphere is warmed by the absorbtion of solar radiation, particularly UV radiation (in the ozone layer), whereas the troposphere is warmed mostly from the ground, or in the case of Jupiter, from Jupiter's internal heat. The result is that in troposphere the atmosphere will be well mixed, and clouds will form, whereas in a stratosphere there will be less mixing and far fewer clouds. In Jupiter the tropopause (the point of lowest temperature) occurs at a pressure of about 0.1 bars. (source) 

Galaxies evolve from spiral to elliptical. The spirals are formed by patterns of new star formation in the disk surrounding the bulge, which contains mostly old stars. As galaxies run out of hydrogen gas clouds, which is the raw material from which stars are formed, then no new stars form, and with no new star formation, the complex structures of the arms are lost. Elliptical galaxies are made of old stars and have little new star formations. They were formed when spiral galaxies merged, causing a burst of star formation, and leaving a bulge of old stars and little gas to make new ones. The ultimate fate of the milky way and the andromeda galaxy is to merge and form a giant elliptical galaxy. 

There are lots of unknowns however, you have a star that is more massive than the sun. More massive stars (on the main sequence) are brighter than smaller ones. So the star is brighter than the sun. You also have a planet that is closer to the star than the Earth is to the sun. Both these effects would suggest that the planet would be warmer than the Earth. Indeed rough estimates suggest that this planet could have gone the way of Venus, and suffered a run-away greenhouse effect. The planet is considerably more massive than Earth. It would likely have a thick atmosphere that could contain lots of CO2. 

A mathematicial primer. A triangle on a flat surface has three angles, and these three angles add up to 180degrees - This is a well known theorem from geometry. It is also well known that if you draw a triangle on a ball, then the angles will add up to more than 180 degrees, due to the curvature of the ball. (and if you draw on a pringles crisp, the angle sum will be less than 180). An creature crawling on the ball could, by observing only the angles, discover that the surface of the ball was curved. So curvature can be observed by a creature inspecting only local parts of the ball, the creature doesn't need to be able to move away from the ball to observe its curvature. Curvature is an intrinsic property. Similarly we don't need to be outside of spacetime to observe that spacetime is curved. It is actually the case that the angles in triangles don't add up to 180 due to the gravitational curvature of space (but this effect is too small to be noticeable). We can perceive a curvature in space-time without space-time having to be "in" anything else. The most obvious consequence of spacetime being curved is that things fall down towards the centre of the Earth. At some level you should remember that general relativity describes a theoretical model of how gravitational mechanics functions. That model includes coordinates for time and space, and in this model space-time is a mathematical construct, which allows us to predict with extreme accuracy the behaviour of objects under gravitational influence. 

Issac Newton described an experiment in which a bucket containing water is spun. As the water in the bucket starts to rotate, it becomes concave. The reason for this can be understood in terms of rotating frames of reference. Newton supposed (as an axiom of mechanics) that there are frames of reference (a system of locating particles in space relative to an origin, and in time) in which his 3 laws of motion are true, and momentum is conserved. Such a frame is called "inertial". If one inertial frame exists then any frame with an origin that moves at constant velocity relative to the inertial frame is also inertial. As I mentioned, the existence of inertial frames is an axiom of Mechanics. The truth of the axiom is verified by observation. It can't be proved. If a frame of reference is rotation with respect to an inertial frame, then the rotating frame is not inertial, and Newton's laws (in their simplest form don't hold). Instead of "F=ma" there are extra terms for the Coriolis and centrifugal force. In the case of a spinning space station, it is spinning relative to an inertial frame, and that is why there is a centrifugal force. For Newton, the bucket experiment proves that there is a notion of "absolute space". This interpretation is not accepted by all, and in particular, Ernst Mach rejected the idea of any absolute space. His ideas were influential on Einstein. You can read more about Newton's bucket experiment at $URL$ and you can read about Ernst Mach's ideas regarding absolute space at $URL$ 

Its very unlikely for a comet to become a satellite of an inner solar system planet. Much less likely than it is for an asteroid. Most asteroids are on fairly circular orbits, and so the relative velocity between asteroids and planets is quite low. In comparison comets have very elliptical orbits, and their relative velocities to the planets are much larger. For an asteroid to be captured it must lose momentum. This is possible, though rare. For example, a binary asteroid can be captured if it is separated by tidal forces. For an comet with much more momentum, the chance of being captured is much much lower. Asteroids are captured by the Earth moon system, but not into stable orbits, they don't stay long. If it did occur, the comet would still be active, with a coma of gas, which would be visible just like a very nearby comet. It wouldn't be particularly bright, since the surface brightness of a comet doesn't depend on distance from the Earth. Over time the comet would run out of volatiles and become more or less indistinguishable from a captured asteroid. If it were in the Earth's orbit it probably wouldn't last that long, as there are not many orbits that are stable in the long term around the Earth, due to perturbations from the moon. The dust and gas, including water vapour, will initally remain in orbit, forming a faint ring. It will, over time, be disrupted, and either end up in the atmosphere, on the moon, or ejected from the system. A comet doesn't contain enough water to make a difference to the Earth's ecosystem. 

The galactic coordinate system is centred on the Earth (not the galactic centre) with 0 degrees longitude in the direction of the galactic centre. (as measured by observation of the distribution of neutral hydrogen). The physical centre, marked by Sagittarius A* is offset by less than 0.1 degrees. The coordinate transform from equatorial (right ascension, declension) to galactic is just spherical trigonometry The formulae, copied from wikipedia: $$l = 303^\circ - \arctan\left({\sin(192.25^\circ - \alpha) \over \cos(192.25^\circ - \alpha) \sin 27.4^\circ - \tan\delta \cos 27.4^\circ}\right)$$ $$\sin b = \sin\delta \sin 27.4^\circ + \cos\delta \cos 27.4^\circ \cos (192.25^\circ - \alpha)$$ This uses the B1950 coordinates, which differs slightly from the J2000 coordinates, due to precession. To determine the 3D position of a star cluster relative to the disk, you would also need distance information. 

In this combination image from Nasa (the background is a visible light image from hubble, the pink lobes are from the VLA, a radio telescope), an active radio galaxy is producing two jets, that are much longer than the size of the galaxy. These consist of particles that have been accelerated by the black hole's gravity and shot into space. A ship would find it hard to use the energy in these jets. Particles travelling at close to the speed of light are high energy radiation. A space ship unlucky enough to pass unprotected through the beams would be irradiated. I haven't done the maths, but the dose would probably be enough to kill anyone on board. It's hard to extract useful energy from anything so violent. However if you are looking for random currents of charge, curving between the stars, and interstellar sailors tacking and jibing betweent them, you may be out of luck. 

There is no central authority in science. There is no council that sets the standards. The criteria for a discovery are the same: You publish your findings, and your peers accept your results. There is the 5 sigma rule in particle physics. Perhaps you were thinking of this. But that is not an official rule, instead it's a convention among particle physics. And it's not applicable to every field. Things are never cut and dry. What does "Peers" mean. What if only most are convinced. Does it count? Discoveries are usually judged in retrospect. After the dust has settled and the debate s are over. //edit Why is the bar set so high in physics? When "discovering" a particle there is no way to "see" it, instead you observe a mass of data and see a statistical discrepancy. Cern produces masses and masses of data, and it is sifted for anything unusual. And with so much data, the chance of seeing something unusual is actually quite high. (imagine searching for repetitions of '9' in the digits of pi - if you search far enough you can be sure to find a string of 6 9s even though the chance of a random string having 6 9s is very low) With a mass of data, and the opportunity to repeat experiments it makes sense to set the bar very high. Compare with an observation, such as the "chirp" at Ligo. We can't repeat it at will, the data is there: something happened that is consistent with a black hole merger. No other theory has been proposed that can explain the observations. The observation is less dependent on a statistical finding after running multiple experiments, but a single direct observation. In fields in which a result could be explained by chance, then a statistical analysis is done, and published. This contributes to the quality of a finding, and so the number of people you will convince. And convincing your peers is the only criteria that counts in the end. 

The sun still rises in the East and sets in the West. So you quickly identify the cardinal directions. By observing the point around which the stars rotate each night you can find the altitude of the pole, which gives you your latitude. You can't find your absolute longitude, but with good time keeping you can find your longitude relative to your starting point. The planets are still in the same orbits. You might find that Saturn doesn't have rings (it's not certain how old the rings are) The Galaxies would still be in the same positions, The Milkyway, Andromeda and the Magellanic clouds are all visible. Many more with a moderate telescope, The Milkyway would look different, in detail, the LMC and SMC would be in different positions. However, the stars in the background have all changed. There are no constellations that have not undergone radical changes. There would be no stars that you recognise: Stars are visible either because they are close (and so have a large proper motion) or powerful and short-lived. All the stars you know would either have moved, or not be born yet. 

This could be a satellite, such as the ISS, which appears as a bright, fast moving star. You can look for times when the ISS is visible on websites like $URL$ It might be a meteor (not a meteorite, that is the stone, not the streak in the sky). Meteors travel much faster than satellites. On any given night you will see several meteors each hour. A meteor that is "as bright as Mars" (which varies in brightness, and can reach -3 but is more likely to be between -1 and 0) is a less common event, but not exceptionally rare. Reports of Fireballs (those with magnitude -4 or brighter) are collected by various bodies, such as the uk meteor network 

The light is scattered by the particles in the clouds. These particles are relatively large, compared to the wavelength of light, and so the type of scattering is called "Mie Scattering". Light that hits a cloud particle may be scattered in any direction, but it is much more likely to be scattered forwards than than to be scattered to the side. What this means is that around the moon the clouds appear lit up, to the side the clouds appear dark. The amount of scattering doesn't depend much on the colour of the light, so the scattered light appears the same colour as the moon (ie white) 

We know that there is no known object that will collide with the Earth in the next hundred years or so, and is large enough to do substantial damage. We don't know if there are undiscovered objects that can collide with the Earth. Having made an observation of an asteroid, over a period of time, it is a relatively simple process to predict its future path. Each asteroid, as it is discovered, has its orbit calculated, and no discovered object has an orbit that intersects with that of Earth. However there are known to be many more objects that we haven't discovered yet. It is possible that there is a undiscovered object that will collide with the Earth. It is unlikely because large objects are rare, but not impossible. The survey can never be complete, as comets enter the inner solar system from very great distances, and cannot be seen until they do. 

There is no fully satisfactory quantum theory of gravity. The electromagnetic field is quantized, the quantum excitations are photons. It would be reasonable to believe that the gravitational field would also be quantized, and the quanta would be particles, called gravitons. In fact it would be very hard to explain how gravity could not be quantised. The image of a particle emitting photons is rather misleading. Instead, two particles exchange a photon in an electromagnetic interaction. And the particles are not classical, but quantum mechanical. Photons carry the electromagnetic force between any charged particles: not just electrons, but also muons, tauons, quarks, and the W particles. By this analogy, anything that can create a gravitational field would be exchanging gravitons: that includes anything that has mass or momentum. (ie more or less anything). However, there is neither a theoretical, nor an experimental basis for the existence of gravitons.