Both planets have futuristic technology, so they have all the modern conveniences of earth, and more besides. The lizard people issue an ultimatum. The inhabitants of the other planet must evacuate to their moon colony or face all out war/extinction. They have 1 year, then the lizards will invade their planet and kill everyone. However, the eel-men have prepared for this... 

The Will To Survive Humans are hunted by lions and other large predators sometimes. I think it would be feasible to have a prey species become intelligent, even if you disregard that. (Because I don't really know how truthful it is.) If the prey has to continually become smarter to avoid being eaten by the prey species, at some point it might develop human-like intelligence, especially if the stupid ones meet death. The problem with this situation is that the species co-evolve. Just like @Thucydides said, your human intelligence bunnies will be hunted by probably even more intelligent wolves. This could lead to problems if you intend them to become spacefaring, because you'd have the more peaceful bunnies and the ruthless predator wolves. 

Failure Scenario - Lack of Water Both water cooled reactor types suffer cataclysmic failure due to a lack of water. Some reactors can be more robust than others depending on the design. Many reactors derive their cooling water directly from their environment using ocean, lake or river water. These reactors are prone to having their water intake ducts clogged with debris thereby restricting the flow of cooling water to their segregated cooling systems. A lack of human intervention in these reactor types can lead to failure. Cooling towers are used with reactors that are not in close proximity to ocean, river and lake water. Palo Verde Nuclear Power Plant in Arizona is one such example as was Three Mile Island. In the event of an overheating reactor in the United States the Federal Government only requires a 30 day supply of cooling water. This cooling water, called a UHS (Ultimate Heat Sink) is a finite source and dissipates over time due to a number of reasons including evaporation, steam release and lack of re-circulation of primary cooling circuits due to radiation (the water for cooling is used one time only, in some cases, due to the amount of radiation contamination of the water) As the water supply for cooling dwindles and water pressure decreases enough for flow rates to diminish beyond preset thresholds, the reactor undergoes an automatic shutdown called a SCRAM. A SCRAM event does not require electricity. Neutron absorbing control rods are held in place by electromagnets above the fissile pile and upon loss of electricity the electromagnets lose their magnetism and the rods are dropped into place bringing fission to a near halt in the core. These systems are automated and do not require human intervention, however, the continued decay heat of the fissile material continues to create issues with cooling and with a finite water supply, eventually, the reaction pile becomes exposed to air which cannot cool the fissile rods due to simple lack of density. At this point water changes it's state to a gas and becomes steam. The heat increases further and more steam and pressure buildup in the chamber. Water becomes superheated and takes on properties and attributes more akin to an organic solvent. The pressure is so high within the chamber that it eventually prevents the water from boiling. This superheated water's hydrogen bonds are eventually broken and the chamber becomes filled with superheated highly pressurized hydrogen which eventually explodes due to combustion or the failure of the reactor pressure vessel to contain the extremely high pressures. This failure has been made famous by the hydrogen explosion at the Fukushima Daiichi reactor containment vessels in Japan due to the tsunami which did not damage the reactors, it damaged generators that prevented the circulation of water for the cooling systems. The loss of integrity to the reaction chamber is the penultimate step to the catastrophe, all systems are essentially destroyed and now the fissile material can become molten and eventually melt through any concrete casements that require cooling features in order to prevent the molten nuclear pile from actually melting through it. Once this molten pile of nuclear material hit's moisture an explosion can occur sending nuclear debris into the atmosphere and contaminating the surround landscape with fallout. Mind you, this isn't a nuclear explosion it's just an explosion....but you see what the problem is here, it's called a meltdown. Conclusion Water inlets that use water from the environment (rivers, lakes, oceans) for secondary cooling systems require regular maintenance to prevent debris from clogging their inlets. US located closed loop cooling reactors require only 30 days of backup cooling water. Manual events such as steam or pressure release to prevent containment vessel explosions won't be occurring. There are disaster prevention events that require human intervention. See this IAEA root cause analysis document and salivate over it's plethora of manual events and whether staff followed procedure and a logical decision tree before, during and after a disaster. I will close this scenario with, there's nuclear waste all over the place. Other Failure Scenarios There are hundreds of nuclear reactors across the world. Educational and research reactors are sprinkled across the topography of nations. Some are mercury and graphite cooled. Others use molten salts and even molten sodium. Fast reactors requires considerable human intervention and are used primarily in naval ship propulsion and in some cases the production of electricity in Russia. There are a plethora of scenarios where these reactor types can go bad in their own unique and beautiful ways. All in all in this scenario that I put forth is feared. There are many other failure points that I have failed to mention. The list is too long and nuanced. With the framework you have presented. Here is the official US Government Nuclear Reactor Regulation Response Plan to Pandemic Notice the emphasis on staff and staff skills and manning the facility to prevent failure. With all the dead engineers it will be difficult to staff these facilities, chaos will ensue attempting to man the reactors as they slowly begin to fail one by one. So to answer your question again. Yes, the landscape is scattered with nuclear debris. 

Zombie 'preadators' modern cities have a bad enough bird problem with bin scraps being left all over the place add to that rats, mice, house hold pets, insects and water based critters if the zombies work in rivers or sewers. That's not only a constant maintainance problem for your 'automation' but a major public nuisance. It could perhaps be fixed by 'spiking' zombies with poison or flavour. Fires! Decomposing flesh releases flammable gas which if zombies work indoors could build up and become a problem without ventilation. Its unlikely and not horrendously dangerous but still a problem. The many obvious psychological ramifications of the dead walking the city streets. (Though to be honest people would probably adapt). 

A nineteen year old can look quite adult, especially behind the usual dirt, facial hair and attitude changes that tend to come after an apocalypse. There's no need for anyone to know he's an adolescent. Espacily if he's not necessarily a paragon of virtue. Alternatively you could lean into his adolescence trying to lead in hard conditions when many of the people beneath you think that you're "actually just a kid" is a hard struggle. Generally in writing struggles for your protagonists can be embraced, I personally would read about a child ruler desperately juggling internal politics, managing subordinates and rivals alike regardless of any zombies. Finally its possible you don't even need a justification, the walking dead is primarily a world gone mad. Child rulers have exsisted in the past and I'd happily follow a twelve year old in twd 

A portion of the population will survive but the likelihood of a large portion of the population surviving is very low. Even with outside help in today's world populations suffer great duress. The Swiss will have themselves and their very modern world will work against them as this infrastructure requires a global economy to endure the crisis. Precious metals in manufacturing, petroleum for water pumping and lubrication of hydroelectric generators, shortages of pharmaceuticals and potable water contamination will lead to millions of deaths and great suffering for those unlucky enough to survive. 

There is a possibility of survival after incredible suffering Contrary to other opinion the Swiss are in a precarious position if the rest of the world goes away. Here are several major issues. 

Eventually a portion of the population will survive Under extreme duress and lack of commodity consumables like medicine, food and water the society will begin to break down and governance will be an afterthought. Communication with the populace from the government will become more and more difficult. As the population seeks out other industrialized nations infrastructure they will encounter the same issues abroad in neighboring countries, a lack of petroleum products to restart manufacturing, lack of potable water, food crisis and all assortment of survival issues associated with a dystopian world crisis. The 8 million people that will require basic staples such as rice and wheat will begin to seek food for survival from their neighbors. Government control will break down and the military will be unable to prevent looting and other fear driven group behavior. Neighbors will die as groups seek to build power to control limited resources. The Swiss do not have a lot working in their favor. Other countries have a more favorable outlook especially if they have a method of mass protein creation as with cattle, poultry and pork. Wheat or rice production in a country is very favorable. France is much more well suited for this sort of situation but most of the above would still apply to them. Where the Swiss will fail 

For all of those who are interested here is some history of my world. There is no evolution of mythological creatures, although they have adapted slightly to survive. A long time ago, the sun began to grow distant. The people of the time feared for the safety of their world, so they convinced the great wizards to undergo the great reformation. The planet was reformed using magic, and it could now sustain life indefinitely. However, all the Wizards perished due t the great duress they underwent. They were also not able to protect all the creatures, so some got thrown together, and many new creatures and plants were created. Hence the existence of unicorns, griffins, dragons, etc. 

A sense is something that provides an organism with information about its surroundings. Humans have the five senses, sight, hearing, smell, taste, and touch (sensing pressure). However, some creatures also have electrolocation, where they are able to detect electrical fields. I'm trying to come up with different senses to give my alien races to make them seem more, well, alien. What other senses are there, if any, that I have not already named? Are there any other ones possible? Note - Echolocation I am considering as simply very good hearing. Also, I don't want answer about some kind of "sixth sense" like knowing someone is watching you, or telepathy, or anything like that. Edit - I am looking for external senses, that tell about your environment, as opposed to senses that tell you about your own body, like thirst or the sense that tells you were your body parts are. Edit 2 - I'll concede that sonar is different from hearing, since it gives you a kind of image of what you're screaming at instead of just listen ending to tell the location of things. 

More likely though is its simply known as "the stone that gives you cancer" and is steered well away from 

"anti-magic" exists. think DnD's anti-magic field or dispel magic, this would obviously need to be usable by non-magic humans so perhaps there are certain "magic-less" areas that occur naturally and normal's have built all their settlements around them, perhaps there is some material which is resistant to magic perhaps there are machines with anti-magical abilities, perhaps magic goes away every eclipse the list goes on. there are gods/god-like beings/spirits with a vested interest in either normal humans or in preventing magicians from gaining to much power. these could also be a source of anti-magic. perhaps only the faith of normal humans feeds them, perhaps they just fear magicians. normal humans would not need to know of their existance Magical creatures exist that normal humans have bred and trained. (think dragons, sphinxes, giant anythings's or perhaps even vampires or werewolves.), while magical people could also train these it would certainly level the playing field Long term exposure to magic destroys complex machinery. in this way your non-magical people could have anything from muskets to tanks to balance out the magic and magical people would not. (if you have few enough magical people its possible they just don't have the economies of scale needed to build high-tech stuff). Non-magical people simply vastly outnumber magical people, and are reasonably well organised and united. this is not unprecedented many historians believe the reason Homo sapiens out competed Homo neanderthals is simply that we had better cooperation even though neanderthals had most other advantages. You would of course have to come up with a lore reason why Mages don't just reproduce like mad with fertility spells or something but hey. this works quite well with a variant of number 4 Magic is so wild and unpredictable that Magicians pose as much of a threat to each other on the battle-field as they do their enemies. This would make fielding them on the battle-field nigh impossible Killing another human being using magic has side-effects of increasing severity, making using magic to wage war or worse genocide undesirable for all parties involved Magic is dependant upon some reasonably scarce resource, perhaps most spells require gold or a special spice which is a hassle to grow. they where in charge of the world for a great deal of time until event X, the recent state of affairs is an outlier. some pick and mix of the above reasons. 

Cancer is when the mechanism that controls the division of cells fails, causing cells to rapidly divide. I do not know of any earth creatures that are immune to cancer, although there are some that almost never get cancer. One example is the axolotl. This weird salamander can regenerate his limbs, and almost never gets cancer, and has actually been looked into as a potential way to develop a cure for cancer. Even if your aliens aren't immune to cancer, they can be nearly so. 

Edit - These shroom-men (as you have dubbed them) move around on mycelium. Their "legs/roots" are the mycelium. The actual head part is for producing spores and storing food. It also is used for smelling and hearing. These creatures are sentient, and they are hunters. Their heads are hard, and they stand still, so when a cave creature comes by, thunk, they are smashed. They probably bury the spores in certain areas, then protect the young shroom-children. The part of the menshrooms that looks like a jellyfish's legs is a kind of network of mycelium. 

Yes, the landscape is scattered with nuclear debris. Most nuclear power plant designs will fail spectacularly with long lasting effect on the surrounding area. The notion that nuclear reactors can run for extended periods of time without human intervention is simply not founded in reality. Keeping a nuclear reaction from becoming critical is a feat within itself. It's balancing act of maintaining a state that is less than critical. It will fail within a few months to a few years working under the assumption that it is not getting it's cooling water replenished which is entirely plausible. Most nuclear power plants in the United States require are light water reactors or pressurized water reactors and require the circulation of water in order to stay within a 'steady state' of operational limits. The two failure scenarios that come into play under an unattended state both involve overheating and a change of state to critical. Other incidents occur on the timeline to critical such as hydrogen explosions but these events are essentially ancillary and aren't central to root cause. Background There are two types of nuclear reactors that can suffer from water related failure. 

Single Time Line Theory The time travel theory I prescribe too, this is the best for your story. There is only one time line. Simple enough. Any changes made to the past are already felt, which means if you alter the past it turns out that is the way it was all along. Time travel can still be seen as negative (altering the past is bad) but no one will notice if you do. How can you develop a God complex if you can't change the past? Look to the future! It's all you have control of! 

Magic You said you don't care if it is magic or not. So the simple thing to do is use magic. Have some kind of magical storage device that takes charging. In the summer it absorbs heat and in the winter it releases it. 

The answer is very simple to me. Just take my preferred opinion on how the po-, uh, grapefruits work. Each on converts the pokemon to energy and stores them. Occasionally the energy overloads the storage device, and a failsafe converts the energy back into the creatures. These energy beings can also be sent from place to place. 

The (very) old fashioned religious argument of "the world is just and righteous therefore the disabled probably earned their place through sin" If lost in a war it could be the case that that specific war had no "good side" the entire war was/is viewed as a pointless power struggle between 'evil' nations who's soldiers are not looked upon kindly. There is only one source of prosthetics that advanced, and no one likes them. Evil company, crazy AI etc... There is no reason and your characters just paranoid. They have connotations with something people have a genuine gripe against. (Sort of like who in WW2 German Americans his their culture and accents despite having nothing to do with the Nazis. Some government, cult, church, charismatic leader, company etc.. Is spreading an ideology which is 90% common sense 10% "we must protect the ideal human form" 

There would be little to no (unintended) effects on the system as a whole, assuming that you're thruster is a pure shkadov thruster and is being used to move the system in a direction rather than being used to affect the system. Taking the sun as an example (simply because its on wikipedia) "with luminosity 3.85 × 1026 W and mass 1.99 × 1030 kg, the total thrust produced by reflecting half of the solar output would be 1.28 × 1018 N. After a period of one million years this would yield an imparted speed of 20 m/s." Compare this with the earths orbital speed of 30000 m/s and you'll see there's nothing to worry about. A great deal of the imparted velocity will in fact simply be dissipated as tidal forces in the stars and planets. There may be more of a problem with further out icy bodies that orbit slower but even Pluto is about 4700 m/s and it'll be over millions of years so don't expect showers of comets destroying civilisation or anything. If on the other hand you put this thruster there specifically to wreck your own system. Yeah you can do some damage, slowing down the stars relative to each other, spinning them apart excreta. Though if you can make such a thruster you have much better ways to kill your entire species off than crashing your stars together over a billion years. 

If these creatures had warm blood, they would not be amphibians. But why consign yourself to classifying a species based on human standards? I mean look at the platypus. An egg laying mammal. So, your creature would have no definite classification on earth. But they probably don't care. Also, any living creature is part of one species or another. These creatures might develop better parental care compared to amphibians, because not only do they need to remain warm, they are sapient. They would undoubtedly care for their children, or at the very least, understand that the survival of their children means the survival of their species. 

No, this would not work What makes a sword is a long slicing weapon. This monstrosity you have created would not work, it just wouldn't. 

I have a race of humanoids who live on two planets in a binary system. This planet is mostly a water world, with some swamps and about three Australias. The other planet is very dry. But, I have a problem. I want it to be similar to Star Wars, with high technology level but no internet or social media. But I do want them to have space stations, spaceships, things like that. One thing I thought could help would be to make it inefficient or expensive to have these kinds of things. But I don't know how to do that. Or maybe bombard the planets with some kind of light that would fry electronics? Note - Things like it goes against their culture are off limits, because if these creatures have technology that is helpful to them they will use it. Note - Other alien's gifting them technology is also a possibility, but that means that at some point these creatures are likely to develop an Internet, and I don't want that.