Apart from the advice from @friz also consider changing your "sitting" habits. E.g. get a table that allows you to stand up for a couple of hours each day, and use a Energetics Stability Ball (or similar) for the rest of the day. For the first couple of weeks, you will likely be very tired in your back, but it will very likely help. And never use you laptop in the sofa or anywhere else where you're not able to sit up strait! That is a death sin and one of the major reasons even very young people are beginning to get back trouble... 

If you by "improving their running" mean run faster, then I would concentrate on interval training based on Jack Daniels work (also on Wikipedia). You can find a page that will help you with all the relevant numbers here. E.g. if you run 7:15 per mile, then you should consider training intervals where you run 400m in 1:55 then jog 1 minutes and repeat this 4-6 times. That should improve your running speed pretty drastically over 4-6 weeks. Good luck! 

I'm wondering how one should control the speed of running. Currently my running speed for a 'long' run goes like this: 1st-3rd minute: Starting an 9km/h going down to about 8km/h. I actually try to run slower, but find it difficult and awkward. -40th minute: From a little over 8km/h slowly decreasing to 7km/h. -45th minute: Slightly increased speed (7.5 to almost 8km/h) due to 'end of run motivation' Heart rate is at about 140bpm after 5minutes and increases slowly to about 150bpm after 40minutes, going to 155-160 in the last 5 minutes. Question: Should I change anything on the speed profile in order to be able to run for longer time at about the same average speed or a little faster. This is not about the training effect of the pace/intensity, but about the ability to maintain the average speed for longer / increase the average speed for a given distance. Basically as if the run would be a competition. Especially: 

"the only variables that influence speed are (1)cadence (2) stride length." Yes these two variables define your speed. But how to achieve high cadence of a longer time is a complex issue. "cadence has a very low upper bound. (170 strides / min) seems as high as possible." Wrong. Many recommend 180, so 170 isn't considered a very high cadence. "a stride causes you to be propelled forward, and lifted upward. And, this "lifting upward" side-effect is the real limiting factor." I don't think so. While it probably eats up a serious part of the energy, I don't think it is the limiting factor (see below) 

Lastly, you probably should have you GP looking at this... especially if you want proper diagnostics of the problem... 

I have had the same sorts of issue with my back some time ago. I really don't know what is wrong with your back, and can thus only speak from my own experience. I have used an exercise ball at work for some years and it has helped a lot. I also have a height-adjustable desk and stand up approximately 50% of the day - I do not have a regular office chair any more! Just the exercise ball and the height-adjustable desk. Every morning, I use 10 minutes for some (very light) core training and stretching which I also think has helped. I have no ideas how long it will take before you will see any real difference, but I will guess that a few weeks should make some difference (at least, that is how I remember my case). 

One of my teams mates tried something different some years back in a very similar situation: He simply spent 5-7 weeks where he didn't run on roads at all, but instead went for long walks - 10-15 km - in his running shoes. As I recollect, he walked for 2 x 1 hour the first week and ended with 3 x 3 hours the last week. He did experience some mild shin pains in the beginning, but that went away after a few weeks. After this he moved to walk-run and followed a regular beginners 10 week program until he got to 5 km. He is running fine now with very few problems. Whether this will work for anybody else, I have no ideas. But I'm very, very sure you have to be very disciplined to not start running too soon if you feel everything is fine. 

I'm not sure what you mean here. You want to get 70% of your calories from protein and 30% from carbs? This will not work for two reasons. The first is that you'd need to eat about 389 grams of protein at 2222 kcal per day. That is fairly insane. Not to mention completely unnecessary. 1.8 grams of protein per kilogram of (target) body weight is sufficient. Anything more than that is, according to all dependable sources I've seen on the subject, a waste. The second reason it wouldn't work is because you'd die. You need fat to survive. Literally. Of the three macronutrients, two are essential: protein and fat. You can do without carbohydrates, but the glycogen depletion would make working out pretty harsh. I'd say you should aim for about 25% protein MAX, then fill the rest of your daily allowed calories with fat and carbs. The ratio of those two will depend on your training. If for example you're already lifting a decent amount and would like to maintain strength as much as possible, some more carbs would help on the workouts. You could also cycle a bit: some more fat on some days, some more carbs on others (especially around training). The cheat day isn't a bad idea, provided you don't go overboard and undo a lot of hard work over the week. On the "cheat" day (although you should call it a "break" day or "replenish" day) eat at your TDEE or slightly over it. Say, 250 kcal extra. It's a lot more maintainable, both physically and mentally, than a non-stop deficit for months. It could be useful to eat slightly less protein on that day and take advantage of a higher carb load, replenishing some glycogen for your workouts. 

Your conclusion is more or less right, if we are taking very short distances. Very short. Like ... kicking. And even in that case there are different factors to consider. There are different kind of muscle cell (look up fast twitch for example); Your tendons store energy from the impact on the ground and release it for the next step, so how good that works has an effect as well. These are just two examples. If you just want to run fast, congratulation, you are probably done. I'm sure you can run 100m in below 7.5min/mile. If you want to run longer, you'll have to train endurance. But you don't want that, so there is nothing to add to this answer... 

Have vegatables and fruits nearby in an easy to munch way: carrot sticks, apples, cut bell pepper. So you can eat this kind of stuff when you feel a little hungry. It is relatively low in calories and needs time to digest, making it easier to stay away from calorie bombs. This kind of food also has a lot of other stuff in it that your body needs. Eat slowly. The brain needs some time to realize it has enough food in the belly. If you are eating fast, you will eat a lot although you are already full, but haven't realized it yet. A recommendation I hear often is to chew every bite at least 20 times. Stay away processed sugars. They cause a steep incline in blood sugar level, followed by a surge of insuline, followed by a steep drop in blood sugar level, causing hunger ... Prefer stuff like muesli, whole grain bread. 

You can check with one of the many age grade calculators around. With other words, the age grade tells you how well you are doing compared with the best for the distance at you age. 50% means you're running at half the speed of the best, 66% means you're running at 2/3 of the speed of the best. So to get a 0% WAVA age grade, your finish time must be infinite... And 50% does not mean you are middle of the road, but just that somebody else runs twice as fast as you. 

There are a very big difference between just completing a certain distance at a modest speed and running competitively for a good finishing time (e.g. with a time-goal). The following is true if you just want to finish, not if you run competitively. As I learned it many years ago, to finish a race up to and including Marathon, the rule is that you should be be able to run 2/3 of the distance and feel reasonable well afterwards. Then you should be able to complete the full distance at a race at the same speed without feeling completely wasted. So, to do complete a 15 km race at a modest speed, you must be able to run 10 km at the same speed. And to complete a half-marathon, you should be able to run 14 km (~ 2/3 of 21.1 km). This matches most beginners plans for half-marathons that I can find online. The intermediate and time-goal plans usually have longer distances for the longest runs, but here the plan is not to complete the race, but complete at a specific time - which is something else. Running longer than 30 km is very hard on your body - especially you joints - and really should be avoided if at all possible. Even if you want to train for a Marathon. Most training plans for Marathon that I have looked at also stops at 30 km for the longest run. If you want to run longer distances than this - like Ultras and Extreme Running - there are no way to train for it at a beginners level! The usual recommendation is to try first with a couple of Marathons, and then run 10-30 seconds slower per km depending on the target distance. 

I find it a little strange that I ran so fast in the beginning, although I actively try to go slow. Is this ok, or should I try harder to go slow? Should I go slower after the first 5 minutes in order to keep my speed until the end? 

Whatever you carry make sure it is close and tight to your body. Again you don't want it bouncing around. I got myself an SPI belt for this. 

I'm not exactly living in the country side, but runing on tracks that basically circle around a village. What I found interesting when running outside without any own light source: It isn't a problem as long as there is no artificial light source. With stars or moon the eyes adapt to the low light pretty well, and I was able to see enough for my runs. But in some places strong lights from gardens and in the worst case from a sports ground where so blinding, that I basically saw nothing at all when it wasn't hit directly by the light. Of course is highly dependent on your surroundings. So my recommendation is: explore your new routes during the daylight and try if you actually need a light source at all. 

My Medication The first - Symbicort Inhaler - contains budesonide and formoterol. Budesonide is a steroid that reduces inflammation in the body. Formoterol is a bronchodilator that relaxes muscles in the airways to improve breathing. Without this, I fell like I have a very tight belt around my chest. I take two doses morning and evening and with that I basically don't feel the asthma during the day. Most people can do with just a single dose twice a day, but that does not seem to be enough for me - if I forget a dose, I'm in for a very bad day. (I can see that different countries have very different views on the use of Symbicort: in Denmark it is common to use this for long term asthma, whereas it seems to be used by exception in the US...) The second inhaler - Bricanyl Turbohaler - contains just terbutaline. Terbutaline is a fast-acting bronchodilator (which again relaxes muscles in the airways to improve breathing). I primary use this before and after I run or bike. How much is needed depends both of speed and length of the exercise. Without this, I will cough my way though most sorts of hard sports. 

I use a "Polar WearLink heart rate sensor with Bluetooth" while running and my smart phone with Run Keeper to monitor among other things my heart rate. I also use earphones to get information from Run Keeper during running. Normaly first measurements when starting running are at about 120bpm and ramp up during a couple of minutes to 140-145 only increasing slowly up to 150 or less in the first 20 minutes, depending on training intensity. But during the last two exercises I was getting a heart rate of 160! This certainly is bogus because it doesn't match at the way I felt. On the first run where this happened I was wearing a jacket with the cable of the earphones running under the jacket. On the second occasion I noticed that the cable of my earphones was banging against my chest right where the sensor of the heart rate monitor was. The weird measurements stopped after I opend the zipper of the jacket / tucking the cable to the side away from my chest. So my theory is: the beating of the cable against the sensor was somehow picked up as heart beats. Questions: Is this a reasonable theory? If not, what else might cause this wrong measurement? If it is a reasonable theory, what could I do to prevent this from happening again, apart from keeping the wire of my chest? A patch on the sensor maybe? Or some "better" earphones? I'd like to avoid fiddling with the cable during running since I find it rather distracting. UPDATE In another run I saw the same effect: firstly improbable high heart rate, then after some time more reasonable measurements, which I could confirm roughly by manually measuring my pulse. The difference was that my headphones cable was tucked away behind my shoulder, so it doesn't seem to be involved ... What else could yield this effect? 

There is a subtle but important difference. In the US, fiber is counted towards the total carbohydrates. In Europe, total carbs are typically listed without the fiber, and fiber is listed separately instead. MyFitnessPal uses the US standard. So if you're outside of the US, interpret the label correctly. This means you'd have to add the fiber content to the total carbs. Here's an example of what you may see on a European label: 

Increasing reps is not very useful for a beginner, because once your body has adapted to performing an exercise with a given resistance for a certain number of reps, doing longer sets will lead to more adaptation in endurance. Doing more sets isn't particularly useful either for the same reason: if a set of a certain number of reps isn't heavy enough anymore that doing multiple sets requires a lot of rest in between (say, 3 or more minutes) then it isn't going to challenge you enough to initiate an adaptation. Limiting rest intervals between sets also targets endurance. So that leaves us with increasing resistance, for which weight training is a necessity. A linear progression, where the weight is increased every workout while the focus is kept on sets of 5 reps, is considered optimal for a beginner. If you don't have the possibility of doing so, I suggest to choose bodyweight exercises which can be varied in such a way that they become progressively heavier, and target sets with low repetitions, where no more than 8 can be done. Some options you have: 

TL;DR Don't start with 4K right away; Don't run in your work clothes. I started running about a year ago and jog part of my commute on some days, so I guess my experience might be helpful. 

Background: I picked up running 5 weeks ago and my longest run was (this morning) 6km in 45min as described above. My medium scope goal is to run 8km in an hour. My maximum heart rate is 180bpm. 

The speeds provided by @radpin seem to be slow for short distances. A pedestrian without training and on even ground should be able to walk 4-6km per hour for at least an hour. Compare $URL$ But for short distances one would sprint if the ground allows. World record for 100m is a little below 10 seconds (36km/h). So an average persons should be able to do this in 20-30seconds. 50 ft are about a sixths of that distance so 3-6seconds (12-18km/h). Now the last factor is the ground. Speeds mentioned above are on even ground. If the ground is uneven enough (e.g. a pile of lumber or deep snow) speed can be reduced as low as you want, and also depends on the risk you are willing to take. On somewhat usable ground (trail in the woods, loose sand on the beach) I'd expect about half the speed on normal ground, so about 6-12 seconds for 50ft or 6-9km/h. Which the first roleplaying page I found for the topic agrees with (look for the Table: Hampered Movement) Be careful with the absolute speeds in role playing games. They often assume a combat situations, where you don't run as fast as you can, but also try to stay alife and/or kill other people. Goals not so common in real life for most of us.