You don't talk, pray, ask or give thanks to the Dao, since it's not conscious. At least there's nothing in Dao De Jing that makes Dao anthropomorphic. On the contrary, chapter 5 says explicitly "Nature is not benevolent, treats every being as straw dogs" (straw dogs were to be destroyed after the ritual). And it seems the Dao is a synonym for Nature. 

That's before the "magical taoism", so it may be interpreted in materialistic (scientific) terms. Biology shows that most social species have come to ritualize violence inside the group, reducing its destructive power. We, as social animals, also have the instinct for peace naturally stronger then our instinct for war. But most of the Western philosophy is rooted in monotheistic religion, where human beings are "evil" since Eve, and thus in need of "correction". This chapter of the Dao De Jing shows the opposite, the farther we go away from our true Nature, the poorer we become. That's why laws in excess ruin a country, and too much "wisdom" and technology usually end up having deleterious consequences. But massive propaganda is there to show us that the industrial world have "improved" us. One needs to get out of the comfort of his home to see some of the last primitive people who still show our natural wisdom, health and beauty. But one needs to do this fast, because these people and their way of life are being destroyed day by day. So, to put it shortly: Technology used to alter Nature may easily develop against ourselves (or at least against the poor, who make up the majority). Chapter 29 of the Dao De Jing (Giafu Feng and Jane English translation) pretty well sums it up: 

'Do limits of human nature suggest that it could be principally understood?' I think so, if you're talking about a "general understanding". Like Laozi answer when asked how did he knew it was so? "Intuitively." Of course studying the best findings in ethology, linguistics and the like we have today the chance of a better understanding, if our corrupt society hasn't yet blinded our views of human nature. 'we could make "a human computer" sometime?' I think so, but I would make a list of reasons not to do that. 

Maybe Wittgenstein was already from the new school where "deep meaning needs deep text" (i.e. illegible text, typical of postmodernists). Schopenhauer, on the other hand, was from the older school of clarity in writing (see, for instance, its texts published in Brazil under the name "The Art of Writing"|"A Arte de Escrever", which consists of the originals: Über Gelehrsamkeit und Gelehrte; Selbstdenken; Über Schriftstellerei und Stil; Über Lesen und Bücher; Über Sprache und Worte). Of course the newer school needed to attack the older in order to grow. And they did it so well that today most philosophers, sociologists, etc. can't write clearly at all (see the Sokal affair, on that matter). 

I'm inclined to think that the answer depends on the belief. Those who defend monotheism will answer like virmaior, who denied the right of the question itself to be presented here, or like Alexander, who thinks B is the "correct answer". Those who think too quickly on the subject, and have no opinion whatsoever, will be inclined to go with the Zeitgeist, and also choose B. Those who see monotheism as a huge lie and essentially an evil enterprise, one destroying not only cultural diversity, but also intertwined with biodiversity erosion and other ecological problems: Laozi, Voltaire, Nietzsche, Freud, Russell, Sagan, Dawkins, Hitchens, Vidal and many others, including me, will try and be able to understand that A is, perhaps or probably, a viable definition. The first group will most probably: a) don't understand it; b) don't even try to understand it; or c) pretend they didn't understand it. Just my opinion on the subject. And if, on the Philosophy realm, we need to cite an author -- be on a question/answer website or any other modern Agora -- then I think it was much better to live in Antiquity, where Philosophy meant to do the questions that came to your brain, and there was no difference if they were your questions or someone else's, only that you wanted to gather more opinions about, i.e. try to understand. 

I think that "consist" expresses actually just the identity relation in disguise. For example, saying "being human consists in being a rational animal" is equivalent to the equality "being human = being a rational animal" or "humanity = rationality + animality". The "consist" word is used in the context of locating the relevant property among other properties. For example, one considers many particular human beings. Some are short, some tall, some bald, some hairy, etc. And one wonders, where is the humanity in all these humans? And then one is told: "being human consists in being a rational animal". Then one knows better where to look, what to focus on, how to isolate the humanity within the multiplicity of human beings and their many properties. 

As a matter of fact, Quine completely adopted Russell's response to Parmenides's argument. This is explicit in Quine's "on what there is" (1948). Curiously, Quine related that argument to Plato rather than to Parmenides. Quine even humorously nicknamed the argument Plato's Beard, to match the infamous Occam's Razor. 

refers to the state of the world. The term 'world' belong to the metalanguage. One cannot talk "about the world" in the target language. So suppose that there are e.g. only three facts: p1, p2, p3. Then, (p1 and p2 and p3) is the state of world. But you cannot express this meta-fact about the world in the target language, only in the metalanguage. Target language: p1 and p2 and p3 Metalanguage: (p1 and p2 and p3) and these are all the facts <-> (p1 and p2 and p3) is the state of the world 

To stress the point a bit: the principle of charity in interpretation, despite its nickname, is not a matter of charity. It is not a matter of generosity, or of good will. It is not, that is, optional, but necessary. If you are not invoking it, towards opinions that you hear, and towards texts that you read, you are practically guaranteed to misunderstand what you hear and read. 

These questions are outside the scope of Brandom's system. He leaves open the (meta) questions related to choosing among traditions. He concerns himself only with how things work inside any tradition (that is, any tradition which has a specified "inferential" structure). 

Hegel took Plato (not Parmenides) to be the ancient inventor of dialectic. Plato in turn is described as following on Socrates, who is said to be the inventor of "subjective" dialectic, a method or technique. Plato is deemed the father of "objective" dialectic, as an inherent aspect of philosophy. 

As if there were, on the one hand, people who are (merely) just and holy, and, on the other hand, people who are necessarily just and holy! These would be the perfect people, angels-like, unable to err... Socrates's actual intention seems to me, however, more mundane. I think that he uses the term "necessarily" merely to qualify an implicit, trivial implication. As if it was written 

Or in other words, since the majority do not commit suicide, and supposing that they adhere to the "Nietzschean criterion", that is, authenticity, it follows that the majority believe that life is worth living. For otherwise, they would have committed suicide. 

Boethius's The Consolations of Philosophy (6th century AD) was written in alternating prose and verse. It was translated to English from the Latin by H.R. James (1897). Here is one translated excerpt, part of a poetic exposition of Plato's theory of Recollection. 

The argument that you mention certainly seems to change the notion of subjectivity, if it attributes subjectivity to, say, shoes... But I also think that it is not supposed to change the notion of subjectivity so much as to make it unrecognizable. We are still supposed to try and understand the life experiences of, say, shoes, as similar (however dimly) to our own life experiences. Because, however alien the inner lives of shoes are to us, our only hold in trying to understand them is still our own life experiences. As to the link between subjectivity and conceptual abilities, let's remember that we do naturally ascribe subjectivity to animals such as dogs and cats. Yet, cats and dogs do not have conceptual abilities. Well at least not the kind of conceptual abilities that are expressed in speaking a human-like language. 

The question is longstanding perplexing one. The difficulty starts right at the beginning, to properly assert the statement about "Nothingness", "Néant", "Nichts" etc. The first difficulty is about "to be" and "to exist". Do they have the same meaning or not? First observe that from "X does not exist" it follows that "There is something that does not exist". Suppose that "to be" and "to exist" have the same meaning. Then we can say that from "X does not exist" it follows that "There exists something that does not exist" which is "somethings exists and something does not exist"! It seems that it is contradictory to say that "X does not exist" whatever X is! The argument can be put like this. To be able to attribute the predicate of "not exist" to X (or deprive X from the predicate of "exist"), X should have some form of "being". To cope with this problem there are various approaches in the history of philosophy. The debate goes back to Sophist of Plato and continues up to this day. Some reject the rule of Existential Generalization, some make a difference between first order and second order predicate and also between "to be" and "to exist", some, like Quine, used Russell theory of description to deal with what is called "negative singular existential propositions". Some take "to exist" as a genuine predicate and some reject this. One cannot do justice to all of positions here. Now I try to go over your arguments. But note that the problem here is about forming a meaningful proposition. What I tried to do was to show how these propositions are malformed and unclear and the problem is about the meaning of "to exist" and "to be". So the arguments I provide for the rest, are just immanent criticism of your arguments and might suffer from the same symptoms. "Nothingness doesn't be, that's the definition of nothingness". The first question is about the meaning of what you say. According to what I said, are you saying "there exists something that does not exist". You have to say which property "Nothingness" possess or does not possess, when you say "it does not be". The second question is that can be we bring entities into "existence" just by positing them? I may define "multishape" as "an object which is both round and square and do not exist". Do I show it existence just by defining it? "If there was nothing, nothingness would be, that is the only thing that there would be. Therefore, for nothingness not to be, something must be. Therefore, the existence of something is necessary." Same questions can be posed here. Here is the problem: Are the predicates "to exist" and "to be" similar the predicates like "to be red"? Moreover is your first conclusion correct? From "There was nothing", you can say "There is no X such that X is", which is quit natural. If X ranges over all entities, including "Nothingness", then Nothingness is not. As simple as that. So you should say "nothingness would not be". One way to circumvent the problem is to accept the difference between "to be" and "to exist" and then saying that "there are some objects that do not exist", like Sherlock Holmes for instance! Then "nothingness", whatever it is, does not exist. But then your argument for the existence of "Universe" will not work anymore. Remark: The story can get even more complicated because some people accept the existence of sets but reject notions like nothingness as non-sensical. Remark: A complete survey of answers to this question is indeed the history of philosophy in some sense. Some references: Existence Non-existent objects Alexius Meinong