For XC you can find a myriad of wheels that are now carbon. For DH, you can find some examples but they are big money. They're typically more expensive than their aluminium counter parts, but a little lighter. Rotational weight is typically reduced, which will make the bike turn more quickly and feel "snappier". Since you're new at mountain biking, I wouldn't recommend getting top spec stuff right away. You're going to have "oops" (e.g., wrong trail, endo, rip a dérailleur off, etc) and it would put a serious dent in your pocket book to replace carbon wheels. You can get two decent bikes for the cost of some carbon hoops. Carbon typically isn't as forgiving in crashes because of the nature of the element. It's more prone to damage from impact than aluminium or steel counterparts, and the failures can be much more difficult to detect. Just my 2 cents. 

So, will it work? Probably. Is it ideal? Probably not, but it's worth continuing research about the topic. Just my 2 cents. 

Friction shifters were designed for narrow(er) rear cassettes. The largest cluster I've ever seen a friction shifter work on is 8 speed. I don't think it will pull enough cable for you to access all the speeds in your ten speed cluster. EDIT: As an insiteful commenter noted, the cluster is only 1.8 mm wider for a 10 speed than an 8 speed so it should pull enough cable for your needs. Trimming will be more difficult than with index shifting. The industry has added several gears and not much space to the rear triangle. The result is thinner gears and chains, so dialing in the rear trim will be more difficult. 

Granted, this evidence is only anecdotal but these are the assumptions I've always used to justify differing performance numbers. As an aside, I've looked up your W/kg on a cycling chart. 4.9 W/kg puts you at a high Cat 3, low Cat 2 range. Even at 4.37 you're still a solid Cat 3. If you're getting dropped on group rides with these kinds of numbers, I would suspect that your limiting factor isn't your 5 minute power (unless, of course, you're exclusively riding with Cat 1 riders). I would take a guess that your limiting factor isn't your power, but your ability to recover after efforts. Decreasing recovery time allows you to attack more, recover from surges at FTP, and makes your a more resilient rider. That being said, while 5 minute power is a decent gauge of fitness, the real litmus test is the 20 minute from which you can estimate your FTP. I'd be interested to see those numbers. 

The difference in height between a 5'10" (178 cm) man and a 5'5" (165 cm) woman is 8%. So if men and women have the same shape, and if their bikes have the same shape, and if the man's bike has 28-inch (700 cm) wheels, then the woman's bike should have 26-inch wheels. However I've found that small-framed road bikes or hybrid bikes, claimed to be suitable for women, still have 28-inch wheels: which changes their shape, and how well they fit the rider. 26-inch wheels exist but seem to be more standard for "mountain bikes" than for road bikes. A couple of inches can make a real difference to how well a bike fits the rider. Instead of or as well as asking the difference between a "mens" and a "womens" bike, it might be accurate/important to ask the difference between bikes for taller and shorter riders. 

For that reason you might want to change down to a lower gear (and pedal forward a bit more) while you're slowing down: so that you're already in the lower gear when you start again. 

Perhaps you need to change your pedalling style when you're riding without clips: push (only) down onto the pedal, instead of spinning. That's why you have clips. 

See also (or see especially) other answers about using the front brake, tires, road, body position. This answer is in addition: I guess you won't want to do this since it may involve a new bike, but for next time, my understanding is that disk brakes work better than rim brakes. In a comment, you wrote, 

I'd like to mention that there's more than one kind of Gore-Tex (Gore-Tex is a manufacturer and brand of fabric by the way, which various other clothing manufacturers then use to make jackets etc.). For example, MEC mention at least 3 maybe 4 kinds, some heavier, some more breathable: 

I use the bell if I see a pedestrian (or, a cyclist coming up from a cross-road to our intersection) who I think might move into my right-of-way, and who has not (yet) noticeably seen me. I use it a lot, on the order of 20 times an hour. I also use it when I don't see anyone, as I enter a blind corner, when I'm prepared to brake if someone is in the wrong place: then my bell might help the other person (if there is one) to prepare to brake too. I don't use it to force my way through a pedestrian crossing when pedestrians have right of way. I beware that a pedestrian may be deaf or inattentive. I don't expect or hope that a driver will hear it. I usually use it, as I overtake a bicycle, especially in traffic when I want them to not swerve. I use it as soon as I see an unlit bike on a dark path. I use it when I cycle through a flock of geese around and on the bike path in daylight: it might ad to their awareness (I haven't tested not ringing). Sometimes I ring it to warn pedestrians of the cyclists in front of me: part of my commute is a mixed pedestrian/bike path on which the bikes may have right way; once (frantic ringing) it was a pedestrian about to step off the sidewalk into a bike path without looking. Once I scolded a rider for not using his bell. After checking that his bike was equipped with a bell, I said, "You should put that bell where you can reach it" (he had it on the down tube). Many bikes have no bell (I rarely hear another rider use their bell; sometimes in reply to mine), although they are legally required in this province. I often use it when I'm riding in the door lane, especially as I pass tall parked vehicles that I can't see past, in case a pedestrian or the vehicle's driver is walking round the vehicle expecting the door lane to be empty of traffic (on that street the alternative to the door lane would be to ride in the centre lane which has inset streetcar tracks and so is dangerous).