Having some major problems with Server 2012 Essentials. Have setup remote access and installed RRAS console. I can connect to the VPN through SSTP or PPTP no problems. Authentication is fine (NAP is full access!), have checked RRAS, firewall (local and server) and removed and recreated the settings as well as repairing them. After all this, I cannot pass any traffic through the VPN, I've tried assigning IP through DHCP and static. I can't ping the IP address of the remote 2012 server through VPN, or anything else on the network. I've tried connecting from multiple different machines and OSs. If anyone could help me it would me much appreciated :) Thanks 

I've currently got a lovely working server that has an LSI 9265-8i RAID card in it with 4x1TB RE4 drives, also running CacheCade Pro 2.0 with 2x180GB SSDs in RAID1. I currently have the main array running on RAID6, as much as I like it. I think running RAID 0+1 would be a better choice for the speed and making the server more responsive. Is there a way to 'migrate' my array from '6 to '0+1 without a full backup and restore (which I'd take a full backup anyway if all went wrong)? The total available space will be the same (2TB) but I'm guessing my potential reliability will go down a little (if 2 drives fail simultaneously on the same stripe opposed to any 2 drives failing). Can anyone shed some more light on the subject please? Thank you for your help. 

Yes you can do this by putting a BLOCK INHERITANCE on that Domain Controller's GPO. After doing that you can load all the policies that would apply to those GPOs and put your GPO with the accounts you want set on top. So it could be in this order: 

Can you work on the GPMC through an RDP session on the server so that you're editing things locally (not to be confused with editing the local group policies)? I cannot access the DC remotely as it closes all connections with firewall on. When I saw that issue happen I went to the DC locally and worked on it from there to find all this information. Can you verify your NIC settings (is the DNS set to localhost or local lan IP)? DNS is set to the local computer which is the DC as this is the requirement of the system. Do you have multiple DCs or just the one? Main DC and a backup DC. If you have multiple, can you duplicate the issue on another DC? I will try that on the backup DC and see if it does the same thing. 

Having an issue with auditing a network for logins. I am looking for Event 4740 but the logs are not showing them. Neither on the local machines either. I have verified that Account Management Auditing has been enabled and is set to Success And Failure and I have checked the Logon/Logoff policy for Account Lockout to Success. I have tested the account on a domain machine and the log on the machine shows the account failing but never logs that the account is locked out. When I check the Domain Controllers it shows the account failed to login but is showing NULL SID. Even then it does not show the lockout event either. Anyway to figure out why it is not logging the Lockout event with it enable to do so? 

(Note that any missing frames in the sequence above are due to other traffic I filtered out from this view). From my LAN machine, the ACK is sent back after the LIST command and data transfers work just fine. -- So while I have diagnosed it to this point, I don't know what to do next. The router doesn't say it's dropping any packets or blocking anything due to a firewall rule. Any ideas as to why my LAN machine sends the ACK but the DMZ machine doesn't? 

("FTP (All)" service object uses the same ports listed above - TCP 20, 21, 49152 - 65535). I am not very confident in what this rule is doing, but I think this is what allows passive connections to my server from external sources. However, I don't know if it is causing problems when I am trying to connect to external sources. -- Using the Sonicwall's packet monitor, I am able to login to the server and issue a PORT command which returns a 200 PORT successful response. However, after the LIST command is issued, my server never ACKs the SYN message (frame #57/58) sent by the FTP server. The FTP Server then retransmits the SYNs (frame 64/65 and 72/73). When it doesn't receive an ACK in the timeout window, it times out. Here is some output from the Sonicwall's packet monitor during an attempted connection: 

I have a primary domain XXX.com running DHCP. I have a Child domain child.xxx.com running Static IP. In Active Directory Sites and Services I have both DCs under one group. I am able to ping and access files from the Primary DC to the Child DC. Main problem is I can't access the Active Directory from my primary domain control for the Child domain. In my server manager I can see the server but it says "Kerberos authentication error." Both servers are running Windows Server 2016. I tried to setup the child on a DHCP subnet but when it didn't work I put the server back in to the group in ADSS. I am afraid I broke some kind of trust that I can't fix. I am looking to at least get communication back before I figure out my subnet problem. What did I forget to change so that I can access my child A/D from my parent DC? 

I am able to get to this share with the IP address, FQDN, and straight typing the share in with no problem. Share is open to everyone without a problem. I am getting this error: 

I am trying to apply a service through GPO Computer Management Preferences. I have an option that states "Apply Once And Never Apply Again". Searching on this option comes up with this information: 

After much messing around, I rechecked NAP and disabled a block policy that seemed to be blocking the traffic (despite not being mentioned in the security log!). I re-enabled IP routing in RRAS, I changed the ip range given out from x.x.x.20-30 to x.x.x.225-235 and somehow one of these things made it work! I'm surprised and relieved that its working after the hours I've wasted trying to get it fixed. 

We are going to supply our engineers with Note3 phones (due to the fact these are some of the only devices that come with real stylus') so that they can take signatures on jobs etc. I'm grappling with the concept of having to setup individual Google accounts for each user. This is something I want to avoid. I've considered setting up one specific Google account to use on all phones but this seems like a security risk and a pain to manage (lesser so than individual accounts). I may want to install certain apps from the app store, and I would like to use the phone tracking and remote disable features. Is it worth setting up a Google apps account for this purpose? We already have Exchange happily working for the users and I don't really want to scrap our infrastructure just to switch over to Google. Running these phones without a google account somehow feels wrong, and I feel that I'm missing out. What other solutions have people set up to get round these problems, or did that find no problems without a google account? Thanks! 

Found the answer to this question when looking for the answer to another question. Please see THIS question for the fix to this issue. 

I have uninstalled and reinstalled the components 3 times and I get the same issue. I cannot rebuild this server. How can I fix this WID issue to get the database working for WSUS? 

I am running WSUS on a Internet connected Windows 2016 Server using WID. I used that as my upstream server to download my updates and use the WSUSUTIL tool to export the metadata and the content to my air gapped systems for patching. I did a wsusutil export 

Added the key and restarted the Windows Remote Management service and SERVER1 can now refresh status with SERVER2. Did a quick check on the Listener for WinRM and found it was listening through port 5296 but had no firewall rule to allow it through. Made a firewall rules and now both servers are talking. To check your WinRM comms go to CMD and run the following commands. 

EDIT: Now the server is not checking in with the WSUS server. I removed it from the list of computers and waiting for it to check back in and report. It will not report. I am not running a proxy sever and port 8530 is allowed through the firewall. What could be causing this? EDIT: This error seems to come up every time it checks for updates in the log . I also see one saying Still can't find a cause yet. EDIT: Was able to run the Powershell script to install the WSUS feature. Clean removed WSUS, WID, IIS and cleaned registry and files and restarted before running the powershell command. Now I am getting an issue where I can't get WSUS postinstall to complete. It gets to the following and then says failed to complete. 

I've checked windows logs and don't see any failures or errors related to this within the past 24 hours (when I first swapped out the disk). Looking at the OMSA logs, it tells me when I unassign a global hotspare, but there is never an event corresponding with me assigning a global hotspare. Similarly, I see notices when I cancel a rebuild but never when it is initiated after assigning a global hot spare. I've done some looking into similar problems, but most people receive an error or an actual failure during rebuilding, which I am not. I have good backups and the system is still running okay, so my next thought is to just take an image, blow away the array and start from scratch. I am mostly looking for other ideas before going that route. 

So it seems there is something about the disk I need to configure first. I will post the solution once I figure it out. Original Post I have a Dell PowerEdge T410 server with Windows Server 2008 R2. Storage is configured in a RAID-5 array. Everything has been working fine for several years, although I've had to swap out failed drives a couple of times here and there and rebuild. Until now, rebuilding has not been an issue, and the Open Manage software makes it pretty easy to manage. With the latest drive failure, however, I am seeing something different. I bought a new drive (same manufacturer, model number, and capacity as the other three in the array), and after popping it in, I deleted the virtual disk automatically created for it and assigned the disk as the hot spare for my array. From there, the rebuild is seemingly initiated, but progress never goes beyond 0% (it has been about 18 hours since it was initiated). Here is what I am seeing: 

On my security GPO I have the Startup set to and the Service action set to . This will make sure that if that if the service is running outside of patching times it will stop the service and disable it. On my update GPO I have the Startup set to and the Service action set to . I have then placed my Patching GPO in a higher hierarchy in the Group Policy. When the Update GPO policy is enabled this GPO overwrites the policies applied in the security GPO. If you set it in this way you can do a simple gpupdate /force on any machine and it will alter the control of the service depending on if the GPO is enable and which is higher in the hierarchy. This was exactly what I was looking for. This article was greatly helpful and I hope can help others: How To Use Group Policy To Control Services by Alan Burchill 

I have a Top level domain controller (DC1) running the top level forest on my network. I added a Tree Domain Controller (TDC1) as a new domain in the forest. I am trying to add ENTERPRISE ADMINS to the new Tree in Active Directory. So essentially those in the ENTERPRISE ADMINS group for the forest on DC1 are also admins on TDC1. When I try to add the group or a group from it from DC1 to TDC1 it does not allow me to select another domain to pull the group. Is it possible to make the ENTERPRISE ADMINS, domain admins on the Tree domain or do I have to remake users are that domain to allow them to login to that domain? Or can I make a group on the forest level DC1 and add that group to the TDC1 domain as permissions require? All Servers running Windows Server 2016. EDIT Tree domain as shown here in the Server 2016 Configuration Manager section when adding a Domain to a Forest. 

Okay, so I'm still not entirely sure what solved this problem, but the array is now rebuilding. The first thing I did was to remove OMSA completely and do a clean install (when I upgraded before, I went from 7.4 to 8.2 using an upgrade package). After uninstalling OMSA 7.4, I rebooted the server and went into the PERC S300 array manager that is an option on boot. There, it was showing Disk 0 as Ready and Disk 1 as being the Spare (OMSA did not show disk 1 as being a spare). I set Disk 0 to the Spare and unassigned Disk 1 from the Spare. After that, I proceeded to boot and install OMSA 8.2. After installation, I went to view my virtual disk and viola, it was finally rebuilding. 

I know there are a ton of similar questions already, but I've read through just about everything I could find and am still having trouble resolving my specific issue. Problem: I am having difficulty transferring data to an external FTP server, but only from an FTP client running on a server located inside my DMZ. Transferring from an FTP client works fine from any machine inside my LAN. A brief overview of my environment: I have a Sonicwall SOHO router/firewall with the following interfaces configured/connected: 

I am trying to add/remove features from one server using the GUI Server Manager tool on Server 2012 R2. I have 2 servers doing this and both air connected to the same network and have no access to the internet. Upon trying to add/remove a feature from either of SERVER 1 or SERVER 2 I get the following error. 

Users still cannot login. I am entirely confused. I have to many machines to go to individually and grant access. Can anyone suggest a step I am missing? 

Found the issue. For some reason the share was showing up for computers but not on the File Server section of the server. I re-added the share after a restart. Share now shows up on all the machines through GPO. Don't know how it was looking like a ghost on the computers and the server but it is now working. 

I have a server running Windows Server 2008 R2 as a domain controller. I have a number of Windows 7 x64 Professional machines. I am trying to set Remote Desktop privileges to all users to login to all my domain machines. I have set the User Rights Assignment for to Authenticated users, Users, & Remote Desktop users. I have added to the group in Active Directory. I have also gone into Group policy and enabled the following setting: