Identify a nearby place where tools are available to purchase or borrow: a bike shop, hardware store or some other premises where tools are used. Ride these using the other pedal that I assume is still functional. 

Typically cool points, but it can be used to align the bike with the landing surface if the launch, trajectory and landing aren't in a straight line. 

First, try looking for a "scrap" FSR to salvage the linkage from. Second, BETD have produced aftermarket suspension components for various Specialized, GT, Kona etc designs. They might not have the item you need in stock, but they should still have the files and machinery necessary to make one for you, at a price. $URL$ If you can find some engineering workshop near you, they might be able to copy your damaged linkage. A basic non-adjustable linkage should be achievable using any 3-axis mill. 

All Shimano chains I've fitted recently have come with a special connecting pin in the box, rather than a pre-fitted flat pin. This dealers' manual for Shimano 11 speed chains only describes use of the bullet-shaped connecting pins: $URL$ You can buy packs of 3 or more. Fit one then to avoid long walks, keep the others in your wallet or in your puncture repair kit. 

I've never dismantled a fork intending to reassemble it, but... Could you use a J-end spoke or a knitting hook to pull the elastomer rather than pushing it? You should be able to get plastic knitting hooks so the inner surfaces aren't scratched. 

I wouldn't modify a carbon frame as it'd be difficult to detect the beginnings of delamination where you drill it. Internal wiring is optional. You'll need an SM-JC40 for external wiring, a SM-BTR1 and SM-BCR1. The charger which connects to the front junction will only charge internal batteries. 

Set the shifter to low. With the shifter at low and the derailleur stuck at high, the cable should feel slack. If it still feels tight, the cable may be jammed or corroded, so replace the cable, or find whatever's crushing the outer cable (if the outer has been crushed you may need to replace it too). On the body of your front derailleur you should find two limit screws, labelled "H" and "L". If the tip of the "L" screw is making contact, unscrew it (anti-clockwise) to allow the mech to move towards the low position. If the mech doesn't move and you get space at the tip of the screw, one of the mech's pivots is seized. 

Some rims have a small-diameter drilling for presta valves, so a schraeder (car-type) valve won't fit. If your rim is drilled for schraeder valves, you can use presta valves, but you should use a plastic adapter sleeve to hold the valve in position and avoid wear to the valve stem or the edge of the drilling. 

Potholes cause impact punctures (also called pinch punctures or snakebites) when the force of an impact is sufficient to compress the tyre all the way to the rim. Options to reduce the risk: 

To simplify this a bit, I'm going to ignore rolling resistance and aerodynamic drag, so all the work is done by braking. Also, when you brake hard, the front brake does almost all the work, so ignoring the rear brake to simplify the scenario. Stopping Mass of bike + rider = 100kg Speed = 10 m/s (36km/h, about 22.4mph) kinetic energy = 0.5 m v^2 = 5000J A basic 180mm steel brake rotor weighs about 150g and the specific heat of steel is about 0.5 J/gK (Joules per gram-degree), so converting 5kJ of kinetic energy into heat in the rotor should increase the rotor temperature by 67 degrees (C), assuming none of the energy is absorbed by the brake pad, caliper body or brake fluid (not realistic, but useful to identify an upper bound for the rotor). Descents To maintain constant speed on an even slope, the change in gravitational potential energy must equal the heat energy extracted by braking (plus other sources of friction and drag that we're ignoring). Descending a 1 in 10 slope for a 100m distance gives a height change of 9.95m (not 10m, because the distance is along the hypotenuse). Gravity on earth is about 9.8 m/s^2. Energy change = m g h = 100 * 9.8 * 9.95 = 9751J This would increase the rotor temperature by 130 degrees. Heat Dissipation and the limits of my knowledge The two calculations above don't have a duration because I haven't allowed for heat loss during the event; here are some of the complicating factors: 

Remove cables. Remove bar tape. Roll back lever covers to reveal clamp bolts Loosen bolts and slide off bars. Follow instructions included with the new levers (these should in effect be a well written reversal of steps 1-4.) 

Glycogen has a molar mass of 666.58 g/mol For an 80kg man: Glycogen storage capacity: 15 * 80 = 1200g = 1.8mol ATP producible aerobically = 1.8 * 39 = 70.2mol Energy available: 70.2 * 30.5 = 2141.1 kJ = 511 kCal Using this calculator: $URL$ 

If you're keeping the inner chainring, it's likely to be very similar to a chainring designed to be used as a single ring. You shouldn't try to use a middle chainring as a single ring because it will have teeth that are designed to drop the chain, something you don't want to happen when climbing hills in the gear of last resort. If the chain drops in this scenario, you will probably injure yourself. A chain guide should not be required unless you take the bike off-road. A guard-ring is optional, but may help prevent clothing or shoelaces from being caught by the chain and chainring. 

This depends on technique, rather than equipment; Trials riders regularly drop several feet on rigid bikes. You should use your legs to absorb the shock of landing to reduce the work done by the suspension, just as you would when jumping down from a height without a bike. 

You could avoid interfering with your wheel fastening solution by mounting the guards using P-clips on the seat stays. 

I use Carplan Brake and Parts Cleaner, purchased from my local auto parts shop. This contains about 30% IPA (isopropanol) and 70% Naptha. If you don't have many bikes, it may be easier to visit your local car mechanics' workshop and ask to use a little of theirs. If you have contaminated the rotor, you will also have contaminated pads. There is a procedure to restore pads using brake cleaner, an oven and a blowtorch... This isn't worth the effort and risk, so buy new pads. You don't have to buy your caliper manufacturer's own pads, so long as they're the right shape; I've had no problems using Clarks and Ashima pads. 

If the derailleur is correctly adjusted at one spot in the gear range, but not throughout the full range of movement, this can indicate the gear hanger is no longer aligned properly. 

For a given rim design, the larger diameter version will be heavier and weaker. Lighter wheels have less angular momentum. Although a smaller wheel will be spinning faster, the change in circumference is proportional to the radius, wheras angular momentum is proportional to the square of the distance from the axis. When rolling over the same rough surface, a larger diameter wheel won't drop as far into holes that are smaller than the wheel, so the larger wheel will follow a shorter path and the force experienced at the new contact point as the tyre bridges the gap will be at a smaller angle from the tangent at that point. I don't know how to calculate the impact of larger heavier wheels on steering. 650b (584mm) is a compromise between 26" (559mm) and 29"/700c (622mm) To summarise: The differences in your subjective experience will be too small to outweigh any biasses created by your expectations. Get a fatbike. 

Modelling heat in rotors is sufficiently complicated that it is a topic used in Engineering project assignments for university students, and the software typically used to perform the calculations is very expensive. "Experimental and Numerical Thermal Analysis of Formula Student Racing Car Disc Brake Design", Manthan Vidiya1 and Balbir Singh, Manipal Institute of Technology. Published in Journal of Engineering Science and Technology Review 10(1)(2017)138-147 Example model "Heat Generation in a Disc Brake" for COMSOL Multiphysics: 

Standard brake cables are 1.6mm thick and have either a cylindrical end perpendicular to the cable for MTB-style levers, or an inline stepped-cylinder (like a pear) for road-style levers. Standard gear cables are 1.2mm thick and have a smaller cylindrical end, inline (cable enters circular face). By standard, I mean both Shimano and Campagnolo use these gauges and end-styles and I'm not aware of any other variety used by gear or brake levers in current popular use... 

It looks like your saddle is positioned quite far back, relative to the post. Swapping the seatpost for one with more layback (offset) should allow you to keep the same saddle position relative to the bike but clamping the rails further back, where the saddle is wider. Clamping further back on the rails may also reduce the risk of bending the rails. 

Ensure the rimtape is properly centered in the rim. If you have double-walled rims, the edges of the holes through which the nipples are accessed can cut a pressurised tube, or if the tube is pushed into the hole by the pressure, it may overexpand within the hole and rupture. Check the rim's joint, opposite the valve hole. Most rims (all cheap rims) have pinned joints rather than being welded into a proper hoop. Over time, the joint may have pulled apart enough for the edges to cut the tube. Assuming the rimtape is in good condition and properly installed, the next suspect would be pinching when installing the tyre: the tube should be inflated enough to hold its shape and prevent it from being trapped between the tyre bead and the rim. When fitting, most tyre+rimtape+rim combinations shouldn't require leverage to get the last section of bead over the rim wall. If the tyre is at the lower range of bead diameter tolerance and the rim well is particularly shallow (especially for double-wall rims) or you have a particularly thick rimtape, this may be difficult. At the point when the bead feels so tight you can't push it over, start working the tire from the opposite point on the rim, pulling the bead towards the middle of the rim and in towards the hub. Move your hands away from each other, keeping tension on the sidewall so the tyre doesn't pop up again. When your hands reach the tight spot, you should hopefully have relieved enough tension to push the last section of bead over the wall, or at least make some progress. 

The ISO freewheel thread standard is 1.375" x 24tpi Most freewheels I have encountered have been ISO. Some hubs use "British" threading at 1.370" x 24tpi If you use an ISO freewheel on a British thread, it will work, but you should check there is enough thread engagement to avoid stripping the hub. The trials-oriented retailer TartyBikes suggests 9 thread is enough (Trials bikes often run a freewheel at the crank using a 1.370" x 24tpi thread) Italian freewheel thread is 1.378" x 24tpi: Fine on ISO, but even shallower thread engagement on British hubs than ISO on British. Still viable though. French freewheel thread is 1.366" x 25.4 tpi or 34.7 x 1mm If you tried mixing 24tpi with 25.4tpi at the same diameter, the threads would be strained and with enough engagement would eventually jam. As the French diameter is smaller, an Italian, ISO or British freewheel will just about thread on but will have very little thread contact and will slip under load, blunting the hub threads. Metric BMX is M30 x 1[mm] or 1.181" x 25.4 tpi. This is a small enough diameter that all the above sized freewheels will be obviously sloppy on an M30 hub. I've never seen an M35 x 1 freewheel, but it seems close enough to French that it should work. Mini-freewheel (Which I've seen on some DMR Revolver hubs) is 1.18" x 24tpi Mini-freewheel and Metric BMX are close enough to cause trouble. The diameters are within tolerance but there will be strain on the threads and the hub threads will be less snug if you later replace the freewheel with the correct item. Praise be to Sheldon. 

Paraffin wax is not a single chemical, rather it is a mix of alkanes with the formula CnH2n+2, having between 20 and 40 Carbon atoms. Commercially available Paraffin wax may also contain additives to raise melting point (normally 37 °C, 99 °F) or reduce brittleness (often stearic acid as found in tallow). It's possible that when you immerse your chain, the longer alkanes are more likely to be retained in the chain. The stearic acid molecule (C17H35CO2H) is only 18 Carbon atoms long, but the O and OH groups may increase the chances of it adhering to a surface. Alkane cracking might also be occurring, catalysed by some impurity in the pan or chain, breaking the longer molecules up into shorter alkanes. Paraffin's density should be about 0.9g per ml. Alkanes from C5-C16 (inc octane, decane) are liquid at 20 °C with density 0.63 to 0.77 g/ml. The shortest Alkanes are gases: Methane, Ethane, Propane, Butane. With an accurate scale you may be able to detect a difference in volume between your used wax and the same volume of fresh wax. 

I found a discussion of Peter Sagan's SRM data from an early stage in the 2012 Tour De France. Also an article which discusses normal power output for various effort durations. What matters for sprinting isn't their FTP, rather it's their power output over 5 seconds, 1 minute, 2 minutes... For the last 5 seconds a top sprinter will be pushing 22-25 W/kg, whereas 6.0 - 6.5W/kg is realistic for HC climbs. In addition to his weight advantage, Cavendish is also one of the most aerodynamic road sprinters. This article suggests a 10% decrease in CdA can result in a 3 metre advantage in a 14 second sprint. That's a humiliating margin. 

You don't mention the stem in your question. If you tighten the topcap bolt without loosening the stem clamp, you won't be preloading the headset; instead you'll be crushing the spacers between the step and topcap. 

That calculator doesn't ask any questions about the geometry of your bike, your foot length, cleat position (or normal foot position if flat pedals) or shoe design. If you have large feet, you may need to move your saddle back. Having your saddle too far forwards moves your body further over your hands, increasing the fraction of your body weight your arms and hands have to support. If you don't already have another similar bike where you don't experience this discomfort, I strongly recommend you ask your local bike shop about a bike-fit session.