If we put some lines across that to represent Kardashev levels, we can see that it is even possible for a civilization to have mathematics one or conceivably even two levels above their civilization's level: 

STOP: The law. If a company able to do this turned up in a developed country, they would pretty quickly be under inspection. The government would have decided that having a company like this would not be a good idea and would subject it to endless health and safety inspections, new regulations, and other perfectly legal restrictions that essentially prevent it operating. The police would constantly be on site trying to find something for which they can prosecute the owners and tell the public the service is unsafe. STOP: Other companies. There are plenty of good brains around. Many of these brains may well not agree with some of the ethical practices or manufacturing methods going on at this company and would seek some other way of getting involved in this new technology. This leads to the formation of other companies. If the defector has taken some of the research with them, they could quickly develop this research and grab the relevant patents or copyrights, giving them an advantage. Eventually this formation of other groups mean that the world domination would at least be shared. However... KEEP: Third World. People running this company are presumably not stupid. They'd work out pretty fast that the government in country $x$ is trying to stop them operating and up sticks. While they're likely to find much the same situation in other developed country, third-world countries have far fewer restrictions. Health and safety wouldn't care, and if jobs are being created then the government will quite often turn a blind eye to bad practices. If this company can get a hold in this country, they can use it as a base of operations to expand into other countries. These countries would quickly become more powerful and richer and eventually (though this would take some time) the developed countries would also give in to pressure from their own people to give them access to this service. So: they'll take over, but it'll take some time. 

This is what brainwashing is. Not cold, metal devices. Not high technology. Not even shoving a gun to someone's head or beating them almost to death. Yet it's still brutal. It's still unsubtle. Nobody ever tried to hide the fact that the US government was saying that the Reds were poison; they shouted it from the rooftops. All that mattered was that not the entire truth was told. All you need to brainwash someone is for them to trust you a bit. People didn't totally trust the US government, but they believed that what they were doing was right - they wouldn't just lie to all their people about an issue of national interest, would they? That belief in you enables you to tell people things. And when you tell people things enough, they start to believe them. Now you have two people spreading your cause. And when each of them makes another believe them, you have 4. Then 8. Then 16. 32. 64. 128, 256,512,1024 2048 4096 and the cycle keeps going. You now have an army of people who believe what you believe, and because you opened their eyes to this new light, they revere you above others. And nobody's going to argue with that many people, are they? Are they? Maybe, maybe not. Maybe eventually you'll get one doubter, and they'll start a revolution. 

These guys are going to have problems. Differing laws in each state mean that either every case needs an investigator or two from each state (a very inefficient way of investigation), or the time taken to train a member of this force would be prohibitive. 

I remember a book I read several years ago now, involving the Voynich manuscript. The basis was it was not decodable in any way - until a university student who happens to know symbols of another ancient language reads it, and finds two of these symbols. The passage between the two is the secret message, also written in this language. Now, while that doesn't quite meet your requirements, it can be modified: instead of symbols you can just use standard letters but organise a start code (think DNA and start/stop codons). So, whenever a member of this organisation reads the letter sequence , they would know that the message is between that and the next instance of it (or a different stop string, for example ). Obviously, to increase the security you can use a basic cipher. Consider that at this time, basic ciphers of today were considered advanced, and while a basic Caesar cipher might be a little too basic, a Vigenére might meet the needs. If you want even more security, you can combine ideas from every answer: the start/stop strings, encipherment, and steganography (every $n + 2$ word). In this way, messages can be distributed as text without fear of being read because you have to know several things before you can decode them. Let's try an example: 

Assuming time travel and teleportation are possible, the scenario you mention is also possible. First, let me note: a light-year is not a measure of time but of distance: it is the distance light can travel in a year, approximately $ 9.4608 \times 10^{12} \text{ km} $. If you're travelling at the speed of light, the relevant unit of time that it takes to cover this distance is just a year. Travelling at the speed of light to reach somewhere billions of light-years away, as you say, takes billions of years. With the aforementioned technologies, it would be possible to simply jump forward in time those billions of years to get to the end of your journey straight away. However, you also need teleportation because your ship to get you there will not remain in the same place: it will have travelled billions of light-years, which you also need to travel to catch up with it. However, if you have teleportation, I will argue that time travel is unnecessary - instead, you can just teleport yourself to your destination. 

For the first: they can affect the temperature of an area no bigger than a football field by no more than 30 degrees Celsius. For the second: almost no limitations. They can restore any inanimate object to its original state after manufacture, no matter the damage, as long as they are close to the object. No sitting at home creating invincible armies, they have to be in the field. For the sake of quantification, I'll say the repair ability has a 10m radius. In addition, if an object has been completely destroyed (for example, burned completely to ash or completely dissolved), it cannot be repaired. This is the first question in a series, and I'm going to focus on war: how would the various wars the Brits participated in (around the time of their empire) be affected? Keep in mind that these are politicians. They live in London and are used to a life of luxury. 

In the end, it's likely that a significant proportion of humanity would be killed; modern communication and travel makes spreading disease much faster than in the past so an epidemic can become more deadly. However, some isolated humans would survive and might be able to make use of the remaining technology and machinery to survive. 

So in short, you can either disconnect all the sensors, or be very very careful. I will also refer you to some XKCD: The AI-Box Experiment. 

It is 1970. Planet Earth is uninhabitable - the Cold War got very hot. The Earth's entire population is floating through space in giant transport ships. They've found another habitable(ish) world. Unfortunately, it's got 5 times Earth's gravity. Now, I'm going to handwave away several things - we're ignoring how they got everyone into space or onto the planet, we're ignoring the fact that biological humans likely wouldn't survive on a planet with such gravity, and we're ignoring how they get hold of building materials on the planet. Given this planet, and resources like Earth's, does a 1970's society have the knowledge to build buildings similar to those we have here? If not, at what year are humans technologically advanced enough in materials science, etc, to do so? Assume the people have the required materials and 1970's technology at their disposal without having to make or acquire it; further assume that they don't have to worry about their survival (food, etc.). An ideal answer here will combine some materials science, some history, and some social dynamics to come up with a solution. 

1 percent is not low enough. In the UK, where we have ~62 million people, there are probably 40-45 million people entitled to vote (wild guess, I haven't actually looked it up). 1% of that is 450 000. If I'm rich enough (and I guarantee you there will be someone who does this), I can lay almost half a million votes on one candidate. The formula to calculate votes should be a little more complicated. Forgive me for expressing it in code, since that's what I understand, but you want something like this: 

By then, our signal was random. There are no discernible patterns; they will be trying to decipher it for ever. Until they reach us, at least. 

I like the composition of your team. You have a good mix of scientists and people capable of interacting positively with the alien that you will be able to quickly learn much about it. However, you are not going to manage to conceal the fact that you have four probably well known, upstanding scientists going off into space for some unknown purpose. Not only will you have paparazzi all over it but you'll also get spies from other countries snooping to see if they can find out what's going on. I highly recommend you call on your own intelligence agency to both 

The main (best?) way to do this is chemically. You say , so perhaps that property is a chemical 'surface' that allows it to bind with the metal. This may be in the form of raw chemical compounds which would react on contact with compounds on the surface of the item; however, it is more likely to be in the form of some adhesive. There are plenty of strong adhesives designed to bond things together permanently; look, for example, at Araldite, among other epoxy resins. From the article: 

Government I think we'd still have similar governments. Due to human nature, we'll always look for ways to have our own will, and a ruling monarchy or upper class denies this completely. The revolts and revolutions would still have happened, but again, probably in a different timescale without the big spark of the American success. 

You can look quite a long way back into the planet's history to answer this. Stars are formed from giant gas clouds called nebulae. When enough material accumulates in the nebula, it collapses under its own gravity. As it does so, the pressure causes a temperature increase. Eventually, nuclear fusion of hydrogen begins and a star is formed. The left over material in the nebula accumulates to form planets and asteroids. The distribution, therefore, is a little bit random. The distribution of resources on a planet when it initially forms is determined by what resources are in the area it formed from. After the planet forms, other processes such as tectonic movement and convection currents can alter the distribution of resources. Tectonic movement is the large-scale movement of continental scale landmasses through propulsion by convection currents. This means that, as I'm sure you know, the tectonic plates move around, along with all the resources contained within them. The convection currents themselves can melt resources in the bottom of the plates and move them around. So, to work out where your resources should go, you need to either pick randomly, pick to suit your story, or just run a random generator. 

The scales are fairly similar for each component you mention: simply, as you have a greater understanding of all of those fields, you are able to harness more and more energy. The fields you mention have a sort-of order of fundamentality. Engineering is impossible without physics; physics is impossible without mathematics (as are many of the soft sciences). So, essentially, the greater your understanding of mathematics, the more energy you are able to harness. To put that another way, you can have Einstein and Newton and all the famous physicists and combine their brains, but unless you also have some mathematicians working out their principles, your scientists can't do anything significant. To me, the "soft" sciences aren't so necessary here. Power is all about physics, not people: knowing how someone's brain understands and remembers all the physics isn't going to help you build a giant star-generator. The rest will develop at a similar rate, but with the more specialized/less fundamental fields lagging behind a bit. Adding to that, since power harnessing relies on engineering, power harnessing ability can never rise above the level of engineering, and will probably follow the pattern of lagging behind a bit. For your convenience, I shall provide a bar chart: