I have never heard of a resignation letter being confidential. The process of resigning itself may be confidential but only for a couple of days. It isn't uncommon for a manager to announce to his team that X is leaving and the transition plans are in place etc. 

This is one of the important aspects of being a contract-to-hire worker. The contractor and the hire-r both have an opportunity to evaluate each other without involving a gamut of other beneficial attachments. Nevertheless this 'contract' phase of your employment would have to be bound by a contract which usually specifies the notice period in case you want to leave before you are hired. AFAIK, this holds good for all 'at will' employments. So your answer should be in your contract. Of course, the decision to quit before you even get an offer from the other firm who you think will be hotter than the current firm, is yours to make. 

Most of the times the problem is that the junior resources are just not aware of what they exactly have to deliver. Or what is expected of them. Conduct a survey and see if they know what the management expects from them and if they are facing any challenges. Identify stronger members from the senior team and assign the grooming/mentorship of junior resources to these members. This role should be mandatory for all senior resources and you can dangle awards/compensation for performing members (The yardsticks of measuring performance is a different thing altogether (Ex: weekly assignments fulfillment) This is an extreme measure - Have bi/weekly assessments and be ready to let go of under performing staff. 

Did you ask the HR why you were taken off ? If there is no written communication and if they have done it on hearsay (congratulations on leaving a firm whose HR functions on hearsay!) I would probably be looking up local labor laws to see what circumstances justify this act by the HR. In my experience this is sheer bad luck. There is nothing which justifies this, unless it is mentioned specifically in your contract. Pay bumps in full time employments usually are based on the past years performance. So, mathematically, you deserve the raise (as you say), and you will be working from April thru September. That means the company will benefit from your skills in the months of April thru September, for which they should indeed rightfully give you increased pay. If I were you, after looking up local labor laws/engaging unions in preliminary talks, I would have written an email to the HR asking why I was taken off the roster and why I think I should be on the roster. 

Make a list of your teams recommendations that have been implemented so far and make a presentation about the impact analysis. Probably a before/after comparison of performance and other metrics. Explain the benefits the improved product/project which the company at large and the team that is building it and the customers will see. For such change management always start from the managers. Even if you started at the grass root level, as you call it, no grass root level person will implement a change without getting an approval. So you might as well start from the top. 

I have found that this works best in communication with prospective future employers : In the beginning of your communications, always address the 'To' person as Mr/Ms(Mz) Last name. Even though the other party may address you with your first name. Once you have made some progress with your aplithe prospective firm and you know the other person for a while (as opposed to talking to a team of HRs) and the other other person is addressing you by your first name, then you can address the other person with his first name Ex. Hi John. Due to the conditions Mr.Fox talks about, over the years I have found that opening a mail just saying a simple 'Hello' to be the best way. 

Given your few points here, I would not list this project at all. Take a look at it from an interviewer's perspective. How would you trust someone genuinely did what he claims he did, but does not want to back up his/her claims with additional details ? What if you were to list this as a not-launched project (and if you are not in the state of California) and the future mobile app employer actually employs you and makes you sign the standard agreement contracts (which basically means any work you do when employed is the employers IP) ? How do you prove your IP owner ship if someday you finally launch this app. This, IMHO, just leads to a lot of unnecessary questions and a difficult position to be in. If I were you, I would mention the skills on the resume and in the interview mention developing a mobile app(s), out of interest. 

How does one handle this question in a typical software firm interview scenario ? I think something off the hook from Bill Hicks (love him to death) or Mitch hedberg would be a very humorous ice breaker to the person who likes their genre of comedy however many may take offense to slapstick humor. It is difficult to gauge the interviewers flexibility in a telephone interview, just 2 minutes into the phone call. How would y'all advise on answering such a question ? Any personal experiences ? P.S: More importantly, how do you know where to draw the line. What is the safest joke ? 

Set up a time with the HR responsible to make salary recomendations. Book a calendar appointment yourself it thats the trend at your job Talk to the HR about your desire for a salary hike and explain why you think you qualify/deserve for this bump. Be prepared with your points and include your achievements and also be ready to trade in your benefits if that seems to be the case. If this persuasion doesn't result fruit (you should be ready to wait at least a week for this since salary increments usually are not a single persons decision and will go through various layers), tell them that you have an offer which gives your expected salary and since your negotiations have failed, you have decided to move on. Ask this person who you should mail your resignation to and then resign and move on after your contractual notice period. 

I understand more money is the only reason here right ? If the only reason you are quitting your current job is for money, then you should let your future employer know that what they are offering is not up to your expectations and that you are expecting X (also add why you think you deserve X). Most of the times a company will either honor your expectations or will give you reasons why they think their original offer stands good. If you are leaving your current job because of other reasons, then you should just leave your current employer. 

FWIW, it all depends on the kind of profile If I am looking to recruit a marketing head, I would definitely love to see his/her connections, at least on linkedin. The linkedin profile doesnt necessarily show a true picture. A lot of people will reverse engineer and network with other high fliers and leave a comment/review, so whenever someone is checking this persons profile will read of his connections with the high flier. Does not necessarily mean the high flier is a good buddy of this reverse engineer fella. Linkedin profiles, in my opinion, are redundant for software developers. I for one wouldn't care who the software engineer is connected with. I may run a look at it, but thats it. For all you know, may be James Gosling is recommending a java developer. That developer is a keeper then. As a matter of fact, if I relied too much on it and see one too many recommendations, I may consider inviting the recommend-er to explore the opportunity which was initially intended for the other software developer. It would indeed be a sad day if all HRs used linkedin as their only recruitment tool. It is not required by the best of software developers to maintain a social network. Am I rgoing to rob my company by not inviting such professionals to apply ? Definitely not. But I understand this fact, not a lot of HR folks Come to think of it, I have never seen a bad review for anyone. Now that is almost impossible. If you have been in the corporate world, there will most definitely be at least one person who truly hates you. But hey, its not on the linkedin profile. To answer your question in one word, No. The only way to get hired faster is to post your resume on job websites and also grow and even excel in your skills of whatever stream you work in.