If you have to do ANYTHING in a production system, do it in a transaction. (Or let a DBA do it if you have one) A number of years ago I saw my boss' look of horror as he ran a "simple" update against a production database, without a clause. If he had used a transaction, he could have issued a and saved himself a panicked night of recovering data from a backup to a still running production system. (The rollback would have taken two seconds, not four hours...) (This sounds like a Scott Adams cartoon, but yes, I actually watched this happen...) 

This is a really bad idea. Let's say they hire you despite the warning signs in the other answers. How long will you stay knowing you're making $30k less than the other people in your group? Also understand - if you do this on your first job, you will never catch up to where you should be. 

I've seen this several times. When I was more junior, one company asked me to troubleshoot a page (in production, which seemed odd but I was naive) and offer suggestions I would implement if I were hired. You guessed it - they turned me down, fixed the page based on my feedback, and implemented some of my suggestions. What I thought was an interview turned into free labor. This was several hours of my time, for which I wasn't compensated. Please keep this in mind before you assign "homework" to a candidate. You may have better luck with some kind of online quiz. I know there are a bunch of these (I don't know if BrainBench is around anymore, but when I drop that name most people know what I'm talking about) From the interviewee end, I'd say i possible send the quiz FIRST, and based on their scores bring in the people you want to talk to (if the quiz is important). I'm a senior level developer now, and I'm still asked to take these after an interview (even when the interview is fairly technical and seems to go well). I always thought it'd make more sense for a phone screen, if that goes well send the quiz, and if the score was in line with what you need, bring in the candidate. 

Can you carry days in to next year? In the US some companies allow you to bring some unused time off into the following year. Others have a "use it or lose it" policy. Check your company policy. I've seen people stop accruing because they can't take more vacation, and then they're forced to take time off at inopportune times. Don't let that happen to you. You're given time off for a reason - it's not "slacking" if you use what you're given (and what attracted you to there in the first place). If you can't use what they offer, the place is messed up and you should get out of there. (It's sad, but I've experienced this and I know it happens) 

I worked for 11 years as a recruiter/headhunter, so I've worked with plenty of people in your situation. Here's a few things for you to bear in mind. 1. You will probably rule yourself out of contention for a lot of positions. Most employers will be somewhat reasonable about notice period for a new hire. So if the norm is two weeks and you need to give four, no big deal. Extend that to three months, though, and you'll probably rule yourself out of contention for a lot of positions at the early stages of screening etc. (unless you are being considered for a very senior position or something extraordinarily unusual). Any recruiter (internal or external) that screens you will ask about your notice period. If your answer is "contractually it's two weeks, but really I need to give about three months" they will likely assume you aren't really serious about leaving your job, or that you are likely to accept a counter-offer from your current company. So you are likely to get interviews with far fewer companies than your CV merits, and even if you do get to interview the hiring manager is likely to be put off by your notice period. 2. Your current company might not want you to stay. You think that they need you for three months: let's assume that's true. But often companies prefer to have people leave quickly once they resign, to avoid drawing out the process. They don't want you chatting to colleagues in the break room about why you wanted to leave, or telling them about the great payrise/benefits you got by moving. This happens a lot. Your current company might prefer to struggle through the technical challenges of you leaving after just two weeks' notice in order to preserve morale and office harmony. As to your final question: 

I like The No A***ole Rule by Robert Sutton. I agree with his approach to dealing with workplace a***oles (which is to say: get them out if at all possible), but he is also realistic about the fact that you can't get rid of them all, so he has tactics for dealing with them. Give it a try, and good luck! 

No it certainly isn't improper. If your employer expected long-term commitment from you they should engage you on a permanent contract. But you should still be as discreet as you can. Your current staffing agent (or the HR/Recruitment department at your current company) may get offended by the fact that you're keeping an eye out for new opportunities. If they do it will only cause you hassle. (Just to be clear: I don't think they have the right to get offended, but if they do they are in a position to give you problems.) Good luck! So observe all the usual protocols for conducting a discreet job search (i.e. be careful about who you speak to, don't confide in colleagues, avoid putting your CV up on job boards or similar). 

Comparing your salary to your colleagues' will make you look bitter. Doing some research on what you could earn for a similar job elsewhere will give you a much nicer-sounding argument. 

TL;DR - The company is happy with you, the remaining question is whether or not you are happy with the job. If you don't know whether you are or not, feel free to phone them and ask to discuss the role further. 

Some government employers (I'm thinking of security services) do background checks to extreme depth. They will have access to whatever tax agency exists in your country. Assuming you're registered and paying tax for this part-time job, they will be able to find out about it. And any lies they discover on your CV would mean you wouldn't get the job - they only employ people they can trust 100%. But if you're not planning on ever working for the security services, only for normal private companies, then your tax agency probably won't release this info. (I say probably because I have no idea what country you're in and therefore what data protection laws might exist.) So the probability is that you'll be fine not declaring this job on your CV. 

How much does being underpaid bother you? Enough to go hunting for a new employer who'll pay you that much for doing the same job? If so, then feel free to tell them that you're considering it. However, I wouldn't advise actually applying for other jobs until you've failed to get the raise you want - once you've actually applied elsewhere it's hard to stay at a job; every little annoyance causes you to think "It wouldn't be this bad if I'd taken that other job." 

If you are a permanent employee: list your employer as your employer. Anything else is lying. But, in the description of that employment, it is normal to write what sort of work you were doing - this is the perfect place to mention the famous client. If you are a temporary employee or contractor then often you will have an employer (such as a recruitment firm) who is different to the company who you are actually working for. In this case nobody is really interested in your actual employer, but as they are still your actual employer they really should be listed as such. One way around this is to list it as Staffing Company Name contracted to Big Impressive Employer. 

Recruitment is a two-way street - it is about the company finding someone they want, and it's also about you finding a job and company that you want. The recruitment listing had a lot of required skills. You didn't meet all of them. This is fine - no-one ever does. The next stage was the interview - this is where both sides can go into more depth in order to discover whether the fit is good or not. You had concerns about the 7 skills, so asked about it. You got the response that "yes, you will need to perform all 7 of those skills". The company was satisfied with you, and offered you the job. You don't need to phone them up and remind them that you lack experience in animation, they've already judged that your experience is sufficient. What I don't know is whether you want the job or not. Possibly you don't either?