As has been mentioned in the comments, you should take it to a shop. You're likely to do more harm than good if you're not already experienced in at least truing and preferably building wheels. It also might not even take a couple hundred miles. I'd probably check on it once a week or even every couple days. Feel the spokes. Once it gets to a point where there are notable differences in tension, go ahead and take it in. 

If you're brake pads are burning through your tires, they're either misaligned or the wrong ones for your bike. Or possibly both. I think those are the right pads for that bike (which would make sense on a six month old bike), but you'd probably want to have a shop look at them to verify. If the shop you took it to told you that you need "special" pads, take it to a different shop. 

People were doing tricks on bicycles almost as soon as they were invented. While I couldn't find references about curb hopping in particular, I'm pretty sure that these tricksters from the late 1800s wouldn't have had a problem pulling it off. Cyclocross has roots that go almost as far back. The first organized cyclocross races were around the end of the 19th century and the first French National Championship was in 1902. I would guess that prior to BMX most people got over curbs the same way that most people get over curbs today. They slowed down a bit, lifted the front wheel over the curb, and leaned forward to get the weight off the rear wheel. Keep in mind, most cycling commuters can't pull off a decent bunny hop and many commuter bikes aren't designed to do so. 

Please keep in mind that this question is specific to mountain bikes which roll through lots of dirt and mud. I heard stories of bikes that had their cable housing last for years, but I doubt that this applies to mountain bikes (or maybe it does). How would I know when the housing needs to be replaced? Several options occur to me: 

My current practice is to follow option 1 but I would be interested in knowing if there is perhaps a more efficient option backed by the experience of the masses. 

I accidentally broke the master link (a.k.a reusable missing link) on my 10psd KNC x-10 chain. Since I only had a SRAM 9spd replacement link, i used that to connect the chain. I rode 30 Km without any issue, but is it a good idea to leave the 9spd link in place, or should i replace it with a dedicate 10spd link? 

As a rule of thumb, always replace the housing together with the cable. The reasoning is probably mostly the low cost of materials which is a few dollars. To the other extreme, do not replace the housing unless you get some indication that it needs replacement. For example, visual inspection finds some wear and tear or the cable won't move freely while tugging it. Something else. 

What is the definition of stiffness? How do you measure stiffness? How does stiffness affect riding experience and performance? 

When you stretch a chain the distance between pegs become longer than designed. Even fatal chain stretch cannot be easily identified by looking at the chain. There are very simple yet accurate chain scales used to identify whether the stretch is none (new chain), fair, acceptable, "replace the chain", "replace all chain and sprockets". Another way to estimate the chain stretch is to try to lift the chain from the sprocket. The further you can lift it, the more stretched chain you have. One can see the chain is stretched far above the "replace the chain ASAP" level when the teeth on small sprockets are no more symmetrical and become worn from the rear side (upper teeth of the rear sprocket). When the chain starts skipping over the teeth, whole drivetrain it worn out and the chain still looks quite good to many people and is still very strong in tension and the peg-to-peg distance is stetched in orders of tenths of milimeters. Another reason for not-stretching a chain is the momentum one can produce on such bike. The crank arm is shorter on kid bikes than on the "full size" bikes. Therefore the tensile force you have applied to the chain was lower than you are able to apply on your bike. Since you were able to load the chain with weaker forces and even hard stretch will be negligible to wrong setup the only option left is that you have moved the rear wheel a bit front. Realign it, as others already suggested, and tighten it. It is worth nothing to get the chain measured for the wear, though. 

I have an extra 10-speed chain I would like to use with a 9-speed cassette on my mountain bike. Will this combination work ok? 

My 26" mountain bike currently has a 2x10 gear setup with SRAM components: a SRAM S-1250 crank with 38/24 chainrings, and a SRAM PG-1030, 10-speed, 11-36t cassette. I feel that when riding on non-technical dirt trails I am maxing out my drive-train, meaning that I am not able to accelerate beyond a certain speed when riding the 'hardest' gear. I have been reading about the Shimano 3x10 system which may allow me to reach higher speeds, due to higher possible transfer ratios. So, how much faster can I with a 3x10 setup? please elaborate on the math in your answer... 

There are countless videos showing BMX/freeride/downhill etc. riders jumping and dropping from heights. For the unprofessional spectator, they seem impossible to survive. From the physical point of view, the bike reaches the ground with a given kinetic energy which is dependent on the height of the drop and on the combined mass of the rider and the bike. Where is all this energy dissipated? I assume that most of this energy is absorbed in the bike, and some by the rider. How is this energy distributed in various components of the bike? 

I'm just curious to know what bike models and setups will be used by the competitors? Is there any data out there on the web?