None of those are planet-like possibilities. Going the other way, even if you use the largest possible planet, any smaller collection of gas will not be massive enough to ignite fusion, so no star can be smaller (in terms of mass) than the largest planet. A Possible Way Out We've firmly established that you can't have a star more massive than a planet. This means that your planet has to orbit around the star. However, from the point of view of the planet, the star is orbiting around it! It's easy for us to see that this is not really the case since all the other planets are seen to orbit around the Sun. However, imagine a solar system consisting of a single large rocky planet (a super-Earth) with an extensive system of satellites like Jupiter or Saturn. From the point of view of the planet, all the bodies in the solar system (moons and star) would seem to orbit around it. The implications for the cosmology of the beings living there would be interesting to explore! 

Both shots have extremely straight trajectories and impact at shallow angles, indicating that they have maintained speed down to the surface. 

This time the projectiles impact at hypersonic speed, delivering a devastating blow beyond the capability of any modern non-explosive round. 

Those with power don't have to obey the rules. In this case, the aliens have the power so they can do whatever they want. 

The only trouble is that soft x-rays don't penetrate through the atmosphere at all. This is not so much a problem at Pluto, but here at Earth we'd need put our x-ray transceiver in space. However, communicating at high data rates with spacecraft near Earth is not a problem, plus a spaceborne transmitter affords us the pointing accuracy that we need. 

As for the balloons, I'm guessing they're essentially like modern blimps, but tethered to the bridge so that they can simply pull themselves along. Although this is more energy-efficient, it won't be much faster since you don't want to load the bridge too much. Plus you will still have to give the balloons maneuvering capabilities to avoid each other when they pass in opposite directions (or build two parallel bridges spaced a couple hundred meters apart). Unless you need high volume or high speed, the bridge won't really add much to the balloons operating by themselves as aerial ferries. So yes, such a bridge is possible, as long as you can use advanced materials (and are careful to avoid aeroelastic flutter!). 

Mars Orbiter Images Rover and Tracks in Gale Crater, www.nasa.gov If the ESA wants to fake a crash-landing on Mars they must first explain why the ship, and more importantly the crater it made, are only detectable by Mars Express. 

Since you mention by name fingerprint, palmprint, and iris recognition, I'll exclude biometrics that cannot be read externally (i.e. no blood). This is preferable for reasons of convenience and hygiene. I'll also exclude biometrics based on gross properties (height, weight, etc.), since the variation from measurement to measurement is significant compared to the variation from person to person, requiring the tolerances to be set too high. (Essentially, a single or small number of measurements don't contain enough information to identify a single person out of billions.) The difficult part of your question is the limitation on electronics. The only components not allowed are "an electronic reader and/or a microprocessor device." This is pretty vague. After all, isn't a doorbell an electronic reader that reads the presence of a finger? I'll assume that you don't want to disallow all transducers, so I'll interpret the restriction as "no complex digital logic." (We can't exclude all digital logic, since the output of the lock, locked/unlocked, is a digital state!) This pretty much eliminates any sort of optical sensor. The only option we're left with is fingerprint recognition. 

Choosing the passive reflector, our initial design looks something like a solar sail. The next problem is the structure of the spacecraft. Unfortunately the reflector can't be tensioned by centrifugal force like a solar sail, because the rotation would interfere with the pointing (since the reflector is not an isotropic radiator, steerability is a requirement). I envision a folding truss structure like SMAP's antenna (Note that SMAP's budget was around 900 million dollars). The structure doesn't need to be as "dense" since the flatness of the reflector is not as critical. Now we should determine the reflector size. Assuming that the reflector is very close to flat, it will appear (to an observer within the reflected beam of sunlight) to have the same surface brightness as the Sun. (To put it another way, it looks like a window showing a small part of the Sun.) Thus, the total apparent brightness is equal to the apparent brightness of the Sun times the reflector's apparent size relative to the Sun. To get some rough numbers, I'll assume the reflector has $90\%$ efficiency. The apparent magnitude of the reflector is: $$ m_\text{sc} = m_\text{Sun} - 5\log_{10}\left(\frac{d/r}{32'}\right) $$ The quantity in the logarithm is the angular size of the spacecraft (it's diameter $d$ divided by distance to the observer $r$) divided by the angular size of the Sun (in minutes of arc). The apparent magnitude of the Sun is $-26.74$. Putting this into a plot, we get: 

Wait, you still want more? Well, we can step up to a proton beam, the type used in proton therapy. The reason I'm limiting myself to charged particle beams is that, unlike neutron radiation or gamma radiation, charged particles interact strongly with matter, so the radiation is short-ranged (which will prevent collateral damage). The type of beams used in cancer treatment penetrate on the order of ten centimeters before stopping abruptly. Like electron beams, a powerful proton beam would melt or vaporize the target. However, it would also do significant damage to the target on a nuclear level. Individual protons have thousands of times more energy and momentum than electrons, possibly enough to fuse with the nuclei of atoms and increase their mass, or knock out other nucleons and reduce the mass. After you're through with it, the target won't even be identifiable by its isotopes. I don't have any videos for you here; proton beams don't have many industrial uses, since they're hard to produce. (Good thing "cost isn't a problem.") Again, what you do with such a beam is up to your imagination. 

All of them take place in different environments. None are equivalent to any other; in particular, space combat is not the same as naval combat or submarine combat, or air combat. Before we try to generalize the concept of a fighter to space, which people have much less intuition about, let's try to generalize it to the other military branches. I'm going to define a fighter as a small one- or two-man vehicle, that places emphasis in combat on speed, maneuverability, and positioning. 

I'm answering my own question to add an in-depth example. Very in-depth. Grab yourself a cup of coffee because this is going to be a long one. 

The rewind ability is still asymmetric, since the rewind still falls under sole control of the main character. Anybody with this 'persistence' property would experience a rewind whenever you initiated one, even if they were on the other side of the planet and never met the 'rewinder.' This would be highly annoying at least!