Theories about alleged influences of genes on human behaviour are not testable. The problem is that there are two sources of adaptive complexity in human behaviour: genes and cultural knowledge. Cultural knowledge need not be explicit. It is just any change in behaviour or ideas that one person can copy from another. This copying need not involve having an explanation for the behaviour. So if a person behaves in a particular way without being able to tell you why he is doing so, you can't tell whether the behaviour is a result of genetic of cultural evolution. If the person can tell you why he is doing something the problem is even worse since in that case there is some cultural knowledge involved. Some people claim to be able to test this by doing experiments with identical twins, fraternal twins and unrelated children. These experiments are irrelevant because how people behave toward one another can be a culturally evolved response to appearance, physical abilities and other traits that may be genetic. For example, in a racist country how a person behaves toward you might depend on what genes you had for skin pigment but that behaviour would not be a result of genetic knowledge but rather of culturally evolved knowledge. 

I don't understand what "laws grounding experience" might be. Knowledge is not grounded on anything: it consists of guesses controlled by criticism. Our ideas about how to measure quantities have changed. Ideas about space, time and causality have also changed, e.g. - relativity of simultaneity. Now, with respect to the last paragraph you quote from Popper, what he is saying is this. Suppose that we can impose our ideas on the world, in the sense that those ideas actually have to be true. Then why is it not the case that every idea we come up with is true? This makes sense as an objection to the idea that Popper attributed to Kant. 

Free market economics in the Austrian tradition doesn't assume perfect competition or symmetric information. Nor does it assume a person is rational except in the sense of having a purpose and using means that he imagines (rightly or wrongly) will achieve that purpose. For example, see this criticism of the idea of perfect competition: $URL$ See also this criticism of the idea of asymmetric information: $URL$ Ayn Rand also issued a collection of essays about free markets called "Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal" and Rand largely accepted Austrian economics. 

The passage you quote explains that if one side is right on point 1 and the other is right on point 2 you can say so. That is not fence sitting, so I will assume that you are not discussing this case. The passage you quote explains fence sitting: 

You are a physical system, so when you think about something, that's a physical process happening in your brain. So should thinking about something count as an experiment? Something has gone quite badly wrong here. 

Your question presupposes that proving ideas true or probably true (justification) is the standard of rationality. That assumption is false. As Popper pointed out in Chapter I of "Realism and the Aim of Science" justification is impossible, unnecessary and undesirable. If you assess ideas using argument then the arguments have premises and rules of inference and the result of the argument may not be true (or probably true) if the premises and rules of inference are false. You might try to solve this by coming up with a new argument that proves the premises and rules of inference but then you have the same problem with those premises and rules of inference. You might say that some stuff is indubitably true (or probably true), and you can use that as a foundation. But that just means you have cut off a possible avenue of intellectual progress since the foundation can't be explained in terms of anything deeper. And in any case there is nothing that can fill that role. Sense experience won't work since you can misinterpret information from your sense organs, e.g. - optical illusions. Sense organs also fail to record lots of stuff that does exist, e.g. - neutrinos. Scientific instruments aren't infallible either since you can make mistakes in setting them up, in interpreting information from them and so on. We don't create knowledge (useful or explanatory information) by showing stuff is true or probably true for reasons so how do we create knowledge? We can only create knowledge by finding mistakes in our current ideas and correcting them piecemeal. You notice a problem with your current ideas, propose solutions, criticise the solutions until only one is left and then find a new problem. We shouldn't say that a theory is false because it hasn't been proven because this applies to all theories. Rather, we should look at what problems it aims to solve and ask whether it solves them. We should look at whether it is compatible with other current knowledge and if not try to figure out the best solution. Should the new idea be discarded or the old idea or can some variant of both solve the problem? When should you say something is real, or that an event happened? When the only existing explanation that has survived criticism is that the thing in question is real or the event happened. 

Induction is impossible. Explanations don't follow from observations. The explanations cover unobserved events and explain what you see in terms of stuff you have not observed and may be unable to observe. Nobody has measured the temperature at the core of the sun and perhaps nobody ever will, but it plays a role in the explanation of how the sun works. You say: 

I am going to provide an answer to the substance of this question but before I do I have to point out that it makes many common but false assumptions. First the question assumes that some people or institutions are authorities whose statements should be trusted. This is false. Anybody can be mistaken about anything. There is no way of doing things that can guarantee any particular piece of knowledge is correct. another problem is that even if a particular piece of knowledge is correct, applying it to your specific problem can lead to errors. The value of experts cannot lie in them not making errors, nor in any practice such as trusting what they say, that makes no sense except in the absence of error. There is another associated problem: how do you decide who is an expert? If you assume that somebody is an expert because the government, say, claims he is an expert then you have laid yourself open to being bilked. A government official might say somebody is an expert because the expert claims the staff in his department, department X, should be increased and he likes having lots of people around so he can socialise with them. Or the government official might have a subjective feeling that what he does is important when in fact it isn't and select experts who agree with him. Or experts who don't agree that department X does an important job might decline to work with the official in charge of X. Other institutions that are deemed to be authorities suffer from similar problems. But this is just a particular example of a more general problem. People make a lot of choices using tradition: information about what is true and how to act created by people in the past. It is impossible to avoid doing this. You cannot recreate for yourself all of human knowledge. The standard theory of rationality requires that you do precisely this. It demands justification: showing that knowledge is true or probably true. And just taking somebody else's word for it doesn't come anywhere near to being adequate by that standard. Nor does reading something in a scientific paper do anything at all to help. It's just a piece of paper. Anybody can write anything they like on a piece of paper. Worse, the standard of justifying positions or practices can't be met at all. Arguments always have premises and rules of inference that haven't been shown to be correct or probably correct or anything like that. So no argument can justify anything. But there is a better standard of rationality that can be met: the critical rationalist standard. All position should be held open to non-justificational criticism. When assessing a position you should consider whether it solves the position it purports to solve, whether it is consistent, whether it makes sense in the light of other knowledge and that sort of thing. (See "Realism and the Aim of Science" by Popper, Chapter I.) What would a critical rationalist theory of tradition look like? Karl Popper started to explain this in "Towards a Rational theory of Tradition": Chapter 4 of "Conjectures and Refutations". When you have a problem you should look for flaws in the traditions you are enacting that seem relevant. If you find a flaw you should then try to fix it by coming up with proposals for how to fix it and criticising those proposals until only one is left. In this way, you don't throw out stuff unless you have a criticism of it, but you are open to replacing anything that doesn't survive criticism. Tradition, including stuff that people uttered by people who are said to be experts, should be accepted if it seems unproblematic, but it should not be trusted.