That a mental state is “direct knowable” is a statement which can be often found in a philosophical context. But from the viewpoint of neurosicence no mental state is direct knowable: All our knowledge is the result of information processing in the brain. And most component processes run unconsciously. Concerning the possibility of mental states, I do not see any difference between conscious and unconscious states: On a neurobiological level, a mental state is an enduring pattern of activity in the neuronal networks of our brain. The decisive point is to locate the activity, in particular to determine the set of participating subsystems of the brain. Many of theses subsystems do not belong to the neocortex, e.g., the limbic system processing our emotions. A term like “subconscious thought” is contradictory: Who uses such term? On the opposite, a term like “subconscious emotion” is not contradictory. It denotes the unconscious component processes of our emotions. 

"Trancendental" is a term used to characterize Kant's epistemology. Kant gives his definition in Critique of Pure Reason (CPR): 

Note: Greek „techne“ has a much wider scope than English „art“. The former also refers to the knowledge of craftsmen. Accordingly I compare know-how to experience, and knowledge to art. IMO, it is worth reading the whole first chapter (980a-982a) of "Aristotle: Metaphysics, Book 1". 

All three conditions are necessary: True belief without argumentation as well as false belief with argumentation are no knowledge. Note. Apparently these are different mental activities. Do you ask whether one can detect different brain activities by imaging techniques relating to "I think employing modus ponens" versus "I know that snow is white"? I doubt that neuroscience has already reached that degree of selectivity. In addition, it seems difficult to prepare two groups of probands who focus themselves on the corresponding mental activity. Added: I learned by the Gettier counter-example, that in certain cases the conjunction of the above named three conditions is not sufficient to assure the intended meaning of to know, see $URL$ The Gettier counter-example comprises a correct argumentation, the conclusion is also true, but the argumentation starts with a false premiss. The counter-example is designed cleverly so that it fullfills all three conditions. Nevertheless, one would not name the resulting statement knowledge. 

To the best of my knowledge there is no veering in modern political philosophy to the concepts of natural science. Natural sciences are physics, chemistry, biology, etc. These sciences deal with physical objects or the biology of humans and other animals. At most, mathematical models enter into the discussion of political theories. A first step has been the prisoner dilemma as a model of rational decision under uncertainty. Key players of contemporary political philosophy are e.g., David Gauthier, Robert Nozick or John Rawls. All of them advocate a liberal position. Rawls' seminal work is A Theory of Justice (1971) and its addition Justice as Fairness. A Restatement (2001). These works build on the classical contract theories as initiated by Hobbes. 

(All translations from Perseus online dictionary) Apparently Plato’s thinking does not make the technical distinction between ontology and epistemology as we do today. The dichotomy between the domain of the visible and the domain of the intelligible can be found as a characteristics in all of Plato’s philosophy. Kant’s reasoning in his critical philosophy focus on epistemology. So Kant's constructivist epistemology has a different aim than Plato. Even when thing-in-itself is a technical term from Kant’s ontology, Kant claims that we cannot know anything about it. It is just a necessary hypothesis. Kant’s term noumenon often equalizes with thing-in-itself. Hence it has a different meaning than Plato’s noeton. Summing up: I would not press Plato’s concepts into a 1:1-relation with Kant’s concepts. Illuminative is Kant’s criticism of Plato (Kant, Immanuel: Critique of Pure Reason, B9) 

Well-formedness is a syntactical not a logical concept. Well-formedness of a formula is alike to syntactical correctness of a sentence or proposition. But whether the formula or the proposition is true, that's a second issue. Well-formed formulas may be true or false. While ill-formed formulas are neither true nor false. They are just meaningless. Hence well-formedness of a formula is a prerequisite in order to apply logical reasoning. 

The quote of your question is from chapter 2 of Hobbes, Thomas: Leviathan. Hobbes explains how our sensual impressions fade away when we experience new impressions: This Decaying Sense can be considered from two different points of view: We name Imagination its content. And we name Memory its property of fading away. 

What are the properties of Mathematical Objects? First some examples of mathematical objects: Numbers, sets, topological spaces, vector spaces, differentiable functions from calculus, manifolds, complex spaces ... All these objects are ideas. Most of these ideas are well-defined. E.g. in a course on calculus one defines: A differentiable function is a map from an open subset of the real numbers to the set of real numbers, which has a derivative at each point of definition. A derivative is ... Other objects like "set" cannot be defined. They do not reduce to other mathematical objects. Instead, these objects are introduced as undefined basic notations and are characterized by axioms, which often fix the relation between such objects: For each two sets the union exists as a set, such that the elements of the union are exactly the elements from the two original sets. Definitions and axioms are phrased in a formal language which avoids any kind of ambiguity. Mathematicians do not quarrel with each other on the meaning of their statements. That's one big difference between mathematical objects and other ideas, e.g. concepts from philosophy, not to speak about concepts from theology or even religion. It is an open question why mathematical objects and mathematical theories are a suitable tool to formulate laws of nature. The classics is "Paul Wigner: The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences (1960)" See $URL$ 

From the viewpoint of Christian theology the question has been discussed by Thomas Aquinas. In the following all references are from Summa Theologiae, Part I (highlighted by me) Aquinas claims that God is good. His arguments are embedded in the theological thinking of medieval religious philosophy, its premiss, and the accepted philosophical principles. Two of his main arguments: 

The facts continue, but the knowledge in our mind disappears. On the opposite, much knowledge has been written down in books or journals. As soon as nobody is more able to read and understand those texts, one can discuss whether this knowledge has disappeared too. 

Both, a-theists like Nietzsche and theists like Hindus adhere to the cyclic model no. 1. But theists from other religions adhere to the linear model no. 2. All models leave open the question how and why the world is as it is according to the model. A final question from metaphysics therefore asks „Why is there something rather than nothing?“, see $URL$ 

In your example "x" is a indeterminate of the polynomial, that's its meaning. Normally one writes "X" (capital). The expression "meaningless symbol" is misleading. You can substitute for x an arbitrary value. Then also the polynomial evaluates to a certain value under the assumption that you know the value of the constants a_i. Remark. Thanks due the answer of @Kames Kingsbery I changed to "indeterminate".