The reason politicians favor increasing the minimum wage is that it makes people think they care for the poor, while the predictable side-effects increase the number of out-of-work people who will then be reliant upon the government (and, by implication, a politician whom they think "cares" for them). In reality, the effect of a price floor on any type of good or service is simple and predictable: it removes from the market goods or services of that type whose value would be insufficient to justify even the minimum price. When low-value goods or services are removed from the market, this will often increase the relative demand for those goods or services which remain in the market, but eliminate the demand for those which don't. If a business has a choice between hiring someone who would demand \$7/hour and could do something in eight hours, or someone who would demand \$10/hour but could do the job in seven, it would likely hire the less productive worker. Even though the former worker wasn't as productive as the latter, a willingness to work for lower pay would allow that worker to compete in the marketplace. Denying the former worker the ability to compete on price may allow the latter worker to demand more pay, but will also leave the former worker without any means of offering employers any reason to hire him. If politicians really wanted to help the working poor, they would work to minimize the amount of money an employer must spend on someone's labor to leave the worker noticeably better off than he would be with no job. If there were some job some not-particularly-good workers could do that could provide $5/hour worth of value to an employer even after deducting the costs of e.g. transporting the person to/from work, providing child care if needed, etc., then significant economic good would come from allowing such people to be hired, and allow them to add their wages to whatever welfare benefits they could receive from doing nothing. Such a policy, however, would reduce politicians' power over the lower classes, however, and is thus unlikely to ever see the light of day. 

Let me offer a "class-based" answer. Living in Manhattan, I see directly a phenomenon too little reported. There is inflation, enormous rapid inflation within the upper classes. Prices of luxury goods, multi-million dollar apartments, connoisseur items, first-class travel, artworks, ivy educations, rare wines, hedge-fund fees, high-tech medicine, philanthropic gestures, etc. The annual percentage increases are staggering. It is truly as if the money being pumped into the "shareholder" classes is being burned up at a desperate rate. Yet what is traditionally measured as "inflation" is sticky wage inflation. Only when wages begin to rise does the Fed slow the presses. High employment signaled by rising wages sounds the "inflation alarm" and a threat to the interests of the "shareholder" class. Credit flinches. So I would suggest that in many institutional, political, and social ways, there has emerged a class-based solution to the 1970s problem of "inflation." As long as wages are disaggregated the old type of "inflation" does not apply. You can print as much money as you want, as long as it goes directly to a concentrated, limited cartel. This, coupled with destabilization of the Middle East and military control of oil supplies, returned the U.S.from the 1970s "brink" to the sort of stable, wage-depressed, class-dominated economy favored by Andrew Mellon, Prescott Bush, and their ilk. As long as labor is disaggregated, it cannot democratize and "deteriorate" the value of increasing money supplies. 

I think it may be useful to include a brief summary of Alvin Hansen's original secular stagnation theory. Paul Sweezy summarises the theory as follows: 

In an influential speech on November 8, 2013 at the IMF Annual Research Conference, Larry Summers suggested that slow economic growth in the years following the 2007-2008 financial crisis might be due to "secular stagnation" (a concept introduced in 1938 by Alvin Hansen in his book Full Recovery or Stagnation?). The Financial Times defines "secular stagnation" as follows: 

I think the meaning of factors 1) and 2), as described above by Paul Sweezy, is fairly clear. To clarify the meaning of factor 3), I will quote from Alvin Hansen's 1938 book Full Recovery or Stagnation?, in which he introduced the term "secular stagnation": 

In his speech at the IMF, Summers said: "Suppose that the short-term real interest rate that was consistent with full employment had fallen to -2% or -3% sometime in the middle of the last decade." Edward Lambert of Effective Demand Research explains what this means in this Youtube video. In an interview with Chrystia Freeland on April 15, 2014 at a meeting organized by the Institute for New Economic Thinking (INET) think tank, Summers elaborated on his suggestion that recent slow economic growth is a result of secular stagnation. In particular, Summers listed several possible causes of secular stagnation. The whole interview can be watched on Youtube: $URL$ Freeland asks Summers about the causes of secular stagnation at 28 minutes, 23 seconds in the video. I have taken the liberty to transcribe Summers' answer (I added line breaks and numbers from (1) to (5) to distinguish the five possible causes mentioned by Summers). 

A previous and oft-heard question asked why no inflation results from the Fed pumping money into the economy. Are we simply seeing a methodical wage suppression, thus no official "inflation," while prices soar in certain sectors dominated by "shareholders," non-wage income, and the "one-percent" or whomever? The money moves first into the financial industry, where actual production investment is less attractive. It seems that as long as no money gets locked into "sticky" labor contracts, the Fed can pump away and the results are not deemed "inflation." The money does not cycle up in wages or wage-earner goods. In other areas, however, we do see soaring prices: art, luxury goods, high-end urban real estate, philanthropic gestures, political campaign funding, ivy educations, high-tech medicine, hedge fund fees, dividend payouts, tax-avoidance cash hoards, stock bubbles, etc. Can the absence of official "inflation" be explained in large part by the "disaggregation" of labor, middle-class debt, and a new class configuration since the late 1970s? More like a "redistribution" or even a "customizing" of inflation. 

One possible cause of secular stagnation which Larry Summers does not mention is increasing degree of monopoly in the economy as a whole. Josef Steindl argued in his 1952 book Maturity and Stagnation in American Capitalism that "development of monopoly ... is ... the main explanation of the decline in the rate of growth of capital which has been going on in the U.S. from the end of the last century. This is not to say that other factors have not played a role..." Other economists such as Paul Sweezy, Paul Baran, and Keith Cowling have also argued that a high degree of monopoly in the economy as a whole causes secular stagnation. What theories have been proposed to explain secular stagnation? It might be interesting and useful to contrast alternative explanations of the phenomenon. What books or articles expound these alternative theories? 

Of these five possible causes of secular stagnation identified by Summers, 1) is basically the old underconsumption argument going all the way back to Simonde de Sismondi's Nouveaux principes d'économie politique in 1819. 3) and 4) are factors included in Alvin Hansen's theory of secular stagnation. 5) is similar to a factor that has been discussed before in the literature on secular stagnation. Anthony Scaperlanda, in his article "Hansen's Secular Stagnation Thesis Once Again" (Journal of Economic Issues, Vol. 11, No. 2, June 1977, pp. 223-243) notes that "a number of recent innovations have been capital saving." On page 231, he identifies the data processing industry as one industry in which this has taken place: