This is very similar to the Great Depression pattern in the US which saw a 30% drop in the money supply 1929-1932. Once something like this gets established, it creates self-reinforcing negative feedback loops throughout the economy. For example, part of the reason for the drop is Greeks moving money to banks in other countries that they expect to stay in the Euro. But because of that, Greek banks can't make new loans without violating their regulatory requirements, and that further causes the money supply to shrink. 

Just as when a loan is made, a matching liability deposit is created by the underlying double entry book keeping operations, when a loan is repaid that money is effectively removed from the system. i.e. Loan creation: 

While it´s true that there is no direct relationship between corruption and inflation, there are mechanisms which can lead to corruption acting to influence inflation through the monetary system. Inflation is primarily a direct function of the money supply, and an inverse function of total production. If corruption takes the form of corrupt bank lending, where loans are made to people who are not going to repay them, and in particular if this leads to a higher rate of lending than repayment, then the resulting excess money supply creation will cause inflation. Corrupt production practices can also lead to inflation, if they result in lower production, or if cartels and monopolistic organisations are allowed to control the price, or if direct manipulation of the markets themselves occur. All these can create higher prices than would otherwise be the case. Monetary phenomena such as inflation, have to be measured over far longer periods of time than 2-3 years as in this example - because the system itself responds very sluggishly. But if you look at the money supply figures for the Ukraine, or indeed for Russia, it´s clear that they both continue to expand extremely fast, indicating that something is not right in the state of their banking systems with respect to their lending practices. Iceland in the 2005-7 period is another good example of a country whose banking system is now known to have engaged in extremely corrupt practices - as a result of which their money supply more than doubled - but experienced the high inflation somewhat later. 

The description you're providing of how interest works is based on a couple of fairly common misunderstandings about how the system actually works, so lets clear that up first. Fractional reserve banking and the gold smith banking systems preceding it, are a result of the development of an accounting technology called double entry book keeping in the 13th century. Double entry book keeping grossly simplified. Each transaction must consist of a debit and a credit tuple, occurring in two separate books. Asset books are traditionally written on the left, and liability and equity on the right. On the right hand side (liability and equity side), credit adds, debit subtracts, and its the opposite on the left hand side, debit adds, credit subtracts. Just remember the right hand side is what you think it should be, the left hand side is the opposite. When a bank makes a loan, it performs the book keeping operation: 

The answer is very clear when you look at Russia's monetary statistics. The Central Bank of the Russian Federation has a very good site, and you can see them here: Russian Money Supply (M2) or courtesy of the St. Louis Federal Reserve: 

It's actually quite easy. The key things to know are 1) that the majority of house purchases are made via mortgage lending, and that 2) an excess of bank lending over bank loan repayment causes money creation. So first determine if there is an abnormally high increase in the supply of money occurring - if yes, then there is a bubble, and if not, then the increase is probably the normal one that would be expected as a result of fiscal expansion. This is fairly easy to determine by simply looking at relevant statistics for the amount of money being held in bank deposits (typically M2 or M3, the precise definitions vary between countries). The key thing to appreciate, is that because of the normal expansion of the money supply by the banking system over time, and especially because that money directly influences house prices, an increase in house prices over long periods is to be expected simply due to the operation of the banking system. Only if economic conditions really deteriorate. i.e. Detroit does this not occur. Regulatory changes, or even simple changes in custom and practice around the amount of lending can quite easily trigger changes in fiscal expansion, for example if the banks change from requiring a 20% deposit to a 10% deposit on house purchase. It is also possible for house lending to increase without an abnormal increase in the money supply - in particular the 2008 crash in the USA, and elsewhere, was caused by an increase in lending as a result of the huge increase in securitized bank loans. This had the interesting effect of increasing the amount of lending originating in the banking system (and then being moved outside it), without increasing the money supply. This also made it at the time, somewhat invisible, subsequently the US and other countries have introduced statistics on securitization that allow it to be tracked. Generally speaking, changes that also increase the money supply will cause a much bigger price rise, than changes that only increase the amount of lending, but the entire system is significantly leveraged, leading to some highly non-linear impulse responses at times. So if we look at the New Zealand figures: New Zealand Money Supply It looks like the Money Supply flat lined following the 2008 crash for 3 years, and has now returned to something approximating its "normal" rate of expansion, which would explain the perception of a bubble. (What the normal rate of monetary expansion should be is an open research question.) It doesn't look like there are separate securitization statistics, and there probably isn't much loan securitization, but it's something to keep an eye on. 

and this is how the US TARP intervention was performed. The federal reserve then used the money to buy loans from the US Banks. Note that a debit to an asset account increases its value, and a credit reduces it, whilst on the liability (right hand side), a debit reduces the account, and a credit increases it. If the European central bank makes the Greek Central bank a loan then on the Greek side, the book keeping is: 

The money is removed when the loan principal is repaid. The actual point in the loan this occurs depends on the loan terms. For a typical compound interest rate loan, this means a small portion of the principal is repaid every month, and a matching liability deposit (money in the customers account) is removed. For an interest only loan, this occurs at the end of the loan - assuming all the principal is repaid then. Interest payments essentially circulate through the monetary system. They're deducted from the customer's account, recognised as income by the bank, and then paid out as some form of expense, e.g. salaries, rent, taxes, etc. They may also be moved into an internal account to provide required loss provisions on loans. Loan defaults are also an expense, and this is the achilles heel of the banking system. If defaults on loans exceed the bank's loss provisions and profits from interest, then the bank will have to write off against its capital - and this interferes with the regulatory controls on lending, causing the money supply to shrink. In practice, central bank or government intervention is inevitable if this occurs. As far as the relationship of principal to the money supply. Essentially the banking system relies on new lending always being sufficient to replace the money being removed. In most banking systems, new lending is typically in excess of loan repayment, and so we see the money supply more or less continuously expanding. 

It´s an historical side note at this point, but it´s not entirely clear that the Weimar authorities fully understood what they were kicking off. The first public acknowledgement of the multiplier problem in the banking system - that is the way changes to reserve holdings could multiply the amount of money in deposit accounts - appears to be the 1931 MacMillan Report to the British Parliament. By contrast, von Mises book on capital in 1911 talks around various banking practices, including variations in cash money due to seasonal demands, but does not explicitly talk about the reserve issue. So it´s entirely possible that when they tried to duck out of the Versailles Treaty requirements (which were impossible to meet in any case) by printing money, they didn´t envision a full on destruction of their monetary system. It´s not as appreciated as it should be, the fundamental problem with the government printing money under reserve regulated systems, isn´t the money the government prints. It´s the second-order response of the banking system as it then creates a multiplier of the printed money as a result of its regulatory framework. F.ex. the government thinks its just doubling the money supply, resulting in an acceptable degree of mild inflation, but what happens is that the banking system multiplies that by 5x (reserve requirements back then were usually between 20-25%), and that then kicks off more government printing and a hyper-inflationary spiral, as the government is then forced to print more money to pay their civil servants. 

As stated the Government successfully runs a campaign and people stop spending and start saving. Part of the answer depends on how they save, and the other part depends on how manufacturers react. However it´s worth observing that in most countries only a minority of people can do this - the 60-70% of people in the USA for example who live pay cheque to pay cheque can´t realistically save anything. If the savers simply leave their money in their bank accounts, or switch it to a savings account, it is incorrect to assume there is more investment. In fact nothing changes on the investment side. Banks can´t lend more money, because their customers stop spending it. It just sits there in their bank accounts. Capital reserves, and in some countries central bank reserves control the amount of bank lending, not deposits. People spend less, less is bought, we can presume that either less is produced, or producers lower their prices as a result. In the latter case, there could be no change whatsoever. However, people may start buying investments, and in that case there may be more investment. It again depends on which financial instruments they´re buying. Money market funds for example would channel that money into short term commercial debt, angel investments into startup companies, corporate bonds into companies, government treasuries into government debt. If they bought bank capital (i.e. newly issued bank shares), then the banks would be able to lend more - as the increased capital would act to increase the amount they could lend. Since banks can lend at a multiple of their capital, that is actually the most efficient (in terms of the amount of money required) way to increase lending.