Yes, that's a standard 622 aka "700C" rim that can fit any 700C tire. However, you'll want to also pay attention to the width of the tire. From the way they say "622-13 700C*20*19MM" it should mean that the rim bead seat width is 13mm, but the extra "20*19mm" stuff makes things seem a little unclear to me. It's likely that it's 13mm wide and the "20*19MM" is intended to be the tire width they expect you to mount on it. However, 20 and 19mm width 700c tires are somewhat rare. 23mm and 25mm are much more common and are sizes that should work well on a 13mm width rim. According to Sheldon Brown, if the rim is 13mm wide, you'll want a 18-25mm wide tire. If it's 19mm wide, you'll want a 28-44mm wide tire. If you're not sure, 25-28mm is a safe in-between range that should fit either width ok and will still fit within the brake and other clearances of bikes with narrow clearances (typical road, track, racing, "go fast" bikes). Measuring the bead seat width accurately is hard without the right tools, but if you hold up a ruler or measuring tape to the rim and measure the inside width, it should be easy to tell 13mm (1/2 inch) from 19mm (3/4 inch). 

250-260 pounds isn't that heavy. You may not need to worry about weight at all. See if you can find the information from the manufacturer about weight limits for their bikes. For a mountain bike that you intend to use for what it was made for, you're probably within the weight limit the bike is designed for. You may want to avoid the lightest weight stuff (carbon) unless you check the weight specs. But that's mostly stuff on the more expensive bikes. Some of the parts that normally wear out will likely wear out faster for you than for somebody lighter, but that's no big deal. If you plan to do tougher things with the bike than it was made for (jump a trail bike, for instance) you could run into problems. Stick with getting a bike that's intended for what you plan to do with the bike. For instance: 1. Trek Bikes Weight Limits: 

Yes, a more aggressive stance requires a narrower saddle. Your pelvic bone is a fairly complicated structure, but there's basically a triangle that you sit on with a saddle. There's two bumps ("ischial protrusions") at the back end that take your weight if you're sitting with your back straight up (such as on a chair or the saddle of a cruiser or dutch bike). The front point of the triangle is the "pubic symphisis" which you don't sit on. Between there it's basically slightly curved like the bottom of a rocking chair. Look here: $URL$ Here: $URL$ And here: $URL$ As you rotate your hips forward (for a more "aggressive" position), your hips should be rotating forward and your back staying relatively straight. Because of that, the part of that ischial/pubis structure that you sit on is more towards the narrow front part and the saddle should be narrower. This can also affect the desired tilt of the saddle. Also, in general, if you're riding more aggressively, all that pedaling removes some of the weight from the saddle and makes any kind of rubbing against the saddle more of a problem, which are additional reasons aggressive road riders may want a narrower saddle. 

I think the reality is that the best you can hope for is a per-country, per-tester, per-standard or per-certification list. There are many bicycle helmet safety standards I don't believe there is any single worldwide source of bicycle helmet certification info. When you're at the store trying the helmet on to see if it fits comfortably, look inside the helmet for a certification sticker. Mine has a Snell sticker that says "B90A" and I can go to Snell's Helmet Certification List to search via the testing standard (B90A), make and model to find that they have tested that helmet to that standard. (and if I want I can also look around for the details of that standard). Or perhaps you're not trying the helmet on and are contemplating buying the helmet site unseen? That sounds likes a bad idea to me, I'd want to insist on trying on a helmet before buying to make sure it fits my particular head well. Snell essentially has their own higher standards that exceed the standard US standards and has a very nicely searchable online database. POC does not appear to use Snell because they don't list Snell on the POC for the other helmets and I can't find POC helmets on the Snell site. The POC link you provided has some stuff with a European standard (EN), some with a "CPSC" and some with "ASTM". CPSC is the US "Consumer Products Safety Commission" who certifies testing procedures and testing labs and publish recall information, but I don't believe they actually do helmet testing directly. ASTM seems to be a worldwide standards organization, who similarly to CPSC certifies testing procedures, not helmets. It's quite likely that POC uses the same outside lab for testing all of their helmets to the standards, so it's worth looking at who certifies to those standards they do list. By searching on ASTM's website for "bicycle helmet" and clicking the "Laboratory" refinement button, and they have a listing for Biokinetics and Associates and ICS Labs. Otherwise ASTM's site isn't really very useful... Biokinetics has a client listing that includes Bell (one of the bigger helmet manufacturers), but not POC. No product listing. ICS doesn't appear to list their clients, and the Certified Products link is under construction. Which all leads back to: look inside the helmet for the certification sticker. 

What's the best chain lubricant for a bike used for riding in normal(ish) clothes, year-round? I've been using Tri-Flow, but that tends to leave black greasy/dirty stains on pants, shoes, etc. I've heard of melting solid parafin, but that seems too labor-intensive. Most important: not picking up dirt; not staining anything that touches the chain. (yes, I know of various ways to keep clothes away from the chain, but none are perfect) Must also work in a wide temp range and wet conditions. For my area, I'll ride in temps from 30F (-1C) to 106F (41C). With heavy rains in winter. Just this last week I've ridden in drizzle, 55F (13C), and 107F (42C)… Would be nice if it was long-lasting… 

For your purposes, the biggest difference is the rear dropout (where the rear axle connects). The track bike will be much easier to set up as a fixie. I suspect the pricing difference has to do with features like bottle bosses, attachment point for derailer, cable routing stuff, etc, not from the TT frame being "better" in any other way. The TT frame has a vertical dropout, designed for a bike with a rear derailer. The track frame has a rear-facing horizontal dropout. If you want to set the bike up as a fixie, you need some way to tension the chain. With a horizontal dropout chain-tensioning is relatively straightforward. With a vertical dropout, you'll have to use a chain tensioner or something else to take up the chain slack. The geometries are different. The TT has a top tube about 1cm shorter in the same frame sizes. They have different angles which affects handling. Basically, the TT is a better geometry for TT-style bars. Both frames are better for what they're made for. The TT frame is better as a geared bike with TT bars, the track frame is better as a fixed-gear bike with drop bars. Unless they're hiding something pretty well, you won't be able to put a belt onto either bike. A belt requires that there be a reconnectable split in the rear triangle on the drive side of the bike (I've seen it in the dropout and in the seat stay, but it could be in the chain stay, too). If you're racing, you may want to reconsider the belt drive idea, anyways. I've heard belt drives tend to have a subtle "squishiness" to them (from the material coating the carbon compressing) that's annoying when you're trying to push hard. 

It looks like the Cannondale F600 mountain bike has the typical 26" mountain bike tires. It's very unlikely that the larger diameter ("700c") rims used on typical cyclocross or road bikes would work well. There are road bikes with 26" rims, typically made for shorter people (especially women and children), so it would be possible to find rims in that size (but would make more sense to simply buy new wheels than to build wheels with new rims). However, you can buy smaller, thinner, smoother, higher pressure tires for a 26" rim, and that would solve your problem quite handily. It would also be much cheaper ($20-$50 per tire) than replacing the rims (or whole wheels). 

No. In California, a car can only drive in a bike lane 200 feet before making a turn from that side of the road or when entering or exiting the road. California Vehicle Code 21209 

I've found that the amount of time I let the glue dry makes the biggest difference. It really needs to get from "wet" to "tacky" to work best. Scraping the tube and the glue brand make a bit of difference too. If the patch seems relatively well stuck, but comes up when you try to take the backing off, just leave the backing on; it won't hurt anything. 

First off, is it falling off when you shift, or is it more of a "big jump knocks chain off chainring" type issue? If it's falling off when you shift, you may want to adjust the front derailer's low-gear limit stop, which is probably a small bolt/screw head of some sort on the front derailer (but which one will depend on model/age...) If it's falling off otherwise, there's several options out there for chain watchers. Here's 3: $URL$ See also: $URL$ 

Those are reasonable standards that will protect your head in an accident. Comparable to the Snell B-90 standards. Snell B-95 standards is higher and would provide more protection. ASTM F2040, for instance, is a "snow sports" helmet standard based on the same testing as the ASTM bicycle helmet standards with some additional cold-conditions tests added in. Canada has its own bicycle helmet standard, . You have to pay to get a copy of the actual standard, but this site has a nice comparison of helmet standards. 

Fitting the rider; which you're already addressing and I won't talk about here... But a lot of geometry stuff comes down to making the other stuff work with fitting riders on the bikes. It's very important. Fitting stuff on the bike Handling characteristics. 

tire clearance -- cyclocross tires are a bit bigger than typical road tires (especially with the small knobs typical on CX tires) brake style -- you'll want some kind of brakes that aren't clogged up by mud. Road bikes often have caliper brakes that hug the wheel fairly closely, while cyclocross bikes usually have cantilever (or sometimes V-brakes). Disc brakes are recently allowed in CX and seem popular on the higher-end bikes. frame style -- a lot of newer road frames have a compact geometry where the top tube slopes down to the seat cluster. Cyclocross bikes generally have a straight top tube so that it's easier to pick up the bike and carry it with your shoulder under the front of the seat cluster. handlebar height -- not as important, but cyclocross bikes generally have slightly higher handlebars since aerodynamics aren't very important in cyclocross gearing -- typically run a little lower. singlespeed is popular (but probably puts you in a different class than geared racers) 

Against: helmet hair (messes up your hair) Depends on hair style, what you use to style your hair, how much you sweat, etc... 

If you still have any of the original paperwork or packaging, look for a lock code/number, you might be able to order replacement keys. Take it to a bike shop and ask. They might have the right tools. They likely do this every once in a while A machine shop is sure to have tools capable of doing this The local police department will have the tools or be able to refer you to somebody that does (they have to deal with removing abandoned bikes) An angle grinder, or other rotary cutting tool with a metal-cutting disk Hacksaw (electric preferably. Maybe an extra blade) Big bolt cutters could you close the lock without the key? Cut away any rubber and slide a shim made from an aluminum can down to release the latch Is it a cheaply made lock? Might be able to just beat on it with a hammer until the latching mechanism falls apart a small car jack. Most u-locks lock on one side and connect with an L on the other, so bending the U open will release it 

I've observed a number of cyclocross races in public parks in the area I live. These typically include paved areas, grassy areas and some dirt. If there's been rain recently (or raining during the race), the grass along the race course looks like it's been turned to mud. If you look more closely, you can see that the individual blades of grass are all intact, they're just bent over and muddy. A few months later, you can't even tell where the race course was anymore. I believe it depends on the type of grass. For well-established and regularly mowed grass, such as is common in parks and for playing sports on, the damage is temporary and cosmetic. The ruts settle out on their own. It seems like areas of slope that cause the racers to dig in and slip around more can get more damage. Here's a photo essay of some cyclocross races the day of and several weeks later: $URL$ (from $URL$ Cyclocross races are generally run during a season that grass is dormant. It may not fully recover to looking nice until a few months later when the sunny/warm season starts up again.