A bit of history: after WWII, the United Nations was created, with a United Nations Security Council. 5 states were chosen as permanent members of the UNSC. These states hold the power of veto, which means they can say no to pretty much any decision of the UNSC unilaterally. That is a lot of power. The winners of WWII were the USA, the UK, France, the USSR and the Republic of China. Logically, they were the first Permanent 5. When USSR fell, the spot was transferred to the Russian Federation, considered as the rightful successor state to the USSR. Before that, in the 70s, the ROC spot was transferred to the PRC. The PRC became the legitimate representative of China, and the ROC was expelled from the UNSC. The Republic of China is currently unrecognized by the UNSC, and will never be as long as the PRC has the right to veto. 

On a side note, you also shouldn't mention death and your product in the same sentence, unless it does prevent death. You can say it safely transfers every particle of your being to your destination. Whether the person at the other end is yourself, a copy of yourself, or yourself in a copy of yourself is very philosophical. If you can get legally sell it, it's probably safe to say that on a legal level it doesn't really kill you. You should also probably mention whether or not I'll teleport naked. 

There are two problems here packed in one inconvenient package. The first problem is to locate targets on the surface. The second problem is to locate the ship relative to the surface. You might be thinking GPS, which would make things trivial. However, this scenario can happen on a planet with a GPS system controlled by the enemy, or no GPS at all, which is effectively the same thing. You cannot rely on infrastructures the planet may or may not already have, and that you may or more likely may not get access to. So the question is: How can you accurately and reliably hit targets with orbital artillery without using GPS? I was thinking triangulation using the ships, however they aren't really built to be GPS satellites. I'm not quite sure what you need for an accurate geolocation besides a good clock. Also there's the fact that the ship themselves don't really know where they are themselves, which may or may not be a problem. You can use anything you can bring with your own spaceships, preferably something that doesn't need to be deployed (like satellites) since those can be shot down. Troops on the ground can use any sort of beacon to designate targets, though the beacon has to be man-portable (and also woman-portable), and preferably launchable through a 40mm grenade launcher. We are talking about precision strike, give or take a couple meters. Targets are not mobile. The goal we strive for is zero collateral damage. I should also specify, the artillery we are talking about launches dumb (i.e. not smart, i.e. not guided) projectiles. It launches them really really fast, like 0.1% of c fast. They are also stupidly light to limit kinetic energy at non-WMD levels. 

I'll clarify on the requirement. The planet doesn't have to be actually uninhabitable. If there's enough casualties and the living conditions become too bad, governments will start looking at their options. In short, there are three Earth-like planets at different places in the galaxy. FTL technology is limited to one FTL drive of alien origin and one reverse-engineered, almost complete prototype. Both are untested but the technology would be (successful, something has to go right from time to time,) used to evacuate people off. The process would take decades, but would be over before living conditions became too insane. That option has to be more appealing than whatever will happen if they stay. They don't have the technology to terraform, nor the desire to. 

That's a Mass Effect quote, from everybody's favorite Turian, Garrus Vakarian who is poking fun at a human trope. Everything tastes like chicken because we, the audience, get what this means. Presumably, we all know and like chicken. We understand that if it tastes like chicken, then there's nothing weird or exotic about it. It's just plain food. Even if it looks like green dead rat and looks like it'll give you cancer, if the character says "tastes like chicken", then you know it's not actually bad (or at least that's what the author wants you to think). So if blorg tastes like chicken, you know what it means. If blorg tastes like gurflink, it's not informative. Now you extrapolate. A herd of white, fluffy, grass-eating animals from an unexplored planets would be spacesheeps (this is totally not an elaborate ploy to make that pun) to a human explorer. Because the character knows what a sheep is, and the audience knows what a sheep is, and the author knows what a sheep is. You form a mental image of a shmeerp just by saying it is sheep-like. From the character's point of view, who isn't an omniscient narrator, they don't know what a new species is. They only know what it looks like at first glance. It wouldn't make sense for them to call those animals anything but sheeps. When the scientists come in and discover there is actually no genetic correlation between alien and Earth animals just like the narrator explained 50 pages ago, the name spacesheep will already be common parlance. Another out-of-universe explanation for live action stuff is that it's easier to get a prop cow than a prop animal-that-doesn't-exist-on-Earth. 

Now what if you had a perfectly undetectable small aircraft with light weaponry? It would definitely help insert troops behind enemy lines. Intelligence services would love that. The area where it would be the most terrifying in a Cold War era context would be as a part of the nuclear triad. An undetectable vessel for nuclear warheads is essentially the holy grail of nuclear dissuasion. If you had enough nukes to completely destroy your enemy in one strike, that would be a game changer. But if the enemy has the same capability, you don't know that they don't have choppers right above your head with a nuke with your name on it just in case you try something silly like starting a nuclear war. If it came down to open nuclear war, the fact they are undetectable doesn't change much. You can still launch everything you've got regardless of your ability to detect incoming projectiles. 

As you can note, it might be a bit crazy and over the top. It's probably not perfect either. However, it introduces one idea: that instead of concealing your assassin, you conceal the assassination. With all the chaos an attack would cause, nobody is going to keep track of who is doing what. And if they do, add them to the body pile. Your agent's role is minimal. Their knowledge is limited. They have one simple mission, they just know that when the lights go out it is time to strike. The less they know, the less suspicion it should throw. In the aftermath, once security is restored and they count their loses, they'll have lost random equipment and people. It could be impossible to determine whether there was an intended target or not. There would be no particular reason to suspect your agent. And if they can't suspect you, you don't even have to extract, you could remain inside, and leave much later or not at all. I'll freely admit, this may not be applicable in your case depending on what your organisation has at their disposal. However, the general idea of concealing your true purpose rather than concealing your identity is, in my opinion, the best way to get away with it. 

Population reduction has ethics nightmare written all over it. Do we let people die when we have the technology to save them for the sake of reaching depopulation quotas? What do we do with people who keep making children against the law? If it comes down to it, who gets the right to reproduce and who doesn't? Are you prepared to fight the people to make this change happen? There is a fun fact that even if we suddenly had zero impact on the environment, temperatures would continue to rise thanks to all that the oceans have accumulated. Eventually, the system would stabilize, but it would take about half a century if I remember correctly. So simply reducing the population will only slower the rate at which we destroy our environment, not invert the process. To make things even better, the more we have, the more we use. Reducing population would mean we have more resource per capita, so less incentive to waste them. And we already waste a lot. We may consume less overall, but we may also consume way more per capita. That isn't positive change in my opinion. If you want to save the planet, you have to change our relation to our environment. You have to transition our society away from individualism, and you have to fight for change. You won't make a revolution without breaking eggs. Alternatively, you could bet on technology and our capacity to bend our environment and adapt it to us. Remember, it's not about saving the planet, it's about saving ourselves. HVAC is one way to cancel temperatures rising, right?