I can understand from your perspective that they shouldn't have reacted this way. However, they did, and it's better to comply and seek first to understand, then to be understood if you intend to 1) keep your job, 2) change their policy. If you come across as reluctant, defiant, or want to have a discussion before you act, they will get stuck in a defensive position and you may find the environment stifling. Assuming that they are acting in good faith, and that you merely want to understand and are a "team player" immediately will give you better leverage to understand and to possibly affect policy. Asking the question here and thinking about it for a long time before acting probably isn't going to help your case, though, so I'd suggest swallowing your pride, and finding out what they want before you act in opposition to their request. 

That's great progress. Now they know something about you that they can talk about. Unfortunately it seems to be the only thing they know about you, and so it's the only thing they know they can talk about with you that isn't work related. The fact that they're using it in a joking context means they feel fairly comfortable with you. I don't think they intend to insult you or your choices, though I suppose if you react negatively they might start to use it that way. First I'd suggest you expand their knowledge about you. You aren't just "the developer" anymore, you're "the vegan developer". What else are you? What entertainment choices do you make? What are your hobbies? Do you have a significant other and/or children? Do you attend any clubs/groups/organizations? By sharing with them more about you and your life you give them opportunities to bring up subjects other than work and veganism. Some of these will be opposite their choices - maybe you don't have kids and they do, maybe they like to barbecue meat. These will not necessarily be negative, but they'll still be a subject of discussion and specifically comparison. Some will be similar. If you have kids another coworker with kids might talk about that with you. Sharing your hobbies will give them other subjects to approach. Ask about them and their life. Learn what they like and dislike. Go out to lunch with them if they go out and just talk. If you work in isolation it can seem like they are teasing you when what might be happening is that they are trying to draw you out of your shell and into their group. Lastly, if the teasing about your vegan lifestyle really is bothering you, just be straightforward. "Look, it makes me really uncomfortable to hear you joking about my diet so much. Will you please stop talking about it?" If it gets to the point where you feel uncomfortable, talk to your manager or HR. 

It might be worthwhile changing your relationship with them. You are the project manager - you manage the project. You are not the manager of the employees working on the project. Your job isn't to crack the whip, it's to collect progress reports, time estimates for tasks, maintain documentation showing the schedule and projections, and relay that information to your manager, their manager, and them. This might not be how it's set up, but in your environment you might want to flatten the organization, tell your manager you aren't interested in managing them, that's like herding cats, and they don't respect that anyway. You instead want to manage the project itself, and simply relay their completion on time, or failure to complete on time to their technical manager, who will then work with them to either provide better estimates in the future, or, if needed, provide the oversight necessary to complete the work to schedule. Since they are setting the schedule (you are getting your time estimates from them, right?) then there shouldn't be an issue with their manager calling them out when they fail to meet their estimates. I suspect this would solve many of your issues, and further it might place you more in line with what a project manager typically does in the software industry. 

Wasted work, particularly when its not rare, is a significant problem. I'd go to the boss and make one or more of the following points and suggestions: 

Since you no longer want to have any contact with them, the appropriate response is to give them a final deadline: "I expected the transition to take less than 3 months, but it has already been 4 months and the questions haven't slowed. I want the transition to be successful, however I have to turn my attention towards my current endeavors. Please continue to ask me questions up until [today's date + 30 days]. After that I will not be able to devote more time and effort to the transition." Giving them time between the notice and the deadline will avoid burning bridges, while definitively setting an end date. When (not if!) they send you a new question after that date, wait a day, then respond, "I'm sorry, I don't recall the answer off the top of my head, and don't have the time to re-solve the issue. Consider asking on [online Q&A site]." If they continue to ask questions, take longer and longer to get back to them, and give the same response as above. They should get the hint... eventually. 

You have several options, which are all similar to the options you have when faced with, "What is your greatest weakness." Deflect the question: 

A résumé is a brief summary of one's education, qualifications, and previous experience. It is not meant to include, and shouldn't include guesses or wishes for future expectations. You might as well add, "Won the Nobel Science Prize - 2022" You may fully expect that to occur, but until it actually has occurred, it does not belong on a résumé. The only time I've seen this done and it not hurt the applicant is when a student has added "Expected to graduate Cum Laude" and when asked about it their response suggested that they understood their school's honor process, this was their last semester, and they would have to completely fail at least two of their courses to not receive that honor, and in reality they were likely to attain magna cum laude. In every other case where someone has lied or used wishful thinking to pad out their résumé, it has hurt them more than helped them at some point in their application process*. 

Of course, any sort of ultimatum may result, as others mention, in them simply saying, "We understand, good luck in your job search and please give us two weeks notice" or even, "Thank you for your time here, please clean out your desk and leave." The reality, though, is that you probably don't want to work for such short-sighted or short-tempered people anyway, and moving on will probably be a good thing for you in the long run. At least this way you can say that you tried, and you might be surprised - they may truly want you to stay and might work with you to provide the environment you need to work optimally.