Fires must be attended at all times! There is no such thing as, "the best way to leave a fire unattended for a short time," your fire is either being attended, or your fire is thoroughly extinguished and your pit is left cold, no argument. There are no conditions where an open pit fire can be left alone and be 100% guaranteed not to spread. It's the people who ignorantly assume they can walk away from their fires who are often responsible for carelessly ignited forrest fires. My father is a fire captain in a small mountain town in the Canadian Rockies, his department is regularly called out all summer long to extinguish brush fires started by unattended fire pits. If you have plans to leave your campsite after a meal then you should probably plan a meal that can be prepared without a fire, or which can be cooked using a stove, either that, or you prepare a small fire, just big enough to cook with, then extinguish it before you leave, you can still use your partially burned wood when you get back, just put it on top after you've got a new fire going again. Not only is never leaving your fire unattended a universal rule, it's also a written rule in every park and campground. In some places it's even illegal, and you can be fined for doing it. 

No, go ahead and leave it on, you'll likely save fuel that way, be it a very small amount, but you do lose some fuel each time you take the element off of the canister. You don't need to take it off if you're not packing it away. 

I assume you're referring to a single pitch climb. In which case, the simplest thing to do–without leaving any gear behind–is to rappel as if you were descending a multi-pitch sport climb. Tether to the top anchor, feed your rope through the hangers/rap station at the top to the half way point of your rope, knot your rope ends with triple barrel knots, and rappel down to the lowest anchor that you can. Then, tether to that anchor, pull your rope and repeat. If you concerned about rappelling off of only one bolt, first remind yourself that your body is more likely to snap in half than your bolt is to pull out of the rock (supposing whoever set the anchor did it properly), if that doesn't settle your nerves, then just feed your rope through two adjacent intermediate anchors on the wall. You can accomplish this at least two different ways: 

If you have no experience with either, then I recommend getting some snowshoes first (I'm not recommending you don't eventually get into everything else as well). There are many different styles of snowshoes out there, the most popular types on the market are the hiking snowshoes with the crampons, but if you're going cross country on flat terrain, then you want to get a nice pair of traditional gut knit Alaskan snowshoes, as they really float you a lot higher, especially in fluffy snow, and help you cover long distances in a short amount of time. I grew up with Huron style snowshoes, they were terrible at climbing hills or on narrow trails, but whenever I'm in deep deep snow on flat terrain I always wish I had them on my feet instead of my MSR lightning Accents. On hill climbs though it's the other way around, the ascents are hands down the best snowshoe for climbing up steep or icy slopes. 

1 Zubieta-Calleja, G. R.; Paulev, P-E.; Zubieta-Calleja, L.; Zubieta-Castillo, G. (2007). "Altitude adaptation through hematocrit change". Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology: an Official Journal of the Polish Physiological Society 

You don't want a one person tent for winter camping if you ask me, in fact not many manufacturers even make 1 person 4 season tents. I've gone winter camping in 1 person pup stents in the past, it wasn't fun, now if possible I always make a snow shelter, which are far warmer and offer superior protection from the elements than any tent. 

For a true waterproofness and breathability, while being active, you want to get a triple-ply Goretex hardshell, or a Goretex alternative like HyVent, Dry.Q, NeoShell, etc. Lots of the big brands have their own alternatives to Goretex, that Northface Triclimate jacket for example has a HyVent Shell. What you really want to do however is learn how to layer your jackets. That 3 in 1 is nothing more than fancy branding to sell people multiple jackets in one package. Sure you get some extra zippers for the convenience of taking your two jackets on and off as though they are one, but in my experience you're always left with a cold spot right down the front where where your insulating layer is zipped to the outer layer instead of to itself. It's warmer to put on the insulating layer, zip it up, then pull on the outer layer and zip it separately. Two times zipped (or three or four, I wear about seven layers when it gets really cold out). This is layering. Layering gives you the freedom you need to customize your insulation and breathability depending on the temperature and your level of activity. Since you mentioned that you want to use this jacket for cycling, you're really going to want to have more options than just, HyVent shell, or PrimaLoft jacket, or both. There will be cold dry days where you're going to be like, "I really wish I had a nice soft shell layer in my system so I could have some extra breathability but still stop the wind..." Examples of Layering: When hanging out in the cold: (like at basecamp in winter, -20°C or colder) TOPS 

Whatever you get, I'd recommend finding or making a light, soft, waterproof padded case for it. Photos from Lapstick website: 

The answer is yes. But not for everyone. The first two people on record to die on Everest were George Mallory and Andrew Irvine. There's speculation that they may have even summited the Mountain, making them the first team ever to conquer the tallest mountain in the world, and almost 30 years before Sir Edmund Hillary and Tensing Norgay made their successful summit. They were last seen only a couple hundred metres form the summit, but never made it back down to the bottom. For decades people wondered if they may have made it to the top, but the only way to confirm that would be to find the camera they took up the mountain with them, and develop the film to see if they had taken a summit picture. In 1999 an expedition was led to search for their bodies, and against all odds, they were able to find, and positively identify the body of George Mallory, who appeared to have suffered a fall and broken his leg. His body was found almost perfectly preserved (aside from being bleached white by the sun). 

Slip knot It's undoubtably a slip knot that's been tied off with a half hitch. some of the knots look different because some are tied off right-handed while others are left-handed. Compare the image below to the second image in the question: 

Hot soup mostly, it does depend on the individual diets of the climbers, not everybody eats the same thing, but most carry hot soup with them. Despite the massive amounts of energy needed to summit Everest, the truth is most climbers don't eat much on summit day, and that's simply because they don't have an appetite due to the high elevation. Many climbers have to consciously force themselves to try to eat and drink at the upper camps of Everest. On summit day you're in the death zone, which means it is literally impossible for your muscles to fully replenish themselves. That's why they call it the death zone, your body cannot survive because basic body functions like digestion begin to shut down. Basically, there's no such thing as rest up there, your body can't rest, if you sit down you just slow down the rate of fatigue a little, but you don't recover any strength. It's unreal the amount of energy they burn up their too, they will be advancing one step for every five breaths they take, travel no faster than 100m/hr (that's metres per hour) and they burn just as many calories as someone running a marathon. Hydration is a huge challenge as well, your body actually requires ~5L of fluids a day at high elevation, if you don't drink at least that much, then your body starts taking it from wherever it can, like your intestines, which makes it even more difficult to digest food. Most of your fluids are lost just through breathing, this is compounded by using oxygen, because they have to make the oxygen extra dry to prevent your breather and fittings from freezing up solid. So for the most part the answer is hot soup. It's easy on the stomach, it gives you nutrients as well as fluids, and it warms you up. You can also consume it without taking you mitts off. Frostbite is a big problem up there, and it's not entirely because it's super cold (-20°C to -30°C mostly) it largely because you blood is so thick like syrup from secondary polycythemia that you effectively have the circulation of a diabetic with too much sugar in their blood. 

The vultures had likely found something that the eagle also wanted in on. I come from a part of the world where Bald Eagles are everywhere, and yes, they are carrion birds that eat roadkill and found kill all the time. I actually have a picture I shot not long ago of a bald eagle picking meat off of a deer carcass. This was shot just after he chased away a bunch of ravens that had been feasting on it: 

I'm somewhat of a claustrophobic sleeper when it comes to quinzhees, so I'm very particular about my ventilation. How much ventilation you need is proportionate to the size of your quinzhee, and how many people are sleeping in it. Larger quinzhees need less ventilation than smaller ones, and more people obviously require more ventilation than fewer people. I will typically put the ventilation hole near my head, so I can sleep with a steady supply of fresh air on my face, with multiple people in a single quinzhee, you could give everyone their own breathing hole and you'd be rather well ventilated, at the very least you need to have a minimum of two holes, so you can have some air flow, but obviously you don't want to make your holes so big that they let in a draft, the size of your hole can be a matter of personal preference, but it should be about the size of a snorkel, big enough for you to draw in enough air to breath comfortably. To promote good airflow, its best to have one hole higher than the other. If you construct a crude chimney, the air passing over the top will actually draw air in from a lower holes that are placed out of the wind. this keeps the fresh air flowing in through your breather holes, and vents the noxious air out the top. This is particularly useful if you're using candles or burning to heat the inside (also good to vent fumes from whoever brought beans to eat that night...). As for the general construction of the quinzhee, if you're piling snow, you want to leave the pile long enough for it to set, a few hours minimum after you pack it down. Use twigs no longer than a foot long (30cm) to mark the wall thickness of your quinzhee, stick them into your pile from the outside, this way when you hollow out the inside, you'll know how thick the walls are when you hit your sticks. How you dig the entrance is critical to keeping the quinzhee warm. the best method I like to use is to keep the top of the entrance below the bottom of the floor. This keeps the inside warm even when you don't have the entrance blocked, and provides you with a nice cold well for cool air to be displaced to (it's easier to replace the cold air with warm air than it is to try and warm air up). One tip for the sake of your irrational paranoia: smooth the inside of your quinzhee walls when you're done hollowing it out. As the temperature rises due to your body heat while you're all in there sleeping, the inner walls are going to start to glaze, and bits of loose snow will fall off of the ceiling onto your sleeping bag, which of course your brain will try to convince you are signs of an impending cave-in. Another reason to keep your walls thin; if a cave-in does happen, then you'll be able to dig yourself out pretty easy. If you make your walls more than a foot thick, then not only will the weight be potentially too great to get off of yourself, but your screams will go unheard, because quinzhees do just as good a job insulating sound as they do heat. That being said, I've never had one collapse on me, and most you can stand on top of and jump on without breaking after they've set up for a night, supposing you've made them properly with good snow. But I know other people who've been temporarily entombed in their poorly constructed quinzhees, so take the time to do it right, the most important part is letting the snow set for at least a couple hours before you start digging it out, and make sure you hallow it out like an arch. Flat ceilings are almost guaranteed to fall in on you.