Pretty much from the foundation of the Republic, states have discussed leaving the union. List of proposals The Kentucky and Virgiania resolutions were the first step to separation from the union. 

I had originally answered yes; then I discovered the force bill. Section 5 of the force bill permits the President to use whatever force is necessary to preserve the Union. The US Congress had considered seccession, and explicitly authorized the preservation of the Union by military force. UPDATE: @Garrett Albright asks a pertinent question. I grant you that my argument is indirect, but if the United States authorized military force to preserve the Union, then implicitly any effort to sever the Union is illegal. 

Chrysippus apparently had a strong sense of humor. I suspect that Chrysippus had already indulged in some overproof wine. 

Hoffman's argument, boiled down to a sentence or two is that the industrial revolution is brought about by productivity growth, and that productivity growth appears in the military sector first. The techniques pioneered to make weapons more cheaply could be used to make other goods more cheaply. Once those techniques are deployed across all production, the industrial revolution starts. I think that Hoffman's argument is a variation on the "turtles all the way down" problem. If we accept that industrial production of weapons facilitated industrial production of commercial goods, which brought about an industrial revolution", then we're really just saying that the industrial revolution caused the industrial revolution. We haven't answered why Europe was able to deploy the industrial revolution and other cultures were not. Why didn't other gunsmiths reduce the copper in their guns? (to use an example from Hoffman?) Was it just first mover advantage, or is there some cultural/economic/geographical/other factor that served as leverage for more efficient production? 

Can't cite a specific episode, but the British History podcast quotes several pre-Carolingian religious figures decrying the fact that nobody can understand the scriptures. At various points then Latin was as dead as it is now. I'm not sure it was a "conversational" language - it was the best option if you didn't share a common language. This is an example of My Professional Historian Girlfriend's first law, "It's a little more complicated than that...." 

Let me start with some coarse (over)generalizations, and then mention a few bits of trivia, then close with a disclaimer. The modern definition of unemployed is "having looked for work recently". I'm not entirely sure that definition is appropriate for Rome. Modern Western Liberal Democracy is organized around the notion that "companies" provide employment, and that people seek employment. Unemployment results in a dramatic decline in economic and social status. Although there were workshops in Rome, and there were teams that organized to perform tasks that no individual could, I'm not aware of anything that resembles the modern limited liability corporation. Roman politics and economics were based more on relationships than on companies. Romans belonged to a family, and to a tribe, and usually to some kind of patron/client relationship. Depending on their social class, they may have also belonged to one or more social organizations (e.g. burial society). If someone wanted to work, they would rely on these connections to find them employment. "Unemployment" didn't really result in the kind of economic and social decline we find today because these social bonds provided a safety net. If for some reason you were isolated from your social network, that might be a definition similar to "unemployed", but there were mechanisms (adoption, social organizations, etc.) that made the social networks fairly resilient. 

The Wikipedia page cites several controversies about the alleged Buddhist persecutions. Simmons & Sarao, 2010 is mentioned in the wikipedia page and bibliography as one contrary opinion. There are several others mentioned on that page. 

Nobility is a special class of citizens with extraordinary rights and privileges. The wikipedia page clarifies the Roman concept of citizenship, the concept of citizenship in the middle ages and subsequently. The wikipedia page omits discussion of citizenship in the French Revolution. The French Revolution abolished all special forms of privilege, including nobility, clergy, etc. The term "Citizen" became synonymous with "Not yet convicted as an enemy of the state". The question rests on a false premise; nobles never reverted to being citizens, they were always citizens. Even when their subjects were chattel, the nobles remained citizens of the state and entitled to the privileges and prerogatives thereof. You could make the argument that nobility "reverted" in each country when the country transitioned from Monarchy to Liberal Democracy. But you'd need to develop a fuller, more nuanced definition of the terms. 

Update: I realized I didn't explicitly address all of the questions. He did foregoe the royalties, and as far as I can tell he did so voluntarily. I'm not aware of any evidence that he did so in an attempt to increase the circulation of his writing, but I can't imagine that he would be unaware of the possibility. 

I suspect that statistically speaking, governmental restrictions on free speech are approved more often than they are protested, and civil unrest is very rare. 

According to Klarman, and Maier the founders explicitly addressed this in the Constitutional Convention, and rejected a confederation. To me there are two questions within your question. 

One possible source is Traditional Korean Costume Given that the authors are listed by their affiliation with Ewha's Women's University, I'm willing to bet that they have additional academic papers availble, and are probably willing to correspond on the topic and suggest other resources. I searched for the first author's name on the Ewha University site and got back results, but was unable to translate the Korean, even with the assistance of Google. Cathy Raymond who is one of my go-to authorities on fashion disclaims any particular knowledge of Korean fashion, but recommended Hanbok: The Art of Korean Clothing which is apparently out of print, but may be available from a library. She also drew my attention to Chosun. She offered the following comment: 

If I remember correctly, Niall Ferguson's book Civilization also contains a discussion of the difference in development between Northern and Southern Europe that may be relevant to your question. 

There is ample evidence that the founding fathes saw the potential for future conflicts. You extended the question to ask whether they foresaw civil war. That's a bit more subtle, and I'm not sure what you mean. They had seen Shay's rebellion (over the rights of rural farmers against commercial interests), the government held hostage in Philadelphia by soldiers. They had to force Rhode Island to join the Union (not by force of arms, but I think it is relevant). Within a few years Burr led a seccessionist conspiracy, one of the other Northern states tried to secede, and Jefferson was created West Point because he feared the military might of the Northern states. Yes, they foresaw the country splitting back up into states, and that would very likely engender conflict (in the short or long term, low intensity or high intensity conflict). 

Multiple pictures posted in support of this question confirm that the outside of the boots were slick - the hair-on side could not have been outside. (simple logic dictates that the hair should go on the inside to keep the foot warm - hair on the outside isn't going to trap any heat. Hair on the outside might work for fashion, but the images indicate that the Mongolian fashion was for bright dye.) Picture of a gutul There are also an intimidating number of pinterest links that my have further details. I don't use pinterest, and pinterest is fairly hostile to anyone who doesn't have an account, so I'll leave that research for someone who is pinterest friendly