I was just approached randomly in linked.in for a possible job offer. However, despite having exchanged a couple of messages with the interviewer, and calling to arrange a meeting ASAP (today - it was booked for tomorrow), the interviewer did neither intended to make a screening call, nor was willing to talk about any detail at all of the nature of the project, or the required qualifications or technologies despite I (very) politely pointing it out the need. After the call, and despite I telling him I am busy until very late today, he demanded(!!) to have a detailed project form filled ASAP, that may take well 2 or 3 hours to fill properly for someone with my profile (I would understand asking for such a thing after a screening interview, not before one). Now the thing is, I am not willing to do that interview, as I do not appreciate neither starting on the wrong foot, nor interviewing for a place where apparently as a cultural norm an individual and a professional is not respected. I also do value my time, and between preparation, travelling there, meeting, coming back and filling that form, we may be very well talking about 6-8 hours at least, in a time I do badly need them, without even knowing if I am a fit for any position, or if there is one (alas, without knowing anything at all!). How should I politely turn down that interview? P.S. The interviewer has refused to say which position they want to interview for, which specific projects, pointing out the job specs/ advert and what technologies to deal with. Only that they need "Linux guys", which can be a quite broad subject. I have seen far friendlier professionals. I have just shown this article to a friend and he asked me "which position is the guy interviewing for?" -"I do not know..." PS2: anedoctally, and funnily, whilst talking about the situation with my father, who is almost 80 years old and managed an office for many years, he said an obscenity about what I should answer to them. 

Lets face it: you are little more than junior devops Engineer (I suspect, you are not giving much bachground, but then due to the nature of your post...) You need some sort of guidance. Try to find a formal or informal mentor. Once again, given tour questions, I suspect it will be the latter. Ask for training, for instance Containers conferences from the Linux Foundation. You will need it. Ask for monthly subscripyions to Safari from OReilly and Udemy. They have to have a generous amount of money ser aside for external training if they want to save on not having senior guys giving you a hand. Youtube is also your friend, loads of conferences there. Join the certification path and ask for the relevant training. Udemy has some introductions to the devops theme that will save you lots of time getting your feet wet, however they often end when things starting getting interesting. Network with similar people in events and over the Internet. They will have overlaping interests and often a lit bit of advice that will offer clues or insights to your particular problems. Put together a test network; do not test on your production systems. If there are no resources dedicated to that, ask for a paid cloud services account, like AWS or Azure. (I prefer AWS) I hate to break it to you, but your boss expectations without having a senior type mentoring you are unrealistic. Been there, done that, and reinvented myself a couple of times, for you to both adapt to a new infrastructure, new technologies and being fully productive it takes normally 1 to 1.5 years as a full time job. Having said that, enjoy also this period as you can, it is a great opportunity to learn and enter a very interesting career path. Unfortunately, it is expected of you to define your own path; the big picture will come with experience, give it time. If you are fortunate enough, they will get out of way after that happens. Do not expect someone to define it for you, that will be your job. Management is often clueless about this, and if you are lucky, they wont have delusions they have a clue, and will give you space over time to take your own technical decisions. I was lucky enough in one of the jobs to have the guidance of someone who was experienced in the industry as a CEO and was a stepping stone in my career. He gave precious advice, however he was also savvy enough to stay out of my way of growing. Ditto for colleagues. Do not impose too much on them. With time you will also find out the right balance. I do agree with others that a formal meeting each week is the right idea. Over time, daily formal meetings are unproductive. Do not get too stressed out, they are paying what they are getting, and they do know that. A devops senior type can command a much higher salary. 

Anyone seasoned in the industry will have hundred of such stories. It is a fairly easy question to answer, and it is not a trick question. For me it is much a more saner question than filler BS questions as "were you see yourself in 5 years..." or "what are your strengths". I will take pleasure in answer such a question with a couple of examples. In reality, I just have to ask how much time they want me to spend on that question, running the risk of taking too long. Those kind of questions are mostly to gauge your maturity, line of experience and thinking. Even when around new work mates, we usually share these kind of war stories over a cup of coffee. (cultural note, here we tend more to gather together over coffee than beer) 

Networking is one of the bread and butter core tasks of your business, as it seems evident when you say everything is "on the cloud". I would advise to have at least an employe dedicated full time to network/system task besides the consultant, and only let go the consultant after knowledge transfer/that persorn has proved himself/has declared himself confy enough with the role. Even then, you could mantain the consultant in a less significant budget for more complicated emergencies, or as a contigency plan (could you bring him on board?). I would do without the firewall maintance company on the short term though. Be aware that firewall maintenance often is just a generic term for keeping up the contract, or at most availability of spare parts, and the software up to date (CheckPoint contracts for instance) , so I would double check if much more is involved on that. You need someone to take full ownership of the networking and security area, that will keep up with the technology, will procure new solutions, does the interface with vendors and more importantgly yet, will document properly and have a full idea of the present baseline and a planned path for the future. One persorn that will also start building and maintaing monitoring systems besides the ones your cloud vendors give you, and local servers to streamline network operations, optimize the local network and even having local backups of important projects. Someone who will will setup secure remote accesses both to your local network and to your remote servers. For instance, here I have setup automatic wifi and VPN provisioning with security built-in for Apple users. The daily to daily maintenance tasks are an unecessary distraction to other employees too. Often when setting up services, human nature as it is, they will do a rushed job, as it fits them, as it is not clearly neither their core training or they have the ownership of the task to fit it all in the bigger picture. How much does it cost you every minute you have a network problem or that you are down? Furthemore, how much would it be valuable to have a core of in-house resident expertise? This boils down to much more than a numbers game/cost exercise - this could be a business strategic decision down the lane. Disclaimer: I am a system/network/security consultant with an ISP background and usually work for large / several thousand users organizations.