as the final line would seem to support this hypothesis that the agony and ecstasy of love, in this case, are welcomed and redemptive. 

because a patrol is generally understood as to "keep watch over (an area) by regularly walking or traveling around." I wouldn't expect most readers to hold with this second option, however, the Four Quartets begin: 

The Death Drive is a concept deriving from Freudian theory, proposed by Sabina Spielrein in her paper "Destruction as the Cause of Coming Into Being". From the wiki: 

This was a huge issue in the industrialization of England, where peasants were ejected from the land as herding replaced farming in many areas, and were forced into the cities to find work in restrictive, unnatural, and generally horrific, conditions. "Blackened walls" is surely a reference to the soot of the London factories, as London itself was literally "blackened" in the industrial era. I also suspect that there is a wordplay on "chart", in the sense that everything in the modern world is mapped, and that this rigid formalization restricts the sense of newness and wonder associated with discovery. Maps are, likewise, artificial representations, a means of definition and restriction. 

Exposition of the five-act structure is associated with Freytag, who was concerned with Classical Drama and Shakespeare. The link to criticism of Freytag discusses how structure changes with modern literature. The compaction of late acts is probably most brilliantly demonstrated by Hitchcock in the ending of North by Northwest. The idea of the three-act structure can be said to originate with Aristotle, who believed plays needed to have a beginning, middle and end. Indiana University has an excellent page discussing it here which breaks down the sections as: 

The meter of the Hughes excerpt seems a direct reference to "time before and time after", featured in part III of Burnt Norton: 

Oh yes. But it should not stop you reading in translation! Many poems contain wordplay that is only possible in the original language, or idiom that is only meaningful in the context of that culture. Tang Dynasty Poetry, for instance, has an additional layer of meaning based on the ideograms used. Reading in translation removes this dimension. Rhythm can be used to impart meaning, but in my experience this is fairly rare. Many of these elements will be described in commentary on the poems in the translated works, so my advice is, where possible, look for translations with the most annotation, and, where possible, read multiple translations. 

It would be helpful if you could post or link to pictures of the same novel with different covers. My own personal pet peeve is when a movie based on a book comes out, and instead of the wonderful, original cover, the work is branded for years with a horrible, movie-poster cover. 

Although, the Hughes passage feels more in the spirit of the Hollow Men (1925): "Shape without form, shade without colour, paralysed force, gesture without motion". "Cipher" in the Hughes relates to the layers and layers of meaning in Four Quartets, which is closer to the "neurolinguistic code" some very smart people have used in reference to Finnegan's Wake. For Eliot, this is partly a function of: 

Part of what makes dramatic literature so resilient is the range of interpretation that can be applied by actors, directors and dramaturges across every generation and production. Thus, no one interpretation is ever definitive or absolute. Both scenes work within the context of the films they are a part of. 

Alternately, wind, as in a Yeatsian gyre*, provides an attractive "near rhyme", and may be implied by: 

I'm basing this on the Loeb Editions of the Greek Dramas where there is a synopsis of the play presented at the beginning under the heading "Argument". Those particular translations tend to be from the late 19th & early 20th Century though, and that usage of the term feels distinctly outmoded. Rejecting terms like preface, introduction and forward, more mundane choices would be: 

There is nothing in the Greek overtly relating to footwear or feet—The Ancient Greek word for "boot", here anglicized as "cothurnus" bears no relation to any of the words in the passage, but the use of ἐπίορκον ("epiorkon") made me think of a pun per the "pee" sound--πούς ("poos") is the Greek word for foot, which becomes, among other things, "pie" (pee-ay) in Spanish. Butler is said to have been influenced by Cervantes, so it is quite possible the same thought would have occurred to him. (Puns regarding feet are a staple of Oedipus Rex, for instance. Oedipus was pierced through his ankles when his father had him exposed him in the wilderness, and that "Oedipus" actually means "swollen foot" greatly increases the irony of the irony of revelation of his identity, which turns out to be hilariously obvious in retrospect;) Thus, while the use of "bootless" in this passage appears to be an invention of Butler he is in very good company. Butler's choice of bootless is not only consistent with the spirit of Ancient Greek literature, but quite brilliant imo. 

What @Emrakul said, but also because Todd Klein did the lettering. Letterers don't get much notice or respect, but Klein is something of a rockstar in his field. I believe Will Eisner was the first important letterer (although he was also, obviously, an author and artist, and hugely significant if the award named for him is any indication.) With Sandman, my understanding is that Gaiman was pushing the boundaries of the form, presumably following the lead of Alan Moore, and opening the way for later, post-modern comics. Klein has written about how the expanded requirements of Gaiman's groundbreaking work required a new approach to lettering. You can even see in influence in recent subtitling of films, breaking out of the boring white lettering on the bottom. (There are several recent examples that escape me now, but John Wick 2 used such an approach.) 

Here is a youtube link the song in question Search and Destroy, released by the Stooges on the album Raw Power. The web tells me the line is: 

The actual word used is δαμάσσω (damasso) in the first person, singular, subjunctive, as in "should I slay him". In terms of the conception of fate differing in the two works, Duffy comments on this in the opening of his essay: 

Here's an excerpt from the "Was I sleeping?" monologue which is hard to regard as not being poetry. David Mamet is well known for incorporating an underlying metric structure in his prose plays, which can rise to lyric heights. We tend to think of examples such as these as "elevated language", referring to poetic qualities of language embedded in prose contexts. Graves makes a point that poetry evolves over time across different cultures, and in different periods "high" and "low" forms are in or out of favor. This highlights the difficulty in defining an art form which, at it's best, uses language to convey the ineffable. Finally, it's worth mentioning that the poet Nicanor Parra, in seeking to break free of the conventions of the past, coined the term "anti-poetry" to distinguish the new form and approach. But even anti-poetry is a type of poetry. The forms of poetry are vast and ever changing, but all poetry shares a common trait that may not be possible to put into words. 

It's a profound poem wrapped in a shell of the everyday, and it's title is perhaps taken as a commentary on the mundane mindset. I wouldn't think Sandburg means anything by relating Omaha specifically to non-existence, possibly the name of the city just scans, or represents the heartland, but then I think of Strindberg naming his famous play about marriage "The Dance of Death" and wonder... Q: Did Sandburg have any negative feelings about the wonderful city of Omaha? 

Personal Thoughts: I think it's telling from a literary standpoint that these questions continually arise, and I'm not sure the ambiguity would have been unintended. Literature is generally strengthened by ambiguity in that different minds over many generations can interpret the work in different ways. Thus, ambiguity may be understood as a strategy to kindle and sustain interest--it serves the function of raising questions. It's worth noting that Homer has subversive elements. While the Iliad and Odyssey reinforce the power of the gods, and of Zeus in particular, the works also undermine the gods in reducing their dignity (the gods are subject to the same foibles as humans, and do not always behave well,) while elevating the dignity of humanity (Hector, Andromache, Priam, Patroclus, Achilles) by showing mortals at their noblest. Possibly Homer was undermining the power of fate by showing it is subject to the will of Zeus, but also making the point that fate is capricious in that it is a function of the whims of the gods. 

Another reason I find the terminology useful is to distinguish between genre authors who elevate the form (Lem, Dick) and literary authors utilizing genre (Murakami, Chabon). I'll read the work of the literary authors, admittedly superior stylists, but don't always find it as satisfying as the work of the pure genre writers, for which style is not a primary consideration. By contrast, of Cormac McCarthy I might say "He is a an author who transcends literary fiction to return it to its genre roots." (Possibly I am more attracted to McCarthy per my interest in fundamental ethical questions, the concept of the "personal code", and his allegorical approach.) 

Regarding Jonathan vs. John. The names may be distinct but the root is the same and the meanings are similar: "God has graced" vs. "God has given". 

"Gentile and Jew" is also not meant to be taken entirely literally, but as an inclusion of the Other (the Jew) in the family of man. The adversary is yourself, which is also the final implication of the Baudelaire: 

Duffy specifically addresses the Sarpedon incident. In the Iliad, Duffy's thesis would seem to be confirmed in that Zeus asks Hera whether he should save his son or kill him: 

In this context, The Tyger can be seen as positing the possibility that the creator intended this duality, and that "good" and "evil" are not just present in the universe, but in each individual. 

Note that double meanings are heavily utilized: "pipe" initially means weed pipe but subsequently the male sexual organ; "lick a shot" uses firearms vocabulary in conjunction with ejaculation; "grabbing you by the neck" in this context refers not only to murder by strangulation, but erotic asphyxiation; "knife" refers both to a stabbing weapon and the male sexual organ. 

Since this is our introduction to the character, in his own words, it becomes challenging to portray him without some outward deformity (i.e. it would raise questions in the audience about why Richard perceives himself in that way, contrary to actual physical appearance. Still, it could be a quite interesting choice--if I were staging The Glass Menagerie I'd reduce Laura's limp to the point of imperceptibility to reinforce the idea that her real illness is her relationship with her mother;) 

In this conception, Eros/Cupid is the force behind all of creation, the "desire" that brings things together to generate the universe and everything in it. (I believe early conceptions of gravity were based on this idea of attraction.) Without Eros, everything in the universe grinds to a halt, and thus, even the river Styx, which has power over the Olympian gods, trembles before Eros' power. 

This is meant as a supplement to @akr 's concise answer: "Ode" derives from two Ancient Greek word for song: ἀοιδή (ah-oy-dhay) and ᾠδή (Oh-oy-dhay) You will note from the links that one of the entries for first word is: 

That makes a lot of sense b/c Morpheus is an immortal, but has feeling like a normal human. The hippogriff is also said to be a symbol of love, which would also make sense as lost love was a major story arc in the series. I'm having trouble finding legit citations for the "western" dragon as a symbol. (The dragon depicted is squarely a modern conception of a medieval European dragon, as opposed to a Chinese dragon.) 

Anderson extends the metaphor in the subsequent passages, notably using the term "mystery" in the religious context: 

I suspect Borges was drawing on the history of honeycomb patterns (although the "honeycomb conjecture" wasn't proven until 1999), and was potentially thinking of the Beehive tombs of antiquity. My guess would be that the walls between hexagons are thick, which produce the hallways, but that Borges was intending that the structure itself was perfectly packed, with no space between rooms but the hallways. 

Hopefully I'm explaining it clearly, but in maintaining the rhythm of the previous line, the independent thought of third line is overrun by the "momentum" of the second line. 

I ask because I'm never certain how to pronounce this word in the context. (I suspect this was Eliot's intention, but my assumption is based on the theme and conflicting "hints".) Wind, as in moving air, seems to be the reasonable choice, and implied by: 

From a strictly geometrical perspective, any side of a hexagon can only connect to another single hexagon: 

Legendary hound who leads Erigone to the grave of Icarius. On discovering it, both the hound and Erigone leap from a cliff to their death. Hecuba, Queen of Troy, in one account is said to transform into the Maera[G] over grief for her lost children. In that form, the Maera is understood as a curse--the "black bitch of the sea" who brings death --relating to the aquatic theme in The Waste Land. 

NOTES: The preceding passages are directly related to the excerpt and critical in interpreting it. They provide the setting: 

Yeats says basically everything in this poem except what the rough beast it is. So what's the answer? 

The Dark Knight Returns was published in 1986, and, along with Watchmen, is regarded as the catalyst for the Dark Age of Comics. More violent than previous mass market titles, these works also brought more psychological depth to the characters, which is often a function of past trauma and how it expresses itself. (i.e. characters whose response to trauma is hyper-violent. Compare to, say, Peter Parker, who also had a family member murdered, but avoids killing.) I mention the Dark Knight primarily because The Punisher (1987) can be seen as a version of Miller's archetype--possessing no super-powers, only superior skill, and strategy, and motivated to kill. It's been a while since I read the original Punisher series as a lad, but I recall the psychological template was conveyed as the rationale/motivation for Punisher's lack of mercy. This is definitely a major theme in the Netflix series, in the tradition of First Blood (1982), which created the foundation for the Rambo archetype, and was one of the early post-Vietnam War films to deal with the psychological impact of war and violence. See also: Coming Home (1978) and The Deerhunter (1978) I can't recall Marvel title heroes before Punisher who were killers, and although the Punisher character had made appearances in Marvel series prior to getting it's own title, the formal launching of The Punisher title would seem to be a direct response to the new landscape in comics. Interested in thoughts on the subject, particularly in relation to the evolution of the modern costumed hero, and any comments by the authors, publisher or critics. 

By Eliot's later work, this is almost certainly referring to Four Quartets, Eliot's most post-modern poem. See: T. S. Eliot bibliography > Poetry If you've read a lot of Eliot, there is a great deal of evolution between Prufrock (1917) and the Quartets (1940-43). Rather than attempting a breakdown of the differences between the Wasteland (1921) and the Quartets, I'll use an example of the convolutional passages that feature strongly in the latter work. The Quartets begin: 

The short answer is that there is the idea that knowing the ending harms the literary work only holds for material that depends on a "twist ending", such as The Sixth Sense. But even with that film, knowing the ending allows one to glean more from the material on subsequent viewing, in terms of references and foreshadowing. For me, having seen many productions of R&J, the criteria for determining if the production "works" is if the audience is screaming inside for Romeo not to drink the poison, despite knowing he's going to drink the poison. Same with Juliet when she wakes up and finds him dead. Romeo and Juliet is one of the most famous plays of all time. In fact, it is a testament to the strength of the text that it has worked for centuries, despite everyone knowing the ending. Work that is "ruined" by spoilers is always lesser work, based on gimmick (the big "twist") as opposed to artistic merit. Which is not to say such work has no merit, just that it is in a different category to narratives that are experienced again and again by an audience that already knows the story. 

Could have many referents. I thought about Arthur/Guinevere, and in that context is could be a reference to betrayal. (Arthurian legends have many Christian elements, although Tristan&Isolde is a more direct expression of Amor/Agape.) But it seems more likely this is again a reference to the Old Testament, probably a metaphor.