As other answers have mentioned, there are too many factors to determine a fatal fall height. However, the rule of thumb for determining if there's a likely mechanism of injury for a spinal injury is whether there's a fall from more than 3x the person's height. 

Bears are going to smell you and your camp long before they see you. If your tarp/tent setup is any good at all, it'll be covering you from most directions anyhow. I can't imagine an open tarp having any significant difference in terms of how long it takes for the bear to realize you're there. 

As Jim alluded to, you need to be very explicit about gear. I've taken groups of 2-6 very inexperienced people on assorted trips, from strenuous dayhikes to backpacking trips. Here's things I usually make sure to include: 

I've recently taken an interest in both rock climbing and mountaineering. Both require a harness, but is there any difference in the harness used for each activity? I understand that the most basic functionality will theoretically be the same, i.e. be securely attached to you and have a sturdy loop you can tie/clip into. I'm interested in knowing what differences there are beyond the most simple functionality though. If I were to purchase a harness, what types of features would I be looking for that would lend themselves to climbing vs. mountaineering or both? 

Is it a good idea to eat human flesh? Of course not. Is it a good idea to starve to death? Obviously no. Any rational person would exhaust all other options first, but given the choice between starving to death or not... I suppose what constitutes a "good idea" is all relative to the situation and your own desperation. You dirty cannibal! 

Many cross country skis do have metal edges – I've owned many such skis. They tend to be backcountry XC skis though, not trail skis. Newer backcountry skis are fat and often practically indistinguishable from downhill skis other than for the bindings, but metal edges skinny skis used to be quite common. For groomed trails or relatively flat, low-angle skiing, metal edges add unnecessary weight and provide little advantage. For more difficult trails and backcountry skiing, they're very useful to have. 

There are viable alternatives to soap and water though. One method which is fairly effective is to just clean with a bit of sand/grit to get the mechanical agitation required to remove food, then rinse with water as normal. This method may not be adequate though if your dishes have been used with meat. You can use a small amount of rubbing alcohol as a disinfectant after rinsing; the alcohol will evaporate very quickly. Choice of cooking equipment can also affect how difficult it is to clean. Food will come off of non-stick pans easier than it comes off of some other materials, and making sure not to burn your food will also prevent the much more difficult cleaning which comes from that. Pre-rinsing can also greatly reduce the amount of cleaning required. Putting a bit of warm water in your bowl and using your spoon to get gunk off the edges and bottom, then drinking (if you can bear it!) the soupy mixture which results gets more of the food in you and less to clean up. 

I like using a soap and sponge, but it's not the only solution. It is possible to cut the weight of a soap and sponge setup pretty significantly. Using a small scrubby like the one shown below works well and is much lighter. You can also take a regular sponge and cut it into a much smaller mini-sponge which is typically still fine for the duration of a backpacking trip. 

You'll also need to fashion a sling. Triangle bandages (a.k.a. cravats) are commonly used for this, or can be improvised from a T-shirt or other materials. Building the splint Once you have your supplies ready, you can start building the splint. Size the SAM splint or other rigid material to the person's arm. You want the rigid material to cover the section you're immobilizing. For the forearm, you would put the splint up to the person's fingers and just below the elbow. For the elbow, you would place the elbow at a comfortable angle, then go from part way down the forearm to part way up the upper arm. You can use the patient's good arm to size the splint, assuming they're roughly symmetrical. Now get your padding prepared and fold it such that the SAM splint or other rigid material is covered and the excess padding is hanging off the long side. Gently place the splint on the bottom side of the arm, then wrap the excess padding around the top. If it doesn't go all the way around, or the padding seems too thin, add more. Make sure to use the padding to fill any gaps between the arm and the rigid material. Once the padding is in place, wrap the wrapping material around the entire splint bundle, proximal to distal (from near the body towards the fingers). Check with your patient as you go to ensure that the pressure feels comfortable. You don't want the limb to be to flex within the splint, but you also don't want to cut off circulation. You can check capillary refill in their fingernails by pressing on the whites and seeing how long it takes to recolorize in order to monitor circulation. The splint should now have that section secured. You next need to create a sling to fix the arm in place so it won't droop or swing around. Tie a knot at the tip of a triangular bandage. The knotted end should wrap around the elbow, and the long ends of the triangle should be drawn up around the shoulders and tied off behind the neck. For your patient's comfort, place some padding on their neck under the knot – a spare hat or glove works well here. 

Your eyes will dilate slightly to allow more light in when you're wearing dark glasses, which compounds the issue - because your pupils are open wider, the potential for UV damage from light coming in the sides at full brightness is increased. You should always wear full wrap-around or glacier glasses when you're outdoors in areas with intense light and reflected surfaces, and especially at high elevations. 

I've traveled this highway with my family a couple of times, although it was quite a few years ago so I don't remember all of the details. I remember camping at Boya Lake and seeing loons and owls there, and I definitely recall camping at the RV park near Stewart - they have a tent section of the campground, and it's well worth staying a couple days so you can drive over the border to Hyder and see the bears at Fish Creek and travel up to Salmon Glacier. 

At 3000 mA current, the maximum current for this emitter, the extrapolated luminous flux is 1000 lumens. To achieve 2000 lumens, the LED would require over 6000 mA, more than twice the maximum for this emitter. Keep in mind that the lumen values here are calculated estimates based on the emitter's specifications. They don't take into account losses due to reflector design and lens material. LEDs also drop in output when they get hot, and most cheap lights have poor temperature management. I run a bike light testing and review site called The Bike Light Database, and I've tested similar generic headlights like this one. I measured a nearly identical light with a Cree XM-L T6 emitter and the actual output was 600 lumens, half of its claimed 1200 lumens and less than a third of this headlamp's claimed 2000. So, to answer your question rather long-windedly, why a 2000 lumen headlamp? Well, it's simply not a 2000 lumen headlamp.