The thread is almost certainly M5x0.8, which is the most common small fastener size on bikes, and common on many other things. Any bike shop and fastener/industrial supply stores as well as any hardware store with metric bolts should have it. Seatpost clamps usually take a hex cap bolt but they different in what length they need and sometimes are particular about the fit of the shoulder. The simple thing in your position would be to use a flat screwdriver or a pick to work the snapped bolt out and just bring the rest of the clamp in when you go get a new one. Model year type data for something like this isn't really how it's done on bikes. 

Before looking for a product to solve the problem, try this. Many tubeless rims grip the tire very tightly when one is just trying to push the tire very inwards to unseat it. The trick is often to push the bead section more straight down in the direction of the rim well, with a slight scooping motion inward. Sealant isn't glue and doesn't have all that much tensile strength. It's usually the case that you're more up against the mechanics of how the bead locks in place. 

It's probably some kind of unfixable (given the lack of replacement parts) problem with the pistons. If you want you can take apart the caliper to confirm, using a blower attachment on an air compressor to pop the pistons out and inspect them. But what it comes down to is if your no-service-parts-availability caliper is leaking oil repeatedly, there's not a lot you can do but replace it. Luckily a new BR-M785 complete with finned pads is under $50US. 

I've scoured some distributors and I don't think this exists. There's really only a couple 4-bolt asymmetrical triples out there period, and they haven't been out very long. I don't think you're going to see this anytime soon either, because it would blow past the RD max capacity specs of the applicable groups, which is a non-starter from a manufacturer's perspective. Sadly, these are not the cranks to own if you want freedom to customize your gearing, which is pretty ironic since conventional 110/74 are some of the best of all time for it. 

First double check the wheel is fully seated in the frame. If it is, and the caliper is sitting at an angle no matter what you do, it's a sign the post mounts need to be faced, which essentially is a shop job unless you buy a fairly expensive tool. This isn't common on new suspension forks for whatever reason, although you see it out of the box on frames quite a bit presently. Hopefully whoever you bought it from just takes care of it for you. A related problem arises if the mounting bolts have been overtightened and caused the post mount or adapter to dent a depression into the surface of the caliper. That doesn't really happen on relatively chunky mounts like these though, more the dainty rounded ones that some bikes use. 

One confusing thing here is that SRAM themselves, that I know of at least, have never made or warranted a 10 speed 11-42 1x setup. So you're not going to hear from them or their product documentation that any SRAM RD will work here. There are two questions. One is capacity, which is the total amount of slack the RD is capable of taking up. Different cage lengths are what gives you your different amounts of capacity. SRAM doesn't publish actual capacity numbers like Shimano does; they make you infer it from looking at their Compatibility Map documents. Because you're using a 1x, the capacity you need is simple to calculate: it's large cog tooth count minus small cog tooth count. For 2x or 3x, you're adding to that number the difference between the large ring and the small ring. So by looking at the Compatibility Map, we see that you actually only need a medium cage, since their capacity is sufficient for use with a 14t difference in front (42/28 double) plus a 21t difference in back (11-32 cassette). So at least 35t total capacity, whereas you only need 31t. Long cage would still work, but you don't get any benefit from it here other than versatility if you want to change things later, and the drawbacks are weight, ground clearance, and arguably shifting performance. Note that sometimes things can get awkward when one flirts with maxing out the total capacity of a rear derailer on a 1x, because then you're riding with the cage pulled all the way forward when in your big cog, which tends to add friction and decrease shifting performance. Here it should be fine, this setup with medium cage is more or less a known quantity (Wolf Tooth and OneUp both say it's a go with their 42t conversion cogs, for example) but in other cases I'd be cautioning that putting it all together is still going to be a bit of an experiment. Also note that chain growth is a factor that has to be managed on some full suspension bikes. The other issue is largest cog clearance. SRAM says the max for their 10-speed derailers is 36. In practice lots of people run them with 42t cassettes, either ones that come that way or are modded with aftermarket large cogs. It's possible that to get the pulley/cog gap required you may need to swap in an extra-long B-tension screw, which is just an M4x0.7 bolt. Note that SRAM 1x setups need kind of a lot of clearance here. I'm always a little baffled about the physics involved that makes a bigger gap work better, but it's true. In theory since you're putting the clearance out extra far here, shifting performance may suffer at the other end of the cassette, but in practice that doesn't seem to be much of an issue. 

If you haven't done so already, before taking everything apart you should check the tightness on all the external bits you can, such as both pedals, the eccentric's fastening hardware, your crank bolt, and all chainrings bolts. If you do have to take the BB out, don't forget to also clean and grease all the contact surfaces of the eccentric itself. In fact, with most eccentrics (probably including yours but I can't tell for sure), you can do that without taking the BB out of it if you want. 

Shimano replacement pins are distinct due to the side where the pilot gets broken off. The regular pins should not be pushed back in under any circumstances to avoid breakage. The real solution for someone with your habits is use a KMC Missing link 9 on each chain, which is re-openable and works great. I understand it can seem to make sense not to tarnish a safety-critical item with a third-party part. The truth is that the tactile nature of pushing pins through, even as per manufacturer recommendation with a new replacement pin, is much more accident prone than a securely fitting 2-piece connector made for the chain in question, as KMC ones are for Shimano. And disregarding their warning to not push normal pins back through is plain dangerous. 

Pitlock makes keyed bolts for disc calipers. You can also get them for most of the other theft-prone parts of your bike, and you can get them all keyed alike and order extra keys and sets for other bikes. Their products work really well. It is true that they're not going to stop someone with enough time.