The part is called brake cable hanger. If the problem is bending, avoid the sheet metal ones and get a forged aluminium one instead. 

In the hypothetical case where you can get accurately from zero braking to edge of traction, you still need to consider jerk: $URL$ especially part "Physiological effects and human perception of physical jerk". In reality, you still need modulation to adapt to differences in traction. Also, your XT brakes are fine and those who make fun of them don't know what they are talking about. 

There are huge differences in durability, braking performance and picking up grit between brands and models. In this case I believe comparing specific brands is justifiable. My experience has been following: 

34/50 is a standard combination, so 34/48 should work without problems. Friction shifters just make it easier to overshift and trim on the fly. 

Insecurity and attitude. As witnessed in answers to this question, the very presence of a compact crank leads to lectures about how pro racers can ever use regular crank and ranting about how regular crank users "serpentine their way up high grade mountain roads because they thought they could push standard gearing but can't." This gets old pretty fast. 

I get 5000 to 10000 kilometers from mid-priced 20€ Campagnolo C9 chains. I would say this is money well spent. Of course, as other answers state, riding conditions and maintenance do effect the chain life. In my experience SRAM and KMC chains are nowhere near as durable with similar maintenance. 

It is possible. For typical mountain rims, the low limit is somewhere around 28mm. Some differences from mounting narrower tires are following: 

The actual differences would be known only to people who have been involved in product development or sales, and they would likely be under a NDA. So, let's speculate. 

First off, practice a lot more. In bad weather, multiple days in a row, because it is what the trip will be at worst. I'd recommend at least the trip's length of base miles, other will probably suggest much more. For equipment, you'll need more clothes. Ireland is rainy, you will need at least a rain jacket, if it's cold rain pants and shoe covers will also be nice. Multiple shorts and jerseys are recommended, unless you can be absolutely sure that you get to wash and dry clothes every night. Viking looks like a seriously low quality bargain brand. I'd recommend to ride it for at least few hundred miles before the trip, just so that the parts that are going to break or wear out will fail before the trip and you learn to repair things. For touring, fenders are a nice addition. 

Fixed gear hubs have left-handed threaded lock rings, so that they can't be loosened when the cog that is on right handed thread is turned counterclockwise. 

First: merino wool boxers. EDIT: Also windproof boxers, see other answer below Second: Vest and short tights are very little for ~5°C, raining. You are losing a huge amount of body heat through your arms and legs, and this leaves little for body parts without active muscles. Wear more, and your balls will be warmer too. 

What you describe is fixed gear bicycle. Generally they are recommended only for people who are already very proficient at riding a bike, not kids under 3 years. 

I am not aware that anyone makes such sensor and can't see much use for one. The reason to have wheel sensor is to have accurate and quickly responding speed measurement. For tracking total mileage, there are mobile apps that can detect automatically that you are riding a bike and track mileage and speed using GPS. As a down side, such sensor would require persistent memory to store the mileage data and some extra software to synchronize it and as result, end up costing more to manufacture. You can compare the price of a Suunto smart HR belt that does store few hours' worth of HR data to one that does not. 

Old French bike parts have different size standards than Italian ones. See $URL$ for list. Probably the easiest part to measure is the bottom bracket width, which is 70mm for Italian and 68mm for French bikes. 

The nuts you see are bearing cone and locknut, and they should not be removed unless you are servicing the bearings. This kind of tolerances are something to be expected from bikes at this budget. Your options are to spread the fork by force, or since the bike is mail order, just return the whole thing. 

The weight distribution is affected only by the location of saddle and handlebars related to the wheels. It does not matter whether it is by higher rise stem or higher head tube. The difference that might affect handling is that system of frame with high head tube and short stem is stiffer than one of lower head tube and longer angled stem. You can feel the difference when pedaling hard, but any modern stem will be far stiffer than old-fashioned quill stems used to be. There is a financial difference, is your fitter recommending custom frames? 

Your rear derailleur is out of adjustment, possibly because it was knocked against something. There are already many good guides to derailleur adjustment on the internet, so I'd rather link to one from one from Park Tool than write another one. If your derailleur has been knocked badly out of alignment, you might also need to realign the hanger. 

I don't know about this this particular crank extractor, but the one I have came with two different end caps, one for ISIS/Octalink and one for square taper. Check that the end cap you are using fits inside the square hole in the crank, otherwise you will just strip the threads. After you are sure you have the right tool, use more torque. If you have a piece of metal pipe at hand, use it for extra leverage, or get a longer wrench. Turning clockwise is correct. 

Track frames in general are designed for manouverability, not stability or comfort. This does not make them very good commuter bikes, but if you absolutely need a track frame you know what you are getting into. Extra long stem tones down the twitchiness a bit, but also moves the weight distribution towards front wheel. Another solution would be buying a road frame with horizontal dropouts and not installing a rear brake. This will get you a top tube that is only moderately short related to your body, but would lose some credibility (if it was 2007, this is 2017 and track bikes are old news anyway). 

Yes, inner tubes do that. They are like balloons, except that the butyl rubber they are made of doesn't stretch like natural latex rubber. You are not supposed to inflate tubes outside a tire. Tires have fabric casing to withstand the pressure. 

To spread skid patches around the tire, you need to have chainring and cog that have mutually prime tooth counts, i.e. no common divisors. With a common 42 tooth chain ring, 21 is the worst possible choice because it produces a straight 2:1 ratio. If this did no seem to make sense, search for "skid patch calculator" to find interactive visualizations. If you really want to avoid excessive tire wear at the cost of some style points, a front brake is great. Also, the current version of Schwalbe Marathons doesn't seem to wear that well. Edit: After writing the answer, the question has changed. Having less skid patches is a good idea, if your aim is to wear the tire to cords faster. It will not help with braking because the tire has skid patch facing ground when you brake. It will also not help much with lateral grip, because the smooth patches will be even smoother. 

Engineer and fixed gear rider here, hello. My top speed on flat on fixed is 1 km/h less than on geared bike with similar wheels, and I'd explain that with my geared bike having lower handlebars. On level ground, a single speed bike, fixed or not, does not have any performance penalty compared to a geared bike. On the contrary, singlespeed has slightly less losses in transmission and a very slight aerodynamic advantage. The ability to adjust for exact cadence does not have any benefits either, because the actual pedaling power curve is fairly wide. The main benefit of fixed gear is training. The fixed gear forces you to both push hard on climbs and spin fast on descents, and combining these two skills on flat ground equals high speed (at least until you run out of breath). You can do the same exercises on a geared bike, but that requires some conscious effort, and most of riders seem to concentrate on keeping constant power and cadence. The problem with fixed gear on group rides are climbs and descents. A gear that is fine for group ride speeds on level ground means that you can't descend as fast as people with freewheel and gears, and have to climb at full power. The latter is a problem, because people think it as a challenge when actually you just need to climb fast to maintain even some cadence. Edit: Since you have to ask for a specific gear ratio on internet, my answer is 49/16. If you have access to a geared bike, you can simply try different gears until you find one that suits you. 

The difference between direct mount and standard hanger mount is the location of the mounting screw. Your frame has the standard hanger, you need an additional piece between it and the derailleur. If you look for images of TX-35, most of them look like this: Note the piece that the pivot screws into, which in turn screws into the frame. If you screw the pivot directly to your frame, the derailleur will work very poorly. Shimano derailleurs between 6 and 9 speeds (10 for road) have similar actuation ratios and movement limits, so they are compatible. It is not unusual for low end bikes to have derailleur from a higher series, even if it is intended for more speeds than the cassette and shifters have. 

Look for road wheels with Shimano-compatible freehub. For trainer use, any wheel will do. With high end wheels you might find a tubular rim or Campagnolo freehub, but any low end wheel will work. 

The geometry of this frame looks odd. 622mm wheels are too large to fit comfortably in a 51cm frame. Usually sizes this small are made to compensate with very steep seat tube angle to let the rear wheel forward and very shallow steering angle to avoid toes clipping front wheel. This bike has been made the other way around and that is why it looks and feels strange. 

The bigger question is, what would be the benefits of this setup? If you are willing to sacrifice the few grams of weight and square centimeters of cross section that come with wider tires, why wouldn't you use a wider tire in the front too? The benefits at comfort, grip and possibly rolling resistance apply to front, too. In my opinion, the bike also looks nicer if both tires are similar. And if you keep spares, the same one goes for both. 

I am 183 cm tall and ride size 55. I have relatively short legs, so I had a custom frame with longer than usual top tube made. For a person with more usual proportions a normal 56 would probably be fine. As already said, it depends on the exact dimensions and angles of that particular model. 

There should be a nut and washer at the threaded part of the axle. Get new ones, put on crank, washer and nut and tighten. 

The technology is called hydro dipping or water transfer printing. A quick search will find several companies that do it. I would expect you can find one that handles the production and shipping when you provide the design. 

The exercise bike feels different, because it is fixed in place and can not react to your movements like a real bike. When you jump out of saddle, your body moves forward in relation to bike. On road, the you keep moving at roughly same speed and the bike slows down momentarily to accommodate the change in relative positions. A fixed exercise bike can't move, so you are moving and stopping instead and that is what you feel as jerking motion. Also, when standing on a real bike you rock the bike to keep your body in place, but since this exercise bike does not allow sideways motion you have to move your weight sideways to put force on pedals. 

What you didn't ask but I'd recommend anyway: lubricate the chain and cables and adjust the gears before buying anything. The shifters are probably stuck because of old, dirty grease, and cleaning them with WD-40, CRC 5-56 or similar should help. Update after pictures: This style of shift lever can be completely disassembled and greased. If you want to replace the sprockets, what you need is a 6-speed freewheel and appropriate tool for removing the old one. New one can be screwed on by hand. Newer freewheels have teeth shaped for easier shifting, so upgrading may improve shifting. If you change to a new freewheel, you need to replace the old chain too, because it has worn together with the old freewheel. The correct cables are MTB-style for brakes and road-style for shifting. 

You can't. The reason is that drop bars are thicker than straight bars, and levers that are designed to match the 22.2mm tube of straight bars can't fit around 23.8mm that is standard drop bar size. The top of drop bars is even thicker: 26 or 31.8mm near the stem. 

Yes, it is possible, and bike computers have had sensors like yours before GPS existed. Either your sensor is broken, in which case you can have it replaced, or you have installed it wrong. 

I have the 35mm mudguards with 28mm tires. They keep the spray away from me but are covered in dirt all over after riding in the rain. Slightly wider mudguards on my other bike look better. You also need to keep the mudguards completely straight, because the low margins make them rub at the moment they bend. For comparison, the S-blade from other answer is 52mm wide.