Now on what happens inside a black hole, there's some good answers to that already and I don't want to make this too long, especially since I'm a layman, but I find the speculation of that exotic region inside the event horizon to be great fun to think about. I personally don't believe in singularities. I (THINK), that the wave and field nature of quantum mechanics and the fact that empty space has properties which, for example, particle anti particle pairs can form essentially out of nothing, (which make hawking radiation possible), I think there's probably some kind of exotic space of never a full singularity. I don't think there's what might be called a physical material inside a black hole. I think things would behave differently than that, more like the exotic nature of a proton or electron than the physical nature of a surface, but that's just my thoughts on the subject. Without a quantum theory of gravity, it's a bit like the blind looking at a map though. Nobody knows. (too long?) 

But I call BS, cause one, this doesn't site a source and some basic google-research on Earth volcanic activity suggests the numbers are far from that neat and tidy - see charts below. 

Are you quoting somebody here? Anyway, this isn't quite true. Black holes don't accelerate things from -c (which I'm guessing would be a light beam trying to fly away from the singularity but inside the event horizon), to 0 "instantaneously". Perhaps a better way to look at it is to consider curvature of space, and inside a black hole, space curves so much that all directions point to the singularity. It's the "all roads go to Rome" scenario, even if you do a complete 180, you're still on a road that leads to the singularity. I understand the temptation to look at that as deceleration, but I think that's a bad way to think about it. Light doesn't decelerate, it follows the curvature of space. 

The reason for this is that any debris that's knocked off the comet at a low velocity has pretty much the same orbit as the original comet, and over hundreds or thousands of orbits, it tends to fill up the entire comet's orbit with mostly tiny particles, some larger ones. The debris field or dust trail from the comet generally follows in the comets orbit. This picture is a bit more accurate as to what the Earth is passing through. $URL$ The more compact the dust trail or debris field, the more meteors, but the smaller the target the Earth has to hit, so odds are greater that the Earth will miss the field entirely. The more spread out, the greater chance the Earth hits the debris field, but more spread out means we get fewer meteors. Earth's orbit crosses the Perseid (eliptical ring of debris) or Swift-Tuttle's debris field about the same time every year because Earth's and Swift-Tuttle's orbits nearly intersect. 

The Moon's apsidal precession completes a full 360 cycle every 8.85 years or roughly 109 synodic orbits, a bit over 3 degrees off where it should be by kepler's laws per orbit. That's over 1000 times the variation of Mercury's precession, which confused astronomers for decades. This significant lunar precession is almost entirely due to solar tides and it's an example of how solar tides affect the Moon's orbit around the Earth. If Venus or Mercury had moons, those moons would probably have even bigger precessions. Now, long term changes are far slower as the precession tends to balance out over time. Even with the Moon's significant precession it's still considered a stable orbit and it's comfortably inside the true region of stability inside Earth's Hill Sphere. There's also very little chaotic unpredictability in the Moon's orbit that is typical of a standard 3-body problem. That's not to say there's none, there's still some, but there's also a long term constancy to the Moon's orbit. See here, for a very nice explanation of the 3-body problem. So, long story short, what happens with a structured orbit (Sun-Planet-Moon), where all orbits are inside true regions of stability, becomes somewhat predictable. Basically the sun steals or saps energy from the planet-moon orbit as an effect of the tidal force. How this happens is tricky to explain and maybe there's an expert who can explain it better or give cool graphics. I don't have those skills. Now "stealing" is perhaps a bad word. The planet orbits the star and the moon, orbits the planet but that orbit is stretched and squeezed by the stars tidal force. If you think of the Moon as a "bulge" on the planet the solar gravity tugs on that bulge, slowing it down. But the effect is quite small as what it does is both speed it up over 1/2 the orbit and slow it down over the 2nd half, but the de-circularizaiton of the orbit when added up, works out to a decrease in orbital energy over time. The sun is doing this to the Earth-Moon system now, but it's measurably smaller than the Earth-Moon dynamic that pushes the Moon away from the Earth about 3.8 cm per year. Over time, as the Earth loses it's oceans, and the Moon moves slightly further out, the solar effect will become the primary force, slowing drawing the Moon back towards the Earth, But that's probably billions of years away. An alternate way to think about this, instead of Sun-Planet-Moon is Planet-Moon-sub satellite or, planet-moon-sub moon. This model we have actual observed data for. Moons as a rule, don't have their own moons and the reason for this is the same - tidal forces. And on average, the tidal force a moon receives from it's planet are significantly greater than the force a planet gets from it's star, but while the tides are many times stronger, the principal is still the same. See "Can moons have moons". Dr. Fraser Cain explains what happens, he doesn't get into the specifics of why (math drives away readers). But he explains what happens. From his article 

Food for thought on density and time dilation. Density isn't gravity. We tend to think it is, but it's not. Variation in density gives us gravity. If you have an infinite universe, very young, hot and dense, but it's uniform, then you have no time dilation. One way to think about this is to ask if light passing through the universe is red shifted or blue shifted. If the universe is uniform and infinite, it's the same in all directions around the photon, so the photon is neither red nor blue shifted, so, contrary to what our intuition about relativity tells us, there might not have been a great deal of time dilation in the very young universe. Of-course the ray of light passing through expanding space is enormously red-shifted, but that doesn't affect time dilation. The gravitational red or blue shift in the very young universe might still be close to zero meaning very little time dilation anywhere. As the early universe grew less uniform then you had time dilation variations in denser parts of the early Universe but with FTL expansion and gravity limited by the speed of light, it's unclear if there ever was massive time dilation in the young universe (at least, unclear to me, if somebody here knows 100%, feel free to post and/or correct me). Now if we assume the universe is finite and flat and the big bang happened at a point, which, generally isn't the model most people like these days, then you could run into enormous time dilation inside the tiny young and dense universe, but it still expanded FTL, so the calculations get weird and too hard for me. If the expansion of space happens faster than gravity can keep up, gravitational time dilation might not apply, at least not until after the rate of expansion slowed down enough for gravity to permeate the local regions. I couldn't even begin to run the math on this and you'd have different answers for different models too, I'd think. I agree with Andy though, it would need to be accounted for or the models wouldn't be much good. 

As far as fractal, flowers are sometimes used as examples of fractal patterns, so I can see how, looking at the flower pattern, one might think it might be fractal. It's really not. Fractals are non-repeating. Kepler Orbits are repeating. Some of Earth's Milankovich cycles may be fractal in their variation. That's another topic though. 

Source The James Webb Telescope, when it's launched will orbit around Earth's L2 Lagrange point, which isn't stable, but it requires relatively small adjustments to stay in that order. It's also useful because it will be nearly entirely shaded from the sun by the Earth and it works best in cold space, away from sunlight. 

I agree with Cipher's answer, but just to add, from a certain point of view, Oxygen could be stored and used like a fuel in a situation like that. Now, as far as aliens doing so, I have some doubt that you can have life (intelligent life if they're using fuel) on a planet with a Nitrogen/CH4 atmosphere cause I don't see how that would actually work and how the resperatory cycles would balance out. I looked into that a little bit and it gets pretty complicated, so, I don't want to say it's impossible, but I suspect it's unlikely, but, if we take your scenario and work with the assumption that there's intelligent life on a Goldilocks planet that breathes N2/CH4 (maybe throw some CO2 in there), on a rocky planet with oceans, I see no reason why they couldn't use Oxygen as fuel, at least, running "oxygen lines" inside their alien homes to make fire, perhaps to cook with - sure. It seems like it would be a useful convenience. You don't gain much energy pulling Oxygen from Silicate rock or Iron Oxide or from water and then using it to burn in a methane atmosphere, so I don't think it would be an energy source, unless they use bacteria to produce oxygen and then, maybe. Oxygen wouldn't concentrate underground the way hydrocarbons do, so in that sense, it wouldn't be drill-able, but as a transportable "fuel like" substance, it would work. I see no reason why that couldn't be done. If we ever set up an astronaut colony on Titan, which, while much farther away from the earth than Mars, it has several advantages, one being, the surface pressure is manageable, so structures wouldn't need to be able to contain a significant fraction of 14.4 PSI. They'd need to be mostly air tight, but compared to the structural integrity needed to not lose atmosphere to a vacuum, that's easy. Astronauts/colonists on Titan would be able to collect rocky CO2 and H2O from the Moon's surface and use that to grow plants inside and in time, they would probably have an abundance of oxygen and under certain circumstances, that Oxygen could be used in a similar way to fuel. I think the scenario the way you wrote it is very unlikely, but oxygen being used like fuel on a methane or hydrogen abundant atmosphere, more likely some kind of astronaut colony, there's no reason why that couldn't be done that I can think of. PS - That's on the speculative side for an answer here, but that's my thoughts on the question. 

I'd also like to set some kind of time-limit because young solar-systems can have hundreds of large planitesimals. By about 700 million years of age, our solar-system had, for the most part, settled down into the 8, maybe soon to be 9, planets that are currently known. A larger star probably has the potential for a good deal more than 9. But if it takes 700 million years (give or take) for a protoplanetary disk to work itself out into planets with stable, semi-permanent orbits, that puts a limit on the size of the star. A 40 solar-mass star has a lifespan of only a million years or so before it goes Supernova. That's far too short a lifespan for planetary systems to form. Even a 10 solar mass star lasts just 30 million years or so. Again, too short. A 4 solar mass star has a lifespan some 30 times shorter than our sun (using the 2.5 power rule, which I've also seen as a 3 power rule, but all this is pretty ballpark. Point is, a star with 4 solar masses has less than 400 million years for it's planetary system. 5 solar masses, as little as 200 million years. That's pretty close to what I'd call the minimum amount of time for a planetary system to have relevance, so I'm going to go with a 4 solar mass upper limit. The romantic notion of a star 20 times the mass of our sun, with 100 planets might make good science fiction, but it's not realistic. A 2nd factor to consider is the mass and size of the planetary debris field. Our sun is about 99.8% of the mass of the solar-system, leaving 0.2% of the solar-system's mass to form all the planets and other stuff. There was probably more mass in the debris field originally, some of which was lost as rogue planets, rogue comets and asteroids, so the original planetary debris field might have been higher, but not all that much higher. Larger objects can cast out smaller ones. The ratio of lost debris to remaining debris shouldn't be all that high. (if anyone knows, feel free to post a comment). The highest percentage of mass in a forming solar-system is difficult to calculate and it depends on the total angular momentum of the debris field that collapses into the spiraling disk of matter, but it's improbable that the % of mass gets too high. 1%-3% might be on the upper limit. If we go with 3% of the mass of a 4 solar mass star in the planetary disk that's about 40,000 Earth masses or about 125 Jupiter masses. That's obviously ballpark, perhaps too ballpark, but it helps to have a sense of how much stuff we have to work with. The size of a debris field is important too. By this article, the largest debris field ever observed is about 1,000 AU in diameter (500 AU in radius) with a debris field mass of about 3.1 += .6 Jupiter masses and a central star perhaps less massive than our sun. Whether such a system could form planets as far out as 500 AU is hard to say, but I'm inclined to think that the outermost planet would form comfortably inside that debris field, not at the observed edge. It's worth pointing out that planetary formation is a chaotic mess. A young protoplanetary disk, especially one with some 125 jupiter masses worth of material could easily form over 100 planet sized objects early in formation, but it wouldn't retain that many. Planets perturb each other's orbits and they need space. You'd get collisions like the collection that formed our Moon and larger planets can send smaller planets any which way. No system could keep 100 planets. It's too many and would be much too unstable. There would be far fewer when a mostly stable formation is reached. Jupiter, for example, is believed to have migrated towards the sun when our solar system was young, them migrated back outwards, called type II migration. Migrating Jupiters are both good and bad if you want a lot of planets. Jupiter's migration is believed to be the reason why there's no planets and so much empty space between Mars and Jupiter and why Mars is so small. Jupiter's migration may have also sent Uranus, Neptune out to their current distant orbits, so gas giant migration can move planets around, but it can also cast them completely out of a solar-system. The larger the gas giant, the greater a kick it can give to smaller planets. Very massive planets are bad if you want the highest number of planets because they cause greater perturbations and demand the greatest space around them. With a lot of debris in a planetary disk, very large planets are likely to form so more debris isn't always better. What you probably want is a larger, more spread out disk, where you don't get any super massive planets, but some massive enough to push some young forming planets outwards to create more planets at greater distances. Planets are unlikely to form at very great distances, but they can be tossed out there by larger planets to very distant orbits. By tossing a number of fledgling planets outwards early in formation, the total number of planets in a solar-system could increase. How close can the planets be to each other? Planets don't like to be too close to each other. While we can't see small planets very well, Kepler observations seem to confirm this that very close planets are rare. When they're too close, there's orbital instability. Earth and Venus are the closest planets by multiple, where Earth is 1.38 times the distance from the sun as Venus. By this short article, a multiple of 1.4 to 1.8 times the distance between planets is suggested. Observations of exo-solar-systems find very few planets closer than 1.4 times their nearest observed neighbor, so for an entire system, a 1.4 to 1.8 multiple seems about right on average. Planets around small stars, like Trappist 1 can get very close to each other, close enough that they can appear about moon sized from their closest neighbors, but those systems are almost entirely around small red-dwarf stars with very tight orbits, often with orbital resonance and even with very close orbiting planets, they still average out to about the 1.4 multiple or greater. Planets in a 3/2 orbital resonance that corresponds to a 1.31 distance multiple, and such resonances depend on the interactive tidal force that are only possible at close distances around smaller stars. Kepler 36 is an oddball with two very close planets with a 7:6 orbital resonance, but building an entire solar system from planets that close seems enormously improbable. So, a key criteria to my estimate is the 1.4 distance multiple, and that's probably conservative over an entire system. How close can the closest planets be to the star? The heat of a 4 solar-mass star is a problem for very close planets. A 4 solar mass star, (while the luminosity changes over it's lifetime), is over 100 times more luminous than our sun, so the innermost rocky planet should probably begin at roughly about 10 times the distance Mercury is from our sun. Much closer than that and the planet would be in danger of being vaporized. So for a 4 solar mass star, 3 AU might be a good starting point. Applying the 1.4 multiple to a 3 AU starting point. A hot Jupiter might survive closer than that, but a hot Jupiter couldn't form that close, so that would probably require too much migration for our goal of highest number of planets. so, if we start at 3 AU, and we do a 1.4 distance multiple, then our 4 solar mass star can have up to 30 planets within an orbits less than one light year, and just 32 within 2 light years, so you don't add much by doubling the distance, at least, using the 1.4 multiple. An obvious question that follows might be, well, maybe the 1.4 multiple no longer applies at larger distances, but planets would need to grow fairly large to effectively clear out their orbit and have an effect on near-by asteroids and comets, like Neptune does and Planet 9 is believed to, so as the distance grows, you can't have mercury sized planets and define them as planets, and as the distance grows, the planets gravitational effect on each other remains consistent, so the 1.4 multiple rule should still apply even at very distant orbits. Mercury for example, is massive enough to be a planet where it is, but if it was out past Neptune, it would be perhaps too small to clear out it's orbit. Here's a question that discusses this in more detail and it raises the problem that if Pluto was some 15-20 times more massive, the minimum mass it would need and assuming it wasn't crossing Neptune's orbit, That theoretical object would still need a billion years to clear it's orbit and that's over twice our star's lifetime and the necessary minimum size grows a larger at greater distances. So, if we go with our one-light year proposal, an object orbiting around a 4 solar mass star at 1 light year distance has an orbital period of about 8 million years and an orbital velocity of about .23 km/s and it would have a required minimum mass to clear out it's orbit of at least several Earths. Planet 9, for comparison, is thought to have an orbital period between 10,000 and 20,000 years and an orbital velocity in the .5-.7 km/s range and a semi-major axis of about 600-800 AU or about 1/90th of a lightyear. Those numbers are all ballpark and just posted for comparison. But it points out the difficulty in recognizing a planet in a very distant orbit. And for a planet to get that distant, it would need to be thrown out there by a larger planet, presumably undergoing type II migration or, perhaps captured from a passing star. I think you'd probably want some of both to maximize the number of planets. A star with a very large very distant planet could be effective in helping capture planets and/or debris from nearby stars that pass too close. In both cases, the planet cast out very far or captured planets would initially have a very eccentric orbit and it would take some time for any such planets to circularize and you'd need the orbits to circularize, because a handful of eccentric orbits don't meet the planet criteria if they cross other planets. Again, using our solar-system as a model, the outer planets, Uranus, Neptune and Planet 9 (if it exists) are all thought to have formed quite a bit closer to the sun than where they are now and migrated outwards, presumably by Jupiter. A large star could have upwards of 100 Mercury or maybe even Earth sized objects in it's orbit, but no where close to that many that would meet the planet criteria. 30 is pushing it. A large star capturing planets whether rogue, or capturing planets off a smaller star is certainly possible. 3 body dynamics does make planet capture possible, but there's still the problem of eccentricity and orbits crossing other orbits not meeting the criteria of a planet. If you dismiss that standard orbital criteria or a planet, then the number goes up. So, using the criteria for a large star (4 solar masses) an innermost planet (3 AU) an outermost (1 light year - a bit of a stretch), and distance multiple (1.4 - also probably on the low side), a 4 solar mass star could have a maximum of 30 planets. If you run different criteria, you get different numbers, but I think that's a pretty good upper benchmark, perhaps on the generous side. Such a system could have a lot more objects that meet the dwarf-planet criteria, some of them even what we think of as planet sized, but meeting the complete planet criteria, 30 seems a pretty good gonzo upper limit. Something interesting happens if you make the star smaller. If we make the star 2 solar masses instead of 4 and put the outermost planet at the inverse square law or .707 light years, not 1 light year. A 2 solar mass planet is about 12-16 times as luminous as our sun and 12-16 times less luminous than a 4 solar mass star, so the outermost planet that wouldn't get vaporized is now about 1 AU, not 3 AU. So the inner part of the planet region is 3 times closer and just 1.4 times close on the outside, so curiously a 2 solar mass star could perhaps maybe hold more planets than the 4 solar mass star. It wouldn't capture as many, on average, but the upper limit still goes up, using the same criteria to 32 or 33 for a 2 solar mass star and continues to grow as the star gets smaller. At the same time, as stars get smaller, the upper end mass of the planetary debris field grows smaller too and the ability to capture planets drops, so I don't small stars are good candidates for the most planets, but interestingly, smaller stars with smaller protoplanetary disks could still, on average have as many planets as their larger neighbors. When James Webb starts to take a look, maybe we'll get an answer on this. Obviously if you had all no criteria, and a star a few million light years from the nearest galaxy or massive object, you could design something with many more planets, but I'm thinking formation within a galaxy and I'm thinking that both planet capture and the right set of circumstances during formation would both play a role in maximizing the number of planets. A star that far from other stars would be unlikely to capture any planets. Hope that's not too world-building an an answer or too long. I'll try to check it for typos tomorrow. (kinda late now).