Great answers above, but I would like to add one more point. Good bad or otherwise, there is a history to these standards. If they are being followed, there is likely a significant code-base written to these standards. Your request to change the standards would create a need to revisit the entire code-base to restructure the old code. This could be a significant effort and adds risk for inadvertent code changes. If the team doesn't touch the old code, you are now leaving by two (or more) standards. In my experience, if you have more than one standard, you probably really have none. 

Good answer from the applicant perspective from @WorkerWithoutACause above, here is something from the company's side. If a company posts a job, it means they have work to get done. While they know that process may take a while, they still want to get a good candidate soon. Unless they specifically are hiring new graduates (where they know they need to wait for the academic calendar), they are going to expect you to start within a reasonable time of the job offer, not months from that time. While start dates are negotiable, many times they won't be interested in waiting months for you to start, especially if there are other qualified candidates. So, go ahead and start applying and interviewing, it's good experience and you don't know how long it will take. But, be prepared for some tough decisions if the job search goes well and you find something quickly. If you get an offer in October/November for an open position, I'm not sure how willing the company will be to wait until April. 

I would disagree with your assessment that network training is not related to your work as a software engineer. While your current project might not involve any network dependent components, in our current world of web applications, service based applications and cloud infrastructures, there is likely to be networking involved in your application stack in the future. Just because you aren't writing low-level network api code doesn't mean networking knowledge isn't valuable. I am a software development manager and I would view network knowledge as valuable in a candidate for a software engineering job. I would talk to your manager about your training and certificates. You should also be clear about whether or not you would like to take on projects in that direction. The fact that you are trying to broaden your knowledge base demonstrates positive traits to your manager and he/she should know about it. Of course, this probably doesn't apply ballroom dancing certificates :), but I would suggest you take a wider view of what continuing education might be valuable and make you a more well rounded employee. 

Without knowing what is happening to your company and how others in your role were treated, it's hard to give definitive answers. Here are some thoughts incorporating the perspective of the business. Most companies, certainly the good ones, would prefer that their employees are happ. But, there will be times were needs of the business are a higher priority. 

Using actual employees for internal media productions is a fuzzy subject, you should definitely check with HR. Certainly the employees should be told they are being used. In this case, I personally think you should not. You will be exposing potentially private information about these employees. Does the rest of the company need to know that I only worked 4 hours last Friday? Should they know? 

I'm not sure you can avoid being "that" guy, because that is what you are doing. I understand your objections, and I wouldn't have a problem with that. But you can't make other people not care about your being absent, regardless the reason. It really comes down to how important your management feels it is that you be present. You can have them try to downplay your absence if it comes up, but people are likely to ask and I certainly wouldn't recommend lying to clients, sooner or later someone will find out and then your team/company look bad for lying about something that isn't really that important in the big picture. You need to work with your boss to find the most agreeable solution that meets the company's needs. Client relationships are key to the success of the business, sometimes we need to do things that we don't personally like to help maintain those relationships. 

It sounds to me like your real question is whether they will be offended by your repo name, not just whether or not they will look at github. I may be old school, but I am a hiring manager, so I will share my thoughts on your question. When I am interviewing candidates, I am looking at the entire candidate, not just the technical skills. Over the years, I have worked with programmers who had better than average to excellent skills, that I would never have hired because of personality/behavior issues. As a manager, I am building a team, and those traits can be critical to the success of the whole team, regardless of your skill level. I'm not saying I wouldn't hire you because of the repo name, but you would likely have raised some negative questions in my mind, before I have even met you for the interview. The fact that you chose to use a term that would not be acceptable in a business conversation, to name a publicly view-able repo, would make me wonder what else you might do along that line. If I hire you, there will be times that you represent me as an extension of the team, and I need to know that you will represent the team appropriately. 

You, and your team, need to be careful not to be an enabler. There are certainly some people in the workplace that will take advantage of the fact that you will cover their lack of effort. It may be that the reason your manager hasn't noticed is because the work is getting done. Whether you should talk to your manager really depends on the full team relationship and may or may not be a good idea. It could be viewed as helpful by your manager, or you could come across as a complainer. Without knowing your team's culture it's hard to say how it would be received. Real outcomes should make it t apparent to your manager what is going on. Do your job and work the expected amount of time. There may be random times that some extra effort is needed, but otherwise don't go out of your way to put in extra hours to cover someone else. If you and everyone else on the team just worry about getting your tasks done, it should become evident to your manager that this other person is not doing their job. There may be some short term deadlines missed, but this shouldn't be enough to make a project fail unless your manager really isn't paying attention or won't take action. It may be that the other employee has a legitimate reason (health, etc) for needing to leave early, but even in that case, it is not your job to make up for their work unless your manager has already talked to you about it, which apparently they have not. 

In all cases, both should try. Neither one should make assumptions about what happened on the other end. I have had calls where my cell phone lost the connection, but the call did not actually end. The person I was talking to just thought I had stopped talking and they started to respond, not knowing I had disconnected. When they saw my name on call waiting, they realized something had gone wrong. This is not a situation that should have some formal protocol, you both should try to get the conversation going again. 

Generally speaking, you shouldn't work with more than one recruiter in the same geographic area for the same type of job. Exactly these types of situations or worse can happen. Imagine recruiter A sends your resume to Company A for a job. Not surprisingly, recruiter B sees the same opening and sends your resume to company A for the same job. Now, if company A is even willing to talk to you after seeing your resume twice from different recruiters (they may not want to deal with the hassle), they won't care who gets paid and likely will pay the first recruiter's agency. This is not fair to recruiter B who has a reasonable expectation of getting paid for a job they posted you for and you actually got. In past job searches, I have had recruiters tell me they would not work with me if I was using another recruiter, for exactly this reason. They don't want to the work unless they know they will get paid. Seems reasonable.