Regarding the stability of this assessment, that is a bit more difficult. Regarding trans children specifically, you might be interested in this question: Do 80% of gender-dysphoric children grow up deciding not to change their gender?. The study linked above also looked at the stability of gender typing - not gender identity though. It says that there are few studies with different results on the question, and concludes that: 

The referenced Daily Beast article is still available online, as is their source, a post by Judicial Watch. The issue in question was in 2009, when the White House wanted Feinberg to do interviews with the major news networks (ABC, CBS, NBC, and CNN), but excluded Fox News. They originally claimed that this was a mistake, but as the documents obtained by Judicial Watch show, this was done deliberately: 

The fact that Trump provided a statement for a reprint in 1993 which did not question the existence of the deposition but instead a statement restating what happened and the fact that the Trump campaign did not doubt the existence of the deposition in 2016 but instead argued about the meaning of it suggests that the deposition did indeed exist. 

Source: Asian J Sports Med. Sep 2012; 3(3): 185–192. Therefore, it seems fair to assume a positive effect on IgA levels from morning sex. Based on the study by Hejazi and Hosseini, I'd advise the 'short drill' version to avoid an inadvertent negative effect stemming from endurance exercise. 

The Benefits Informally, many people have been reported to have survived after having been administered the Heimlich maneuver. Some people reportedly still breathing after the technique include Ronald Reagan, Elizabeth Taylor and Goldie Hawn. Usually, these reports describe people choking on solid food items. Apart from the study below, I have found no non other scientific sources that showed statistics (other than Heimlich's own reports). 

(Photo by James Gathany, Public Health Image Library (PHIL), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) But it could be worse. 

The article you link to quotes Debby Herbenick for this statement. There are studies showing the levels of Immunoglobulin A (IgA) are increased after morning exercise and studies that indicate increased levels of IgA correlated with sexual activity. IgA has been shown to be vital in mucosal immunity. 

Studies finding that there is a sex difference in favor of women A study by Keth et al disputes the Developmental Theory of Sex: 

No, it seems that the Liebowitz study is completely made up. The MSNBC Article The link that is given doesn't work anymore. But using the wayback machine, it can be seen what article was hosted on that link in 2010. It is an article about Springsteen, not about rape. It is fair to conclude that this article never existed, but is made up. Shame and Guilt in the Aftermath of Sexual Attack This study doesn't seem to exist. The only hits on google are mens rights websites. It's difficult to prove the absence of something, but even for redacted papers, there should be some trace of it online. Using google, the earliest mention of the study that can be found are two forum posts from August 13th 2010 (1, 2). Commenters on those forums doubted the correctness of the post, noting that the MSNBC article is about Bruce Springsteen and that the OP is a troll. Herschel Liebowitz This person doesn't seem to exist either. Again, the only results are MRA websites. Herschel Leibowitz exists, but his field of research is visual perception (and he was 85 years old when the supposed study was published). The only thing that actually exists from this story seems to be the Journal of Clinical Psychiatry. Actual Studies There aren't many actual studies about this. Sexual arousal and orgasm in subjects who experience forced or non-consensual sexual stimulation does reference some studies and interviews about this topic: 

So far, it seems to just be an internet story that's been passed along by word of mouth. There are no newspaper articles referencing it (outside of "Weird News" articles who are just passing on the internet story). It's referenced in a few books, but never with any additional information on the source of the story. 

From the question that you quoted, one of the studies quoted there covers some aspects of nutrition. Microwave heating of infant formula: a dilemma resolved Pediatrics (1992) vol. 90 pages 412-415. (Bold emphasis is mine) 

With the court records sealed, it's hard to say why they might have gone with "involuntary manslaughter". Manslaughter (a more likely crime for beating someone to death with a candlestick) currently carries a two year minimum sentence (I don't know if it was different then), so the sentence would have been longer if she had been convicted of that. It's possible, also, that juvenile offenses might be treated differently. Nevertheless, the truth may never be known for anyone not directly involved with the case or with access to those sealed files. 

Henry Heimlich named the maneuver (seen below) after himself, and has been a strong proponent of this invention, as well as of many other of his inventions, through his (again eponymous) Heimlich Institute. In a study performed by Heimlich and others investigating its efficacy he describes the intuitive reason it should work as follows: 

source: Soroudi A. et al., 2011 The US National Library of Medicine advocates using the technique after less dangerous methods have been exhausted. Their source for claiming so is Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice. The maneuver is still taught in many classes. Reported Detractors The Red Cross has published guidelines in 2006 that do still show the Heimlich maneuver. The change is that first slaps on the back are recommended, and only then abdominal thrusts (Heimlich). This has been reported to be downgrading or detracting from the Heimlich maneuver. However: 

Their claim notes the source as "Census Bureau data by the Journal of Blacks in higher education", which I couldn't find a more specific resource for. Are these statements otherwise verified? I can imagine African immigrants having the highest immigration demands of any group, but the statements still seem counter-intuitive considering funding issues for academia in large parts of Africa. 

There seem to be two cases where hickeys may have caused strokes. One in 2010 in New Zealand and one in 2016 in Mexico. The case from 2016 is probably too recent to be mentioned in any papers, but here is the case report for the 2010 case, published by the New Zealand Medical Association: 

The News Minute published a longer video containing more context for the quote. It seems fair to say that there is enough evidence that Naik did said this, but that he feels misunderstood. 

I don't see a reason for them to make this up in 2008, but there does not seem to be audio recording of this, nor are there other sources from the time that reported about this. One other website reported about the conference and Trump Jr., but does not contain the quote or any other statements made by Trump Jr. regarding Russia. The source for the third quote is James Dodson - a writer focusing on golf - in an interview with WBUR, in which he claims that Eric Trump said this in a private conversation in 2013. Eric Trump denies this. There is no way of knowing whose version of events is correct. 

But it looks like they focus on transmission through fecal bacteria. Cecil Adams, of Straight Dope fame, did do a column on this subject, including discussing cunnilingus and fellatio: 

Snopes has an article on the "Charlie Charlie Challenge" and they point out that, at the least, the origin is a bit silly: 

Short answer, no. It is possible to sustain Repetitive Stress Injuries (RSI) from smartphone usage, much like the early traumas of "Blackberry Thumb" and "Nintendonitis", but these will not create permanent deformity of the fingers. As covered in the Snopes article on the phenomenon, the most likely explanation for people posting pictures of their ostensible damage is clinodactyly, a common slight curvature of the fingers caused by genetics which most people are unaware that they have until they look. 

Less, actually. According to the New York Times, she only served 8 months although she was indeed charged with 12 months at the sentencing (some accounts also render the number as six months served). I have not found any documentation as to how she got early release, but general wisdom seems to be that each day of good behavior acts as two days of sentence for most crimes, so she would only have had to have been well-behaved for four of the eight months if that were the case. Whether or not she actually planned the murder did not really enter into sentencing since she pleaded down to involuntary manslaughter, which has no minimum sentencing. 

When we got our new puppy I laid a great lawn on our balcony (an amazing 1m2 patch of grass) that sadly had to be replaced after a few weeks due to yellow spots. I found a product with the name Dog Rocks that is said to prevent this issue. There are some sketchy claims on the site - such as that the pH of dog pee remains the same, and ammonia in water being reduced (was I giving my little dog ammonia!?). A study by McGill University is given as evidence here. Are "Dog rocks" more useful than pet rocks? They definitely seem to be sold a lot going by Amazon's number of reviews for them. 

Unless the esophagus is fully blocked Raising the arms will therefore increase oxygen uptake in healthy people, which may make you feel like you are not choking anymore. Note though that raising the arms is not an appropriate method to help a person who is actually choking. Unless the person is able to breathe adequately the Heimlich maneuver should be performed if coughing does not solve the problem. [warning, anecdotal] My tennis trainer always told us to put our arms up and breathe in when panting after a demanding exercise. During Yoga and other 'breathing exercises' the arms are usually also repositioned to either limit or maximize lung volume. 

So if we assume that the document is genuine[*], and if we assume that the Lone Jihad Guide Team belongs to Al-Qaeda[**], then yes, there has been a suggestion to avoid targeting areas where "minorities are found". But the reason isn't that the "American government finds nothing wrong with [killing whites]", or that "Democrats will think Republicans where responsible for the attack", but that it distracts from the main message. It also doesn't appear that ISIS had anything to do with the document. The document also did not say to not attack or kill minorities, but to not target them specifically. The document also does not mention the second amendment, gun rights, or conservatives. The ADL summarizes the reason for avoiding targeting minorities like this: 

There are also individual cases which show this practice from before the passage of the ACA, such as this case where a rape victim was denied coverage because of HIV meds she took as a precaution after the assault: 

Conclusions to draw from the map We can't draw the conclusions proposed in the OP from this map for various reasons, among them: 

Link to relevant study The latter case generally only happens in enclosed spaces with large amounts of peanut material, such as an airplane where dozens of people are popping open peanut packets (study based on self-report) or inside a kitchen where peanut oil is being used to fry things and particles of the oil are being thrown into the air. 

They also note of that first picture that "The image is actually a photo of the Lady Liberty statue at the Agrément roundabout on the Caribbean island of St. Maarten, which was sculpted by Theodore Bonev in 2007 to commemorate the 159th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation. It has no connection (other than a thematic one) to the Statue of Liberty in New York." 

However, it should be noted that the results did not show the oily fumes themselves causing cancer, but rather that it seems to increase the risk if the person inhaling the fumes is also a smoker. 

As you noted, the information does seem to be part of an "FBI document" sent to law enforcement, albeit one that quotes Wikipedia as a source. That said, there's no proof yet that this is an official document, or correct. Take, for example, the infamous Blue Star tattoo memo, which claims that there's a growing issue with people trying to "hook" kids on LSD by impregnating tattoos with cartoon characters with acid. Also, answering the question in your title, the symbol might have been an unintentional similarity. Unilever uses a very similar symbol and have for many years. 

The numbers quoted by Maher are correct - 10-30% of Republicans viewed the economy positively under Obama, and that number increased strongly from 31% to 61% once Trump took over. For Democrats, it did not change with the election of Trump. Bombing Syria Maher names 22% (2013) and 86% (2017) for Republicans and 38%/37% for Democrats approving of airstrikes. I was unable to find the polls containing those numbers. These two polls from 2013 and 2017 show slightly different numbers: 35% (2013) and 77% (2017) for Republicans and 29%/45% for Democrats. A CBS Poll from 2017 shows numbers closer to those cited by Maher, but I was unable to find a comparable poll for 2013. Income Tax Mahers numbers come from this Gallup Poll: 

It seems that an implied question here is if islam is especially homophobic - for example compared to christianity. One source to answer this would be the Pew Research Center. In 2014, 45% of muslims said that homosexuality should be accepted by society, compared to 62% overall, 54% christian, 36% evangelical, 81% jewish, or 94% atheists.