No, you can't get an electric shock from a 12V power source. The Underwrites Laboratory which regulates product safety in the US defines "hazardous voltage" as 

This appears to be mostly correct and derived from a report published by the CDC $URL$ The report seems to look at two numbers: 2015 for all of the US and statistics 2003-2014 but only for 18 states. There is also an older report by the department of justice $URL$ which has more consistent data. The numbers don't quite add up, but seem to align to the following conclusions 

The absolute number, of course, doesn't mean much without putting in context: how many males are killed by their female partner. The Department of Justice report puts the "males killed by females" rate at about 7% vs 40% of "females killed by males". On the other hand the total number of males killed overall is also about 3.5 times higher (see for example $URL$ Putting this all together, one could estimate that the total number of females killed by male partners is about 60% higher than the other way around. In terms of daily average that would be around 4 for females and around 2.5 for males. 

$URL$ Anything below this is considered Extra Low Voltage and product designers are not required to provide any type of access protection for the user. That why it is perfectly legal to have batteries with exposed contacts. Interaction between electricity and the human body is quite complicated (See for example $URL$ but in general the main factors are amount of current and time of exposure. Given the electrical resistance of the human body, 12V are simply not enough voltage to drive significant current through a human. In fact, in almost all cases you won't feel anything at all. You could potentially construct scenarios where it becomes a very noticeable effect: e.g. bring the the terminal close together and stick your tongue in there. This may fit someone's definition of a shock. This being said: Big Batteries or solar sources contain a lot of energy and are quite dangerous if being abused. It's entirely possible to make them over heat, create a fire, explode, cause severe burns, acid damage & burns, mechanical body damage etc. They should be treated with respect and care. There are significant dangers if mishandled, but electric shock is not one of them. 

While depression is not the only cause of suicide, it is on the other hand, a good metric for determining mental wellness (suicide ideation is a mental illness all on its own) and just as importantly, it's not dependent on diagnosis or the willingness to get diagnosed. In pure numbers of deaths ruled as suicide per 100,000 citizens, Russia ranked at the 20th highest, while the United States ranked 30th. So the answer seems to be "no", Russians sure do get depressed. 

This speech completely dismisses the extreme importance of accurate timepieces, especially to navigation at sea. While it was an Englishman who eventually won the Longitude Prize, Swiss Made(tm)[1] watches and Chronometers (ie Ulysee Nardin) were the gold standard from the mid 19th century to about 1970. It's roughly tantamount to saying "The Americans didn't produce anything of importance aside from the GPS network". Even if this statement were true (and it's obviously not), this invention is of such stunning usefulness and importance that if this were the case, they still deserve heaps of praise for this one accomplishment alone. [1] Swiss Made(tm) is capitalized and trademarked for a reason. 

There is actually some precedence for this. Several auto manufacturers are now producing electric cars. However, the customer experience reported anecdotally but also measurably (meta article) by Consumer Reports (original statistics) has shown that some dealerships are less than enthusiastic about actually selling them. And more to the point, they're certainly not going to go out of their way to steer you towards them. The Consumer Reports study was made by asking the dealerships straight up that the secret shopper wanted their electric model, just to see which ones would go out of their way to actively discourage or even prevent the customer from buying one. They weren't going into the shops and asking for a hatchback that was good on gas. Currently, there are two reasons for this. The first is that in spite of their higher sticker prices, commission is actually considerably lower. This is in no small part because the manufacturers are trying to reduce their cost to compete with similar gas models. The second is that the dealerships' business model relies less on car sales and far more on selling maintenance. Unfortunately for the dealerships though, EV maintenance is little more than tire rotation and replacing windshield washer fluid. Tesla had already forseen this problem (Elon Musk quote: "Every other electric car maker that went that route went out of business."), and ditched that sales model entirely. They have non-commissioned salespeople, and don't charge a premium for service. It's one of the reasons that Tesla sales have been exceeding Nissan Leaf sales, in spite of the fact that the base Model S is over twice as expensive. Consumer polls have shown that the customer experience at Tesla stores has been overwhelmingly more positive than other EV purchases at dealerships. Well that's all well and good for electric cars, but what about light bulbs and tires and other consumer goods that need to be replaced on a regular basis, but probably shouldn't be? To be honest, that's probably an issue with cost. Washing machines for example, have gotten increasingly unreliable overall for decades. However, the average cost of them has likewise gone down. The buying public has a tendency towards buying big ticket items that are cheaper because that's the one they can afford at the time, as opposed to the one that's three times the cost but will last ten times as long. Those washing machines that last a lifetime are still being sold, but they come with a price tag that's much higher, and sales of those models aren't that great. Or look at shoes (sneakers and runners in particular), and the way pretty much everyone "knows" that you have to replace them at least once a year. This didn't used to be the case at all, and shoe repair shops used to flourish by just replacing the soles of shoes. But a pair of properly repairable shoes isn't cheap, nor easy to come by. The fact of the matter is that in the marketplace, cheaper almost always wins. Expensive and more reliable can make a profit sometimes too, but the road is littered with companies that were outsold by brands that were cheaper and high volume. 

Not correct. I work with musicians and do listening professionally. Many musicians love noise cancelling head sets and use them all the time. Flying is pretty hard on the ears and noise cancelling headphones significantly reduce noise induced fatigue, to the point that I can work when I come off a plane. Which I can't without noise cancellation. There is well established correlation between stress and noise levels $URL$ and reduction of noise will result almost always in less stress, not more. A side note: there are pathological conditions where the human ear actually does create sound. The inner ear has about 5000 neurons, about 20% of which are "efferent", i.e. they carry information from the brain to the inner ear. These information is used to actively tune a feedback loop that increases frequency sensitivity. Damage to these neurons or the associated hair cells can make this loop unstable and oscillation occurs which is measurable with a microphone. This is an extreme case of Tinnitus and the ears are quite literally "ringing". When working with a noise cancelling manufacturer, we found incidences where users reported significant improvement of their condition by using noise cancellation. However, that's anecdotal and as far as I know there is no solid scientific study to back this up. 

On that related question, there was a deleted answer that stated the following (All that follows is a direct copy/paste from that deleted answer): 

For instance, concerning the god of the bible, or koran, I consider myself a gnostic atheist because that god has failed every claim made in those books. However, if someone starts talking about a deistic type of deity, then I must admit that I am an agnostic atheist, because such a god hypothesis doesn't materially affect our universe in any way, and as such there is no testable criteria to put that hypothesis to. Now, in regards to your specific question, let's have some fun! Lets go to a website called "god and science" (a christian apologetic site). They introduce their page by saying: 

I would suspect that the lack of data is because the research itself may involve greater risks than most researchers would ethically want to take. And those that have done "studies" are the same ones selling the masks, with an obvious conflict of interest as well as not performing actual research, but rather appealing to a "this should make sense to a layperson" strategy of marketing. 

BOTTOM LINE: No studies back it up, but there appears to be no harm in doing it as long as you dilute the vinegar. Keep in mind, if someone has ingested a non-food poison, Poison Control Centers specifically state 

If you can install solar panels on your roof, then yes. If you're getting your power from the grid, then no. Keep in mind, that the solution to CO2 emissions isn't "should we make all cars electric, or should we replace all of our coal power plants", it's both. You can't say "Oh, well, electric cars are no good then" because your local electricity generators are too dirty. Both need to be replaced ASAP. Full stop. And as we do the work to replace the dirty power plants, we simultaneously make existing electric cars cleaner. No further work needs to be done. So let's stop complaining about how this solution or that solution isn't perfect, and get to work. 

This is actually related to another field of my expertise, astrophotography. There are certainly limitations in what can be digitally enhanced from blurry photographs. It's not uncommon for amateur astronomers to "over-enhance" an image they've taken such that the "sharpen" tool in their image processing software creates details that were not in the original. For example, you can sharpen an image of Saturn enough to make it appear as if you've observed the Encke gap with equipment less than the 24" Ritchie-Cretien-on-top-of-a-mountain-in-perfect-conditions that would be required to actually record the image. There is software (Registax) that can create a clearer image by selecting the clearest frames of a movie captured by a video camera and adding them together. But the fact of the matter is that the best professional telescopes in the world were not able to get the kind of detail that the tiny telescopes of the Voyager probes got. Which is why the enormous amount of money was spent on such endeavours. If photographs could be enhanced to anywhere near the detail that TV crime dramas suggest (and produce evidence that could be used in court), then two things would be true: blurry security camera footage would never be shown on TV to catch criminals, and the billions-of-dollars Hubble Space Telescope (and by extension, the much larger James Webb telescope in the works) would be completely unnecessary. 

Anyone with common sense and google can find these. There are no "secrets" or "kickstarts" for dieting. If anything, dieting as a temporary behaviour has been shown generally not to work. It needs to be an overall behavioural modification. As I said earlier, it's not something that is easy to do. The effort required is generally much more than the effort folks are willing to put into it. 

I would be highly skeptical of this claim. The mechanism that this is supposed to work by is as some sort of antibacterial agent. Although, the mild acid in vinegar really is nothing compared to the acids that are already in your stomach. The main reason that vinegar is associated as a food poisoning remedy could be because vinegar is often used as a method of preserving food for longer periods (i.e. pickling). Or as is mentioned at the Washington State University site 

It just so happens that Potassium Alum has registered its own domain name! They tout the uses there as: 

The "beauty" of a conspiracy theory is that no matter what evidence is presented, there is a "talk around" for the believer. No matter what answer is given, they will have a more conspiratorial rebuttal for that. To suggest that HAARP is anything beyond "an ionospheric research program jointly funded by the US Air Force, the US Navy, the University of Alaska and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). Its purpose is to analyze the ionosphere and investigate the potential for developing ionospheric enhancement technology for radio communications and surveillance purposes (such as missile detection)." without anything to go on is a great hallmark of "making stuff up." AS REQUESTED: Info about HAARP and what they do. 

I'm coming into this discussion a few years late, but I wanted to address an issue that others have not: You speak of the thermodynamics of a gasoline engine over an electric motor. Here are the physics of why electric motors are more efficient than gas engines: In simplest terms, a gasoline engine takes chemical energy (the gasoline), converts it into heat by burning it, and then it converts that heat into mechanical energy. In general, every time you do a conversion between forms of energy, you're losing some of that energy to entropy. In particular, heat energy is a very disorganized form of energy, and it's very difficult to convert it directly to other forms of energy. You also can't consume all of the energy from heat by converting it to mechanical energy, and a lot of the heat gets wasted as a result. This is most obvious by a gasoline engine's need for a radiator - that's where the waste heat gets dumped into the air. Electrical energy, by contrast, is very organized. It's easy to convert electricity directly into mechanical energy with an electromagnet pushing against another electromagnet, and very little energy is wasted as heat in the process. There is only one energy conversion - from electricity to mechanical energy, instead of two like in a gasoline engine, and the process does not involve intentionally generating heat (which will need to be removed with a radiator) to be used in a second conversion to mechanical energy. As a result of these differences, electric motors are about 85-95% efficient at converting electrical energy into mechanical energy, while gas engines are only (at most) 35% efficient, and diesel engines are about 45% efficient, thermodynamically speaking. If you wanted to look at the rest of the energy supply chain, then obviously there are other factors at play, but even then the production of both electricity and gasoline is highly efficient, although with losses of their own. Anyone who wants to argue in favour of the ultimate efficiency of any fossil fuel though, would be instantly kicked to the curb by the efficiency of directly converting the sun's rays into electricity with solar panels at nearly any efficiency, rather than taking the route of converting the sun's rays into plant matter, letting most of it rot and release its energy back into the soil, adding a few hundred million years to the remaining 1%, and carefully storing it underground for the duration. The ultimate efficiency of fossil fuel production is gob-smackingly terrible and time consuming. 

Otherwise you will have to get specific on the preservative you are concerned about. You have not provided enough information to answer the question fully. I hope that helps. 

So, why do they give up after about 30 seconds? No one is sure as of yet (according to my single source still): 

I haven't looked at the site very deeply, however, upon a first look, it appears that they are extrapolating a known phenomenon (Vitamin D light therapy and some skin conditions) that has a sound scientific basis, and extrapolating it to a whole host of unrelated benefits and applications. This is the standard mode of operation of most pseudo-scientific claims out there. They will take a phenomenon that the general public doesn't understand that well, and make claims that sound somewhat related to an actual benefit, and over hype it... So going from accepted treatments, to promoting wound healing and pain relief is a bit of a stretch beyond what the established benefits of light therapy are. Of course, the UV light a inhibit some bacterial growth in a wound, so if you are prone to getting red and inflamed wounds, it may indeed help, but not because that's the main purpose of these devices, but just aids in a process that someone may otherwise neglect (i.e. keeping wounds clean). The claim that this helps with burns is especially dubious. UV radiation is the main component that helps develop a sunburn. The claim that it helps with pain management is also very dubious. Light is absorbed by the skin, and penetrates at most only a fraction of a millimeter. Any actual effect on deeper structures in your body is very dubious at best. I'll note they give an impressive sounding list of documents to support their claims, until you look at it more closely. The studies that support some of their dubious claims are "unpublished" or "pilot studies". Furthermore, I would be interested in exactly what those studies say. Just because a study has a title that supports a product, doesn't mean that the content of the study bears out with what the product promoter says. 

Ref: $URL$ Note that for most of the other cases here, the manufacturing emissions of the vehicle are dwarfed by its tailpipe emissions. Also, electric vehicle manufacturing emissions are at least twice that of ICE vehicle manufacturing emissions mostly because of the battery, not thanks to steel smelting and moulding, like the video claims. In other words, the video you're linking is trying really hard to sell you something. 

No, and the answer to that question is actually a lot easier than the other explanations here. The fact of the matter is that a "Supermoon" is simply the coincidence of the full moon, and the moon's perigee - the closest approach of the moon -in its orbit. The moon reaches perigee every single orbit, so the tidal stresses on the crust of the earth would be about equal to every other time this happens. Moreover, the full moon is when the moon is opposite the sun, not on the same side of the Earth as the sun. If anything, this has the effect of cancelling out some of the gravitational force of the moon on the Earth. The time when the moon is new and at its perigee at the same time would have the greatest tidal force on the Earth. But that doesn't look anywhere near as pretty except during an eclipse. Also, you need to keep in mind that the force of gravity from the moon is really tiny. About 0.0000001 meters/second^2. The fact that we notice it at all in the tidal effect is because that force is spread out over the really large area of our oceans, and is different depending on which side of the Earth you're on. The supermoon has no special effect on the Earth except looking 10% bigger and providing some better astronomical images for craters near the edge of the moon at that time. 

I am not sure where you are hearing or looking for statistics to assert that airbags don't help if someone is buckled in. My very first google result was from the National Institute of Health, in 1992 already had good statistics: 

I don't have access to that journal, so I don't know how definitive it is. I have been looking for other studies and data that will either align or contradict this particular report, however, most of the data doesn't look as much at the relationships of the children of divorced parents as opposed to the general mental well being of these children. (Or something like this paper.) In that regard, it does seem that in general, children of divorced parents do show some resilience. The first paper may indicate or is searching for a genetic link in the divorce behaviour. This may over ride rational attempts to be "more likely to be careful when getting married" as you posited. 

As with just about any instance regarding human physiology/biology: It depends. Brushing has been shown to remove food particles that will lead to decay. However, brushing can also damage your teeth and gums if you use a brush that has stiff bristles, or brush too vigorously. The general consensus from dentists seems to indicate that you should gently brush after eating. Although toothpaste is not required for all sessions. And if you have eaten anything acidic, it is best to wait. According to Peter Heasman, a professor of periodontology at Newcastle University’s School of Dental Sciences, two minutes twice a day brushing with a pressure of 150 grams – equivalent to holding an orange – is correct practice. In addition, regular dental care (and the associated benefits that are well documented by the entire field of dentistry) can lead to better heart health.