$URL$ Hi, I have been examining the similarities between what Jesus and Buddha taught and I came across this site of the above link in which the author claims that they obtained Buddhist scriptures from Wat Phra Sing in ChaingMai province that predict the coming of Jesus and show that it is nearly impossible to gain enough merit to enter heaven or Nirvana. I suspect that this is completely faked but I always try to approach these sorts of things with the possibility that my assumptions could be wrong.If someone has any information on this it would be greatly appreciated. 

This is something that I have trouble coming to grips with. If the mind can be aware without a body or brain then how is it possible that one can experience things like the Bardo when we know that without certain conditions the mind becomes unaware? Anesthesiologists can purposely put people into this state. One second you are going under for surgery and the next second you are laying in a hospital bed without any awareness of the lapse of time. If one were to extinguish ever becoming or going doesn't that mean an unconscious state? Does Buddha ever explain this phenomenon? 

Now to me, this is very problematic given recent advances in the interpretations of quantum mechanics ( $URL$ ), you have a new, relational ontology, where each individual quanta has no intrinsic qualities.. Relational QM states that all properties arise out of a quanta's interaction with another one. As such, there is no "external reality".. in fact, there is no "external" or "internal" (the Buddha said this once in the Sutta Nipata somewhere, but again, no quote - sorry!), because, like with the Buddha's concept of Anatta, there is simply no ontologically real ground on which to build any notion of essential difference, or similarity, or both, or neither!! ( $URL$ ) I would be interested how Hindu philosophers reply to the above issue! (the question would be - if Brahman and Atman are real and identical, what exactly is created within an unreal empirical experience? If 'something in and of itself' stands opposed to 'nothing in and of itself', what exactly has this 'something in and of itself' achieved by creating an illusion? Surely Brahman-Atman can't then be considered the holder of Satya!!) Now for the questions! 1) "Tao called Tao is not Tao". 2) You have gone beyond the round of questioning! 3) Consciousness without feature is probably best described with silence.. after all, language expresses features. 4) Like Ramana Maharishi, and like Huike did when asked by Bodhidharma: 

I'm skeptical about this actually working. I would appreciate if someone could provide a logical answer that will clear up my skepticism. 

It seems to me that prophecy could only be used to predict the most likely outcomes based on the mental states of the beings whose future is being predicted at the time of the prophecy. For instance, there is a scripture I just read in which the Buddha allowed Devadatta to become a monk because if he wasn't allowed to that he would be sent to a rebirth of torment after torment for Aeons but if he entered the Sangha he could considerably cut down on this negative Karma and would eventually become a Buddha whose name the Buddha even predicted. I know freewill is limited based on past karma and the number of choices one has available at any given moment but does the power of prophecy somehow still allow for freewill or is it just a sign of pre-determined fate? 

This is not entirely accurate imo. Look at Nagarjuna's dedicatory verses to the Mulamadhyamakakarika: 

I would say that nibbana is more than just a dissolution of Self - that places too much emphasis on Atman: the cessation of objectification is the giving up of craving for sensual pleasure, craving for existence, craving for non-existence. SN 22.22 There are paccekabuddhas (in times when a Buddha has not expounded the Dhamma), so people can - with dedication and practice - abandon the above conceits without a guide. But never will a spontaneous, a-causal and 'automatic' nibbana arise - there will always be a process, even if it only means one intentional choice to relinquish all views (whoever may be that strong willed). 

The Buddha's message was one of the middle ground - neither 'Exists', nor 'does not Exist' are valid constructs for examining experience. In fact, they are inferred concepts that veil a directly perceivable, dependently originated experience. 

The reason is to stop the samsara is we are having more, more and more dukkha than the happiness in the samsara. It cannot be measured with only concerning one life. we have to consider massive collection of lives (example- billions of lives). After analyzing those massive number of lives Load Buddha have seen that largest portion of the lives we were in the hells (4 hells. narakaya, thirisan, pretha, asura. Sad but that's the truth). Because of the desires in creatures they always trends to make pleasure out of things. So the possibility of doing bad karma is very high. So out of Billions of lives, creatures come to human and heavens very few times that can be counted with fingers in one hand. That means time we spent in the good times are neglectable. If we had a teachings of a Lord Buddha we can get rid of usual cycle for a time. But if we didn't take actions to attain nibbana, we have to face usual cycle again. So we have to stop this cycle now or suffer from the sadness for unlimited number of times. Intelligent people understand this tragedy and get rid of samsara as soon as possible. 

(imo) In that the phrase points to the Buddha and his message (convoluted though it may be for those not in the know!), whilst at the same time recognizing the terms for some of dangers present within experience, that the Buddha pointed to, there is both a 'carrot' and a 'stick' in this phrase, in regards to the path. Since 'danger' is effectively based on Kamma coming to fruition - Kamma being conditioned by an individual's thoughts, words and actions - this phrase should incline the mind to avoid some negative kammic fruits, whilst influencing it to take up the Buddha and his message. (I assume the 'jewel in the lotus' is the Buddha.. for this, the phrase deserves some caution, because the Buddha primarily wished his followers to follow his Dhamma - through personal insight, rather than substitute personal progress by placing him on a pedestal) 

Answer to the question "Was Buddha born of a Virgin?" is No He was born as other normal humans are born into the world. Bodhisattva's who became Buddha in next immediate life are looking for 5 facts before they born into this world. 

Before all I appreciate your interesting towards the Buddhism my friend. I have few clarifications to be done before answering. First thing you have mentioned "All the Goddess in Buddhism are Demons" is completely wrong. Ladies who were died with good and powerful enough karma wipaka to be born in heaven will born as goddess. Actually there are very few english translations are available about dhamma. I recommend you to read "wimana wattu and Pretha watthu". there are lot of stories contain information about people who were born among heaven and hell. 

Put this in an answer before, but actually wondering what the texts would say is the correct course. You wake up and find yourself faced with two options (you are placed in this position by a third actor). Option A, kill 1 person. Option B, 100 other people are killed (by that third actor). (There is no option C, I would put suicide is better than causing harm to others, but assume this is also not possible) Moral system 1: Killing = Evil (100%). Knowing that 'Killing = Evil', you choose option B (with your Essential certainty in the wrongness of killing, there is no reasoning that can convince you to pull the trigger yourself. And as you do not personally pull the trigger, you are not the 'efficient cause'. You have done no wrong within your moral framework, the person damned is the person who executed the 100 people. Moral system 2: No killing > less killing > more killing. Logically, B is never reasonable, you choose A. The second moral system reduces suffering. It is non-essential, therefore being more in line with anatta (imo). Whether you choose A or B (regardless of your moral system), the end result is conditioned by you (by choosing B within the first moral system, you have not escaped the fact that you have chosen, you have just escaped being called the efficient cause). The first moral system 'treats this as that', which the Buddha warned against. In addition, moral system 2 is equivalent to moral system 1 apart from very extreme cases like above, where a thing is compared to itself. Let's say you are on the Buddhist path. Faced with the above situation, following system 1 and choosing B, you end up not personally causing harm, but there is no escape that you are a condition for the effect. Choosing A, you are plainly no longer in communion as you have broken the 3rd expulsion rule.. And in that the Buddha did not 'invent' anatta, but came to it through a deep and unbiased analysis of empirical experience (the 5 aggregates), would you be pushed to adopt the non-essential system (and choose A)? Does the Buddha feeding the tigress in a past life point to A being a better answer? In that story, he sacrificed himself out of compassion. Killing someone is not compassionate, but avoiding the deaths of 99 extra people at the expense of becoming a killer (with the consequential karma) surely is! (Also the efficient cause must matter more than progressively less proximate causes, otherwise the butterfly that flapped its wings and inadvertently flooded New Orleans with that hurricane is heavily damned too! :p ) (putting it in maths terms, choosing A you do less damage but are closer to it, therefore whether A is better than B can't be determined simply) 

Here Mother should have various characteristics but here relevant factor is she should be biologically available (That means connection of Mother and Father as all of us know). Load Buddha is not half god- half human but he has accepted him as a Normal human in lot of places. The Best location is "Dhrona Sutta" where Load Buddha has accepted he has born as a normal human. As described in Dhrona Sutta, While Load Buddha was walking in between Udeni and Sawath towns, Load Buddha has met a Brahmin called Dhrona. Dhrona had seen special foot prints with various unusual symbols and marks and decided the owner of the foot prints cannot be a human and followed them. Finally he has met Load Buddha at the end of footprint line and asked, Are you a God? Load Buddha said No. then he asked following questions and got the same answer no. Are you a Devil? Are you a Gandharwa (half god- half human)? Are you a human? Then he has asked as everyone of us would ask, then who you are? Then Load Buddha has answered "Drona, I was born as a normal human, lived as a normal human but I have destroyed all the klesha (desires, lust and angry). So I am a extreme human. Most suitable name to identify me is "Buddha"". And finally Sidhhartha Gauthaama became Load Buddha not because of god has selected him to be a Buddha, Instead he has tried himself continually for very very long time to become a Buddha in his previous lives with fullfilling generally 10 facts (descriptivly 30) called Paramitha. 

The three marks of existence are those fundamental properties that are universal throughout Samsara, no one is born in a truly different state. The Buddha did not ask 'why' with regards to variety, but one could say that variety within Samsara is perceived to be infinite because without Atman finality cannot be drawn in a concrete fashion (no concrete or Essential delineation of 'that which exists and is (can be) perceived' and 'that which exists but is never (can never be) perceived' is possible).. 

The Buddha's reality is relational - non-Self is the inferred (observational evidence at enlightenment MN27) understanding that if 'things' are only ever observed as impermanent, they cannot be said to be observed to have a permanent core (or shell, or any other observed aspect). Things are not provisional, simply subject to conditions. 'You' and 'I' are not provisional in the Buddha's words, rather the concepts are subject to a mother and father for the conditions of birth, food and water for the conditions of life, and some other conditions for death (say a spear in the eye, or lack of food). This is not saying anything more than we already see - things are not observed to exist independently in and of themselves, independent of others. This is not a nihilistic existence, but experience and values are derived from relations, not things in and of themselves.. all experience being observed as impermanent and lacking any and all notions of Self, universal values (Dhamma) are therefore rationally derivable (subject to the continued validity of the observation of impermanence). ($URL$ for modern evidence as to the effectiveness of the world view).. from a relational QM point of view, properties arise only with observation and interaction (not without observation as that would be unverifiable - both unscientific and un-Buddhist), with individual quanta empty of independent properties. In other words - empty jenga blocks don't build concrete, well delineated Selves - 'I' is a useful everyday notion, but no thing certain or permanently delineated within the structure of experience. The notion of Self is frame dependent - dependent on observation, subjective. The objective truths of the world are those of impermanence, non-Self and unsatisfactoriness with such a 'build' for psychological systems (the last point being the first step to building the Buddha's world view - 'limited resources, unlimited wants', but with evidence beforehand) 

This image shows the time intervals of one Naama. Naama's born time=exist time= dying time= t1. Time interval between Dead Naama and Born start of Naama = t2. So at that very little time there is no visible mind. At that moment only body is exist. This is the thing called as anathma/anatta. 

Mind is continues flow of born, existence, dying of Naama (Mindlet). mindlet or Naama is the smallest sub component of the mind. 17 mindlets make a mindlet group called Ruupa. 

To control the sexual desire you must realize the disgusting nature of human body and temporary nature of the comfort we feel. You have to perform aversion meditation(Meditation method to realize disgusting nature of the body) . In aversion meditation (Pilikul Bawana), we have to realize that our body is filled up with things that cannot even be bared by the person himself or herself. Load Buddha has described that our body is poring excrement form 9 different doors. eyes(2 doors), nose(2 doors), mouth(1 door), ears(2 doors), sexual organ(1 door) and anus(1 door). Inside the body is filled with excrement, urine, unprocessed food mixed with saliva and other disgusting liquids, skeleton and muscle tissues covered with stinky cover called as skin. Then there is another meditation method called as Asuba Meditation. In this the meditator looks at a dead body which is rotten. It is very powerful meditation method. But now we cannot see abandoned dead bodies in cemeteries now. (I think you are intelligent enough to realize that you must not kill anyone to do this meditation.) With these meditation methods people can control their lust and sexual desire for short time period. Can be used to control until perform vipassana meditation and attain nibbana. After attain anagami, Lust and sexual desire will completely destroyed and never arise.