Although (as far as I've seen, I haven't done in-depth research) the original/older version(s) of the succubus legend just have them as demons who seduce you, more modern interpretations seem to make them reliant on sex to survive. Is it biologically possible for an organism to need sex to survive? And I don't just mean going mad without it/other mental health issues, I mean actually biochemically needing it for some reason. 

One day, Bob the everyman wakes up in the morning and goes down to feed his 3 cats, only to find that they have transformed into cat-like people. Essentially they have cat ears and tails, and their hair (inc. body hair) is coloured and patterned like that of the cat they had before. They also have the same cat-like eyes as they had before. Finally, they have much thicker hair across their body than humans tend to get - maybe twice as thick (which still isn't thick, but is a noticeable difference). However, these cat-people still act mostly like cats. They cannot communicate except in mewling noises, tend to walk on all fours, and mooch around the house just like a domestic cat. They do have slightly improved intelligence - they can now open doors by standing upright and pulling the handle, they will open cupboards to get their food out, and (imagination stretch yes, but this isn't in the scope of the question) use the toilet rather than a litter. (They also avoid... intimacy... in public.) After ringing the RSPCA, Bob finds that this strange and sudden transformation has affected approx. 1/3 of the world's domestic cats. Most of these nekomimi act pretty much just like cats, except one. This one nekomimi has intelligence about equal to an average human, and physical ability about equal to a well-trained and athletic human. Would one nekomimi alone be able to take control of her species from the humans who (in their view) enslaved their people? 

Creature in question: appears humanoid, but secretes some sort of substance which befuddles humans around them. 'Befuddlement' is an inability to think properly, but not to a great enough degree that people notice that they're being drugged (otherwise the game is given away, of course). It could be achieved by any means, so long as it distracts, confuses or sedates just enough to make people noticably less quick-witted (though hopefully not noticable to themselves). Also, the creature is unaware that they aren't human, and I don't want them to find out. (Aren't I cruel?) So something which isn't easy to notice by the user either would be preferred. What kind of chemical could achieve this effect? 

There is a sub-dimension of this reality where a race of humanoid people lives in very low light. Their race has done so for hundreds of years - everyone there has no experience of being outside their dimension. However, in recent history (approx. 30 years ago) there was a large upheaval in which some members of the race travelled to Earth, and (importantly) one human travelled to their dimension, and remained there. More than that, he had a child with the ruler of the race. Cut back to the present. This child is now a teenager with a rebellious streak. For an unspecified reason they have run away from the palace and, using one of only a few instances of a rare device, have escaped from their dimension to Earth (one-way). They knew a fair amount about Earth from their father but have never been there before. In order to blend in, the teenage royal attends a high school. By an unlucky (for them) coincidence, secret agent Bob is also at that school. He is actually attending the school, but for years has been a mediator agent who worked both independently and under orders to uphold the Masquerade. Bob is notified that agents from the dark sub-dimension have tracked the escapee to his local area. He begins to search for the outlander by looking for new entrants to the schools in the area, other institutions, etc. But there are many, and the escapee can't be identified by looks alone because they are a half-human hybrid. (Bob can't risk accidentally apprenhending the wrong person and revealing the Masquerade to them.) Bob knows quite a lot about the race and knows that the light sensitivty is likely their biggest weakness. Question: what traits/actions are likely to give away the escapee - or, for that matter, any escapee from that dimension into ours? While Bob is the one looking for said traits/actions, anyone would/could notice them - it's just that Bob is on the lookout. Alternatively, the escapee could make a blunder, but I'm looking for something intrinsic to the escapee's nature as... well, an outlander escapee. Something which they can't prevent except by superspy-level infiltration. Extra notes/clarification: Bob can't reveal to anyone, in any way, that he's an agent. His local area is crawling with enemy agents who would try to kill him as soon as look at him. UPDATE: The royal family of the sub-dimension have a kind of hereditary magical power. This is how the escapee managed to get into the school without buying a complete set of fake ID from the Dark Web or whatever - they used befuddlement/enchantment/illusion magic on anyone necessary. (Think how wizards get away with everything in Harry Potter.) Please comment if you need more! 

Simply for the cool factor I wanted to have my humanoid cat person tri-wield: one sword in each hand and a third in their tail. But would it be scientifically possible for the cat-person to have enough control over the tail to hold a blade (or possibly other weapon) and use it effectively enough for it to be worth it (otherwise naturally the cat-person will just use their tail to fight in other ways)? Ignoring of course the mechanics of dual-wielding itself; I simply want to know how, if at all possible, a cat's tail could be made able to hold a weapon without magic (see below). I could simply ask 'a wizard' to do it with magic because this is a fantasy setting, but it seems much less... cool. Plus I'm interested in the science basis of a prehensile tail. 

So recently I asked this question about Alice, the tips of whose hairs (body and head hairs) could (in that question, not this question) paralyze or poison people. I thought: what if her hairs only made people sleep? They would contain melatonin or something in large quantities which would trick the human body into thinking it needed to sleep. Then I started to question whether or not this would be possible. Could Alice send people to sleep - as in, the restorative slumber, complete with potential dreams - or would she be forced to knock them out with a weak toxin to stun them in a way which at all resembles sleep? Update: Most people seem to be saying no to melatonin. But is there absolutely no way that someone could be put forcefully to sleep and still have a restful slumber? 

I have an idea for a crazy super-organism which could wipe out the human race. Essentially, it is an organism (plant or fungus or bacterium depending on what would be more effective or what would be possible) which spreads itself through the atmosphere. Upon managing to find its way into the human body, it replicates itself. It may stay in the host for an indefinite length of time, or it may begin to poison the human in such a way that the human becomes unable to move (it could just kill them). Once the human is unable to move, the parasite begins to replicate itself on the outside of the body. It essentially uses the body to build a point of emission for its method of transmission, then spreads itself using the incapacitated human as a 'base camp'. Is this possible, as far as biologists are aware? I've left a lot of things open here on purpose - the things which I need kept consistent are the method of transmission and the whole incapacitation thing. 

Say that a Flowerew (a wolf which turns into a human on the full moon) is pretending to be human during their human phase. Or that a kitsune who has been a fox for their life so far is trying their hand at faking humanity. Or perhaps an alien has beamed down to save Earth from impending disaster without breaking the Prime Directive. I want to give some way for them to be identifiable based on failing to pick up on social cues or not understanding social norms. Not things which are necessarily massively obvious; just social norms which it would be difficult to grasp for someone not growing up in today's human society. What's the most likely social cue/norm for them to struggle with the most? EDIT: Yeah, this question was too broad, so instead, I ask: what social norms would a wild animal who had been metamorphosised into a human struggle with the most? They are intelligent in that they can speak and have a wide vocabulary, but do not know what to say or how to act beyond what they imitate from people they observe. As for the target society, let's say Western society, e.g. the USA and any place with similar social rules. EDIT TO EDIT: I'll make it even more precise: how would a (wild) fox that has been transformed into a human struggle to follow social norms/rules in the USA? 

How effective would it be? Presume that the nitrous oxide is freely available to the user (e.g. "magically" [hand-wave] produced) and that they are immune to any effects. How far would it really disable/harm? 

The non-specific super-fungi Deadlius Diseasus is spreading throughout the world. Actually, this disease is badly named: it doesn't kill anybody - it just infects them, then after a period of ~1 week, starts causing euphoria. In a big way. So much so that anybody infected with the disease is utterly demotivated to do anything other than laze around all day, because nothing can bring them greater happiness than they are currently experiencing. The disease is airborne. It transmits itself through microscopic and therefore invisible spores which are released from any and all bodily orifices in infected humans. The UN has met and decided that this disease, once it has infected enough people, will cause the end of the human race because people are too apathetic to work and therefore food cannot be gathered. However, the average person has no massive problem with the existence of this disease, because it has no bad effects (apart from massive laziness). How can they stop the spread of this disease when most people are not motivated to stop themselves becoming infected? Extra detail The disease cannot live anywhere except for on humans, but the spores can lie dormant on objects for an extended period. People who are infected are so apathetic, they do nothing at all, even at risk to their own health.