By "event" I mean something that happens over some interval of time. Am I right that for Buddhists, intervals don't exist (everything lasts only for an instant): so neither do events? If so may I ask about the experience of "now" or the present: i.e. the experience of impermanence? Is the experience of impermanence an event (i.e. with duration) or is it too only an instant? 

I read a couple of books on time, yet they all seemed somewhat incomplete, as if it was something simply tagged onto the rebirth / enlightenment doctrine. How important is time in Buddhism, not simple "impermanence" but how impermanence is housed. Or is there nothing to time beyond impermanence? I saw on philosophy stackexchange, something about this, but I'm getting quite a bad reputation there... Do "people" experience time? Is an experience of time actual time? Because I think that if so, that's where the biases and make believe of comtemporary science, collapses !! Thank you so much :) 

How can the term "spirit" be translated into Buddhist doctrine? If I may just copy paste the definition: 

This question may sound strange, but in my secular frustrations, I'm thinking about "the past" as some kind of womb which has nourished and given birth to "me" now. Do Buddhists, of any sort, have a name for the past? How does it feature in any doctrines of Buddhist salvation? Does anyone equate the past with the womb of the Tathagata? 

In what ways have Buddhists responded to the apparent impossibility of saving all sentient beings? Do they claim that it isn't impossible, or only need be partially achieved, or that not all Buddha's took this vow, or what? 

There are skilled Kammatthanaachaari Bhikkus who can help you reduce the the repetition cycles, provided you are being honest in providing the initial information about you and your progress. 

Only Budhdha who could realize your hurdles in attaining Nibbana could give you the precise Kamatthana at once. The next best option is to meet a Bhikku who is skilled in helping you realize the best Kammatthana for you. This is a trial and error process and you are known to the Bhikku (also known as Kammatthanachari - teacher of Kammatthana), (knows your way of thinking, values, and personal traits, character) it would definitely be helpful in narrowing down the best Kammatthana. The process usually involves: 

Request for a Kammatthana Kammatthanachari Bhikku studies your traits and makes a guess of a suitable Kammatthana for you. you practice the Kammatthana for a while and reports back to your Kammatthanaachaari Bhikku on your progress/difficulties. Alteration of the Kammatthana if required. Repeat steps 3 to 5 until you have found the Kammatthana which is best for you. 

Until we stop, look back and see what we have collected, what we have tried to make ours, and all the sadness, sorrow and disappointment it has brought us, we are blind to the fact that happiness has always eluded us. Why oh why? Happiness has eluded us because we have failed to see the world as is. We cannot bend to world to our will. We cannot change it to suit our need. Even if we did, it will be for a limited time. When the world is not the way we want it (Anichcha) it brings us sadness, anger and disappointment. When the world works according to our will, it brings us happiness and joy. Both these ends are the effects of failing to see the world as is. To see the world as is, one needs to start seeing beyond the attachments (Lobha, Dwesha) the effects of Moha (not seeing the reality). Search for the reason why you are happy or sad. How did your mind give birth to that feeling? Before this feeling overwhelmed you, what did you feel? how did your mind translate from that state to this? You will find that a value you have given as good/bad to something. Take that value and look for the reason as to why did you value it as good or bad. Haven't you tried to change to world? bend it to your will and failed/succeeded? (most of the time we forget to look at the moments we consider as 'happy' ones). Things happen in the world around us. We do not have absolute control over them. That is how the world works. So, why are you trying to change it and feel sad when it didn't or feel happy when it does for a little while? 

These three complete the Triptaka and can't be added to. However, there are important books which don't belong to Tripitaka but are assumed to be authentic. E.g. Buddhaghosa's Visuddhimagga, which is similar to the Abhidhamma. Other early Buddhist schools had their own Tripitaka, similar to Theravada but with different abhidhamma authors, a different vinaya, and with a slightly altered set of suttas. 

How common is the term "lord" for Buddha? Would the followers of any of the Buddhist traditions ask the Buddha, who gave the fire sermon, to choose them, or pluck them out? 

And, because the perfect teaching includes both truths of the separate teaching, the perfect teaching must include: 

And then proceeds to argue about them (which I cannot make complete sense of). Is the idea that a conditioned cause must be conditioned by its effect, in the sense of having it as a part? 

Is there anything out there in the zen tradition about whether "silence" (do I mean this metaphorically) is to be embraced in meditation? 

This may sound like an unusual question, but - is it possible in theory to destroy the rupa heavens - not by avoiding rebirth there, but for other sentient beings? Not the tusita heaven - which I understand (correctly or not ha) is part of kamadhatu and strictly one of the jhanas :) Thanks ! 

From Red Pine's translation page 283. Are ordinary fools right to call "Maha Nirvana" death: is that an aspect of it? 

Which suggests (to me) that enlightenment is void, form. Whether or not that means that it is anything beside (fearless) verbal quiescence, I really don't know.