I have a fairly intense, aerobically-challenging, functional workout most mornings. What ended up working best for me was waking up about 90 minutes beforehand, having a protein shake with a portion of pre-workout powder, and going back to sleep as best I could. Without the calories, the workout was simply too much to deal with. If I had it, say, 30 minutes before the workout, it made me a little upset to my stomach and caused digestive issues. After the workout I'd either have a more-substantial protein/fruit/etc. smoothie, or actual food. Either should contain a mix of fast-acting protein and carbs, and depending on your eating schedule, slower-digesting protein and carbs. I tend to eat fairly often, so the exact ratios of fast/slow aren't super-critical, but after intense workouts, the fast protein/carb ratio should be somewhere around 1/2-1/4, depending on who you ask. 

I'd probably start with deadlifts and high rows/pulls. Maybe kettlebell swings or non-KB-equivalent. Make sure you work antagonist muscles as well, however. For climbing you'll be using spikes and a belt, you shouldn't need to do too much specific, although I knew a lot of arborists that were also climbers, which transferred really well. 

Whether or not it's "superior" is probably an unfair question--it's different, whether it's superior depends more on your goals/needs/etc. than any objective measurement. The theory that is one set of intense work is enough to bring the muscle to sufficient exhaustion that it is forced to adapt. In order for this to be the case, you have to be very strict about your reps, disallow any help from momentum, go heavy, and so on. For deconditioned individuals, IMO it's a bit risky unless you start fairly light and focus on very strict form and safety before going hard--it wouldn't be what I would start people with. Personally, given your goals and history, I'd steer towards lighter weights, conventional set/rep structure, etc. until you're at a point you can go heavier without risking connective tissue injury. 

IMO swimming is a better all-around exercise for health; it can be tweaked to focus on upper- or lower-body, and is substantially less abusive. That said, for absolute fat loss, it may not be optimal because of the heat loss encountered when in water. (Body: "This environment is costing me heat; I shall retain body fat.") I say do what you enjoy--you're more likely to do it, it's less damaging, and it's great exercise. 

Consider deadlifts (not the stiff-legged ones); they have a small range-of-motion, and don't weight the turn-around point if the weight is set on the floor. (Or reduce rep speed, particularly at turn-around.) $URL$ Without knowing what the "personal reasons" are it's difficult to provide actionable advice, however, because only exercises that target the same muscles, hence the same joint, will have similar effects. It's also possible to progress into weighted squats after building up strength and connective tissues through body-weight squats. Depending on her goals, they may be enough on their own anyway. 

Not all the protein is digested. But without enough, the body will feed on itself during the night. This is why athletes, bodybuilders, etc. eat slow-digesting protein (e.g., casein) at bedtime--to provide a sustained protein store. 

I don't know if it's "supposed" to feel like anything in particular, but it may take some time to develop the mind/muscle connection if you're unused to specifically activating the deadlift muscles. It also matters which style of deadlift you're doing, for example, there are differences between stiff-legged deadlifts (erectors, hips, butt, some thighs) and "traditional" deadlifts (same plus a bunch more, great overall exercise). You'll also want to make sure your form is pretty dead-(lift)on, you're "blocking" appropriately, and so on. Having someone to work with when doing an exercise like the deadlift is pretty important since the risk of a back injury is greater than with a lot of other exercises--slipping a disk is unpleasant, I'm told. That you're ending up feeling pretty worked leads me to believe you're doing "traditional" deadlifts. Since it's an-almost-entire-body exercise, you won't necessarily feel the "I'm working this specific muscle" feeling you get from more-targeted movements like the bench or squat. 

Hammer curls are supposed to target the brachioradialis and brachialis muscle more directly than a standard curl due to pronation. 

If you're interested in reactive training, neither is particularly appropriate--do specific agility drills. There are a ton of them on the net, or get something like Functional Training for Sports or Training for Speed, Agility, and Quickness. IMO HIIT (High Intensity Interval Training is better overall for jacking up the metabolism, although longer-distance running is more meditative. Both are valuable for dealing with depression issues (something I'm far too familiar with :( 

No. Speed bag work is non-injurious; wraps provide more wrist support, unnecessary on the speed bag. You might lose a tiny bit of mobility depending on the gloves. 

"Get away with"? From whom are you attempting to escape? Lats aren't the only back muscle, of course, although normal core work will target others. Ultimately it depends 100% on your goals. There aren't any workout police you need to fool. 

Depends on which low-carb diet you ask. $URL$ Normal guidelines aim for 45-65% of calories from carbohydrates. $URL$ Personally, I think you should just measure and see what works specifically for you--by definition, diet is really personal, and what works for any number of other people may not work for you. I'm also leery of weight loss being a specific, absolute goal, but that's a separate issue. 

(Q & an A, moved to answer for space.) Are you specifically seeking a "stopwatch", a single-purpose tool, a watch with interval capabilities, or a smartphone app (my recommendation)? Are you looking to track intervals, in which case anything with lap counting will do, or be notified at interval changes? Do you have simple, or complex, interval plans? I current using Impetus for Android. It can set up complex interval programs easily through its UI, and if you can generate your own XML, you can improve over its UI. I currently get my XML from my stealth startup's DB based on a variety of training criteria. The MotoACTV can do intervals, although not with the complexity of Impetus. It's a great dedicated device, though, modulo some dumb decisions on Moto's part. 

There's a real chance you're over-training, and you're not doing mass-specific exercises. Consider starting a low-key lifting program, 3-4 days a week and reducing the amount of biking you're doing (especially if you're seriously doing it every day). If you're cycling with any effort, (12-14mph/7-9kph) you're already burning a big chunk of that 1200 calories. Your doctor can run some fairly simple tests to see if you're in ketosis. 

Definitely add interval training. In addition to training strength, it trains leg turnover. Longer and slower isn't going to help; you already run long and slow (and much faster than me :) Hills also train strength and turnover, as do fartleks (plus they're fun). Considering how close you are, I doubt diet/alcohol is the limiting factor. Edit Oh, very old question; oops. 

It's an issue of depth: pushing off a surface that gives that much induces more stress on the entire chain, because everything has noticeably more work to do. IMO the pushing-off would have a greater effect than landing, but that's more "intuitive" than "true". Other than adjusting to the additional stress, I don't think there's anything intrinsically more "dangerous", you just have to be aware you're going through a larger range of motion, and the muscles/tendons/etc. will be doing more work than on a more-solid surface. For me the greatest difference is in my calves, but because of previous IT band issues, and current exercises for one of the martial arts I study, IT band stuff doesn't bother me as much as it used to. 

Don't run so much; massive mileage tends to reduce muscle mass. Sprinters, OTOH, tend towards highly-developed musculature, also not a typical "model look". Marathon runners (of the professional variety) tend to carry far less bodyfat than a typical model. It also makes a big difference what "model look" you're after; a lot of models are "skinny fat" and not remotely fit. But in general, the diet/exercise regime of models is less intense than that of an athlete, because they're not athletes. 

Some people recommend L-Glutamine for insomnia. Others say the opposite. It used to be recommended as a brain enhancer (mid-80's... bear in mind they used to wear leg warmers, too) but I don't think anybody says that any more. Either way, if you're taking it in the morning, I'd be very surprised to find it was causing sleep issues. Nothing else in the ingredient label jumps out, even a little bit. Without knowing what else you're taking/eating/drinking/etc. it's impossible to know. It could also be environmental, emotional, dietary, who knows. 

+1 for the joint rotations/etc, but I'd also just do overhead presses with nothing--just move your arms up and down, with your hands at varying widths, keeping your elbows in the same plane as the body. I also do a vertically-oriented breast stroke while rotating my wrists through a full range of motion; it's one of my favorite "just move" uh... moves. (Not related, but senior citizens seem to really like it too.) 

Knee problems are a contraindication for this exercise. Lower back issues could be aggravated, I suppose, especially if there are already structural imbalances. Some people can't even really do the kneeling part due to ankle inflexibility, at least if it starts from a full kneel (not shown in the video). IMO a healthy person should have no issues doing this exercise from an injury standpoint. On a personal note, I think it's a great exercise myself, although I like to vary things by landing in, or moving to, an athletic position rather than a simple squat. Following with a tuck-jump amps it up several notches. Followed by breakfalls and/or rolls is very entertaining, and amuses others at the gym. 

Not a huge difference, but that's a lot of aerobic activity before weight training. If anything, I'd recommend some carbs to replenish glycogen stores. There's also no reason the protein couldn't be consumed during weight training. It depends on what your goals are, but here's a representative article that might make you reconsider the order in which you do things. 

Of course over-training exists--the body takes time to heal and recover from exertion. Lack of recovery can also lead to acute injuries beyond the normal wear-and-tear. 

Same way you burn any other fat; expend more calories than you consume and increase your muscle mass--there's no such thing as spot reduction. (I also tend to avoid carbs after dinner, but it's not clear to me that doing so makes any significant difference.) Diet is the biggest factor--don't underestimate the amount of dietary discipline in that cover shot. 

Yes, rest is necessary to allow the body to recover and repair. How much rest depends on a large number of factors. Yes, sleep is necessary. (?!) We don't know why your back hurts. Poor posture can certainly lead to back pain, as can may other things. It depends on the nature of the back issues; better posture, exercise, stretching etc. may all help--but you should see a doctor. Stop staring at something the same distance all the time. Maybe you need glasses. See an eye doctor. 

There is no spot reduction. Diet is critical, you don't provide enough details to comment on it. You're not doing very much cardio. Swimming, while a great exercise, may not be the most efficient for explicitly losing fat. I'd consider doing HIIT for your cardio, and increasing the time/effort. It's not clear what the numbers after the body parts are, pr how often you're doing your strength training, although the diet and/or cardio are likely what's holding you back at the moment. 

Safe? I wouldn't exceed 2g protein per pound of bodyweight, but it depends on what your body actually needs. It sounds like you're relatively sedantary--even still, 48g seems low, something more like 60-80g would be closer to ranges I've seen suggested. That same calculator suggested 90g of protein per day for me--I'm 185lb at 5'10", exercise 2-3 hours a day (various types), and IMO 90g while safe is substantially below what my body requires. Calculators I've tried range from 80g-160g, which basically means "meh, we're making up numbers--if you really care, see a nutrutionist."