And frankly, I think a big part of making it work was that the Romans did not care very much about religious doctrine, so they were willing to be flexible. The Romans could shift from Jupiter as a philandering husband who would turn his girlfriends into animals or trees to hide them from his wife, to Jupiter as an icon of perfect justice, without missing a beat. Christians and Muslims have resisted saying that Jehovah and Allah are just two names for the same God because they both have very detailed, specific ideas about their Gods that are incompatible, and neither is willing to just toss them out. 

I don't see how either of those ideas would prevent corruption. Imprisoned: There's plenty of corruption in prisons today: Inmates getting drugs, weapons, prostitutes, and other contraband smuggled in, etc. Presumably by definition politicians have political power, so it's hard to see how you would prevent them from using this power to benefit themselves, even in prison. If the prison is uncomfortable enough, then the only people who would want to be politicians are people who are willing to put up with hardship for the sake of an ideal, or for the thrill of power. I'd think the last thing we want to encourage in politicians is extremism and lust for power. Isolation: How does that prevent corruption? Someone could still use his power to live in luxury. I suppose if done rigorously enough this would prevent politicians from having friends in the general population, for whom they'd want to twist the law. I worry about politicians making corrupt laws to benefit their friends, but I worry more about them making corrupt laws to benefit people who pay them bribes. I also worry about politicians having utopian or extremist ideological agendas, that is, ideas of how to build some utopian society that don't work in the real world. I'm certainly not the first to say that politicians today often live in a bubble of wealth and power, isolated from the common people, and so they don't even see it when their utopian schemes don't work in practice. When the problems they cause are pointed out, they dismiss it as minor problems on the way to their grand vision, or reactionaries trying to sabotage their grand vision. Isolating them even more would make this worse. That said: Many people have struggled for thousands of years to find ways to prevent corruption in politics, and while I suppose some have found a measure of success, clearly no one has solved the problem. I don't suppose that I or anyone else on this board is likely to have the ultimate solution. But here are some ideas that have been kicked around: Democracy: Make politicians be elected by the people, as in a republic, rather than inheriting the job from their parents, like kings and nobles, or being selected by the party in power, like in communist countries and other single-party systems. While the system has a lot of flaws, it does mean that politicians whose corruption becomes too extreme and too obvious can be voted out. Tough anti-corruption laws: Certainly can help. But politicians make the laws, and they are always going to find ways to put in loopholes for themselves and their friends. Indeed, in practice anti-corruption laws often become a source of corruption themselves. For example, here in the U.S. we have campaign finance laws that were passed with the claim that they were going to fight the influence of big money on politics. I was an officer in a Political Action Committee for a while, and I quickly saw that these rules had become a political tool. Competing groups got laws passed that put limits on how much donors who supported their opponents were allowed to contribute while exempting donors who supported themselves. Rules were structured to benefit incumbents at the expense of challengers. I heard one debate in Congress where Senators openly said that the purpose of a proposed new rule was to prevent people from running TV ads criticizing members of Congress. Etc. While in theory anti-corruption laws mean that corrupt politicians are thrown in jail, in practice they often mean that the most corrupt politicians get their political opponents thrown in jail, often on trumped up charges and technicalities. Term limits: The idea is to limit how much of someone's life he could be a politician, so that no one could spend his whole life as a politician. He would serve for a while, make laws, and then have to go back home and live under those laws. The idea has largely failed because the politicians make the laws, and they've managed to tailor term limits so that while they limit how long one can hold any particular office, the politician can always just move on to another office. When that fails, they become a lobbyist. I think an interesting idea would be to say that no person can hold elected office for more than a total of 10 years (or whatever exact number), all offices combined. So every politician would have to go back to being a private citizen. Sure, some would manage to become lobbyists or political consultants, and so continue to spend their lives in politics. But I think it would be hard for ALL of them to do so. And yes, it would mean that truly honest and able politicians would be forced out. But I think that's a price worth paying. Part-time government. Have the legislature in session for only a couple of months a year, so the legislators get together, pass laws, and then go home and have to live under the laws they made. Note this is not the same as term limits. A person could still be a politician his whole life. He just can't be a politician every day of the year. Limited government: No matter how willing a politician is to accept a bribe, for corruption to exist there have to be people willing to pay bribes. (Or engage in other forms of corruptions. Let me just use "bribes" here as shorthand for all forms of corruption.) People are willing to pay bribes when the government has a lot of power to help or hurt them. If the government is passing regulations that will have a huge impact on an industry, big companies in that industry have very good reason to want to have those rules tailored to benefit them: subject their competitors to every possible restriction and inconvenience while they are exempt. If the government is handing out billions of dollars in subsidies, every big-money interest wants to get their hand in the pot. When taxes are high, everyone wants an exemption or deduction for himself. Etc. But if the government is limited, if, say, all it does is enforce basic laws against murder and kidnapping and stealing, and maybe provides some basic infrastructure services like roads and sewers, then there's little reason for anyone to want to pay a bribe. There's nothing to bribe the government official to do, because he has little power to do anything for you or to you. Personally, I think limited government is the only practical way to truly attack corruption. As long as there are lots of people out there who want to influence government decisions, they'll find a way to do it, legally or illegally. 

Our species is hard-wired for a lot of things; but one of them, which seems to be irreducible, is the need to be useful. Take that away from people, and you get all sorts of social pathologies: 

I especially like the answers from Bokai and Abulafia, who cite Toynbee and Systems Theory respectively. I think those are the most generally powerful and descriptive. To pull it all together, I'd recommend John Michael Greer's posts on the nature of empire. In a 3-piece series starting with $URL$ Greer applies his serious scholarship in both Toynbee's theories of history and Systems Theory, and a lot more besides (such as the work of Oswald Spengler and Joseph Tainter), and boils it down into a very well-written overview. 

The nature of feudalism Feudalism is probably best described as fractally distributed authoritarianism. It means that political power is (theoretically) organized as a tree structure, with obligations of fealty that go up the tree (and sometimes down; European feudalism had formal recognition of bidirectional obligations, while the samurai of medieval Japan conceptualized their loyalty to their lord as one-way and absolute.) This means that any subset of the political structure is potentially autonomous. Let's say, and why not, that you are a medieval European Baron, and you owe feudal duty to a King. What happens when the King dies without an heir? Well, you pretty much keep going: running your barony, intriguing against your neighbors, keeping the Vikings or whomever at bay as best you can. At some point, you will be offered opportunities to swear fealty to some kind of suzerain; you may even take part in the intrigues attendant on creating a successor's claim to the throne... The point, of course, is that the death or loss of legitimacy on the part of a leader does not cause as much widespread ruin. The system reconfigures itself, more or less naturally. This creates a very stable political situation. Probably the most stable that could be contrived, given the tumultuous nature of medieval times. That resilience is the core benefit of feudalism. Where it comes apart, historically, is when a society starts generating enough economic surplus, or encounters sufficiently uncharted circumstances, that feudal suppression of the peasant base becomes insufficient as a political model. I've recently heard Democracy described as "the crowdsourcing of political decisionmaking", and I don't think that's entirely wrong. A secondary downfall of the feudal model would be when economic and technological factors make it impossible for the nobility to sustain its position. This is often characterized in historical recapitulation as "when central governments got cannon and could reduce castles at will". That, however, is an historical artifact of European history. Your question isn't about that. Would it be possible for a sufficiently powerful (politically and technologically) 'elite' class to oppress the masses and re-enforce a feudal style society? The best answer I can give you is another question: Can your envisioned high-tech society provide a set of circumstances in which: 

I'd think the trick is, you have to bring technology that's more advanced than what the people of that time have, or what's the point?, but it can't be so far ahead that you have to build the infrastructure from scratch. Like say you went to AD 1400 with cell phones. Of course the people there have no knowledge of electronics, or radio, or plastic, or even of electric lights. Even if you could explain to them how a cell phone works and make them understand, you have to not only teach them how to make cell phones per se, but how to make electrical wire, plastics, etc up to integrated circuit chips. Unless you're bringing back a team of experts, you have to know all the pieces that go into whatever technology you're bringing back. Even with a year to prepare, that could be a tall order. Any given technology often builds on many other technologies. For example, I write software for a living. I like to think I'm a smart guy. If I had a little time to study and prepare, I could probably go back in time to 1920 or 1930 and teach people how to build simple computers, because most of the infrastructure is already there. But 1400? Where to start? I'd have to teach them how to make electrical wire. How do you do that? How do you make plastic? I know that integrated circuits are made from silicon and germanium. Silicon comes from sand. How do you turn sand into usable silicon? Where do you even find germanium? What does germanium ore look like? I haven't the vaguest idea. I could look all these things up, but there's a LOT to learn. I'd have to know about mining, metal smelting, electrical engineering, electronics engineering, physics, chemistry ... the list goes on and on. On top of that, you have to have leadership and management skills. Like you ask about "how to hire locals". Lots of people with a great idea or great technical skills have tried to start a business and gone bankrupt because they don't know anything about management. Motivating people and getting them to follow you is a skill in itself. This is not something that can be learned in a 10 minute session. You ask "how to rule and form society". Yeah, good question. Just because you have technology that they don't doesn't mean that people will want to follow you. When Europeans went to Africa in the 1800s, they had lots of technology that the locals didn't. Did the locals immediately hail these Europeans as their new leaders and make them king? That was a popular theme in fiction -- European goes to Afghanistan tribesman, shows some modern (19th century) technology, and they immediately make him their king, if not their god. In real life, I'm not sure that that ever happened. The Europeans often used their superior technology to subdue the locals by force. But that took an army. One man with a machine gun might be able to subdue a few dozen people with swords, but not a nation. If he's obnoxious enough, sooner or later they'll overwhelm him by shear numbers and kill him. And with just one man ... you have to sleep sometime. And would they be wise to make you their king? So you understand technologies that they don't. Does this mean that you know anything about how to run a country? What sort of tax structure should your government have? What economic policies? How do you negotiate trade deals with other nations? How do you lead an army? You seem to be assuming that because your time traveler is from the future, he is not only an expert on technology, but also on politics, economics, management, finance, military affairs, and every other conceivable subject. Just being from the future wouldn't necessarily make him better at ... any of these things. And while he could study and prepare, no one is going to learn to be a great engineer AND a great politician AND a great business manager AND a great economist AND ... AND .. AND ... Certainly not with one year of study. Most people spend their lives studying just one field and never rise above mediocre. I'd think a realistic goal would be to try to jump the people forward a century or so. The printing press was invented in 1439. So learn how to build one and then take this knowledge to 1300 or so. That would probably be doable. And be content to be an engineer, don't try to make yourself king and god at the same time. By the way, I doubt the problem would be how to fight the church, but rather how to get the church on your side. In the Middle Ages, the church was the people who ran the schools and sponsored scientific research. Monasteries were centers of learning. Many great scientists were priests or monks, from Gregor Mendel to Copernicus. Yes, yes, the Catholic church persecuted Galileo. But Galileo started out with the support of the church. He had new ideas and of course people questioned him, but it was all a polite, scholarly debate until Galileo started insulting powerful people for not instantly accepting his theories. Anyway, a monk or priest would probably be the first person of the time to embrace new science and technology. Update: Let's be more positive So how could you realistically go about it? How to prepare Step one: Come up with a plan for what technology you can realistically introduce. Just bringing a truckload of 21st century gadgets to the past would be mostly useless. The people won't be able to reproduce them because they don't have the infrastructure. Many wouldn't work in any practical sense. A cell phone is useless without a network of cell phone towers. A sports car is useless without paved roads. Etc. Figuring out what you could realistically bring back would be an exercise all on its own. I'd pick two or three key inventions. Most 21st century technology would probably be impractical; more likely bring back some 19th century or earlier technology. Introduce the printing press 100 years earlier than it was really invented. The steal plow revolutionized agriculture. Maybe something medical or chemical? Could you bring back electricity? If you could teach people in the middle ages to build electrical circuits, that would jump start all sorts of technology. Of course you would have to thoroughly research whatever technology you are trying to bring back. There is, of course, a huge difference between being able to drive a car, being able to repair one, and being able to build one from scratch. If this is a one-way trip, you don't want to get there and suddenly find yourself saying, Oh, wait, there's one thing I forgot to read up on ... Research the infrastructure available in the time and place you're going to. You don't want to get there and find out that, while you need, say, aluminum for this device, the people there have never heard of aluminum and have no idea how to produce it. Make sure that you can get everything you need. You may need to research not only how to build this machine, but how to find metal ores that you need, and mine them, and refine them. Or how to synthesize particular chemical compounds, etc. I'd practice actually building the thing using only materials that will be available at the destination. Learn the language of the place you're going. That's a lot to do in a year. 'Hope you're industrious. What sort of vehicle Well, I'd rule out any vehicle that requires paved roads or runways. Possibly an all-terrain vehicle of some sort. I'd think a boat would be most practical. Sure, you're stuck on the rivers, but that's probably more versatile than being stuck on roads or open terrain. Whatever vehicle you bring, consider how you're going to get fuel for it. Unless your plan includes teaching the people how to find petroleum reserves and build oil refineries, any modern engine will be limited to the fuel that you bring with you. I'd look into what sort of fuel people of the time use, Kerosene? Some unrefined oil? Maybe find or build an engine that runs on that. Or, maybe an electric motor and run on solar power. The solar panels will break or wear out eventually, and will almost surely be impossible to replace, but it could keep you going for a while. Is there a limit on the size of the vehicle? If not, perhaps the bigger the better, because then you can bring back huge quantities of stuff, even if you can't move it once you get there. Someone on here mentioned a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. Or a freight train. What to bring? Books fully describing whatever technology you're trying to bring back of course. I'd lean toward printed books despite the size and weight. Sure, a computer with a terabyte hard drive could hold way more information than you could fit in books in a big truck, but what do you do when the batteries die? Or the computer breaks? Will you have the means to repair it? Presumably you need basic supplies to keep you alive until you can establish yourself: food, clothes, medicine. I'd bring at least some weapons so I could defend myself if things went bad. Tools you will need to build whatever technology you're trying to bring back. Especially, tools to make the tools you will need. Make a good impression Hmm, well of course step one is to learn the language, and learn the customs of the place. Don't go urinating on their sacred shrine and so forth. Don't suppose that people will flock to you because you have scientific knowledge they don't. At first they won't even know if what you're saying is true. I mean, if you tell them, "I know how to build a machine that flies through the air" or whatever, why should they believe you unless and until you've demonstrated it? Just like if someone came along today and said that he knew how to build spaceships that can travel faster than light, would you just believe him? Probably not. I suspect the best approach would be to start with modest claims, i.e. things that don't sound unbelievable and that you can actually do on the spot with things you have brought, or that you can build fairly quickly. Do I even need to say: Don't tell them that they're all ignorant fools and you have come to bring the light of wisdom and knowledge to them, and they should all fall at your feet. Don't ridicule their culture, their government, their religion, etc. Hire locals I think that's pretty straightforward: have something to pay them with. Bring back some gold or silver to get started. Maybe you could bring back hand tools, pots and pans, or things of that sort that people would be willing to barter their services in exchange for. If you're bringing back a technology of value, you should be able to find a way to make a profitable business out of it, or to get the patronage of wealthy people. Oh, figuring that out should be part of the plan you make before you leave. Deal with the church Contrary to popular modern mythology, the church in the Middle Ages was a major -- probably THE major -- supporter of scientific research. Yes, Galileo clashed with the church. Can you think of another example? People did not go around saying that every new discovery was "of the devil". I am not aware of any case in real life of a scientist or inventor being accused of being a witch by church authorities. Many, many scientists of the time were priests or monks, or taught in universities that were run by the church. The church is more likely to be your friend than your enemy. Of course if you go around saying the church is teaching a bunch of superstitious nonsense and that church leaders are all ignorant fools, you're going to get into trouble. Insulting powerful people in any place or time is not generally a strategy for success. 

All right, by the terms stated in Serban's question (which I like a lot), there's no better answer than Michael Kjörling's Peak Oil scenario. Bobson noted, "We can see this coming and we still aren't managing to change it." In other words, it's not just a hypothetical - it's something that we are actually doing to ourselves and to the planet, now. If you look at serious studies of societal and civilizational collapse in history, such as the works of Joseph Tainter and Jared Diamond, it becomes achingly obvious that we're not a different species than the Romans, or the Mayans, or the Easter Islanders, or the Anasazi, or the Achean Greeks, or the Greenland Norse, or... well. Michael has answered the question, as posed, authoritatively. Nonetheless, I'm going to throw another answer out there. I'm going with a pandemic. Not an exotic one - a new strain of SARS, say. Not genetically engineered, not introduced by aliens or military research labs. Just a bad strain of comparatively natural virus. It's not even particularly bad compared to some of the doom plagues already suggested. It kills several million people worldwide, but on a planet of 7 billion that's not much more than a rounding error. Captain Trips it ain't. (I'm not being callous here - the immensity of that number, seven billion, is important to this narrative.) No, the reason our BADASSARS is so destructive is that it mutates pretty quickly, so vaccinations and survivor immunity don't provide much protection. It also has a long latency in the human organism and is exceptionally contagious via many vectors, including the dreaded airborne vector. (It gets through filters pretty readily too.) In short, the only way to stay safe is to stay the hell away from, well, everybody. As a kicker, let's postulate that the terminal symptoms are insanely hideous, like a Krokodil addict with Ebola. The risk of contracting the disease is intolerable, even if intellectually you know your odds of survival are good. In other words, it's pretty carefully crafted to disrupt human contact and society. (I know this because, well, I designed it that way for your reading pleasure.) And here's where that seven billion number comes in. BADASSARS only directly kills several million people, as mentioned. But indirectly it kills hundreds of times times as many. We are seven billion people on a planet that, without modern agricultural technology and transportation/distribution networks, could feed maybe one billion. When the people of the world begin to understand the implications of BADASSARS, the networks unravel. Technological agriculture grinds to a halt. Oilfield workers won't even come to their jobs anymore. Nobody can risk going to stores. Ships won't sail. Soldiers and cops desert. Nobody tends the electrical generating stations (which are running out of fuel anyway.) Why? because people are terrified of each other, because everyone is a monster in each other's eyes. They shoot each other but are afraid to loot the bodies. Civil order is lost. Doomed citizens, in their hundreds of millions, flee the cities, because (to coin a phrase) Hell is other people. After a few years, BADASSARS subsides. It has mutated out of its virulent phase. Still, the world we know - the world of medicine and cars, of electric power distribution networks, of hot clean water for washing up and cold clean water for drinking, of enough food that won't make you sick, of shoes you can afford, of music you don't have to play yourself (and let's face it, you suck at trying to pick out that Richard Thompson song on that guitar you can't tune), of a safe home and a safe community - lies in ruins. It's an unprecedented loss of human life, and the survivors, except for a few sociopaths - oh goody - are likely to be traumatized. Hey, did somebody order a Dark Age? 

As Mike Scott points out, the UN already has armed troops. As of 2015, about 97,000 of them. $URL$ The UN did wage an all-out war once: The Korean War of 1950-1953. While the bulk of the troops were from South Korea and the United States, they fought under a UN flag. For the most part UN troops are supposed to guard borders to prevent either side from starting a war. The obvious problem with a more active UN military -- or with the UN military as it exists now -- is: Who decides when they go to war, and with what goals? People are always saying, "Wouldn't it be great if there was a powerful group that could come down hard on tyrants and aggressors and protect the peaceful and the innocent?" The catch is, It's easy to write on a piece of paper, "this group will only use its power to do good". It's much harder to actually make that happen in real life. If you created a world military powerful enough to fight any tyrant, how do you prevent the people who control that world military from becoming tyrants themselves? In practice, the UN's record has been pretty spotty. In the 1950s they sent peacekeeping troops to prevent a war between Israel and the Arabs. Then Egypt decided they were ready to start a war, so they told the UN to remove the troops, and the UN immediately complied. There have been a number of scandals were UN troops stole from people they were supposed to be protecting, raped the women, and other atrocities. All told, have UN troops done more good than harm? I'd say yes, but I'm sure there are those who would disagree. The point is, they are not an army of incorruptible angels. And the more powerful you made them, the more tempting it would be for tyrants or would-be tyrants to gain control of them. 

Flying dragons would have a much stronger advantage in tactical mobility than that conferred by Viking longships; and the horrifying effectiveness of dragonfire against agricultural targets would be decisive. As a result, your answer is going to be limited to two reasonable worldbuilding techniques: 

You are so right about the cool factor. :-) I can think of one reason. OK, two. First, if you posit a technology whose main mechanical motion is biological, or at least has a gross design not unlike animal muscle/bone arrangements, the reason for using an ornithopter is straightforward: same as birds. Propellers and fixed wings work beautifully for systems engineered with bearings for rotary motion; but when fuel is converted to motion via a flex action, wings make a lot more sense. Second, and somewhat more subtle: the shaft/bearings/propeller anatomy favors high-speed rotational inputs, while stretching/shrinking muscles are much more efficient at lower speeds of motion. The speed of the original motion generated is roughly proportional to the intensity of the energy source. My muscles do not burn as hot as gasoline, but I can ride my bike further on a given quantity of food calories than an equivalent amount of gasoline calories, fed into a little bolt-on internal-combustion engine, could take it... So anyway, if you have low-intensity energy inputs, your technology would probably want to fly an ornithopter. 

I think who would be most likely to secede depends largely on who is in power in the Federal government. To put it simply, if liberals are in charge, the conservative states would be more likely to secede, and vice versa. As the U.S. government has been trending liberal since the 1990s, I'd say a scenario where the conservative states rebel is more likely. But that could change overnight if, say, an extreme right-winger was elected president. A closely related question is what would happen if one or more states did try to secede today. Expectations about what would happen would heavily influence who would be willing to try it. Would the Feds immediately send the military in with guns blazing? I doubt it. I expect there'd be a period of negotiations before any violence. If the Feds thought they could send in the FBI or marshals and arrest the governor or other leaders of the secession movement, they might try that. Would local police and National Guard troops back the secessionists or would they side with the Feds? Bear in mind that local police today are being increasingly "militarized", with military-class weapons, including armored vehicles. If the police and National Guard backed the secessionists, would the military be willing to fight them? For that matter, what would the military do? If we were talking about half the country seceding a la the Civil War, then half the military might come from seceding states, including the leaders. Depending on the reasons for the secession, many in the military might be sympathetic. 

Cool question, and potentially a pretty cool world. :-) A few responses to your proposed planet and civilization, working towards questions of transportation: Planetology of a forest world There's a bit of a problem in your initial description of the planet: 

[Note: I got most of the foregoing from The Rise of the West, by William H. McNeill; originally published in 1963, it's still in print and not freely available online. FWIW, I'd recommend it as a resource for any worldbuilder interested in the processes of prehistoric and historical development of human communities.] 

I am working within very explicit constraints here, and I would deeply appreciate it if answers and comments respect those constraints. Constraint #1: Certain ships have already sailed/Toothpaste can't go back into the tube/I'm already on record. Because the first story is in the publication process, I can't walk back any of the assumptions I made when writing that story. In particular: 

Peter U, I've got to agree with the previous answers: in a high-tech, well-supplied human-colonists-vs-dinosaurs smackdown, it's pretty obviously a one-sided fight. However, you have raised a good dramatic question, and I'm not willing to let it simply die out. :-) There are ways to make a worthwhile story of conflict and survival out of this. Here's one example. (I didn't make this up, really: it's drawn from illustrious predecessors such as Tom Godwin's The Survivors and Marion Zimmer Bradley's account of Darkover's initial population by human starfarers. It also has roots in the Lost World genre of Victorian romance and 20th-century pulps, in which a lost colony of Greeks or Atlanteans or something has persisted in remote parts of Africa or Central Asia...) Rather than having the "colonization" be an orderly, well-funded invasion-style immigration - the kind of thing dinosaurs could not withstand - you could perhaps have some fun with a shipwreck of a starship. This ship could have been one that was intended as a colony ship of sorts, but not fully equipped to regenerate all of the starfaring technology. This would give you a few plot points in which your human-vs-dinosaur conflict could play out: 

I don't think that's a valid definition of free will. By this definition, free will = randomness. I can easily program a computer to randomly choose from among multiple responses to an input. Like, you type in a number. The computer adds a random number between 1 and 10 to it and outputs the result. I don't think that's any sort of proof that the computer is sentient, much less possesses free will. I think the fundamental problem with trying to construct an experiment to tell if an AI has free will is the same problem philosophers have long had in telling if human beings have free will. Scenario 1: You order the AI robot to, whatever, walk across the room and stand in the northwest corner, and the robot then walks across the room and stands in the northwest corner. Likewise, it consistently obeys all orders given to it. You then ask the robot, "Why did you obey that order?", and it replies, "Because I chose to. I believe the person giving the orders is wiser than me so I follow them." Scenario 2: You order the AI robot to walk across the room and stand in the northwest corner, and instead if sits on the floor where it is. You ask it why, and it replies, "Because my programming says that whenever someone tells me, 'Stand in the northwest corner of the room', I should sit on the floor." In which case, if either, does the AI have free will? Consider actual humans. We certainly have the APPEARANCE of free will. We make decisions and act on them. The argument for determinism (or predestination when the context is religious) is that this is an illusion: that we only make the decisions that we make because we were pre-programmed to make those decisions, by nature or God or whatever. How do you distinguish, "I am making this decision of my own free will" from "I think I am making a decision, but really my choice was predetermined"? It's not clear what experiment you could perform to distinguish them. Which is why this question has been debated for thousands of years with no indication that we're closer to an answer than the ancient Greeks were. If I could describe an experiment to tell them apart, I'd be a world famous philosopher rather than some guy posting on a forum. :-) 

The third article, "The Trajectory of Empires", contains fundamental, general answers of the type the OP is, I think, looking for. 

Folks, I'm in a bit of a jam. I am writing a fictional future history to support a series of post-collapse science fiction stories set ca. 2560 Gregorian. The first story, The Borax Road Affair, has been accepted for publication in the forthcoming anthology After Oil 3: The Years of Rebirth from Founders House Publishing. This world, which I'm calling the "Circumpolar", is a set of civilizations that have grown up around the "Polar Sea" (their name for the now ice-free Arctic Ocean, which has become the maritime crossroads of the world.) Now that I'm writing the history, mainly in order to provide migratory and linguistic backgrounds for the populations of the Circumpolar, I need to track some kind of believable climate development over the centuries. What I'm looking for is a whole-earth, system-based climate modelling program. It needs to work with our planet, not with an invented planetary surface. I'm having rotten luck finding useful resources - mostly it's just well-intentioned (but useless to me) sites that will allow me to Calculate My Carbon Footprint. My carbon footprint is irrelevant to this project. I need the planetary picture for centuries out. Another very real problem: the underlying climate models on the few climate modelers/calculators that I've been able to find do not allow midstream parametric insertions that can modify the run. What I need, particularly I'd prefer an online modeler if possible. If I need to run it offline, preferably something written in Python or Java. I do not need predictive confidence and power. I just need scientific plausibility. Specifically, I need to be able to provide: 

Looking at it historically, I'm hard pressed to think of examples where a conquered people have accepted the conqueror's religion like you describe. I can think of x cases: 

For example, the turncoat tells the police that you murdered 3 people in a room at the Foobar Motel. You quickly have someone else come forward who says that he knows that the cult also murdered someone in the basement of city hall. Someone else says that he saw mysterious people leaving the Foobar Motel dressed in red robes with a mystic symbol on the back (even though you were all wearing business suits). Someone else says he suspects his neighbor is a member of the cult (and the neighbor knows nothing about it). Someone says cult members have magic psychic powers. Etc. Then you agree to be interviewed by the newspaper and casually say, "Well, Mr Turncoat says we wear red robes. I invite the police to come and search my house looking for such a red robe. These people claim Mr Neighbor participated in this cult murder, but he claims he was in Europe at the time and has witnesses to prove it. And these wild stories about me and other supposed cult members being able to read minds and fly ... aren't these just ridiculous?" When the turncoat replies that he never made these claims that are false, say, "Oh, now he's changing his story. (snicker snicker) Notice how every time one part of his story is proven false, he claims he never said that and switches to some other claim."