The GPS receiver in recent tablets and phones is actually quite good. I use a Nexus 7 Android tablet for outdoor navigation, and it works very well. Tablets generally allow you to shut things down more than phones. A phone may always be looking for a cell signal, for example, and thereby wasting power. I use a app called Backcountry Navigator, but surely there are a number of apps out there that do similar things. The point of these apps is to allow you to download maps ahead of time. Then when you're outside, the tablet doesn't need any external connection, like cell service or WiFi. In fact, you shut those off to conserve power. I've been quite impressed by the GPS in my Nexus 7 tablet. It actually seems to be better, and is certainly easier to use, then dedicated GPS units only a few years older. The main advantage of the tablet is the decent screen. That allows you to see enough of a map at useful detail at one time. I have found that the battery is easily enough for a all-day hike. I keep the GPS running all the time, with the BCNAV app recording the trail, but the screen off. I only turn the screen on for short periods of time when I want to look at the map. Otherwise, the tablet is in my pocket and does a remarkably good job of tracking location even though the antenna is right up against my body. This uses up about half the battery on a "all day" day hike. Not all tablets are equal. I once used a tablet that was "free" due to some promotion by Verizon. It was terrible at tracking while in the same pocket. It also charged much slower when back in the car. Battery life wasn't as good, and it was impossible to turn off the cell radio. Having a tablet that has a wide area map at multiple detail levels, a GPS to show you where you are, and a app to show you the track you have been on is definitely nicer than a paper map and compass. However, in a serious situation, like needing to find water spots in the desert, I wouldn't rely on it as the only navigational aid. In that case, I'd bring a map and compass as a backup. If you're going out for several days, then don't leave the tablet on all the time recording your track. You can live without that. The battery of a decent tablet will last many days if you only turn it on occasionally to look at the map and get a GPS fix. Another possibility, especially since you mentioned the desert, is to bring a solar charger. These can be small and light. A 20 to 25 square inch panel should provide enough power to greatly extend battery life, if not top it off occasionally. You can strap it to your pack and charge the tablet while hiking. You can also get a panel with a rechargeable battery built in. The panel charges it's battery separately, then the battery can be used to charge the tablet later, even when there is no sun. One extra lithium 18650 cell doesn't really weigh that much or take much space. 

It's not clear what you think the layer principle, is but you don't have to dress in layers. It's the performance of the complete stackup that matters. In cold weather, this could be achieved, for example, by a polypro sweater then wool sweater then wind breaker, or with a single "winter" jacket. Both can be made to keep you warm equally well, and the winter jacket could even have roughly the same kind of layers all in one unit. When you're just walking around town and going beween the car and a store, the single thick jacket can be fine. When hiking, layering has distinct advantages. It's a lot more important when hiking to tune your clothing more tightly to the weather and your activity than around town. Too much and you get sweaty. Too little and you get cold. Also, the amount of insulation you need will vary significantly depending on whether you are exerting yourself like when hiking up a hill, or just sitting around eating lunch. Layers allow you to tune what you wear to the conditions for the least amount of weight and volume of stuff. You can adjust just 3 or 4 possible layers to be the equivalent of a wide range of single-purpose garments. That pile of single-purpose garments would much bulkier and heavier than the 3 or 4 layers. This may sound somewhat more cumbersome, but it's really not. I haven't owned a "winter" jacket for over 30 years. Instead I use a windbreaker and put a wool sweater under it when it's cold. Try that some time, you'll probably be surprised how warm it is. If it gets even colder, I put on a polypro sweater first, then the wool sweater over that, then the wind breaker over that. So far I haven't been in conditions where that wasn't warm enough. To me at least, the windbreaker-sweater combination feels less bulky and restrictive. Not only do winter jackets cost way more than a windbreaker and a sweater, but they don't feel as nice. And then you still need a light jacket for warmer but still cool weather. No thanks. 

The robin should be quite capable of building the nest on her own. Almost anywhere there should be enough dried grass and small twigs around. It is unlikely your robin is having trouble finding building material. The best thing you can do for the robin family is to give them space. For your own enjoyment and perhaps that of others, you might install a small web cam a couple of feet from the nest. That way you can watch what develops without bothering the birds further after installing the camera. 

Note that most everything around it has already been burnt, so this stump will burn to ash and then the fire will be over in that specific location. As you can see, I could walk right up to this without being in any danger. I did discover one danger from this fire that I wasn't previously aware of. Stumps like the one in the second picture eventually burn underground for a little ways too. Most of the material then gets removed as combustion gasses, so almost nothing is holding the ground up where the stump used to be. I accidentally stepped on one of these and sank in up to my knee. It was easy enough to get out, but if the fire had been at that stump more recently I could possibly have gotten burnt on my leg. Fortunately it was only "hot", and a few seconds in the hole before I could pull my leg out did no damage and was not long enough to hurt. 

In the outdoors, the way to deal with cold is not to heat the environment, but to insulate yourself. You say "snow line", so it appears you aren't asking about anything particularly cold. Just get a proper sleeping bag rated for the temperature. Since you are car camping, you can bring some extra supplies like blankets. Get a sleeping bag rated for the normal or a bit above normal temperature, then add a blanket for the unusually cold nights. It's a lot easier to throw a blanket on a sleeping bag to deal with lower temperatures than to open the bag and stick one leg out, or whatever, to deal with higher temperatures. 

I know it's hard to make out what you're looking at in these pictures. The "reeds" (or whatever they are) are very tall. They are at least as tall as phragmites, which is already about twice or more as tall as cattails. These pictures were taken from the side of a small esker, and look down onto this wetland. These plants looked basically like grass, but much taller than any grass I've ever seen. I'd guess they were 10-12 feet tall (up to around 4 meters). They are only growing where it's really wet. Basically, it looks like this stuff grows in the same conditions you'd expect to find cattails in. This is definitely fresh water. It's miles from the coast and about 300 feet elevation. There is no salt or brackish water anywhere around here. The reason I don't think this is phragmites is because there are no tassles at the top anywhere. Not a single one was visible in this whole stand. I see plenty of phragmites around this area daily, and the tassles are present at this time and quite obvious. What is this plant? I'd like to know because, for one thing, it's really unusual around here. I'd also like to know if this is a new invasive we should try to deal with before it spreads. We have a lot of wetlands around here, but this one kettle hole is the only place I've noticed this plant. Added in response to comment The plants were the color of dried grass, which I suspect is exactly what they were. Spring is only just starting, so these stems are probably left over from last year. Since I haven't seen this "grass" before, I don't know if the existing stems will turn green and come to life over the next few weeks, or whether there will be new sprouts and the stems I saw will eventually decay. I didn't touch these plant, so can't say for sure how brittle they are. However, the growing season has just started. What you see survived the winter. It couldn't be too fragile, else winter winds would have blown it down. Today was the first warm day this spring. By next weekend this place may look quite different. I'll keep watching it and report here if I see what look like significant changes. 

No, it doesn't matter much. The regulations for what can be done in a national monument or park (the only difference between the two is that one is established by presidential edict, the other by act of congress) are pretty strict, so there won't be huge differences in what you are allowed to do in one national monument compared to another. That said, each different park or monument is run by different people who will invetably make different decisions about details. However, more significant differences arise due to the nature of the park/monument itself. Yosemite is relatively small, particularly the valley, and close to major population centers. As a result, it gets a lot of visitors, and this can't be ignored in formulating detailed policy. For example, the numbers of people in the valley are limited, and you need a permit to stay overnight in the back country. Grand Staircase / Escalante, in contrast is large, farther from large populations, and the main attractions more spread out. There is no attempt to limit numbers, even in the most popular places like the Dry Gulch slot canyons. It's far enough and hard enough to get to that the numbers of visitors is way less than Yosemite Valley, so management policies can be much looser. The general feeling is that the BLM is more laid back about things than the Park Service, but that is really hard to measure because of the kinds of lands the two agencies manage and what they are charged with. Would the Park Service manage Grand Staircase / Escalante all that differently? It's really hard to say since comparing it to places like Yosemite and Yellowstone is apples to oranges. The BLM manages so few parks/monuments that it's hard to say whether there is a significantly different philosophy compared to the Park Service for lands that are mandated to have the same level of protection. My personal impression is that there isn't much difference. The few parks/monuments the BLM does manage are more out of the way and less major tourist attractions than many of the Park Service parks/monuments. To make any kind of fair comparison, you'd have to look at Park Service parks/monuments that are also similarly out of the way and less visited. The BLM does manage a significant number of Wildernesses. These have even a higher level of protection than National Parks or Monuments. I've been to a number of them, and haven't really noticed much difference in how Wildernesses are managed by the BLM, the Forest Service, or the Park Service. The one difference that does stand out is not in how the resource is managed or what you're allowed to do, but in interpretive programs. The Park Service has ranger-naturalists that lead guided hikes, give talks, and the like. This is either rare or non-existant in parks/monuments run by other agencies as far as I have experienced. Park Service parks/monuments are more likely to have a entrance fee, perhaps as a result of the extra services offered. Grand Staircase / Escalante does have a visitor center, which is actually quite nice and doesn't feel any different from visitor centers I've been to for lands run by the Park Service. However, I don't recall nature programs offered there as you would usually find in a Park Service park, although I wasn't explicitly looking for them when I was there last summer. 

There are two possible reasons not to store batteries in a headlamp that won't be used for a while: Residual current draw, and batteries leaking and destroying the headlamp. To make things waterproof, some headlamps don't have a regular mechanical switch to turn them on and off during normal operation. For example, mine draws a few µA when "off". That's still very little for a pair of AA batteries, but when I'm storing the headlamp without a specific use expected within a few days I turn it off completely. On my headlamp, that means popping the watertight cover and moving a jumper. In that case it is truly off and the issue of residual current is eliminated. I don't know if all headlamps work that way. Depending on how the on/off switch works, you may also want to remove the batteries just so that they don't get killed if the unit is accidentally turned on while it's in storage. If you keep it in the car, for example, consider that it could get jostled about. I was reminded the hard way last summer to do this with the camera battery when packed in luggage on a airplane. Somehow the camera had gotten turned on in transit, and the battery was dead when I went to use it. Fortunately it was rechargeable and I brought two spares, but it's still something I won't do again. Old batteries leaking and destroying equipment isn't the problem it used to be. The old carbon-zinc cells were notorious for this, but that technology hasn't been used in a long time. Nowadays, this is not likely to be a issue. So all that is a long way of saying, no, I wouldn't bother remove batteries from a headlamp that is being stored someplace where it won't be molested until the next use. The only time I remove the batteries from my headlamp is when I'm bringing it as luggage on a airplane. I made my LED headlamp myself. A few years ago I was flying to Arizona using my backpack as checked luggage. A short while after I got to the terminal waiting to board the plane, I heard my name being announced over the PA system, requesting me to go to the ticket counter. There were two TSA agents waiting for me when I got there. They asked what I had in my backpack. I started listing stuff, like camera equipment, and when I got to the LED headlight they both said "that's it". I told them I was a electrical engineer and had made it myself. They actually found that rather amusing and said I was fine. As one of the agents was escorting me back to the terminal, I asked what I should have done to make it look less suspicious. He said I hadn't actually done anything wrong and they were just checking. Then I asked if it would have been better if I had taken the batteries out and put them in a side pocket somewhere. He thought about it and said, yes, that would probably have raised less suspicion. That's what I've done from then on and I haven't had another "encounter" with the TSA since.