You need to strengthen your lower back and there are plenty of exercises but, unfortunately they often times are neglected. Some examples: Superman (lie on your stomach and lift your legs and arms about 6 inches off the ground, for added strength and intensity place your hands together, palms facing outwards, and move them in unison to your sides and repeat. It looks similar to the breast stroke in swimming) Reverse plank leg lifts (toes point upwards and arms shoulder length apart, fingers facing forward. push up and settle into the "reverse plank." From there alternate bringing your each knee as close to your chest as you can.) There are a ton of other examples online. 

In general, you should refrain from training the same muscle groups on consecutive days. For example, you can split it up based on push vs. pull muscles (Push: chest, shoulders, tris, Pull: back, bis), upper vs middle vs lower body, and so on. Allow your muscles to have the proper recovery time to prevent overtraining. 

I would recommend taking at least one day off for some light cardio/stretching/yoga per week. That said, you should not be working the same two muscle groups on consecutive days. Your body needs time to repair the broken down muscles and cannot adequately do so in ~24 hours. I would recommend working in exercises that target different muscle groups for optimal repair and gains. 

The real answer is oxygen debt during the set. It is the same effect as with sprinting all-out. $URL$ 

Progress is easy, given you train regularly and have sufficient nutrition and rest. For a beginner. When you become advanced and your achievements much better then those of untrained people , you need to plan cycles , as progress is possible only in specific part of the body or one skill at a time. When you become elite, ie world class sportsmen say olimpics, world championships, national level .... At this stage your life is organized around one specific event (or say season). Hardly you are an elite as in this case you would have a coach/trainer. So i assume you are a novice. In this case you could try to change one of 3 variables: You train too hard too often. You do not get enough food to recover. You do not have enough sleep/rest to recover. And there is a possibility that your training is not intencive enough to shift the homeostasis. 8 minutes look too short to me , however if you do Tabata protocol , for example it is even too much , especially every day. Try to think of it and change one thing at a time , observe the results over 2 weeks period and then decide . 

Adding mass or hypertrophy happens at higher weight and lower reps. 8 is the ideal rep count. Try to pick a weight that has you struggling on 6,7 and 8. 

Technically, HIIT is defined as: Working out for no longer than 30 minutes at a period of high intensity, and a period of low intensity and repeating the process a number of times. Running and then lifting is more inline with circuit training (working one muscle group followed by another with little to no rest). A good example of a HIIT routine would be sprinting than walking/jogging and then sprinting x amount of times within a 30 minute window. There is no rest, just a combination of low and high intensity training. Breaks are not considered low intensity. 

I'd like to add that I am not a beachbody coach (and hate that the web is spammed with biased reviews of Shakeology). That said, I do like shakeology a lot, but it is certainly not worth the price. The energy it gives you and taste are really above any comparable products. That said, I've found that health stores offer a comparable list of ingredients for a fraction of the cost (50 dollarsish). Their tastes usually aren't as good, but if you mix it with some almond milk, banana and ice, it becomes tolerable and, ultimately, decent. 

You can try endurance sports to loose fat. To lose fat you need to do aerobic exercise for long time. The fat metabolism can't start fast. It slowly started after 30-40 minutes after the endurance exercise began. The single aerobic exercise must be one hour or more. You are going gain some muscles, but it's not going to be a lot. Mostly your muscles going to take just good athletic shape. To burn fat during endurance exercise you need to have good amount of the carbs in your blood, muscles and liver. The good news is, you are not going to be too hungry after aerobic exercise correctly done. Anaerobic exercise mostly useless for weight lose. 

The body pillows available in BBB and Amazon at size 20" x 54". You can also find a lot of different custom shaped body pillows, but regular rectangle pillow is more than enough. 

The only way to increase results is an increase volume and speed of your ride. You can ride at speed 30 km/h for two-three hours (2000-2500 kcal) couple times a week, and one hour (1000 kcal) 3-4 times a week. It will give you significant increase of calories burned at aerobic level fat burning exercise. 10000 kilo-calories burned per week will give you ability to loose 0.5-1 kg per month or more. You need road bike for it. 

Try "POSE method of runnig". This is a technique improvement(gooogle the exact phrase) . After trying it i must say that this did to my running speed a mirracle. Not that i am a good runner anyway. 

in general weight (own or external ) training does not burn much calories. 1) Adjust your diet accordingly . 2) Walk/run/bike around a hour to burn additional calories. I am not telling you that weight training is bad , i am only telling you that to burn fat , you need to spend more calories than you consume. However as you did not told your weight/height i am not even sure you need fat loss at all. Maybe you do not see your abs as there are no much abs there. I do not know. 

Note that is is virtually impossible for a human body to generate glucose from fat. And vice-verse. If you overeat pure sugar, there is no chance the sugar would be converted to fat. However it is extremely hard to loose fat in this condition. 

try simple approach. Cut physical activity by 2/3(volume) , but keep the weight on the bar. Cut calories to 800 Cal a day(200g protein from lean meats). Add I pill of multivitamin and 10 grams of fish Oil. any number of green leafs. For 2 weeks . It is usefull if you are low-carber paleo eater, in this case it would be easy. you may loose up to 10 of weight this way, and about a half would be fat. This diet is not easy , but very effective . For 2 weeks. the actual diet is $URL$ 

I had cramps recently after spinning on bike trainer in cold basement. The problem was a hydration. I stopped using electrolytes, because I thought I'm not sweating as much as on warm weather and drank clean water alone. After I started using sport drinks again, problem disappeared. 

"It is reasonable to expect that taking too much could cause any of the usual whey protein side effects, such as headaches or bloating. Chronic overconsumption of any protein (including whey protein) can be unhealthy, as it can stress the kidneys and may even lead to kidney damage. Treatment for a Whey Protein Overdose." $URL$ "Protein toxicity occurs when the body is unable to get rid of the potentially toxic wastes that are generated as a result of protein metabolism." $URL$ "Although "overdosing" or consuming more protein than your body can process is not fatal, consuming excess protein does have side effects that you should be aware of." $URL$ And many more here: $URL$ 

Overtraining is a training when you body can't compensate and overcompensate damage made by workout. There is an example of the thee different workouts, where the first is a result of overtraining.