This is a Private of the 13th Regiment of Foot (1st Somersetshire) after 1881. He is a qualified marksman with two Good Conduct stripes and has been in the service for at least six years. 

The US military increasingly looked at Spain and Italy as fallback positions against possible Soviet invasion of Europe. The Pincher Plan saw the possibility of using the Pyrenees as a natural defensive line to buy time against an overwhelming Soviet attack for a US build up. 

The Wikipedia article seems to cover it. But I think the psychological threat of torpedoes and torpedo boats to early 20th century navies cannot be understated. In the 19th century "torpedoes" as in "damn the torpedoes" meant mines. Mines were terrifying enough to navies, a hidden threat that could lurk almost anywhere and blow up a capital ship without warning. The mere possibility of mines has made any number of fleets shy away from an attack or pursuit. 20th century torpedoes are "motor torpedoes", basically self-propelled mines, starting with the Whitehead Torpedo in 1866. Quickly naval planners realized that a flotilla of small, cheap torpedo boats could counter expensive, heavily armored, and otherwise impervious capital ships. Even if the whole flotilla was lost, it was worth it if they sunk one battleship. This was so feared they created an entirely new class of ship, the Torpedo Boat Destroyer, just to counter it. Larger, faster, more heavily gunned than a torpedo boat, these grew and eventually replaced the "cruiser" as the workhorse of the fleet becoming the modern Destroyer. Now any nation with a large capital fleet has to contend with not only losing a ship by running over a single hidden mine, but now losing the whole fleet to swarms of small, fast boats firing torpedoes. This upended the slow, stately pace of capital ship warfare they'd trained for, with careful formations, strategic maneuvers, and chewing away at each other in gunnery slugfests. Even if they missed, dodging torpedoes would break up their careful formations and cause the slow, lumbering capital ships to turn away from the fight. This happened famously to the Yamato during the Battle off Samar as she had to run away from the battle to avoid torpedoes from a US destroyer taking her out of the fight. Add to this that the Japanese already had a reputation for surprise attacks, having opened the war with a surprise night torpedo attack on Port Arthur taking two battleships out of action. The idea that the Japanese could send a handful of these cheap, small hard to detect torpedo boats which could suddenly sink a battleship without warning was terrifying (and very, very overblown). 

That said, while there were many trained cavalry units at the start of WWII, very rarely did they act as cavalry. Instead, they acted as mounted infantry using their horse as a truck. Most cavalry units transitioned to mechanized cavalry, same role, but with armored fighting vehicles instead of horses. 

Source The iklwa, a pole arm, has more in common with the gladius, a sword, than it does with the pike. Similarly a Zweihänder, a sword, being so long had some of the characteristics of a pole arm. Then there's "any warfare before the invention of firearms" which is everything from ancient Greeks to Shaka Zulu (firearms did not have an important role in the wars between South African natives during the Zulu Expansion). It's hard to make sense out of such broad categories and 2000 years of warfare, but I'll give it a shot. 

There's your captured Colonel and your secret documents. Rather than being captured in his sleep, it seems it was a hell of a fight. And rather than a dramatically marked tin carried by the colonel it was eight mailbags. As for the BBC part, neither book makes reference. Instead we see a story of an under-trained, under-equipped force being thrown into a hastily organized and poorly lead operation. Still, they put up a good fight. From Norway 1940... 

In establishing this principle, they cite O'Rourke v. Darbishire (1920) (a UK ruling) in which the executor of Sir Joseph's will, Mr. Darbishire, is charged with fraud. Mr. Darbishire was also Sir Joseph's solicitor. O'Rourke sought legal documents between Mr. Darbishire and Sir Joseph accusing Darbishire of fraud. The case established that mere accusation of fraud isn't enough to dismiss privilege, you must also already have some evidence to support the accusation. 

There is a simple reality of war that you fight with the army you have. The Soviets did just that. They had a very large but under-trained army. They had a range of equipment from some of the best to some of the worst. All of which could be replaced. They had poor communication and coordination, but lots of room to fall back. They eventually learned how to avoid being surrounded by the Germans and how to use their superior numbers and effective equipment to concentrate force and land hammer blows of their own, blows from which they knew the Germans could not recover. 

The Germans were outproduced, especially in heavy hulls. However, after 1941 the Soviet factories were safe beyond the Urals and could produce unimpeded. Meanwhile, Germany was under increasing Allied bombardment yet her production went up. The Americans had a production boom of their own. Another item of note is the German population during WWII was 70 million, while the Soviets had 200 million people, with America at 130 million. This gets a little more complicated once you consider German occupied territories and allies. This is just one data point. It ignores things like, for example, that the US was producing a two ocean navy, as well as a massive air force, and supplying material to the Soviets, all while keeping up a good lifestyle for its citizens. My conclusion, based on this and further study of WWII, is that all the major combatants performed industrial miracles during the war but the US and the UK did it without severe hardship. The Soviets and Germans under conditions of extreme hardship, but also using forced labor and brutal conditions. References. 

No. While the popular impression is that Germany had to "bail out" Italy more often than not, this does not mean they were a net burden on the Axis. On the contrary, Italy opened up the Mediterranean and African theaters of war that required an extensive diversion of resources, ships, aircraft, men, and material to fight in the very critical early years of the war. The campaign to clear the Mediterranean and then liberate Italy went on through the whole war. All that could have been instead fighting Germany. Hostile Italians also prevented the Allies from using the Mediterranean as a "British lake" to safely supply the Pacific and the Soviet Union, as well as to stage raids and attacks on Southern Europe. To avoid a "what if" answer that's frowned upon here, I'll instead go into the ways the Italians tied down Allied forces and delayed Allied victory. 

It remained, with many tweaks, the dominant form of warfare in Europe and the Near East until the Roman army of the middle republic developed the more flexible legions around 250 BC. After Alexander The Great conquered Egypt in 332 BC, their armies followed the Greek model and their main military force moved away from bowmen and chariots to heavy infantry. After that point yes, Egyptian infantry would definitely be in a phalanx formation, wearing armor, and wielding pikes. 

@congusbongus covers it from a legal perspective, but there is a way to avoid the letter of the law: make it look like you're being attacked. Two successful surprise attacks which bypassed the letter of the law in WWII come to mind: the German invasion of Poland, and the Soviet invasion of Finland. In both cases the invader staged false attacks, then claimed they were invading in self defense. This gave them a pretext for invading a peaceful and weaker neighbor, allowed them to claim their surprise attack is legal, and claim the moral high ground to whomever is listening. Neither fooled anyone, except maybe themselves, but it did muddle the legal and political waters enough to slow and confuse the response. It allowed their allies to parrot the bogus claims of self-defense. And it allowed the people of the invading governments to tell themselves they're not the bad guys. 

The US Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled NO. What you're describing is similar to Compact Theory, the idea that the United States was formed by an agreement between the states. This idea comes up a lot with advocates of states rights to reign in federal authority. It's an idea that's been kicking around since the Constitution was ratified and has been used to justify all sorts of things. Constitutional theorists and the US Supreme Court have roundly rejected Compact Theory stating that the United States is formed by the people. The issue was legally put to rest after the civil war. Here are some examples. In 1793 Chisholm v Georgia, Georgia claimed that as a sovereign state it had immunity from lawsuit. The court ruled 4-to-1 that in Article 3, Section 2 of the US Constitution states gave up their sovereign status and federal courts have the right to hear disputes between states and their citizens. The Eleventh Amendment later undid this ruling, but the legal precedent remained that the states were no longer sovereign. In 1816 Martin v. Hunter's Lessee resolved the issue over who had ultimate authority over state legal decisions: state or federal supreme court. Virginia state supreme court used an interpretation of a US treaty that the US supreme court disagreed with. Virginia argued its supreme court had ultimate authority over cases originating in its own state court. The US supreme court disagreed. Justice Joseph Story wrote in the unanimous decision... 

There was an incident similar to the Toledo War known as the Honey War over the border between Missouri and Iowa Territory. Again, it was the result of a surveying dispute. As before, each side attempted to enforce laws in the disputed territory. Again, state militias faced off against each other. As before, it was resolved in court. Missouri and Iowa's borders depended on a line drawn from "the rapids of the River Des Moines", there are a lot of rapids on the Des Moines River, or "the Des Moines rapids" on the Mississippi River depending on who you asked. The difference was a 30 mile strip of land running the length of the Missouri/Iowa border. The name comes from a legend of a Missouri tax collector trying to collect taxes in the disputed territory. After being run off by residents with pitchforks, they decided to collect the taxes by chopping down three trees bearing honey beehives and taking the honey in lieu of taxes... I wish I could pay my taxes in raw honey. The Missouri State Militia was sent in to protect the tax collectors, but its commander wisely recognized that this was very silly and resolved not to shed any blood. A mob of Iowans locked up the Sheriff of Clark County, Missouri, and the Iowa State Militia was called out. The Iowa militia was not a formidable fighting force. According to the Iowa National Guard Museum... 

My main source is The Quest For Aqua Vitae: The History and Chemistry of Alcohol From Antiquity to the Middle Ages by Seth Rasmussen. While fermentation has been known since probably 6000 BCE, distillation of alcohol is much trickier. Low quality glass cannot stand the heat, and methods cooling the distillate vapor were inadequate. 13th century Italian improvements in glass making made distillation a much easier process, and higher and higher concentrations of alcohol were possible. Earlier publications referred to "aqua ardens" (burning water) or "aqua flamens" (flaming water) referencing this thing which looked like water but which burned with a cold flame and gave a giddy sensation upon being drunk. Some thought this was Aristotle's "quintessence" or "aether", the 5th element that made up the heavens. This is also where we get "spirits", alcohol is the pure "spirit" of the wine. We're edging towards "water of life". The earliest reference I can find to using "aqua vitae" to mean "very strong distilled alcohol" is in the late 13th century by several authors. Taddeo Alderotti of Florence published De virtutibus aquae vitae as part of Consilia Medicinalia describing the distillation of wine in an alembic and aqua vitae as "of inestimable glory, the mother and mistress of all medicine" and that a little every morning "makes one happy, jocund, and glad". English physician Gilbertus Anglicus was recommending aqua vitae for travelers. And Arnaldus de Villa Nova who said of the name: 

You can see here that the people still consider themselves citizens of States first, and then those states are part of a Union. This is implied in several places in the Constitution, Article IV, Section 2 governing interstate law is one such example. 

Stealth is by far the most common, guns go bang. They make a tremendous amount of noise audible for miles. A typical military rifle or pistol is in the 150-160 decibel range, louder than a jet engine at full power. Silencers aren't silent. You don't just screw a thing on the end of a pistol like in the movies and get a little "PHOOT". They're more properly termed a "suppressor" reducing the noise and flash of the gun, but it still sounds like a gun. A good suppressor will reduce the noise to about 140 dB which is still extremely loud. Suppressors also come at a cost, reduced muzzle velocity meaning reduced range, accuracy and stopping power. There are a handful of actually silent guns out there, the Welrod pistol being the most famous, but this is a purpose designed weapon with many, many compromises for its level of silence. Ammunition Obviously if you run out of ammunition your ranged weapon is nothing but an awkward club. A smart commander who is running low on ammunition will hold their fire to conserve their limited ammunition for the most critical moments. Rather than firing on, say, a lone soldier, they will wait until there's a large group of troops. Or hold their ammunition in reserve until there's an enemy breakthrough. Once you run out of ammunition, the enemy can move in the open with impunity. They can move their own artillery and support units closer and into better defensive position. So long as you have ammunition, even a little, you maintain the threat of firing back. Most armies are adverse to casualties and will not use attrition to run out an enemy's dwindling supply... unless you're the Soviets. Towards the end of the Russo-Finish Winter War, the Finns ran critically low on everything, especially artillery ammunition. At the beginning of the war well sighted Finnish artillery had a field day firing at large masses of Soviet troops advancing across open and pre-sighted terrain. As the war went on, ammunition supply dwindled, and artillery had to choose their targets more carefully. Towards the end of the war, the Soviets could gather in the open for an attack and the Finns could not respond; they were reserving their dwindling ammunition for only the most critical moments. Artillerymen wept at these textbook targets. A week before the war ended the Finnish 2nd Corps had just 600 shells left in reserve for all guns. Less-Than-Lethal Pulling a gun means you're going to kill someone. There's no "I'll shoot the bad guy in the leg" or "I'll shoot the gun out of his hand", guns simply aren't that accurate, and you can bleed out or go into shock from any number of bullet wounds. Using troops with rifles loaded with lethal ammunition as crowd control, especially if they have little training in crowd control, can have disastrous consequences, such as at Kent State when Armored Cavalry of the Ohio National Guard advanced on unarmed students with live ammo and fixed bayonets. Predictably they panicked and began firing their weapons killing 4 and injuring 9 civilians. 

This is is all long, grey, smeared continuum. For example, one could argue that Wales and Texas were both colonized and annexed. I think when you're saying "colonization" you mean empire. That's been going on since antiquity. The Greeks, Romans, Persians... everyone did it because it made money for the homeland. Why didn't the British they annex India? Because India was a commercial venture by the East India Company, and they were making tons of money exploiting the natives. India was thickly populated and fairly advanced technologically, so they couldn't just shove them out of the way and replace them with British people like was done to the post-apocalyptic North American natives (more on that later). Annexation means government which costs money, better to use the local governments and keep them divided. It means Indian natives might want to become British citizens, and citizens have rights and protections and laws. They're harder to exploit for money. In short, colonization and empire is rarely a deliberate government act. It usually begins as a for-profit venture by private citizens or chartered companies and generates so much money for the home country the entire government gets sucked in. 

During the actual battle, scouting was Midway's most critical contribution, but resulted in a bad decision that happened to work out by luck. Midway had dedicated PBY scout planes as well as long range heavy bombers. The night before a PBY spotted the Japanese Occupation Force (not the carriers) 500 miles away. The subsequent attack did little, but it did confirm to the Americans that the Japanese had arrived on time. At 5:34 early morning of the battle, a Midway based PBY spotted the Japanese carriers. Though at extreme range, this allowed the US carriers to attack first. The Japanese did not spot the US carriers until two hours later, the plane spotting for that sector happened to take off late. However, rather than taking the time (and fuel) to form up and conduct the coordinated attack required against the elite Japanese navy, the US aircraft were thrown at the enemy with no plan. This resulted in a piecemeal attack with aircraft getting lost and bombers being separated from their fighters. The professional Japanese cut them to ribbons. Only through luck did the American dive bombers happen to arrive at just the right time to take advantage of the slaughter while the Japanese fighter screen was down low destroying American torpedo bombers. While Midway allowed an early attack, the rushed attack should have failed. Spotting the Japanese carriers later would have resulted in a better coordinated attack with a better chance to succeed.