The science fiction author Robert Heinlein was a socialist in his youth, but became a strident anticommunist during the Cold War. In 1960, he and his wife Virginia went as tourists to the USSR, and he wrote a magazine article about the experience, titled "Inside Intourist." He depicts the trip as interesting, but filthy, overpriced, and highly restricted by the presence of official minders. Virginia spoke fluent Russian, Robert just a little. They made a game out of evading control and seeing things they weren't supposed to see (like slums), and they made attempts to gather reality-check information on things like how much money people made and what their standard of living was. The article was anthologized twenty years later, with an afterword in which Heinlein discusses at some length his theory that official figures on the population of Moscow were wildly overstated. 

I'll try to say something about the question of why the counterculture declined. The nature of the question is such that probably nobody can give a definitive answer, just guesses and impressions. My answer is about the US, which was a leader in the movement. Other things were going on in other places, e.g., May 1968 in Paris. Two big things that the beatniks and then the hippies were reacting to were institutionalized racism and the Vietnam War. After the war ended and the most glaring racial issues were mitigated, many people probably saw less reason to rebel. Certain extreme elements of the counterculture went too far, showed scary tendencies toward violence, or became cults of personality. Examples were the Manson Gang, the Symbionese Liberation Army, and arguably the Black Panthers. Although these groups were small numerically and not representative of the counterculture in general, people were fascinated and repelled by media coverage of them. Some of the influential early leaders of the drug culture were extremely naive. In some cases, the logic seemed to be, "If they lied when they told us pot was bad, they must have been lying about all the other drugs, too!" As time went on, the damage that drugs did to them became obvious. As an example, John Lennon became a heroin addict, then eventually went cold turkey and wrote a song about the experience. Jimmy Carter was an unpopular president because of inflation, a crisis related to imported petroleum, and the Iran hostage crisis. As part of the reaction against him, Ronald Reagan was elected president. This set a reactionary tone in American society. There was a trend toward disco and vacuous pop music. It's hard to say whether this was a cause or an effect, but anyway the ethos of disco was all about hedonism, which was different from the values of the hippie counterculture. 

I think you could argue for a fundamental difference in the Spanish and English attitudes toward "colonization" of the Americas, based partly on different historical backgrounds and partly on where they started. Once the Spanish got to the Americas proper (as opposed to the Caribbean islands), they encountered populous agricultural and urban societies, including sophisticated kingdoms and empires (especially the Aztecs and Incas). The model provided by Cortes and Pizarro thus became (crudely speaking): "Conquer the native kingdoms and rule over them (and marry their women). When you want more land, go on expeditions to conquer it." The strong Catholic missionary impulse of the time also meant a strong emphasis on converting the natives to Catholicism, which made it easier for Spaniards to intermarry with them. (Note that both Cortes and Pizarro married local princesses.) This was arguably a continuation of the Reconquista model: conquer the Moorish kingdoms and rule over the (non-Christian) locals as you try to convert them. It probably also was affected by the multinational nature of the Spanish/Hapsburg empire in the 16th Century: if Flemish and Italians and Germans could all be subjects of the Emperor, so could Indians in the Americas. For the English colonists (as well as, e.g., the Dutch in New Amsterdam), the model was more "Buy or steal small amounts of land from the natives to set up your own independent settlements. Don't interact with the natives aside from trade, and when you want to expand, buy or steal more land and push the natives away (or kill them)." Thus, despite the interactions and occasional intermarriage that did take place (and the occasional efforts at missionary activity), English colonists tended to remain segregated in their own societies, building their own towns and gradually expanding at the expense of native populations. Another possible factor: The lands the Spanish conquered included numerous long-established agricultural societies (with genuine cities), which generally meant they had higher populations. This probably ensured that the natives remained relatively numerous compared to the European conquerors/settlers despite the massive die-offs from Old World diseases. The lower population density in most of North America (fewer agricultural societies, and none of them with actual cities) probably meant that it was easier for English colonists to outnumber the natives over time. 

As far as I can tell from the history, it would be inaccurate to claim either that quantum theory originated completely as pure research or that it had its origins in applied science. To set the stage, there are basically three time periods involved: 1900-1913: Planck's paper on blackbody radiation (1900), Einstein's paper on the photoelectric effect (1905). 1913-1927: The old quantum theory, Bohr model, BKS theory. 1927: Within the space of about a year, a new quantum theory is produced, which is essentially the theory in its modern form. Planck was working almost totally in his own theoretical world, and his work was considered extremely obscure at the time. He made his bread and butter as a theoretician at a university. (Claims that Planck was funded by lightbulb companies appear to have been false.) Although Einstein was a fairly competent experimentalist, inventor, and engineer, and worked for a while at the Swiss patent office, his work on quanta was way ahead of its time, and seems to have been pure research, unmotivated by any applications. As we get into the Bohr era, quantum theory per se starts to take shape, and we see a vigorous interplay of theory and experiment, often with clear applications. Spectroscopy was rich in applications before, during, and after this period. For example, people were interested in determining the composition of gases from their spectra. Moseley's work on x-ray spectra and atomic number was carried out in close collaboration with Bohr, and it resulted in, for example, the discovery of hafnium. All of chemistry is one big application of quantum mechanics, and chemistry is rich in applications. Obviously the group centered on Bohr expected their work to have applications in chemistry and atomic and molecular physics, and it certainly did. With the advent of modern quantum theory in 1927, we very quickly start to see applications. It was only 15 years from this time until the year when the first nuclear pile was operated (1942), and I have a hard time imagining nuclear power being developed without quantum mechanics. The history of the transistor seems to more or less coincide with the period during which quantum mechanics was developed. The first patent was by Lilienfeld in 1925, but it seems to have taken a long time for progress to be made, mainly because people couldn't purify semiconductors well enough. Lilienfeld did a PhD in physics and had Planck as one of his thesis advisors. He started out as an academic physicist at Leipzig and then transitioned to working in industry in the US. Some of the early work on quantum physics was carried out with funding from rich individuals rather than governments or universities. The Solvay Conferences were funded by the chemist and industrialist Solvay, and the important Stern-Gerlach experiment, carried out during difficult times in Germany as hyperinflation was getting going, was paid for by US banker Henry Goldman. I would say that these links are evidence of what seems like the typical situation regarding the links of quantum mechanics to applications. People like Solvay, a chemist, surely expected there to be applications, but the applications were not expected to be immediate and lucrative, which is why Goldman and Solvay saw themselves not as investors but as donors. 

There's also the march of the Czech (or Czechoslovak) Legion in 1918, after the October Revolution and the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. The Legion was formed as a unit in the Russian Army composed of Czechs and Slovaks interested in freeing their compatriots from Austro-Hungarian rule. When the Bolsheviks started making peace with the Central Powers, the Czech Legion decided to rejoin the war on the Allied side, which basically meant getting to France. Since getting through the German-controlled Baltic looked dubious, they decided to exit Russia via Vladivostok, in the Siberian Far East. The march started as a retreat in the face of German and Austro-Hungarian forces invading the Ukraine (part of a move to pressure the Bolsheviks into agreeing to the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk), and effectively ended 6,000 miles (9,700 kilometers) later in Vladivostok, which makes it a little bit longer than the Long March. All the same, I'm not sure how much of this qualifies as a retreat per se, since for much of the time they were more on the offensive than anything else (seizing control of multiple cities along the railway route, for example). It's probably more an example of a (very extended) march through hostile territory. 

Meanwhile, Robert was looking at traffic on the river and comparing with shipping on the Rhine or the Panama Canal. He told Virginia that he thought the city felt to him like it had a population of 600,000 to 800,000, not five million. Virginia agreed: 

Galileo lived after Brahe and was a contemporary of Kepler. So Galileo had the data about planetary motion, but what he lacked was the necessary math (calculus) and physics (Newton's first and second laws). Without these ingredients, it wasn't possible for him to figure out, as Newton did, that an inverse square force law would explain the observed motion of the planets. Even much later, during Newton's lifetime, the notion of an inverse square law was in the air and widely suspected, but only Newton had the tools to knit everything together. 

We have a great deal of evidence showing that dogs lived alongside humans very far into the prehistoric past. There are burial sites with dogs buried alongside humans dating back to long before the beginning of agriculture. However, there is little evidence to support the idea that dogs were originally domesticated in order to help with hunting. This is the kind of heroic macho mythology that people loved 50-100 years ago, along with imagery of "cave-men" hunting mammoths. There are other hypotheses, including the idea that dogs have basically evolved as parasites whose niche involves hanging around humans and waiting for food to come to them. Dogs and wolves have a pretty close common ancestor, although it may not be true that dogs evolved from anything closely resembling a modern wolf. It's very instructive to look at the differences in reproduction and nurturing of pups between dogs and wolves. Wolves form nuclear families and care intensively for their pups for a couple of years, and this is necessary because wolves are hunting animals, so the pups can't survive unless they're able to hunt on their own. Dogs mate promiscuously, pump out large litters frequently, and push their puppies out on their own very early without devoting a lot of time and energy to their care. Male dogs do not care for their offspring, and it is even common for puppies from the same litter to have different fathers. This is a clear evolutionary difference from wolves, and it makes a lot of sense if you think of dogs as parasites rather than hunters. At the age of 6 months, a wolf pup can't bring down a moose, but a dog puppy at that age is very cute and may be lucky enough to latch on to a human household that will feed it scraps. Dogs also have specific evolutionary traits that make them well suited for eating human scraps. They are able to digest starches better than wolves can. This does not really point to a role for dogs as hunters but rather as parasites dependent on humans for food. Even if dogs are basically parasites on humans who aren't evolved for hunting for their own survival, it could also be true that part of their parasitism on humans involves making them useful to humans as helpers in hunting. But we just don't have any solid evidence that this was the origin-story of the dog-human relationship. If you look at dogs around the world today, very few of them help in functions like hunting or herding, nor are very many pet dogs that live in a house. About 3/4 are dogs that run loose and have no owner -- e.g., village dogs in the third world, or the kind of dogs that hang around a dump in Mexico City. A recent book on this topic is What is a dog? by Coppinger and Coppinger. 

I get the impression that the imposition of strong Germanization after 1870 partly backfired, in that it inspired resistance among the Poles and a strong desire to retain and promote their own culture. This would have included things like home schooling in Polish, private schools for education in Polish, and the like. (The Russians outlawed private Polish schools after 1863, but Poles went ahead and set up illegal private schools in places like Warsaw anyway.) (And I suspect even for those Polish-speaking kids who didn't have home schooling in written Polish, being literate in the Latin alphabet from learning to read and write German in school would get you about 90% of the way there -- sure, you don't initially know all the details of the orthography, but you know all but a couple of the letters and you know what all the words are supposed to be, because you already know the language.) Finally, there's the fact that the relatively liberal Austrian-controlled Polish region (Galicia) was right next door; interested Poles could travel to Cracow or Lwow for a proper Polish-language university education, for example. (We have to remember that international travel in the 19th Century was generally a lot less restricted than it is now.)