The theory proposed by Terry Pratchett is that "Best of Queen" is the only decent music that can be found on the road in gas station markets, so those CDs tend to accumulate in the car, without the driver noticing them much. Neil Gaiman proposes that the CDs do really turn into "Best of Queen" albums, just like that. He occasionally gets fan mail about it: here and here 

There is no indication Anton would be allowed to bring Kira to Earth. There are two conversations about Kira's possible travel to Earth, both of which seem more like Anton's daydreaming, than actual plans. It is, in my opinion, highly unlikely that Anton would be allowed to bring Kira anywhere, and there is no mention of other operatives keeping souvenirs either. There is this one passage where he thinks whether he could ask his friend Anka to keep an eye on Kira when she goes to Earth: 

For stuff like that, the Annotated Pratchett File, where I got this piece from, is a good resource. I can't access their cited source right now, so I'm still looking for a primary source. 

Same company sells special paper for books as well, though I was unable to find examples of it being used, On a more light-hearted note, there is a book that is printed with a special kind of ink: it is sold in an air-tight package, as the ink starts to fade upon contact with air. It is called El Libro Que No Puede Esperar - The Book That Can't Wait, This provides a good incentive to actually read the book, before it becomes blank paper. 

What is so evil about Manchester, in real life or in the novel, that Pratchett and Gaiman made it Crowley's magnum opus? 

If Anton was allowed to bring Kira home, it would be precisely because she is insignificant. Who is Kira? No one! She is a daughter of an assistant to a court clerk and a gray sergeant. Not married and a redhead. 

But then, Father Gur may be just too humble and skeptic to accept that possibility. When reading the English translation, however, the tone suggested that Father Gur may somehow be referring to Don Reba, and persecution of artists in Arkanar, as if he was saying "And then you'll be given back [after they kill me for possessing it]!". This, I think, is supported by the line that follows immediately after: 

The essay you speak of gives a different interpretation. It claims that Arata was a ruthless manipulator, and it would be him, and not Don Reba, who would benefit from killing Kira: chaos caused by Rumata's raging would help Arata stage another uprising. We do not know if this actually happened, since our knowledge of the events in Arkanar is limited to the moment the patrol airship dropped sleeping gas on the city. It is, however, interesting that this scene did not exist in the brothers' original manuscripts. It was added after (friendly) requests by editors: 

The solace in this case would be the realisation that the purpose of his existence is his duties - and indeed, throughout later volumes he gets into all sorts of trouble precisely because he takes his duties way too seriously. He is the most responsible of all of the Endless, save perhaps Death (why not Destiny? That guy doesn't do anything, he just hangs around with his book!). In fact, his responsibilities is what (spoilers!) 

I've been re-reading 19 Days - One Day1, a webcomic2 by the Chinese author Old Xian. One of the first chapters has me wondering, though: 

By that point Shadow himself already believes everything that is going on (he's already been to House on the Rock), but he had to convince himself so hard, and had to be offered so much evidence, that he thinks others will not believe those things. But Sam does. My understanding is that Shadow is projecting his skepticism on others, to find out that not everyone is a stuck-up as he was. I found a very nice online article titled "Gender Myths in Neil Gaiman’s American Gods", which postulates that Sam was intended as a counterpart to other female characters in the novel. Sam is quite different from the other characters (not just female ones) because she is independent, and is able to manage on her own. shadow helped her go to El Paso, true - but she has been hiking for three years, and could have as well done this on her own. She has quite a full life - attends a university, casts in bronze, works in a cafe. From all the non-Goddesses present - Aubrey, Laura, Shadow's neighbour - she's the only one who is not in any way petty (haven't cheated on anyone, haven't tried to take revenge on anyone) and is otherwise a very nice human being. Same article also argues that Sam is portrayed in a very masculine way (e.g. the way she treats Aubrey, her courage when hiking and confronting Shadow, her romantic preferences, etc.) which indicate a departure from portrayal of women in American culture (I can't attest to that, though) - she is neither too masculine nor too feminine. Sam can also be interpreted as a possible romantic interest for Shadow, as the ending suggests. Obviously he cared about her, and the scene where he comes for her with the flowers can be seen as Shadow finally getting over Laura and starting a new life. Before that, the narration, the events, were largely centered on Shadow; Sam having a life, and a love life, of her own shows Shadow he is not the centre of the universe. 

Lucifer Morningstar, the Vertigo Comics character, was created by Neil Gaiman with influence from John Milton's Paradise Lost - at least that's what is written on his Wikipedia page, and even on the official DC website's "Lucifer 101" page, which is supposed to brief new readers for the 2016 Lucifer comic series: 

As shown, each has a unique lettering style, which encompasses not only the letters but also the shape and colour of the speech baloons. Todd Klein famously did the lettering for the whole run of The Sandman 1 , so I assume the lettering styles originated with him. What motivated his artistic choices? What do the lettering styles tell us about the Endless? Were the styles a collaborative effort between him, Gaiman, and the artists? 1: Except some 3 issues, where John Constanza replaced him. 

Taking that as the trait that distinguishes an arbalest from a crossbow, we... gain nothing. There is no mention of arbalests in the original Russian version, and descriptions given to crossbows don't indicate the material of the prod. 

Same goes for her brother. Due to her red hair, there's a fair chance she'd be killed too, for the reason above. ... and this is almost what happened, as we see in later chapters: 

American Gods contains interludes named "Coming to America", which describe how certain gods and other entities arrived to the country. One of those stories features a djinn (a fire spirit, sort of), who works as a taxi driver, and a young man from Oman, who came to America on business. In "All Books Have Genders" 1 (collected in The View from the Cheap Seats), Neil Gaiman discusses the book, and describes it as overall male, with the exception of the "Coming to America" stories, including this one: 

The Three Sisters - the Hecatae, the Fates, the Kindly Ones - are ubiquitous in Neil Gaiman's The Sandman (and in other works). They appear in the first volume to give Morpheus three answers: 

It's a point that pops some what frequently in the series, that there's no real "good" and "evil" (or rather, that's Geralt's point of view), and there's only the "lesser evil", and the hardest part, of course, is to choose it from all the other evils. Yet the main antagonist, 

There will be spoilers regarding characters from the end of the manga here. In Hayao Miyazaki's Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Kaze no Tani no Naushika) manga, the characters are usually depicted as multi-layered, and developing throughout the series... except Nausicaä herself. 

Then there is this blurb where it is explained that Laura organised a robbery (?) because she was cheated by her associates (?) and Shadow was the driver (?): 

1 The manhua can be read here on the translators' Tumblr (posted there with the permission of the author). 2 Chinese comics are called manhua. Read left to right (though I've heard about manhua that are read right to left, I've not seen any). 

It would be unlikely for Arata, who is an extremely cautious person (having survived thus far, at least) would want to angry a person he regarded as a god, especially given he knew that Rumata had a helicopter ("iron bird"), which would mean he'd be able to traverse the distance between the Drunken Lair and his house on short notice, which conflicts with the objective given to the monks: 

I don't remember if his wife actually being mentioned as pregnant, but it was my impression that she was getting an abortion. From the contrast in the treatment the protagonist shows to his wife (actually their unborn child) and to the mouse, it seemed to me that the story might be criticising abortion. This was most baffling, because I clearly remember Neil Gaiman mentioning1 a non-existing Sandman story, where we would see the dreams of an unborn baby about to be killed by an abortion, and he said that he didn't write the story because he didn't want it to be used as leverage to persuade young girls into keeping children they didn't want. So right now Neil Gaiman seems to be pro-choice. Is this short story really anti-abortion? 1 I don't remember which interview it was - this, this, or some else. 

Throughout the novel, Maxim is shown to have an almost superhuman physical condition, easily performing unthinkable feats, which include, but aren't limited to 

But Laura was a travel agent, even before she met Shadow - what kind of shady business with "proceeds" and "ripping off" can a travel agent get involved in? Is there an explanation that I missed in the novel, or something by Neil Gaiman? 

Left and right - Morpheus, from "Sleep of the Just" (Preludes and Nocturnes) and Season of Mists chapter 3, respectively; middle - Neil Gaiman somewhere in 80s or 90s (src). Neil Gaiman himself certainly doesn't believe Morpheus was modeled on him: 

... Although Boris Strugatsky thinks otherwise. Boris Strugatsky has been doing an off-line interview with fans since 1998. Among the questions about Hard to be a God, someone asked whether Rumata would actually be able to bring Kira to Earth. The answer was "why not?" (see question 10): 

The city is an interesting place - an ensemble of people from all around the world, and even from different times (though the 20th century seems to be prevalent). Their occupations, genders, beliefs, and everything else seems to be as diverse as possible, except one thing: there just aren't any great, or probably even decent, artists. Writers, actors, painters, film directors - all mediocre at best, while there are certainly great engineers and scientists ("No Mendeleevs, but on a solid international level"). Why is that? Given the whole novel is a reflection on the life of the authors in the Soviet Union (it is, isn't it?), why are there no great artists in that world? Are they not chosen to be invited there, or what? 

Scott McCloud's The Sculptor opens with the following scene, where Meg asks David to whisper her something: 

For the record, this is the black robe with flame motif Gaiman is mentioning: Left - from "Sleep of the Just"; middle - from "Dream a Little Dream of Me" (Constantine even joked that he wouldn't get on public transport with Morpheus looking like this); right - from "Sound and Fury"; all collected in Preludes and Nocturnes. But according to Mike Dringenberg (the inker and then penciller of the first 8 issues), none of the characters were copied directly from real people: 

I've recently been reading and re-reading Alan Moore and David Lloyd's V for Vendetta. After having skimmed through it multiple times and settling a few questions I had about the continuity, only one question remains. In volume I, chapter 2, The Voice, on page 13 the following conversation occurs: