Yes. I always ask candidates how they like to learn new things. Some prefer to read. Some prefer to go to training classes. Some prefer to be mentored one-on-one. Some prefer to download and try things on their own, etc. Talk about how you like to learn, and how you learn best. Give some examples of things you have recently learned, and how they have benefited you on the job (and preferably in the job you are applying for). 

It depends on the team. In an informal US-based team, probably not. But if the team includes lots of folks whose native language is not US English, then it might be confusing. And continued use of idioms when you know they are confusing to team members could indeed be considered unprofessional. The real point in communicating is understanding. Does everyone understand correctly when you use these idioms? If so, then you are fine. If not, reconsider your usage. 

This is a decision that really needs to be made in coordination with your company and your boss. These are not your clients. They are your (about to be former) company's clients. DO 

You can't demonstrate expertise that you don't have. Thus, first, you need to gain the desired expertise. If you take courses in this technology, you can list them on your resume, and discuss your knowledge of the technology in your cover letter and during interviews. As you point out, projects involving this new technology performed in your spare time aren't as valuable as actual work in the technology. But, they still have value - particularly if the project has wide exposure. Some open source projects become widely known. Involvement with those can often lead to good bullet points on a resume, and good discussions in interviews. Part-time jobs (such as moonlighting), which involve this technology are direct evidence of your knowledge. Perhaps you have friends working with this technology who might need some extra help and could bring you on for a few hours per week or weekend. Having your own website/blog discussing your use of the technology gives you some online presence that can be useful, and that others can see and appreciate. Often, particular technologies have developer communities associated with them. Those communities involve online forums, meetups, conferences, opportunities to speak in front of an audience, etc. Becoming actively involved with those communities is often a way to network, gain knowledge, and become known. My son did just this and was able to transition into a technology he loved. In the end, you just have to convince a hiring manager that you have gained sufficient expertise in the desired technology for them to give you a chance. Some of the above could help. 

Nothing special here. Just tell them that you enjoyed working with them, and have appreciated the possibility of joining the company, but have decided to accept a position elsewhere. 

You must never have an unexplained "blank" in your work history, but you don't need a reference for every company you have ever worked for. On your resume, include the job as usual. When supplying references, if you cannot find a friendly co-worker to be a favorable reference, simply don't supply one for this job. The interviewer may ask why you omitted this company from your list of references. At that point, you can explain why. Most likely, you will have already explained why you aren't working there anyway. It's not unusual to omit references from your current company on the grounds that "I don't want anyone there to know I'm planning on leaving." In your case you either quit or were fired, so that is a bit more difficult to apply. 

While unfortunate, it's fairly normal for companies not to respond unless they are interested. The better ones at least acknowledge receipt of your application - even if it's just an automated form response. It's likely unnecessary, but you can follow up if you prefer. Always wait at least one week. Don't follow up repeatedly - that would just be nagging. 

Yes, that is advisable. In my part of the world, this would just be a common courtesy. Saying a simple "Congratulations!" doesn't take much effort on your part. It doesn't imply that her thesis lives up to your lofty standards. It doesn't mean her code or UI meet your approval. It recognizes that she achieved a milestone that was important to her - nothing more. It just means you are a decent person who understands some of the social niceties in the workplace. 

For now, do nothing. You aren't sure if anyone actually noticed. And even if they did notice, you aren't sure if it matters much. If you are asked about it, be honest. Saying "I do not have any immediate plans for leaving the company, but I was approached by a recruiter and figured why not try interviewing." is a reasonable answer. Employers know that people look elsewhere all the time, and that most of those "looks" don't turn into action. This incident might make you uncomfortable for a little while, but it will fade quickly. (And try to be a bit more careful in the future. Try to keep interview notifications off of your work computer - use your home computer and email address instead.) 

How many hours per day you must work is a job attribute. That's for your boss and your company to decide (with your input as well) and has nothing to do with ethics. You really should have asked this question when your boss decided for various reasons that you could work remotely. Since you didn't, you really should ask them now. 

There's no need to be subtle here. Something like "Oh, I'm sorry. You offer is less than my current job and I simply can't accept less" is appropriate. You may be correct that they won't offer more, but it's always possible. 

If this company normally hires co-op students who wouldn't be candidates to actually work there, then it makes complete sense for you to apply. Presumably you left on good terms. Most likely they would be happy to have you back. Some companies bring in co-ops as a way to source good talent. If that is the case at this company, they may prefer someone else. But you'll only know by applying - what have you got to lose? 

There's no "typical". Some companies will reimburse all expenses in moving. Others will find a house for you. Some won't pay any relocation expenses at all. Others will offer a flat amount. Like many benefits, this is likely negotiable. If your wife feels strongly that $5,000 isn't enough, have her come up with a more appropriate amount. Present it to the Georgia company, along with the reasons why she feels she needs more (The more details the better. Real estimates from moving companies, etc would be best.). Then hope for the best. If the entire job offer including the relocation package isn't sufficient, then she should turn down the offer and move on to other jobs. 

That is all nonsense. Either just toss it in the trash and tell the recruiter to go away, or pass it by your boss and ask what is up with that. 

Don't reply further. You were approached about a position. You pursued it for a short period of time, then decided not to continue. You chose not to disclose your salary - that was your choice to make. Apparently, the recruiter felt that knowledge of your salary was important and would have confirmed that you were serious about the position. That was his decision to make. There's nothing further to be said here, and no value to continuing a back-and-forth set of emails. Just end it here and move on. 

If they are going to perform a background check based on the resume you already gave them and if that resume is out of date, it only makes sense to give them an updated, correct resume. The last thing you want is to be rejected because your resume didn't reflect reality and it was detected during the background check. You'll look like you have something to hide, or are a liar. 

Much of it depends on the industry in which you work, and the office culture at your work. It also depends on what you mean by "wrong" here. If you mean in the legal sense, you need to become familiar with local laws. That's not something we can help with in this forum. If you mean "is there anything wrong with choosing to ignore the corporate culture and norms", that's a more difficult discussion. Some individuals in a unique and safe position can deliberately ignore the norms and get away with it. Most cannot. If you mean "Can I decide to leave early when my boss specifically tells me to work longer?", then you need to determine what kind of outcome is possible, and what kind of outcome you desire.