While I can't speak to the origins of the terminology, it's motivation is apparent; Spending enough years at an endeavour, even with just a modicum of skill at it will result in ability that the skill alone would not confer. 

Standardization My last position before my current used to run a wild west type methodology. Everybody used the tools they wanted, what they were familiar with. What mattered was getting the projects delivered in good working condition and on time. It made for horrific code maintenance where one project would be developed with GWT as the presentation layer and JUnit solely for all kinds of unit testing and another developer stuck with raw JSPs while yet another brought JSF into the mix. Everyone was shackled to their projects and going on vacation was unthinkable for many and sounded the death knell for code reviews and optimization. I proposed we standardized on a number of industry standard technologies and tools that ensured that we all slept in the same direction of the bed (SoapUI for ws-testing, JSF for the web tier and with moderate success, Spring for back end processing and a couple of other stuff). And we all lived happily ever after. Discourage any individuality when it comes to tools of the trade that will create a files with a proprietary extension (or at least try to mitigate it); I If anyone has a favourite tool they trust their lives with, let them bring it before the court for evaluation and possibly team-wide adoption. You should've taken it upon yourself to set the standards with your tools. The benefits are obvious here, everybody used the same stuff with acceptable levels of comfort so with a decent design doc, anyone can pickup anybody else's bit and move on. Regular and compulsory code/project reviews This is another feature from my last gig. We all met once a week with our manager in a group session and discussed the status of each other's projects and raised concerns and challenges. We all, at a very high level had an idea of what the next guy was working on and sometimes would chip in advice and a couple of lines of code to help out. There was no total isolation Team Spirit I know it seems kind of trite and possibly a no-brainer, but healthy team spirit (and possibly a little competition) fosters information sharing. The downside to cubicle environment (especially team members in cubicles far apart) is that team members are often too far removed from each other's work lives that it's too easy to have a comms breakdown. There's better communication and information sharing when team mates are situated close to each other, preferrably in an open office environment with little in the way of walls or dividers. Discussions and mind-rubbing will happen and flow more freely, with them aim of fostering information sharing. Obviously Document. It's an old song. I won't sing it again 

From what you have said, the truth is something that would hurt your reputation because it is something with a socially bad connotation. For instance, you got into a fist fight with somebody and got punched, and revealing this will likely cause your co-workers to think you are violent, unstable, keep poor company, or make poor choices. If this is the case, I would suggest something slightly different from the other answers. Tell them something that is socially innocuous, yet so embarrassing or humiliating that they won't believe it could be a lie. I mean, nobody would willingly make themselves look bad, right? For example, you might say that you ate something that disagreed with you the night before, and in trying to rush to the toilet to vomit you tripped and landed your face squarely against a wall coat rack, and the blinding pain caused you to throw up all over your favorite jacket which you now have to get dry cleaned. Or maybe you just installed a new coat rack in your closet, and thinking you were more handy than you really are you didn't realize it was installed across the pathway until you stood up to examine your handiwork only to plow straight into it with your head. Whatever you choose, just find something that is believable, but also make you look bad in a socially innocuous, "silly me" or "it could happen to anybody" way, and furthermore involves something like sickness or other personal body functions which aren't offensive but people don't like to talk about in order to avert further attention or questioning. 

I think such an "infraction" is hardly cause for alarm or worry over the value your manager places on your vacation time. Think of it as taking one for the team. If it happens 2 -3 more times, you might put your foot down (see immediate 3 above before you do this). 

I'm always pro-team building. Can you put a price on your team's perception of you in the long run? It's hard enough being looked at as an outsider on a team because you're a consultant. Now, putting in the extra effort to distance yourself from an all-too-cheap bonding experience (not to mention the free grub) like a team picnic, to sit at work by yourself seems... I don't know, seems kinda unpleasant. They'll either think of you as money-loving or you don't care about bonding with them. Unless of course if that's not a priority. 

Only when you've obtained a signoff on the Change Request should you proceed. Try this article on for your next engagement. Look at a sample change request document 

NO use ms word its the defecto industry standard and you want to create as little reason for HR to drop your CV as possible. A second reason unless you have access to acrobat/tools to properly create the pdf you run the risk of having a poor looking pdf 

I would go and see the Citizens Advice Bureau or preferably your trade union if you are member and suggest that they get a lawyer to set up a compromise agreement. You have written evidence of libel and threats of giving a bad reference which you could use as leverage. You could also risk going to work if they do strike or threaten do not retaliate call 999 (911) and report an assault - note any break in the skin makes it GBH 

So let me get this right you have a disagreement with your employer or with software patents in general and you seem to want to find way of damaging you employer by invalidating a patent? Its up to the patent examiner to do this this prior art may or may not invalidate the patent its nit your job to decide this. You do have a duty to your employer to be a good “servant” what you suggesting is very dubious and is in my opinion unethical – note I am a Union activist in the largest European union that represents scientific and technical staff I do not take the employers side lightly in this. 

This might be a combination of not having anything in common with your acquaintances, hanging in the wrong circle or coming off as not being genuine enough. I meet someone and it seems (s)he's only hanging out with me for superficial reasons or for what he can get out of me, I bob and weave until we fall out of touch. Unless I need something from him too. "Let's be friends first" eh? Genuineness goes a long way with me. Just today I made a professional contact and after the first 15 minutes of conversation, the dude dropped a couple of colourful words and I was sure we'd connected there. I'm not saying you should go all Samuel L. Jackson on your contacts, but try to loosen up a bit, let them see a bit of the real you. 

This is your problem then. To sort this out, I'd recommend you start by striking up conversation on something you're actually interested in. Not B.S-ing your way through a topic or subject you couldn't give a flying dutchman about. Also pick your targets carefully, in the same vein. 3 business cards from people you actually have stuff in common with will serve you better (and be easier on your memory) than a fistful of business cards from people you barely have anything in common and you're going to forget as soon as you turn heel. 

An increment is a fixed progression on a pay scale - common in civil service jobs Appraisal implies you get what the company wants to give you 

Prepare a proper agenda and send that with a printed document which covers all the changes that they need to be aware of from the Wiki. Doc should be a summary with links to the Wiki. But you would have to have a senior manager propose and champion this. 

What privacy is violated by using CCTV to check when they entered and exited the building the build or are at their desk or not? Employers do have a right to check up on hours worked and in some country’s not logging OT hours correctly can get the employer fined. What code of conduct for CCTV are you referring to? And its not like you have been asked to look at the content of their email account which would be a privacy violation. You seem concerned about your relationship with other employees is there a culture of falsifying time sheets at your company – what I might term “Spanish” practices. Just get all HR requests in writing and make sure you conform this with your boss. 

You wanted to evaluate all your options before entering another long term commitment (which isn't far from the truth) The truth, an offer was extended shortly after you left your position (which makes you look desirable) but the employer withheld vital information from you until the last minute and you had to pull back You wanted a break to catch your breath after X number of years with the last shop 

Two questions: What is your relationship with your current direct manager? Do you blindside him with your need to cross to another department? In my experience, raw skill won't get you the gig. You're in a (large) gathering of other human beings, so rest assured, there are other things being put into consideration during internal hiring process. This is the way things work. Bosses have favourites. People they're more comfortable working with. More aggression on your part chasing the new seat might just lead to hair greying. Be aware of the political climate of your organization to avoid undue frustration in your pursuit. If you're being repeatedly passed over for roles that you're confident you're ahead of the competition, you're either not as qualified as you believe you are OR you need to keep your manager better informed/seek his feedback after a failed attempt. He might have access to information you don't. 

If you like, can you even extend it into mentioning something about how good performance will be rewarded at annual review any the like, especially if the asked salary is at the low end of your range. That way if an employee later finds out they could have asked more, they can justify asking for a larger raise at review time - they were an unknown at the time after all, and now they aren't. And then at that point, having gotten out of the way that the company wasn't planning on countering (and why) you can then proceed to tell the employee what you just implied, namely, that you are offering them the amount they asked for. Of course that does not mean you have to pay what they ask if the amount they are asking is in the not in the range you are willing to pay (whether for budget reasons, or whatever). But if they are asking for more than that range it provides a nice segway into telling them what your best offer is. 

If the positions are available you'll get the gig. However, timing definitely plays a role even if the positions are there and there is no money to fill it. I won't expect you to get hired IN December. But January? Most likely. Common(er)'s sense might indicate that it's actually a good time To do this for budget reasons. Depending on how an organization's fiscal year is cut, you may find submitting an application on the cusp of a new year beneficial. For a business that has a calendar year = fiscal year, a department's budget will be fresh in January, giving your application a solid shot at a quick response and a department flush with cash is more receptive to negotiation. For a business with it's fiscal year starting June and ending the following July, you may find yourself on their scroogier side. They're midway thru the business year, so their budget is likely to be more than 60% blown. They might be waaay more cautious and spend thrifty than they were at the beginning of the year. None of all this should stop you from sending in your resume anyway. They'll either call you or not. 

No culture develops over time and is overwhelmingly derived from the grass roots and the employees that make up the company modified by the culture these employees come from Senior management can attempt to change/modify culture but this is hard and can backfire. Sounds like you have been reading to many MBA case studies by HR professionals trying to make their role seem more important than it is. 

This is because of how the employers decide treat bank (ie public holidays) holidays - these examples are obviously quoting entitement excluding the public holidays. Most workers who work a 5-day week must receive 28 days’ paid annual leave per year. An employer can include bank holidays as part of statutory annual leave. England has 8 bank holidays the other parts of the UK have slightly different holidays. 

In the UK the norm is to pro rata the holiday through the leave year if you take 50% of your holiday and leave 25% of the way though the year you do owe them its normally deducted from your last pay cheque. You may be limited in how much leave you can carry over. You need to say when you leave year starts.