I use my mountain bike for trail riding (a few hours on weekends) and for commuting (20-50 minutes each day), on paved or dirt roads (I have 2 different routes). I would like to replace the grips on my handlebars (because my existing ones are getting too old). I would like to understand which grips fit the very different styles of riding I do. My current thinking is like this: I can do the commuting without gloves, to minimize the equipment I mess up with on daily basis, – and then I need smooth grips, which probably are a bit worse for trails. I can choose to always ride with gloves, and then I can get deeply-grooved grips (that would be better for trail riding?). Which important factors do I miss here? I used ergonomic grips in the past, like in this picture; didn't like them. 

I own a Surly Steamroller, and although I haven't done it myself, many other Steamroller riders put a Surly Disk Trucker fork into the Steamroller frame. With the exception of the fork altering the geometry ever so slightly, it's a pretty like-for-like switch. It's also a fairly inexpensive option. You can pick the frames up for sub £200 and the forks for a good way under £100 in the UK. Then build up with whatever parts you fancy. 

Lots of answers already here, but a quick one to remind you of the tools you'll need to build your own fixed gear. It may be cheaper to source the parts but you have to have specific tools to properly assemble it. You may have them already, in which case I defer the the above answers, but if not a lockring removal tool and chain whip from a reputable maker like Park Tool will set you back $30ish each and you'll want things like a pedal spanner and a good 15mm to adjust your rear wheel to keep chain tension. This can get pricey so while you may want these later down the line anyway for maintenance I'd go pre-made, or even better, go to your LBS and ask what they can do. As an aside, I'm pretty biased as I own one, but I'm a big fan of the Surly Steamroller for a no-nonsense fixed gear for regular riding. 

I have accidentally removed the suspension fork from my bicycle (Trek Remedy 8). I was trying to take off just the handlebar, but was distracted for a moment and unscrewed the wrong bolt. How safe would it be to assemble it back without going to my LBS (it will probably take them some much time, and I would not like to miss riding on my weekend)? I have no experience in suspension fork servicing; my idea is just to use common sense to screw parts back in. It doesn't seem that the fork has any ball bearings. 

There is that cool maneuver that lets you do a very sharp turn (90° or even 180°) in very tight situations, like descending two flights of staircases (in town) or narrow and very steep winding trails (in nature). It involves pressing the front brake so the front wheel locks, and the rear wheel rises into the air. You would then place the rear wheel back down wherever you want, disengage the front brake, and continue riding in the new direction. I saw an owner of a bike shop do this once, but have seen it only in online videos since then. So, how is this maneuver called? I saw names like "endo" or "stoppie", but "endo" seems to refer to accidents, and "stoppie" seems to mean a "trick", only done for the cool look. Does there exist a name that implies doing this in a mundane way, like when one's commute route just appears to have an angled staircase in it? 

I agree with Kibbee. Would also recommend going fixed for the ultimate in simplicity and weather-proofing as I don't suppose they'll be any shelter for it parking on the street. 

You can ride any bike in a race, provided it's in good enough working order to get you over the line. Regarding gears, it looks like the cost to add derailleur style gears may be prohibitive, as I assume this bike's rear wheel is single-speed specific and the dropouts aren't vertical (which isn't the end of the world but not ideal). I'd probably either look at a geared road bike, or rebuild your rear wheel around an Alfine/Nexus internally geared hub. If this is your first race I'd probably just ride what you have to see if you like riding competitively before spending money on upgrades or on a new bike. edit: This 'race' appears to be a 200km audax - I'd be incredibly reluctant to do that kind of distance as your first race. Have you ridden over 150km in one hit? If you're super fit, or not bothered about your time you could do it on your existing bike, but a specific road/audax bike would do it quicker and more comfortably. Maybe build up slowly to that kind of distance - that's a very long day in the saddle. 

Increase the pressure in your tires (this was mentioned in comments). This will make it less comfortable, but will decrease rolling resistance. Also, try to optimize your route from a commuter's point of view: use smooth roads where possible. And if there are significant changes in height on your route, try to optimize them too. 

I might need to replace my rims soon. I've had frequent problems with breakage of spokes, so it's a good opportunity to buy stronger rims and/or spokes. What characteristics should I look for if I want to fix this problem? Should I pay attention more to the spokes or to the rim? Some details: I don't do racing, so weight is not an issue. I do trail riding, including jumps. I have disk brakes. 

I'd get a brake on it and make sure it's serviceable then ride it for a while and see how you like it. Riding fixed takes some getting used to, so get some miles in before making your mind up! 

I'm sure greater knowledge will make itself known here, but for me it's more about the quality of the hub rather than the noise which draws many bikers (roadies included) and 'quality' hubs tend to be louder when freewheeling. I'm thinking specifically of Hope and Chris King hubs here, I think the noise is a side effect of the components, but I have no idea why they are louder! 

Yes, add the brake - as others have said, it might not be 'cool' but you'll end up being much more confident on it knowing you can stop it quickly. I also can't work out if you have foot retention or not from the picture, but even with a brake I'd highly recommend some kind of foot retention, and if you ride brakeless you are pretty much unable to stop at all without it. If you like it and it fits, keep it. If you don't really like it, or it doesn't fit then it doesn't sound like you'll lose too much by selling it. 

I am practicing the technique of cornering, where one must lean the bicycle into the turn, while keeping the body more or less vertical. A (possibly exaggerated) picture I found on Google: 

I have experienced a strange failure of my brake. I was descending a steep smooth road, using only my front brake (my rear brake was broken; it was an unplanned bail from a route). I tried keeping the speed low, so i could jump off the bike at any moment. After going this way for maybe 2 minutes, I stopped briefly to let some car pass (so released the brake for a few seconds). As I continued to descend, I pressed the brake, and surprisingly, its handle went all the way to the handlebar without doing any braking! So I immediately jumped off. I didn't believe at first the bad luck I had, but then I pressed again and again on the brake (not while riding now), and gradually it returned to normal; after 1 minute it would give full braking force again. So I wonder, is this an expected way a brake would fail while overheating? I heard that it would start to stink really bad before it became dangerous to ride, so I didn't worry about overheating. The model of my brake is Hayes Nine. 

Although I'm unfamiliar with Tektro Lyra's, I have been bedding in a new Shimano SLX disc brake on my commuter so have a little recent experience on this. Given you are only 20 miles in I'd give it a little more time as this 'grinding' noise may just be the very top layer of the new pad wearing in. If it's still 'grinding' after 100 or so miles I'd take it back to the bike shop and ask them to check it over. Brake shudder may indicate the pads or calipers are every so slightly mis-aligned. There are loads of tutorials online about how to align them: $URL$ My SLX has taken about 120-130 miles (or 2-3 weeks' daily use) to bed in properly. Hope that helps! 

I imagine the last idea, with resting the bike on the backpack, is the only usable one for long sections (say, 30-60 minutes walking). Am I right? Which way can I secure my bike on my backpack, so the back ache (and supposedly damage) is minimized? 

As the end of the ski season is approaching, I am thinking about visiting our ski resort by bicycle. I would like to do it at the end of the season to avoid the inconvenience of the crowd, and minimize the inconvenience I would make for others. In the ski resort we have, it is pretty unusual to have bicycles. The chairs don't have any hooks or other appliances to hold bicycles, and the crew might not be able (or willing) to help. In these circumstances, how can I ensure safe and smooth boarding and disembarking? I will be in a small group (2-4 people), all of us having standard (non-fat) mountain-bikes. I am willing to do basic disassembly (e.g. remove wheels) if it would help. Our ski-lifts have standard chairs, designed for 2 persons (like in this example picture); they are not of the type that slows down when in the boarding/disembarking area. 

The Planet X EC-130 'Rivet Rider' was extremely well reviewed by Cycling Weekly last year and you can get them new from Planet X at around that kind of money. Other than that, direct to consumer brands such as Canyon, Ribble and Rose may offer a few different options for around the 1k mark. If you're happy to look used you can get a lot of bike for 1k, up to Dura-Ace/Super Record/Red groupsets on high end frames, just make sure you do your research and you should be fine. 

TL;DR - Do intervals. Although I have a few different routes I regularly take to work, 75% of the time it's just one route. I find doing intervals very useful to keep the route interesting. If you know the route, including hills, flats and descents well, you can really aim to go full bore a particular section of it and then switch the bits you go hard on. Doing this also makes the slower rides on the same route more enjoyable and less painful! I like to do efforts on a few of the hills I have on my commute, and though I ride them on a fixed gear, you could add another element by limiting yourself to certain gears for certain bits of the commute as an extra challenge. Good luck! 

Sometimes I want to ascend a steep (say, 50%) slope, where is impossible to ride and awkward to push/pull the bike. I tried various ways of carrying the bike: 

The problem is, when keeping the pedals horizontal, I always ride with my left foot ahead of the right one (like the guy on the picture does). When I turn left (like in the picture), everything is OK. But when I turn right, the saddle gets in the way (you can imagine it by looking at the picture - if he turned right, the saddle would push his right leg out of place). What can I do about it? The following works but is not ideal: