However, slavery definitely was the root cause of the war - if not single, at least by far most important. 

You are confusing two questions: What was the root cause of the Civil War? And Why was the North going to the war? 

Lincoln needed write this letter, because war-time president, two month before mid-term election, can not ignore article in one of the most popular newspaper, written by very popular and influential member of his own party, demanding dramatic change in government policy. Citizens needed to know for whom they are voting; soldiers needed to know what they are fighting for. Lincoln was preparing preliminary emancipation proclamation at this time, but I don’t think this influenced his answer. He just reiterated his well-known position, that despite his personal desire “that all men every where could be free”, his actions as the President are regulated and limited by Constitution. I don’t think Lincoln was happy he should answer on Greeley’s "Prayer of Twenty Millions"; he already commented on Greeley’s previous demands "What in the world is the matter with Uncle Horace? Why can't he restrain himself and wait a little while?". But Lincoln did his best in this situation. He needed reassure slave-holding states in the Union, that he will not free slaves just for sake of freeing slaves, but only if it necessary to defeat rebellion. He needed reassure soldiers, that he would do whatever necessary to win the war. He needed reassure anti-slavery people, that he will continue fight slavery in a legal way, no matter when and how the war ended, but this is the separate straggle: "My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union... my oft-expressed personal wish that all men every where could be free" I think, Greeley's final assessment reflects the fact, that Lincoln managed not to make any promises and escaped the trap Greeley set for him. 

Prior to this decision, free blacks practically could have some rights on some states. However, no matter how extensive these rights where, even in the free states, Bill of Rights did not apply to free blacks - exactly because federal protection was not extended to free blacks, and they were on the mercy of states. This situation actually was the result of irreconcilable contradiction between two fundamental documents of the country: Declaration of Independence lists liberty as one of the unalienable rights of all men; Constitution allows states to deny the right of liberty to some people, designating them as property (slavery). Declaration of Independence was indispensable as justification of creating the country, and could not be changed retroactively. This left only two possibilities to resolve contradiction: To amend the Constitution in order to eliminate slavery. To amend definition of the man in order to exclude those type of persons who could be enslaved. Supreme court (justice Taney) tried to use the later solution, but it did not work. As LIncoln pointed out, it opened the door for further exclusions, like catholics, or any ethnic minorities. Instead of crushing republicans, it helped them despite the party platform openly ignored Dred Scott decision. Eventually, it led to Civil war and to resolving contradiction by 13th amendment to Constitution. UPDATE: What is interesting, 13th amendment did not make Bill of rights applicable to blacks, because Dred Scott decision was in effect. Only 14th amendment overruled Dred Scott decision 

Yes, some did. Ironically, one of them was Roger B. Taney, US Supreme Court Chief Justice and author of infamous Dred Scott decision. Contrary to popular believe, Robert Lee did not free his slaves - he did not own slaves. His father-in-law named Robert Lee an executioner of his will. According to this will, all his slaves should be set free in 5 years after his death. UPDATE. I don't know if Roger Taney freed his domestic slaves, or they worked his land. But John Dickinson, founding father and largest Delawer farmer and slaveowner, freed his slaver by 1786. His farm moved from tobacco to less labor-intensive crops. 

No judicial but legislative ruling required to make secession legal (at least as the first step). Secessionists could introduce secession bill to the Congress, and if they did, most likely they could get peaceful separation (considering that Corwin Amendment passed Congress even without votes of seven seceding states). If bill failed, they could bring the case against Congress decision to the court. If bill passed but president still don't recognize secession, they could try to impeach him or bring the case against executive branch to the court. Without this congressional attempt, they did not have case. 

Sure, South was willing to go to the war over slavery, but it was no need over slavery - because North did not attack slavery when South started the war. In my opinion, Confederacy started the war, because peace perspective were very bleak. Seven cotton states practically did not have industry, adequate merchant fleet, financial institutions, and even adequate food and mule production; they were dependent on other states on almost everything. They practically have only cotton to export, it is why Confederate constitution removed the ban on taxing exports. Two cotton-producing states (Arkansas and Tennessee), being in northern Union, would compete with Confederacy cotton production on favorable terms. Pre-war Confederacy have dangerously high proportion of slaves, and lost Fugitive slave laws protection. Secessionist counted on most slaveholding states to join them; it did not happened peacefully. On April 4th 1861, Virginia secession convention voted against secession, and a three-man delegation was sent to consult with Lincoln, who prior inauguration publicly discussed with virginian Fort Sumter evacuation in exchange of Virginia stays in the Union. The only way to bring Virginia and other slaveholding states to Confederacy was the immediate war, and the war came - April 12 confederates bombarded fort Sumter. In a few weeks Virginia, Tennessee, Arkansas and North Carolina were joining Confederacy, increasing her white population twice and industrial and military strength much more. 

a. Before the war, already northern-dominated (after southern states seceded) Congress passed the amendment protected slavery: $URL$ b. Already during the war, Lincoln issued preliminary emancipation proclamation, practically stating that if southern states would stop fighting and return to the Union by 1863, slavery would be intact: $URL$ North was going to the war to suppress an armed rebellion - Confederacy was already building army (up to 100 thousands strong, with US army at that time about 16 thousands), and attacked US army installations. 

If I am not mistaken, drug laws are different in different states, which makes possession of marijuana (for example) legal in one state and illegal in another. Also, federal government and local authorities could bar some kind of properties on places controlled by them. You would pass metal detector and surrender any weapon you posses legally, when you enter court buildings. In antebellum USA there where no metal detectors, but I can imagine that bringing weapons while visiting some US military installations (like arsenals) would be prohibited. And also, some southern states established laws that made illegal in these states to posses printed materials (books, magazine, ets.), that contain critique of slavery. 

Y makes revenue (directly or indirectly) by using slaves bought from X (otherwise Y would stop buy slaves); In average, this revenue made by Y exceeds amount which Y pays to X for the slaves, otherwise Y would stop buy slaves; X can not effectively make revenue by using slaves the same way as Y, otherwise X would stop selling slaves to Y and start to use them himself, making more revenue (see 2). 

Revolutionary war started as guerilla war, because at the beginning of the war colonists did not have regular army. As soon Continental Army was formed, guerilla warfare did not play significant role in the war; it was less effective than regular army. On the contrary, when Civil War broke out, both sides already had regular armies, so they did not need guerilla warfare at the beginning of the war. On April 1862, when significant part of Confederacy was occupied by federal army, Confederate Congress passed Partisan Ranger Act, authorizing guerilla warfare. Despite some successful (however minor and more impressive than practically helpful) actions of guerillas, Partisan Ranger Act was repealed on February 1864, after pressure from Robert Lee and other military leaders. Most guerrilla groups were difficult to control and discipline, they could not win strategically decisive battles, and were taken badly needed resources from understuffed regular confederate armies. In April 1865, when Robert Lee was forced to surrender his army, guerrilla tactic was contemplated by Jefferson Davis and others as a way to continue the war. Robert Lee strongly opposed this His answer to brigadier General Edward Porter Alexander: “ If I took your advice, the men would be without rations and under no control of officers. They would be compelled to rob and steal in order to live. They would become mere bands of marauders, and the enemy’s cavalry would pursue them and overrun many sections they may never have occasion to visit. We would bring on a state of affairs it would take the country years to recover from” His report to Jefferson Davis: “A partisan war may be continued, and hostilities protracted, causing individual suffering and the devastation of the country, but I see no prospect by that means of achieving a separate independence” 

For millenniums, humans did not need to convince themselves that slavery is allright. Nobody objected slavery in general, people just did not like to be slaves personally. Relatively modern idea that “all man are created equal” demanded explanation of slavery existence. Last and most vocal proponents of slavery in civilized world were USA slave owners. 1. John C. Calhoun February 06, 1837 “I hold that in the present state of civilization, where two races of different origin, and distinguished by color, and other physical differences, as well as intellectual, are brought together, the relation now existing in the slaveholding States between the two, is, instead of an evil, a good–a positive good” $URL$ 2. Supreme Court of the United States Dred Scott v. Sandford (Dred Scott decision), March 6, 1857 "They had... been regarded as beings of an inferior order, and altogether unfit to associate with the white race, either in social or political relations; and so far inferior, that they had no rights which the white man was bound to respect; and that the negro might justly and lawfully be reduced to slavery for his benefit. He was bought and sold, and treated as an ordinary article of merchandise and traffic, whenever a profit could be made by it" $URL$ 3. Alexander H. Stephens, vice-president of CSA “Corner Stone” Speech Savannah, Georgia, March 21, 1861 “The prevailing ideas entertained by him (Thomas Jefferson - A. Barhavin) and most of the leading statesmen at the time of the formation of the old constitution, were that the enslavement of the African was in violation of the laws of nature; that it was wrong in principle, socially, morally, and politically. It was an evil they knew not well how to deal with, but the general opinion of the men of that day was that, somehow or other in the order of Providence, the institution would be evanescent and pass away. This idea, though not incorporated in the constitution, was the prevailing idea at that time... Those ideas, however, were fundamentally wrong. They rested upon the assumption of the equality of races. This was an error. It was a sandy foundation, and the government built upon it fell when the “storm came and the wind blew.” Our new government is founded upon exactly the opposite idea; its foundations are laid, its corner- stone rests, upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery subordination to the superior race is his natural and normal condition. This, our new government, is the first, in the history of the world, based upon this great physical, philosophical, and moral truth” $URL$ 

Seven southern states seceded from US, because they demanded from federal government unlimited extension and protection of slavery beyond the borders of slaveholding states, and recently elected president (Lincoln) belonged to the party with main goal to contain slavery were it is already exists. Everybody understood that containing slavery would lead to its ultimate extinction. So if not slavery, no secession and no war would occur. 

NO and YES - there are two different questions. NO, Confederacy was not down to six states. Western states lost ability to supply eastern states with people and horses, and coordination with Confederate government, but still controlling large territory and fighting, preventing substantial northern forces to be moved to East. If Confederacy government managed to convince North for two-state solution, western state most likely would be Confederacy states. YES, defeating the six eastern states practically meant winning the war - western states did not have material and moral resources to continue the war and achieve independence. Theoretically, Texas (and possibly other western states) could get help from french forces in Mexico, or even join Mexico, but this possibility was too slim to discuss seriously. 

Was American slavery economically advantageous primarily due to being able to also sell offspring? No, American slavery was economically advantageous regardless of selling offsprings. If X continuously makes revenue breeding slaves and selling them to Y, we can assume following: 

All these conditions were in effect in US by the middle of XIX century. Let's read and analyze "A Declaration of the Immediate Causes which Induce and Justify the Secession of the State of Mississippi from the Federal Union", second paragraph: "Our position is thoroughly identified with the institution of slavery-- the greatest material interest of the world. Its labor supplies the product which constitutes by far the largest and most important portions of commerce of the earth. These products are peculiar to the climate verging on the tropical regions, and by an imperious law of nature, none but the black race can bear exposure to the tropical sun. These products have become necessities of the world, and a blow at slavery is a blow at commerce and civilization" So we have Lower South states (Y), making revenue by producing "product which constitutes by far the largest and most important portions of commerce of the earth" (cotton), using slave labor. We have Upper South states (X), who can not produce cotton, "peculiar to the climate verging on the tropical regions", as effectively as Lower South (condition 3), but can sell slaves to the Lower South states. As we can see, American slavery was economically advantageous primarily due to unique ability of the Lower South states (Cotton kingdom) to supply "the product which constitutes by far the largest and most important portions of commerce of the earth". Selling slave offsprings (from Upper to Lower South) can somewhat increase this advantage, but could not be its primary reason. Speaking about Chinese laborers - this is pointless discussion. By 1860, it was about 35000 Chinese people in US, 100 times less than number of slaves. By 1850 - about 4000, practically none - before 1849 Gold Rush.