Nash Equilibrium (N.E) is a general solution concept in Game Theory. N.E is a state of game when any player does not want to deviate from the strategy she is playing because she cannot do so profitably. So, no players wants to deviate from the strategy that they are playing given that others don't change their strategy. Thus, it is a mutually enforcing kind of strategy profile. 'Pareto optimality' is an efficiency concept. So no state will be Pareto Optimal if, at least one of the players can get more payoff without decreasing the payoff of any other player. There are many many examples of Nash Equilibria which are not pareto optimal. The most famous example could be the N.E in prisoner's dilemma. 

The 19702-73 inflation was a supply side shock, a negative supply shock to be specific. Because of the high oil prices, production cost of almost every rose sharply. Since, this was the first time that such a shock was seen at such large scale it was mostly misunderstood and traditional short term policy tools i.e. easy monetary policy and fiscal stimulus were deployed. What had actually happened was since oil is such an essential part of production, not just the short term but the long term output or the potential output itself was affected and should have been revised. Because of the incorrect diagnosis and policy response, inflation got embedded into the long term expectations and hence it just went into a spiral. 

Recently I conducted a small game among students of our institute. The game was based on Keynes' beauty contest game. The participants had to guess a number between 0 to 100 and the participant whose guess was closest to 2/3rd of the average of all guesses would win the game. The twist was this: We also awarded money to the winner in each round. The money was a multiple say, 5x of the final number (2/3rd of the average). What will be the Nash Equilibrium of this modified game. The solution to the original problem is of course everybody choosing 0. Will the equilibrium shift in the above described game. Consider n to be greater than 30. Any help would be appreciated. 

Though I've seen plenty of articles talk about in what circumstances banks borrow from the Fed, I haven't seen any quantification on that note. On average, what percent of the money that banks lend out is money from the Fed? Alternatively, how much money is borrowed from the Fed every year and how quickly is that money generally paid back? 

The people at large view monopolies as unfair market actors, and the idea of subsidizing such unfairness is the reason that real people in the current world don't want to subsidize monopolies. If you're asking why economists don't advocate subsidizing monopolies, I'm actually not sure. The standard treatment of monopolies seems to lend itself to that advocation. But the real reason monopoly subsidies aren't appropriate is because they're simply not necessary (and if used would almost definitely lead to more inefficiency). Price discrimination eliminates most if not all problems of inefficient allocation, since if the monopoly can price discriminate, it can set different prices such that most if not all potentially mutually-profitable trades will be made. And the monopoly has an incentive to do this because it increases their profits above setting a single price. For more on this, economics PhD Stephen Shmanske wrote a paper entitled The Monopoly Nonproblem 

A market failure is when some economic structure prevents the market from achieving optimal efficiency. A critical part of how the market tends toward its optimal efficiency is via competition. If there is no situation where more than one company could be profitable, you would have a monopoly but it wouldn't be a market failure, since that's the best you could do. Its entirely possible that this situation doesn't really exist. If there's a situation where more than one company can be profitable, but that monopoly either has a government grant or uses violent coercion to keep its monopoly position, that is a case of government failure, since a government is either directly (with a grant) or indirectly (by failing to prevent violence) causing the monopoly. Then you have situations where you have a structural, or natural monopoly, where every additional customer either reduces the cost of production or increases the value of the product (network effects). In certain cases, it may be unfeasible for another company to compete because the risk of failure is too high in comparison to the potential reward of success. For example, if you build a network of railroads in an area, the cost of building a new network might exceed the profits that company could expect to make. The monopoly could refuse to allow competitors to connect to its network, keeping its monopoly rents for itself. But if the situation were restructured where the monopoly was required to allow 3rd party connections, or if trains were operated only by companies that didn't own tracks, additional competition could improve the market. Since that almost never happens, a monopoly puts an opportunity cost on potential competitors, keeping them out of the market. This opportunity cost is in essence a negative externality, which is an obvious market failure. The usual alleged market failure often associated with monopolies is the deadweight loss triangle that Ubiquitous mentioned. The idea is that the monopoly will set a price that's too high, such that the market loses out on some beneficial trades. But, it's been shown that practice of price discrimination (which is widespread in reality) eliminates this dead weight loss. More information on that can be found here: $URL$ I wrote an article on market failure that included some analysis of monopolies: $URL$ 

I would strongly recommend you to read Erik Brynjolfsson, Andrew Mcafee et al for some serious and real insights about this topic. The world economic forum this year had the same theme. In my view (which are heavily derived from the works of the above mentioned dignitaries) the problems arising from complete automation will be the lowering or stagnation of income levels. As Erik mentions in his Ted talk, productivity levels are at all time high but income levels are not. This was not the case in previous technological revolutions. People and systems adapted to new technologies and income rose along with productivity. Now they don't share the same relationship. One of the reasons is that we are not changing our systems well to absorb the technology. For example, if people are saving a lot of time because of automation, they should be able to spend it in something constructive. May be entrepreneurship, maybe knowledge work. To make all those automation work, people are required to program, design, develop and create. There needs to be a shift from typical work to knowledge work. If such a shift is not there and that too at a speed that matches with the speed of technological changes then income levels will continue to fall, unemployment will rise. In Andrew Mcafee's words, "we need to RACE WITH THE MACHINE". 

Full employment is rather a deceiving term. It suuggest that 100% of the workforce is employed. However, there are so many reasons why this cannot be achieved and should not be achieved. Typical workforce would include people who are studying, people who have just got out of colleges, differently-abled etc who might not be supposed to be working in the way we assume they should. So at any point of time there will always exist some structural, frictional unemployment. Adjusting which we get the natural rate of employment or unemployment. Economists do not confuse between these two terms. You will find terms like potential output, zero output gap etc which refer to the same state and are technically more sound. Also, every level of output is an equilibrium point. The question is whether the economy is at its natural level of output or potential output or long term output level. At that level, natural employment level should prevail. 

How does Joseph Stiglitz and Greenwald explain why markets with imperfect information fail to have a pareto efficient equilibrium? What premises do they use to come to that conclusion? For example, they write: 

I'm unclear about what you mean, but the answer is almost certainly no. When and how much market failure happens depends on the market environment, which is combination of the legal and social landscapes. If you change a law, you change where and how often market failures. Weird social pressures can do the same, as Freakonomics will attest to. I wrote a full article on this topic here: $URL$ 

3-4 years is probably a reasonable average estimate for how long it takes for money created by the Fed to "trickle down" to the average consumer in the form of inflation. 

In perfect price discrimination, all mutually beneficial trades take place, the natural monopoly captures 100% of the surplus, and pareto efficiency is achieved. However, I've read various sources that mention that, despite this, economists still advocate various taxes, regulations, or nationalization to "fix" the monopoly problem even in theoretical cases of perfect discrimination. Why would these things be advocated if pareto efficiency is achieved? The only thing I can think of is that, while the lack of competition doesn't remove the incentive for a monopoly to innovate, it hugely slows down the rate of innovation, which would essentially rob society of potential improvements. Is there anything to this logic? What inefficiency would exist if not pareto inefficiency? 

In this case, X, Y, Z, and D all give person 1 the same utility. In such a situation, X, Y, and Z are all possible equilibria given complete markets and price taking behavior even though they're not pareto-optimal. In a situation with local nonsatiation, this situation couldn't exist, and thus a pareto optimal equilibrium is ensured. Weak pareto optimality doesn't require local non-satiation. 

This is likely only part of the story, but I found an interesting lecture by Milton Friedman that shows a graph of the quantity of money per unit of output (likely GDP) graphed alongside a normalized consumer price index (normalized so that the index intersects with the other line in 1970). The graphs all clearly shows changes in the consumer price index lagging about 1-3 years after discontinuities in the money supply. $URL$ In this other graph, you can see the lag is even longer than that, at anywhere from 4 years between 2008 and 2001 to 6 years from 1985 to 1992: 

There is a sense of differentiation thus this is not competitive market clearly. Government regulations in an industry cannot be regarded as a monopoly as government mostly will decide on a price ceiling or floor and not the quantity of transport supplied. Since there are only 4 firms this is an oligopoly clearly. They can collude to restrict output and raise prices if it is within the limits set by government. Maybe the government has set the price to actually prevent collusion. 

It depends on what cost function the monopoly is facing. If the marginal cost function is not changing then there would be no change in pricing or quantity. 

After the Chinese central bank removed the peg against USD, yuan appreciated but Chinese exports didn't seem to be affected. They are steadily increasing. How can this be explained ? 

I have studied that accumulation of foreign reserve has the potential to raise inflation levels in economy as the money base increases (= domestic currency + foreign reserve increases) and if it overshoots the money demand in the economy then it will raise price levels. My question here is that how the foreign reserves which are under the custody of the central bank go into the system and cause inflation. Say, China has huge reserves of USD but it rests with the central bank mostly. So, how does it get into the economy and raise prices ? 

Your assertion is in line with 'rational expectations theory'. It says that economic agents will take all available information including the possible policy actions into account and then make decisions and these decisions will affect the future. In contrast to other theories this means that public policy will not be able to affect private decisions (policy ineffectiveness proposition). Rational expectations will counter the effect of public policy. What is mentioned in the paper is quite different from this. Typically, it is assumed that market is information sensitive to public policy. 

A public good by definition is non excludable and does not create conflict among consumers. Nowhere it says that public good is always provided by government. It is the characteristic of the good itself not the provider. In your example of the park setting, one can actually exclude people, however, one still cannot exclude people from the positive externalities of the park. Same way, think of highways. They appear to be public good but think of the toll booths. These highways may be operated and maintained under a public private partnership and those private or public players may collect toll from you. They are not public good in the pure sense. As mentioned in one comment they could be called club good. National defense is one typical example of pure public good. You provide it to one individual and you end up providing it to all. Hence, it is provided by the government as government only has the unique authority to collect taxes for all such services. Now, even if you develop technologies to exclude people from national security you cannot achieve it. A private player cannot collect something like 'national security surcharge' and cannot throw citizens who don't pay it, out of the nation .