Once you're on the command-line, do a "show run." Then look for the interfaces section. Here's an example: 

That tells you the port, the name, the security level, and the ip address. Access lists are a little tricker, since there may be just two or three or potentially hundreds of access lists. Again, "show run" will give you the complete configuration, and you'll have to read through it. A NAT will look like this: nat (inside) 0 access-list inside_nat0_outbound That's inside-to-outside. A static is usually set to NAT a specific inside server to an outside ip address, like this: static (inside,outside) (public ip address) (inside ip address) netmask 255.255.255.255 And last, an access list allows the outside public internet to get in for a specified ip or port. Hope this helps! 

Here, the line that starts with is treated as a single line and not part of directive which is causing the error. You could simply fix it using a backslash as follows: 

I'm trying to configure a cisco 850 router but I'm unable to ping the outside world from the Vlan1. looks like follow 

For a safer process management I would use the proper reserved variable or if you have it on CentOS. E,g 

You are using the wrong answer to create custom services. To start with, custom service files should not be placed within rather you'd use . Secondly, after creating the service file you'd run to notify systemd about your newly created file. Make sure you've restored SELinux file context using After the update, the answer is obvious. 

On my process monitor I see command running but its slow. If I ran another command will the deletion process be faster? Or this will make things slower. I am running this on 2 core machine. 

I'm having problems with the expires header. When I set the expires and access the file through the browser it becomes Not Found 404. Here is my virtual server setup on nginx.conf 

I have EC2 m4.2xlarge running Nginx 1.6.1 and serving static HTML files. Recently my server started to give 503 server temporary unavailable. When I check the server process the CPU was all 100% load. Is this mean I am lacking server power or my nginx.conf configuration is not set right. I have this in the conf currently. 

Use the following to calculate the lines between two time variables. Put the following code in a file called . 

Here we use colon as delimiter then check if the row does not match a certain string using regular expression. 

Since you are using ssh as port name it is going to search on /etc/services file and map the name to the associated port which is You can simply modify the file and change port to whatever you like. Save changes and you are done! 

My assumption is that the server is connected on a switch port that is blocking somehow clients from sending a . But then, how are the clients allowed to send a and the server replies with a I've done a lot of debugging but unable to find a solution. The clients have a in the . For example: 

You can plug your server NIC into one of the gigabit ports and the workstations into the 100mb ports; that way each workstation will still be limited to a maximum of 100mb/s to and from the server, but the server will have a greater aggregate throughput. To check what speed your network connection is at, go to the Local Area Network device in the control panel. Windows will tell you what speed you are connected at (i.e., 100 mbps, 1 Gbps). You will probably find that your disk i/o on the server is the bottleneck in transferring files, rather than the network bandwidth. You can run perfmon on the server and view statistics such as disk queue - if this plateaus, then you probably have reached the maximum speed at which your disks can transfer data. Task Manager on the server will show you what your network throughput is. Some servers or network drives have more informative information. The HP Teaming adapter has loads of useful statistics to look at, if you have an HP server. 

8) Show the status of slave Check for a specific error code and update your answer to provide more details. if possible 

The route is being added but does not do much. The network 192.168.100.0/24 remains unreachable. What ip route show and route -n shows 

I'm connected through the console on the router and can ping the outside world only from GigaEthernet1 port which has IP address The clients that connect on VLan1 get IP addresses in the range of and these clients can ping each other, the gateway which is and the GigaEthernet1 which has IP What's going wrong in this case? UPDATE 

"Traceroute works by sending packets with gradually increasing TTL value, starting with TTL value = 1. The first router receives the packet, decrements the TTL value and drops the packet because it then has TTL value zero. The router sends an ICMP Time Exceeded message back to the source. The next set of packets are given a TTL value of 2, so the first router forwards the packets, but the second router drops them and replies with ICMP Time Exceeded. Proceeding in this way, traceroute uses the returned ICMP Time Exceeded messages to build a list of routers that packets traverse, until the destination is reached and returns an ICMP Echo Reply message." Source. $URL$ 

In my Google Analytics realtime access I have about 700~800 users which is isn't many comparing during the day. So I don't think its due to high traffic. 

Hello I am using Amazon Ec2 with Nginx. I recently setup nginx and when I for example access blog.com/index.php it shows up in the browser correctly but when I access other file extension like JPEG, PNG, JS etc the file becomes 403. Here is the error log. 

I want to prevent my robots.txt file from syncing to the front end server. Here is my /etc/lsyncd.conf file: 

I am not a Perl wiz but there where some dependencies issues? so rewriting the CGI.pm file is not a option. I tried but I receive dependencies error. 

I have a similar environment and use Veeam Backup to do both backups and replicas. Veeam uses the changed block tracking function of vSphere, which shrinks your backup window. You can set backup expirations to keep 3 months of backups on-line and available. Total amount of backup storage will depend on the amount of changed blocks each day, and whether you are going to keep daily incrementals or have a weekly or monthly backup rotation. Veeam is licensed per host, not per vm, so it's pretty cost-effective if you have a high consolidation ratio. 

Do any of your VM's have a particularly high i/o requirement? If not, you could go with a 7 drive RAID5 + spare. The other option would be to build two RAID10 sets of four drives each, put one DB VM on each RAID10 volume and spread the misc server, app server, and web server wherever you feel is appropriate. If i/o is not a real concern, then there's nothing wrong with going with a 6 disk RAID10 and two spares. The real egg to be concerned with is that you're running all of your VMs in a single server. Perhaps you should look at having two ESXi hosts and shared storage. I would also recommend that you make sure to get the battery backup unit for the P410i. Your write speeds will be dramatically upgraded with the BBU. 

Today I migrated our dhcp and dns server from an old centos5 to a new machine running Scientific Linux 6.8. The server seems to work correctly, however the dhcp server is having some issues. The client do not get an IP address. Now I've done the necessary research to see what's going on and what's causing this. Current situation On Scientific Linux 6.8, the following packages are installed: 

As the title of your question implies, DDoS is a Distributed Denial of Services where the attack comes from different sources. The best chance you have at the moment is contact your Service Provider and explain the situation. On your side there are a few steps you could take to at least limit the cause of this DDoS attack. For more information what you could do, please see $URL$