As per my comment above, a bit improved: In e.g. economics utility may be measured, but is not comparable between individuals. That is because it is representable only in an ordinal scale (a BIG problem for economics, actually). That means you can express 'x is better than y', but not 'x is by the factor of k better than y'. Ethical values are the same. The order of values often defines destinct societies and sometimes is forcefully shared within societies, though. One example of the latter is the german constitution where the values are ranked through the number of the article in the first 19 ones (human rights). In general, juriciary is the most reliable source regarding that. But it's not like you will ever find an utilitarian saying "Oh well life preserving 10 points, preserving from torture...err...6,8734 and helping grannies like 3,2!". 

By this, both the Nietzschean aspect of creating value and of risking the historical by trying something new (or the same to reoccur) are embodied by the spirit of a child: 

If there is no event that has to be explained with instances that, presumably, can only be experimentally proven in environments with energy levels unobtainable by us, why should we bother? It is not only likely, but almost certain, that the borderline of the energy levels used to experimentally prove anything is at a point where we can a) not observe anything anymore b) cannot protect ourselves from the consequences of such a high energy in a given environment (has to be defined if it should remain measurable) anymore. This should be reached a lot earlier than we have to use anything near the energy that is conserved in the matter of our own galaxy, never mind the whole universe. You are switching the epistemic direction: Most of these experiments have been made due to predictions that followed from flaws within the natural laws that seemed to be valid at lower energy levels. We had the theoretical instances that explained events on lower energy levels first and then, afterwards, thought of experimental ways to lay hold of them. They needed higher energy levels. This actually was the drive after building accelerators. In addition, some theories (like Einstein's) were not exactly based on theoretical flaws, they just popped out of his head and happened to have the potential to be experimentally proven, which we did (in some parts 60 years afterwards!). 

As this is about "movement", the motion, more precisely the outcome of it, may fall under any category, as I understand: 

According to Donald Davidson in "Actions, Reasons and Causes" for example, causes are a certain type of an explanation of a fact. In this text he argues that it is a plausible story to be told to explain that there was a certain event. That is exactly the reason why he can state that reasons are in the very same sense causes of actions. Hume said that causation is an inductive claim about the relation between two events that is not inferable from anything other than intuition (opposed to empiric facts). For Kant in CPR, in Humean tradition, causation is a category, that means it is a modus of our synthesis of the manifold resulting in a certain intuition. Hume and Kant, I would argue, do not really explain the event with its cause. They would not agree with Davidson. Explanation is telling a story about the genesis of an event. That is definitely more than naming a cause. But the similarities are that a certain form of inferential relation or framework is established between events. To sum this up, my claim would be with Hume and Kant that causation is a direct, immidiate relation between two events that allows predictions, too, while explanation is used to establish a plausible relation between "historical" events that have had mediators. But of course, natural language uses causation in a broader, explanatory sense, too. As a phenomenological fact, I might add, causation implicates a certain "teleological" direction from cause to effect, as Kant worked out (that's why there will never be a "Newton of a blade of grass" as he states in CoJ, because the relation between organism and organs are bilateral and we have no category for it, therefore cannot have proper perceptions ;). Explanation starts at the end, working backwards until the end is plausible. 

making, applying and enforcing laws, within a certain territory and with the aspiration of doing so as a monopolist, 

One should not underestimate this factor. Kant explicitly starts with our everyday moral intuitions (one should do a moral deed because it is the right thing to do, not because it happens to be good for something [i.e. myself or something I want/like]). He basically just spells out what is actually linguistically and logically implied in this kind of thought. In that, he is indeed quite close to modern "analytic philosophy" if one is able to bear in mind the language and common mindset of the time. Also, this puts aside or at least weakens many religious connotations that seem out-of-date for many people these days. 4. Problems with singling out the Groundwork Wood writes in his preface: 

Another proposal and very condensed discussion is formulated by Wittgenstein in his (in-)famous Tractatus logico-philosophicus: 

I will try to kill two birds with one stone here. For this purpose, the main question may be reformulated as: How could one prove that a belief really is one's own? This may be some sort of begging the question, but I actually think this interpretation is truthful to the core of it. Preliminary work: Definitions The author that should instantly come to mind asking this (closely linked to questions of self-attribution and conciousness), speaking of professional philosophers, should be Harry Frankfurt. I will therefore base my answer on a paper that is openly available and well aware of this. The authors of that paper propose to distinguish between robust beliefs that are stable over time (no matter the reason) and fragile beliefs that are not. Regarding what it means for a belief to be one's own they write: 

The problem we are confronted with, as philosophers, is grave: As nature is best described by natural sciences, how can we claim that we know anything not accessible by them? His answer obviously is transcendental philosophy and transcendental idealism. To end the question with the questions: 

It depends both of the definitions of instinct and rationality. Taking Helmuth Plessner's work The Levels of the Organic and Man, Introduction to Philosophical Anthropology from 1928 [note: the translation is in the making], it is just the way you think: In Chapter 6.4, he describes instinct as a certain predetermination of action that has broadness, i.e. leaves place for conciousness, difference, correction of behaviour. It is by this the frame/bounding of conciousness. This has to be discriminated from reflex, which is a direct reaction pattern with no broadness whatsoever. Therefore, instinct is left to animals (and humans, as animalic) that can conciously act towards their environment and not only react to changes in their environment (essentially, but not necessarily identical to the difference between animals with or without central nervous system). Human rationality there could be defined as an ability that coincedentally emerges from having the ability to have distance from the self (self-conciousness, excentric positionality, Chapter 7) together with the ability to to idealize (Ideation is a term taken from Husserl), that is to make a true difference between the particular and a general concept of it. Only by this, we are enabled to be rational, i.e. not bounded by the situation and phenomena. As rationality would in these terms be part of the specificity of our mode of conciousness and instinct is described as the frame/bounding of conciousness, rationality would in fact be instinct. But this is only one, although in its total very convincing (only very sketchy here) way to define the terms.