To answer one of your questions, have look on Cargo Cult where soldiers of 2nd World War used some remote island as their base and basically were considered as Gods, because 

Party wild for 19 generations and let "them" deal with that. This is most believable approach, because on Earth and global warming, loads of people have exactly that approach. And if you do not sort your waste, welcome to that group Use your super computer to help you get an solution. If it can calculate trajectory to rendezvous in 600 years, given the speeds and vast emptiness of space, it is perhaps time to use it wisely and provide you weapons, or solutions Think about how trajectory changes work and decide if the pirates can work out "small change now but huge difference in 20 generations" or "do nothing now and have huge change of trajectory in 19th generation". If they can, then you basically have only option 1 or option 2. 

Using knowledge without permission is social taboo I know this answer is on verge of "brainwashing" but if such conditioning happens on bigger scale, you do not even consider it as brainwashing techniques, rather than "common knowledge" Examples: 

This question is inspired by the fact that Donald Trump is Republican nominee for next president. However, I am going to break rule there and here, so please assume we are talking about alternate Earth: So, lets have country with landmass 9,6 million km2 and about 350 million citizens. This country has one of the strongest economies on the world and is in the club of eight strongest economies. Yes, the description still fits the USA, but here what is different. The current mindset of the people. The people of this country started to fear outside world. It feels unsafe to them and they feel that visiting people are more of threat. So they elect a new president, who has simple promise: Build the wall. And assume this president delivers. In next 2 years he manages to build the wall around the most problematic parts ot the border. In his first 4 year term he manages to build the wall around 70 percent of the borders. This president is re-elected and in his next 2 years he manages to build the wall all around the borders (where can be applied. So if border is made by water body the wall is not build there) But the mindset of fearing the outside world does not end there. People of this country want to stop as much trade with outside world as possible. As the borders are being sealed more and more, the people also want to cut themselves off the outside world. Trade stops and incentives are made to create the goods inside the land of this country. Scientists are stopping international exchange, tourist visa are stricter every next year. Can you keep strong economy of rarher isolated country? I would like to keep economy strong but the country isolated. But I feel this contradicts itself. In other words: If USA starts isolating itself from outside world, will their economy crumble? And again: I know the above model does not really fit current USA. This is why I require you to imagine alternate Earth where the above apply 

Note: This is background research for parody/comedy story. So, some below points are not even plausible and I do not care about it. Please do not waste your time commenting and/or posting about plausibility of the setup You did it. You played ultimate prank on your friend Dave. You and group of your friends got yourself and (especially) Dave drunk. When Dave passed out, you snuck him inside the freaking rocket scheduled to send first humans to the Mars! Speak of luck of drunken guys, right? Thing is, the situation got real south for Dave. To hit the optimal launch window and to avoid bad weather, NASA rescheduled the flight 4 hours earlier and as everyone was hurrying up to actually launch, everyone overlooked one extra drunken guy on board. (Before commenting, read the bold text above please) Long story short, Dave wakes up at moment when its too late to turn the rocket around. Now, for the background research: Group of six highly trained astronauts is stranded on space ship together with Dave, who is drunk, hungover and has no freaking clue about anything even remotely connected with rockets and/or space. Now the background research questions I really care about: 

Obtain weapons: As it looks like, Joe is from USA. So although there are going to be some gun regulations, my stereotypical thinking about USA tells me that this step should be not so hard (especially when you have money) Train self: Again, Joe has time, means and motivation. Spend it on some training. Martial arts, Krav Maga, or something like that Observe your surroundings Other groundhoggers should be recognizable, because they (hopefully) adhere to same rules as Joe does Learn to lie: Basically most important skill. What happens if other groundhogger kills you on your "looping day"? I suppose you wake up the next morning. So if Joe is close to getting killed/detained, he should lie about the fact that he knows it is his looping day. That should buy him some time and give him some advantage 

Several ideas what would be different: Better murder cases: You can ask a person who did murder them. And possibly you could use it as evidence in court Different inheritance rules You can summon recently deceased person and ask them who should get what. And obviously, you could make sure the deceased person can decide about conditions (like: You get my house, but finish college first!) Espionage level 2.0: Right now, if you send spy to get some info, and such spy is killed in action, you do not get any info about mission whatsoever. But, if your spy is killed, you can get at least some info. It also means that if you catch a spy, you keep them alive as long as possible to protect your data Elvis, where are you? You know the cases of "that person is really not dead!" Now you know for sure if given person is dead or alive. Could be used not only for Elvis, but generally for everyone who gets missing. If their summoning from dead fails, you know they are alive and you should try as hard as possible to find them. Once you succeed, you (sadly) know that person is dead and ask them where their body lies I will sacrifice self so you can live: See above. If group of people gets missing, good survival strategy would be to sacrifice one to let everyone else survive. (better with one dead than everyone dead). And in your "law enforcement" setup, you have to decide, if basically "killing" someone to save everyone is ok or not. I see dead people. Not Do not forget about black market and impostors. Assume nowadays setup when if you approach medium able to talk with dead, you do not know it is for real, or if its just a play. Even in your setup such people would exist (claim to be trained, but not be trained at all). How would common person decide if they speak with really trained person, or fake? And would it be a crime to pretend that I can speak to dead? EDIT of this paragraph: Even after editing it to make sure that everyone can hear the person, once they are summoned, there is still room for fakery (hidden radio and voice actor is one from top of my head) But, in law enforcement there is one biggest flaw: I am dead. And I lie. So what? Imagine I am dead now. Someone summons me because of inheritance. And I tell such person, that I won the lottery (huge bulk of money) and the pile of money is stored in specific destination. But, twist, none of it is true. How do you know I am liar or not? And take instance of murder. I have been murdered by John Doe. But I hate Thomas Unknown. What happens if I say that I have been murdered by Thomas Unknown? How do you punish me for a lie? I am dead. So what worse can happen to me? EDIT One more idea: Public domain? NEVER! Imagine I am popular author. And I die because of age. Someone can summon me and I can help that person to finish my "last" novel. Who is actually author of such novel? And, how do you decide what work is public domain and what is not? And what prevents me to write yet another novel?