When you are immortal it really doesn't matter how long its gonna take, and again, the same tech to revive cryogenically frozen people is the same it would take to sustain immortality. 

If the asteroid was big enough that the impact threw enough matter into orbit it could form an accretion disk. Given several billion years the accretion disk could theoretically become a moon. As for whether it was habitable or not I will be forced to assume the alien species you are describing holds the same definition of habitable that we do, and will define it as possessing a breathable atmosphere, plentiful water and flora and fauna. This would take several more billion years and require that the planetoid that formed was geologically active with a high iron content for a core so as to maintain a magnetic field capable of shielding the surface from cosmic radiation. If the planet maintained surface water it is theoretically possible that microscopic extremophiles such as prions could have survived the impact and provide the seeds for life to arise again. The moon would also need to remain large enough for its gravity to maintain its liquid water and atmosphere. Saturn's moon titan has a gravity a little lower than our moon and has managed to hold on to a very dense atmosphere, albeit one that is not breathable. 

Scientists weren't worried about igniting the atmosphere, they were worried about the nitrogen and oxygen being sent into a chain fusion reaction. turns out even the center of the sun is not hot or pressurized enough to cause hydrogen and oxygen to begin fusion. Maybe the center of very old very large stars reach those kind of pressures and temperatures required to cause a fusion event with those elements. When those elements are fused it takes more energy to force them to do that than they put out when it happens too. As for actual ignition, There is very little fuel in the atmosphere (nitrogen is not combustible, oxygen is not a fuel but an oxidizer, and other possibly flammable gases are in only minute quantities.) The atmosphere is also too efficient at diffusing heat for any sort of sustained chain combustion reaction to occur. To "ignite the atmosphere" you would need to heat it up uniformly across the entire (or at least most of ) the atmosphere at once. A nearby super nova might be able to do that, but that is going to obliterate the entire planet anyways so its a bit of a moot point. 

Are you wondering CULTURAL reactions to all creatures and individuals being born as twins, or just the evolutionary benefits from a strictly biological sense? The Biological answer is easiest. Giving birth to two or more young increases chances at least one organism survives to adulthood. Culturally? Well that's complicated. The sky is basically the limit, you could have one society that views one twin as the "real" child and the other as simply an impostor, and at a certain age the "impostor" is named and becomes a slave for the "real" child. In another maybe "individuals" are actually seen as pairs, and neither twin is considered an individual but instead only half of a whole person. Maybe the rare individuals born without twins are persecuted as only having half a soul, and twins who lose their partner commit suicide or join the ranks of the mis-treated "half-lings." I mean I could derive possible cultural plot points until the cows come home, but I think I made my point. I hope my answer was helpful. 

Some sort of very VERY specific nuero-toxin could be blamed. Passing out is mostly going to occur due to lack of oxygen, brain damage, or some sort of toxin. Passing out for most reasons is followed by negative effects like nausea, confusion, headache, vertigo tinnitus, etc etc. Most naturally occurring gases that could be responsible would be pretty dangerous and probably kill as many creatures as it rendered unconscious. 

Sounds an awful lot like ZULU time (also known as Greenwich Mean Time) used by the military and various large internationally coordinated projects (like spacecraft positioning or aircraft direction). To avoid conflicts with time zones ZULU time is simply the time it is currently at the zero meridian on our planet. This way if you are say, ordering an artillery missile strike from one time zone into another on a target that will then be bombed by aircraft and assaulted by infantry being fed positional data from a satellite. These events and assets all NEED to be in the proper position at precise timing. If the bomber pilots taking off from an airbase 1000 miles away forget that "0600 sharp" is really noon where they are dropping the bombs white the satellite team is back home in Arizona where 0600 was 4 hours ago then it all goes awry. You got missiles hitting a target with troops standing by waiting 4 hours for the bombs to drop while the satellite is looking at the wrong part of the planet. If everybody synchronizes their watches on ZULU time then "0600" is going to be "0600" no matter what time zone the various assets involved are in. Maybe both planets could measure time by the rotational bursts from a pulsar. So each rotational outburst from the pulsar is equivalent to one unit of time and is then broken down into smaller portions for purposes of measurement (say 1 rotation equals a "stellar month" 1/10th of that time span is a "stellar week" and 1/100th of that rotational period is a "stellar day" and 10 rotations of the pulsar are a "year") Both planets keep their own local time measurements for unofficial purposes, but for purposes of timing communications with each other or sending ships back and forth or just any inter-stellar action that requires a high degree of coordination they could use the interstellar clock and date system to ensure they were both on the same page. 

So I fought ISIS and the Taliban in the middle east and its a bit similar of a situation. You see these guys and go "why would they choose a life like that? When hellfire missiles are falling like rain why wouldn't they just go home?" Its easy to say "oh it's just religion" but its actually a bit more similar to your raider's dilemma. The people we saw fighting in the Taliban or ISIS were typically younger males (teens to 20's) coming from utterly destitute backgrounds. I'm talking dirt floors mud huts and totally illiterate. So your terrorist (Raider) has a choice. He can slave away 14 hours a day on a farm, sleep in the dirt, and die at age 40 having earned nothing in his life except maybe enough to eat every day. Or...... He can run off and join these guys with guns. Once he's got an AK-47 he can have anything he wants. Women, money, drugs, property, cars, anything at all. He just has to take it away from anyone who gets in his way. Now he's not just a backwards illiterate dirt farmer, hes somebody with power and access to wealth. So then a bunch of guys like me show up and start wrecking it all, so why wouldn't he run away from it once the bombs start falling and angry Marines are blowing holes through the walls? Quite simply put he cant. He has been outcast by his family, clan and tribe and there is nowhere to go where his past wont catch up to him. No matter where he tries to run somebody will find out and an angry mob will string him up, and that's if he's lucky. If he's not they will take their time with him, set an example, and maybe work out some of the pent up grief and hatred they have after he and guys like him came through and took away everyone's daughters to be prostitutes, killed their sons, and took what little wealth they had. I've seen whats left when less developed societies decide to set an example. Its extremely unsettling. Its also paradoxical since such actions actually heavily dissuade anyone in the terror (raider) groups from deserting. Especially since when deserters are caught their own people will do the same to them as well. So I guess that gives you a reasonable motivation for why people would join such a group and why they wouldn't leave once it got tough or they started losing. 

Cats May be Able to See Into the Ultra-Violet Spectrum Some recent studies seem to indicate that cats may have at least some ability to see into the ultra-violet. Obviously using graffiti or marking areas as unsafe or safe could be achieved (somewhat) clandestinely by using inks that only show in the UV spectrum. These messages say things like "Human cops patrol here!" or "Safe-house here" or maybe "Cat-nip for sale after dark"! or even gang graffiti "Maine-Coon Clan rulez!" Obviously your society needs a dedicated force of slave wranglers and a full time police to ensure the dirty fur-balls don't get too uppity. They might have UV goggles that can let them see in the same UV spectrum as the cat-people so they can read these warnings. Pic Here is how a cat most likely sees a bird Plus, UV inks can be tattooed so maybe your various cat gangs/clans/whatever ink up and your furry-oppressive police make regular checkpoints where they look over individuals for tattoos with UV lights and UV goggles and stuff too. 

The smallest star ever observed (AB Doradaus C) has about 100 times more mass than Jupiter with 20% larger size and about .03% the brightness of the sun. So to make it short, unless smaller stars than the smallest ever observed exist, you'd need to smash about 100 Jupiter's together to make a very tiny star. 

I'm thinking a braille like system of lines and dashes corresponding to letters from our alphabet (he will have to learn to read this system too.) The computer would translate them into his version of braille as well as translate his input back into normal letters for the computer's use. For images you would "slice" a 3 dimensional rendering up and display them to him from top to bottom one slice at a time. He will never have a fully complete comprehension or understanding of what 3d actually is, but you now have given your flat friend a method by which he can interact with our world beyond sound. I think the 3d rendering slicer program could be adopted from 3D printing software. It could be adapted to be projected to him a slice at a time instead of being printed a slice at a time. 

Simply placing a device in a vault and hoping somebody finds it is by technical definition preserving the technological artifact itself, but it is not preserving the knowledge of what it's for and how to make it. If you handed a modern smart phone to a guy from the 17th century he wouldn't even know what the heck its intended purpose was, what it was made from, how to use it, or how to make it. It might as well be an inert glass tile to him. In order to preserve the technological knowledge just the artifact isn't enough. you need to be able to not only explain what it is and what its for, but how to use it, what its made out of, how it works, and how to make it. This becomes a GARGANTUAN task when you consider that most modern technological devices require other machines to make, which themselves require machines to make them. Though seemingly counter-intuitive you want to store simpler components and devices and trust that your regressed descendants will be able to discern useful tasks to apply the devices to. Things like steam engines, electric motors, dynamos, batteries, simple radios, etc etc. In this manner your descendants who fell back to a pre-industrial level can create and combine things in the most useful ways to themselves. Simpler components of more complex devices also means that they can find existing artifacts left over from the old civilization elsewhere and discern their function and have a basis for back-engineering the remnants of society on their own. Rather than trying to hoard a cache of every piece of technology in society you ought to instead plant a sort of seed for your descendants to re-grow their own technological prowess with.