I'd like to take a different tack on this issue (though I do agree with the other posters that you should seek some professional help to ensure you do not have a more severe medical or psychological issue at play). In this situation you are internalizing the problem entirely on yourself - these are your bad days, you are getting no work done. But it sounds to me that you have a very serious problem with how your work defines productivity and sets deadlines. If you work in IT then you likely are familiar with terms like , and . These terms exist entirely as a recognition that in order to complete any project goal, very specific measurements around task complexity, team capability and resource allocation need to be calculated. Recognition that distractions and roadblocks will be encountered during these project phases is absolutely important towards properly calculating these measurements (and ultimately the success of the project). Everybody has bad days... even the healthiest of us. Energetic people will suffer through rough nights of sleep, happy people will go through spurts of sadness, diligent individuals will have trouble focusing.. I guarantee that even the nicest and most professional person you know has chewed someone out before for no reason other than that they "woke up on the wrong side of the bed" (See! It is so common that there exist idioms in English to describe this behavior!) There is not a single person on this earth (Elon Musk included) that can produce at 100% every single day of the week. If you are using this expectation as your guiding point for normality then you really are setting yourself up for failure. Worse still, if your development team is using some daily measurement of productivity rather than building unforeseen events into their timelines then that needs to be addressed. Software development teams should not measure productivity in daily increments.. I would highly recommend using this project as a learning lesson to in the future: 

This solution removes you personally from any management decisions around your coworkers hiring status. It allows you to address a serious issue on your team by performing due diligence around your team's tasks. And perhaps most importantly it allows you to keep your conscience clear because, really, this is something your team should have been doing all along. Yes, unfortunately, you may still be aware of information you really didn't want to know but unless you work for a very unfair company (in which case you probably should be looking for a new job) chances are that this individual has been digging his own grave for awhile now. Who knows... maybe if your manager sees them aggressively picking up your own tasks as backup they may change their mind about letting them go. Probably not but, really, it's not your concern. Do the right thing (for you and the company) and leave other coworker's performance concerns between them and the manager. 

Conclusion Ultimately, only your sister can decide whether the other benefits of the job, the new location and her family circumstances are worth the pay cut to actual salary. But she should be sure to weigh more factors than just what the number is at the bottom of her paycheck each week. 

To put this in perspective, take the following two (simple) examples: 1) Bob lives in California and makes 100K. Jim lives in Kansas and makes 75K. Clearly Bob makes more, right? Maybe not... due to cost of living, Bob pays $1500/month to rent a tiny 400 sq ft studio apartment (as he can't affort home prices) and shells out $2000/month on living expenses while Jim pays $1000/month mortgage on a 2,000 sq ft house and pays $1000/month on living expenses. At the end of 2 years, the net worth of the two is: 

Each of the above factors may have more importance to one individual over another so weighing them all equally will not work from one person to another. For instance, a younger worker is going to care more about growth opportunity than an older work who is looking towards retirement. 

Show your line manager your (more than a full) work week and then put it on them to prioritize what is important. Make sure to "time-box" your available time and make it clear that only the work at the top half of the list gets performed. Then follow management's direction. At the end of the day, you need to make this your manager's problem. Not yours. 

Burnout is catastrophic to your goals. What good is all this learning and career development if you end up throwing it all away in the end? Simply put, a break-necking pace is a positive short term solution with long-term negative repercussions. Occasionally, it's permissible in order to finish up a short-term goal but it cannot become routine. So how do you take a step back without losing the momentum you've already established? It's actually not that complicated: 

That said, I wanted to shift the viewpoint of this issue which I think may give you insight into the other company's perspective. I would disagree that the company you are doing business with is being irresponsible. On the contrary, I see this as a sound business practice to wait until the last minute to pay what is due. There is a concept in Finance called the Time Value of Money which states that it is better to have money now than later as money owned now can be invested for greater profit. In any medium to large business model, it is quite rare that a corporation will simply let their money sit in a checking account collecting no interest. Usually there exists a Treasury Department whose job it is (among other tasks) to reinvest capital in short-term (but risk-averse) financial instruments which will safely accrue interest while those monies are not in use. In a large enough corporation with the right instruments, sometimes these "idle dollars" can actually make the company thousands of dollars in profit over just a couple of days. While your individual invoice might be small enough that the company is not going to win the lottery by delaying your payment a few weeks, it is important to note that a smart corporate billing department probably has a system in place where they wait until the last week of a bill's due date before letting go of the money. Over a large enough pool of bills, this will save them real dollars over a given time frame. Conversely, the Accounts Receivable department will have a similar motivation to get paid as soon as possible (just like you are trying to do). So it is really a universal good business practice... you should always try and collect your payments as quickly as you can while delaying your bills as long as possible. To this end, adding stipulations in your contracts that support these goals is an absolute must. I've seen a variety of "tricks" to accomplish this including "carrots" such as offering small discounts to a bill for items paid within the first 15 days to "sticks" like including progressive financial penalties for bills not paid after 45, 60 and 90 days. 

I am a huge believer in the value of one-on-one sessions as a morale-building and personal development tool. In my opinion, it is essential for effective management and so I think if your meetings don't seem meaningful right now then you need to do everything in your power to make them meaningful. One-on-one time with the people who report to you are one of your primary viewpoints into the level below you. If your meetings aren't going well that could point to serious problems: 

One of the biggest warning signs that one of the above could be a problem is that fact that you are only devoting 10 minutes a month to these topics. That's barely enough time to ask the associate what they had for lunch yesterday. Your meetings should be, at minimum, a half-hour long... and for those star employees or those who feel the need to talk, you should feel free to spill over into a full hour if necessary. Ultimately, you need to get your finger on the pulse of the team and figure out what's going on so you can rejuvenate this valuable tool. Here are a few ideas: 1) Remind everyone why you have these meetings One-on-ones are supposed to be "me time" for the associate. It shouldn't be a status meeting to figure out what they have been working on. It shouldn't be a sounding board for you to communicate memos (although you will occasionally use it for such). It is the one opportunity a month where the associate gets to set the topic and discuss with (or even complain to) the boss about what is going on in their work life. Remind your people that you are here to solve the people-problems and the bureaucratic hurdles that give them day-to-day headaches. Tell them you want to help them but you need their input. Then seriously... shut up and listen. Take notes... repeat back what you hear and take action. Once your people are clear that this is their time, trust me.. they'll start opening up. 2) Leverage other management tools to get a beat on the pulse of the team and then refer to those topics to get the conversation started If your people aren't talking to you.. don't let them off of the hook! Discuss what is happening on the team, in the business, in the industry. Do whatever you have to, to get that conversation started. How do you know what's going on with the team if your people aren't talking to you? Try these management tools: 

Again, I want to stress... unless the other woman begins harassing you (and be careful here - the human mind can attribute harmless gestures as simple eye contact as an attack) I would resist all temptations to identify her in any way. This issue is best approached as a problem with you and the environment. If you present the issue as a dilemma you are struggling with and looking for help rather than as a confrontation that the company must solve, I really believe that you are going to be met with compassion and understanding rather than with anger or frustration. I sincerely wish you the best of luck. 

In your interview you need to portray your original plan as spirited and driven but ultimately naive. You need to be able to show that you had specific goals in mind for self-study with the end purpose of starting your own business. You don't want to use the word "hard" in an interview. As you gained more experience from your self-studies, you realized that your original plan was flawed and you would need more formal education in order to meet your end goals. To this end, you have enrolled in a university and are back on track to become a programmer. At this point, you feel you would benefit from more hands-on experience before attempting to again "break out on your own". Hence, the reason you are looking for a new job. A description of what you did during the time as well as an introspective review of your year of unemployment will show that you were not just sitting around during this time frame. More important, it will also show that you learn from your mistakes and adjust plans in order to meet end goals. Self-determination is desirable in the workplace but foolhardiness is not... so you want to attempt to portray yourself as independent and self-reflective rather than idealistic and whimsical. 

I would like to disagree with the common theme in all of the answers so far and respond to the question: 

So let's take them one at a time: 1. What do you do as a contractor when your role changes? If you are a contractor then you are not paid directly by the placement company but rather through a second party contracting company. That contracting company (Party 1) creates a contract with the placement company (Party 2) to fulfill certain work for a specific amount of money (Contract A). They then go out to the market and find you (Party 3) and create a second contract to fulfill said work (Contract B). Note that the pay rate in Contract A will never equal Contract B... the contracting company makes it's money by ensuring the rate of Contract B is smaller. Depending on the relationship between the contracting company and the placement company, a change in role could constitute as a violation of one or both contracts above and require an amendment to those agreements. Most certainly if you were hired with the expectation that you would perform work at a specific rate and are now being asked to perform work that is worth more, one of the three parties above is making out like a bandit while one or both others are left in the lurch. How to handle this dilemma could become slightly political, however, as your interests will often not be in line with either the contracting company or placement company. If increasing your immediate pay is you number one focus, your best bet will be to discuss with your contracting company the change in your duties. They will then likely renegotiate Contract A which will then give them leeway to increase the money you are making in Contract B. Depending on the placement company, however, this could possibly rub their HR department the wrong way (after all you are now costing them more money). I probably wouldn't let that prevent me from having this conversation though as for all you know that renegotiation of Contract A has already taken place and you are the one currently in the losing position. 2. How do you move towards being hired by your placement company? If you want to move towards being hired by the placement company you need to very much impress them with your work (which it sounds like you are doing). You also have to develop good relationships with the placement company managers, express your desire to become a direct hire and be somewhat fortunate (read: dumb luck) that opportunities in department finances will turn in your favor. In the meantime, however, grab up as much work as you can stomach. The best way to show that you are invaluable is to make yourself invaluable. That assumption of extra work builds up your reputation and ultimately that reputation is what will get you hired on full time. Depending on your relationship with your placement company manager, you might also consider having a conversation about your future goals and desire to increase your responsibilities and pay. There is nothing wrong with expressing the desire to move upward and to pursue greater opportunities. If worded correctly you can show yourself to be ambitious (which is a very desirable thing in a company). This conversation can also have the affect of lighting a fire under a hiring manager as if you have truly made yourself valuable they may extend an offer simply to avoid losing you. One last thing to keep in mind is that most contracting companies include in their contracts (Contract A) with the placement company something called a "buy out clause". This defines an additional cost for a placement company to buy out a contractors contract (Contract B) and directly hire them. You may want to review your current contracting company's policies to determine how large this cost is as it could play a role in any negotiations you hold. Summary At the end of the day how best to play this one out will depend on both the contracting company and the placement company. I would probably recommend a professional approach: work as hard as you can, build up your reputation and talk to the managers of both companies and be up-front with your career and salary goals.