The visa comes after the job as the company is the sponsor that has to meet certain requirements since in theory one could perceive you as taking an American's job. My suggestion would be to consider large recruiting firms that may be able to help find a way for you to find those companies willing to go through the expense of sponsoring someone as there are likely legal fees and government fees that total into the thousands to bring someone in this way. In my case, I had the advantage of sharing the same hometown as the CEO of the dot-com that sponsored me into the US. There may be other ways to find positions in New York where the employer may sponsor someone as while you may be eligible, there may or may not be room to apply for another H1-B as I remember stories where the cap was hit quickly. From Wikipedia: 

So, the first time you ever programmed, it was reverse engineering? Really? It wasn't looking into how do computers do things and wanting to understand how to control the machine? would send off some yellow flags to my mind. would be a bit more elaborate on some level without mentioning some of the phrases that could cause trouble. could be seen as exploring what can programs do. While you could try to go down the road of claiming to be an ethical hacker, there would likely be more than a few companies that may not care to consider the explanation. 

Not offensive but I could wonder, "Why are you stating this? Are there laws you have issues with and thus you only selectively follow the law?" I would question the judgment as this seems like the minimum I'd expect from companies in the US or Canada. 

The other thought I'd have here is to consider your own emotional intelligence. This can be a very useful soft skill to have in the world and if you want a book suggestion here, "How To Win Friends and Influence People" by Dale Carnegie would be my suggestion in this area. 

Are you wanting to claim that because you are shy, you don't have to have the same level of communication skills as others? If so, I'd highly suggest asking doctors for formal diagnosis of conditions that are protected as well as enlisting the help of agencies to nip this in the bud if you want to claim that because you are shy this implies your communication skills are the best they could ever be. Otherwise, be prepared to do some work to overcome the limitations you have as more than a few people may do a great deal of work to improve their communication skills. Edit: The reason for getting the diagnosis is that if one is going to invoke "The Americans with Disabilities Act"(Or whatever your local equivalent would be) to claim that, "Hey, this is a disability! You can't expect me to do all this social stuff in my job!" then the doctor's diagnosis is the first step as chances are an employer would want to see proof that someone does have a protected condition. Otherwise, one could just tell the employer,"I have agoraphobia real bad and stay home 24/7, so I'm not making any meetings," or something else that while some people may have these conditions and struggle, others could abuse the system here. Understand that anyone going down this road is opening a Pandora's box as employers may have hesitation about how to handle someone that could be quite different. For example, if someone was a high functioning Autistic, there may be allowances made for that person that wouldn't the case for someone without that condition. I'm wondering how bad is the condition: Is it serious enough that various doctors would go through the paperwork and agencies would get the employer to back off here or is it not quite that bad? 

My suggestion would be to send the company an e-mail noticing their postings and ask if they have a preferred method of applying in this case as whatever answer you get may vary from company to company. 

Is the deadline due to some external event that can't be moved? For example, if there is a trade show that the project has to be done then this is a bit different than an arbitrary deadline. How well can you prove that the deadline is unrealistic? The deadline may be planned but what evidence do you have to counter these points? 

Would another possibility be that the company did find someone but they left after being with the company for some months and thus they have an opening again? Some companies may have issues with employee turnover and thus may be looking for people to fill a role on a regular basis periodically. The positions may be filled some of the time as the company may either grow or have staff retention issues. The on-line systems may take hundreds of applicants though what percent are qualified for the position? Even among the qualified candidates how well does the company interview to find people that are a good fit for how the company works and what compensation the company will offer? Lastly, some places may just be collecting resumes which can be another reason for some ads to be posted on-line. 

Gem - This would be the jewelry where there are diamonds in earrings, necklaces and rings to give a few examples. A rather hard substance and sometimes used in mining and lasers. Card suit - The red pointed suit in a standard deck of playing cards. The second lowest suit in order in Bridge for a more specific reference to this case. Baseball structure - In the game of baseball, part of the field is known as a diamond consisting of 3 bases and home plate. Singer - Neil Diamond would be a rather famous singer known for various songs that may be another point of where the term could be reference. Security - The DJIA ETF trades under the ticker "DIA" and is sometimes called a diamond. Song - There is a Rhianna song called "Diamonds" that could also be another case here. 

Following on Justin's answer, look at those you did work well and see if they could get you into a place temporarily. The idea here would be that you'd be brought in as a the hired gun for a project and then able to move on to the next thing since I'd imagine staying in a place too long would backfire. Networking and rather than going through HR departments, consider other ways to find opportunities and do contract work instead of full-time employment. The idea here being that you could gain some expertise while doing the contract somewhere. Granted this is possibly a bit tricky as well as requiring that you know some people that could use your skills in a non-conventional way yet still pay well, that would be the other solution I could see coming from this. While you may not want to program all the time in your off hours, if you spent a couple of days a month participating within the coder community around you that may help in finding places to explore. 

I'm imagine some may go like this: Put up job posting -> Collect submitted resumes -> Short list for interview -> Interview notes -> Short list for 2nd round -> 2nd round interview notes -> Give offer to selected candidate -> If necessary give offer to next selected candidate Now, this presumes a couple of rounds of interviews and that short lists and notes would be part of the system. This could be tweaked as needed though generally you'd want to have a Subject Matter Expert verify that the flow is proper as there could be things missing, e.g. I didn't check references or do a background check in that flow I stated. 

The first could be one's interpretation that presumes to do only what is told while the other is likely what is meant by "take care" that has to be understood to mean more than a few other things that if you've never had a cat then you may not know about the litter box and other steps in how to ensure the cat stays healthy for those weeks. 

Depending on the depth of the relationship, I could imagine passing along the passing in some cases. If the customer often called the employee or it is a customer that has worked with this person for a long time like a decade or more, then it isn't burdening but rather showing that you want this person to know something that they may not know. On the other hand, if the customer is fairly new, then what you've outlined would be fine. 

Know exactly where the issue is. Is it the deadline coming too soon? Is it having difficulty learning a new framework? What is the cause of the problem that you may well have to articulate here for, "Why aren't we going to make the deadline?" Be prepared to have a couple of possible solutions to give. Is adjusting the timeline a good idea? Is bringing in someone else to help you finish something going to work? Is changing the scope a better solution? Have a couple of possibilities to show that you aren't merely trying to get out of doing something but have considered alternatives that you hope could be taken as a compromise on some level. 

Google and other search engines can be a way to find the firms that handle recruiting within a specific specialty. You could ask various people that work in the field where you want to work though I would avoid asking current co-workers as that could create an awkward situation.