In all reality they'd probably either raw food, or prepare it in a way that does not involve fire, like marinading it. There are enough serious mechanical difficulties of heat-cooking things under water that it's unlikely their evolution and development would stir that way unless they only ever live close to hydrothermal vents. If they were somehow interested in cooking their food, they could possibly use certain chemicals (I have seen matches that still burn underwater and the smoke bubbles out) and/or double insulated pots (like a pot within a pot with air in between to make sure heat transfer mostly to food and doesn't boil the water around the pot) but it seems like too much trouble to occur naturally (maybe some surface-lovers might do it, to feel like the surface dwellers) 

The standard approach would be try and prevent enemy from landing as possible, so water mines, land mines on beaches, beefing up air defenses and/or air force. The most accessible landing areas should also be targetable by artillery. There should be shore based anti-ship missiles around important passages. However the most important thing would be to stock up on everything, islands can't be resource self sufficient and anyone fighting them can blockade supply routes relatively easily, so fuel, ammo food etc, has to stocked up for a long haul. 

People don't look too different between 20 and 35-ish assuming they aren't in the sun a lot or doing something really stressful, so for the first 15 years or so she probably doesn't have to do much, other them maybe pretend to have skin treatments or healthy eating to make the whole thing more plausible. After that people will start to notice, and if someone still looks 20 at 45 that's pretty suspicious especially to close friends. At that point she might have to move and start a new life somewhere else if she wants to preserve the secret. In general, she'd have to live off the grid as much as possible, so no bank accounts, no jobs that require background checks etc. I'm assuming without cars there are no driver licenses, but if they have an ID that has to be renewed every few years, that'll also start being a problem eventually. The trick will be use the "free" 15 years to earn enough money to be able to afford the move, the bribes to officials for fake documents and so on, all while being unable to present a lot of past experience/education to a potential employer without some shenanigans. 

Right now in order to keep astronauts in space they require a LOT of infrastructure on Earth, all the food and other supplies come from it. It is theoretically possible to grow plants in space, but the amount of land required even for a single family to subsist on is not trivial. Finally, technology breaks occasionally and requires repairs and spare parts, which also come from Earth. In 50 years it should be possible to setup some long term spaceships with a lot of spare parts and space greenhouses, but they'll provide for a few hundred at best, not sure entire planet will work for the tiny few to survive instead of looting and other fun stuff like that. And even then it won't be sustainable indefinitely, they won't be able to acquire resources or develop or grow, and after a decade or two things on the ship will start to break, their bones will become brittle and so on. Space presents enormous challenges and for every person staying up there requires thousands working down here to make it happen, creating even a tiny sustainable, self sufficient facility up there in just 50 years is pretty unlikely. Being able to put 7 billion in space and have life support for them would probably require a thousand years if it's even possible. 

In short: probably not Any civilization that has become advanced enough to travel through space has to be at least somewhat pragmatic, otherwise they'd never reach such heights. Fighting hand to hand is a pretty significant limitation, many species can be immune to it, too large or too small (you couldn't fight bacteria or spores hand to hand very well). And given limited time any species that does a lot of thinking about space travel does proportionally less lifting of heavy things and building muscle, you can have some separation of labours but on average evolution will favour certain traits. Even the best MMA fighter can't be competitive against a bear or a gorilla. So in general smart specie has to rely on technology rather then muscle and if any code stands in the way of that they'll have to either abandon that code or they'll meet species that they can't deal with and lose. Also it's hard to see how it would evolve, even if they come from a planet that doesn't have bears or any equivalent of such there is a matter of fighting each other (and if they are war-like species you you know they fought each other a lot) If one tribe only fights hand to hand and another uses bows and arrows AND hand to hand, the second tribe will win, wipe out the first one and their culture. In a war-like species the society that will become dominant and eventually go to the stars is the one uses the most effective and least laborious method of fighting, not only because it'll let them survive better but because it'll also free up more of their population to be scientists, and over the millenia that it would take their values will reflect that 

For a long time it was taboo for humans to open up and look inside corpses in many societies, so some early anatomical scientists faced serious opposition, but eventually science won over. If human society is a bit backward and superstitious they might not want to autopsy or experiment on these creatures for cultural reasons, but if it's anything like modern society there will always be folks who'd want to do it even if it is illegal or socially unacceptable (they'll just try to do it secretly). The best approach would be to not let humans know they have shape-shifting, and if possible arrange for humans to encounter some creature corpses that seem unremarkable when opened, that way humans will satisfy basic curiosity, figure they are a fairly smart monkey or something and mostly leave them alone as per a treaty of some sort. If you want to be a bit more sneaky, they can deliberately spread crazy rumors about themselves, which would then be debunked, to make anyone who wants to investigate the creatures' supposed magic look stupid 

In short attempting to do that would be rather impractical. The stealth aircraft reduce their radar cross section primarily in two ways: shape that reflects the radar waves away from their origin and radar absorbent materials. Those measures aren't perfect but they reduce the target's visibility to radars, which makes it a lot harder to acquire and maintain lock on it, which is primarily useful for avoiding stationary SAM sites. However if the airplane passes too close or is poorly oriented it can still be locked on and shot down. Which is why it is not a very practical solution for a car, as the car will be radared from very close range where even minor imperfection can give sufficient return, and the cop radar doesn't need to maintain lock for 30 seconds to tell speed. Conclusion: you'd be much better off jamming or spoofing it (which is actually not that difficult in real life), rather then bother with stealth. 

The first question you have to ask yourself is how did people get to the point of walled cities and medieval technology to begin with? Both require a pretty significant food surplus to allow enough people ability to find and mine rocks and build walls and buildings and such as well as develop technology in general without worrying about tending to the farm. So clearly these humans already lived for thousands of years alongside the monsters and managed to have more than enough food well before they even developed walls and medieval weapons. So how did the ancient humans, with nothing but sharpened sticks managed to not only survive the monsters in the first place, but make enough extra food for their builders? Whatever they did the medieval humans can continue doing, but much more effectively. One also has to wonder how did humans evolve in this world in the first place? How did the precursor monkey survive? Was it safe in the trees? If so, humans could build their villages and towns in thees and farm tree grown food. If not, how did it survive? Was it strong enough to fight off the monsters? If so humans that came from it would be as well. Bottom line is that humans would have had to have handled their monster problem back when they weren't even humans yet, in the world where they co-evolved; by the time they actually reach medieval level tech monsters should not be a big problem anymore 

In a lot of media one can see moons or other planets that cover a significant portion of the sky (like the background on this page for example). This could be because the moon is actually large or because it's close. Presumably, though, if a moon is too close or too large it will cause catastrophic gravity related destruction. I'm wondering if it would be possible to have a planet that's more or less exactly like Earth, whose moon would appear to be much larger in the sky? Can it be, say 90 angular minutes without coming within Roche limit or causing deadly tidal effects? 

Generally people will give up freedoms for something else that they need more, like stability or security. In 90s Russia economy was terrible and unpredictable, and the army seemed powerless to stop a bunch of rag tag rebels, Putin was able to dial back a lot of democracy because under him economy and military power improved a lot. People associate him stability and believe that a "strong hand" is needed to maintain it, even if that strength comes at the expense of liberty. In the United States following the September 11th attacks many people felt scared and were willing to forgive indefinite detentions, wiretapping and CIA kidnappings in the name of security. It also helps if the state ostensibly goes after people that the majority of the population sees as "different", Chechens, Muslims, gays what have you. Historically people have shown willingness to circumvent freedoms as long as they think that they are not the target (Yes it's bad that CIA abducts people and sends them to Jordan for torture, but since neither me nor my friends are Muslim or have scary beards it isn't my immediate problem). Another way to look at it, is what some communist leaders called a "salami tactic", each time you slice just a thin sliver of freedoms away, so that it it doesn't seem worth it to rebel because freedoms being taken away seem minor (oh, they are only prohibiting abortion after N month, not making it completely illegal; oh they are are only prohibiting military-style guns, not all of them etc) but over time society becomes less and less free and it each time it makes it easier to justify more limitations because of what society has accepted already. 

You'd want them to be as tamper proof as possible. The aliens could use levels of miniaturization that aren't commonly available even in their own society, then it would be pretty unlikely that AGIs themselves or humans could modify the brains without breaking them. Adding parity checks to certain nodes and sealing key elements in some sort of super-hard material might help. In general, though very complex systems (like AGIs) are a lot easier to break then to make useful addition to, especially if you don't have detailed descriptions of how they work, so if the aliens didn't leave any blueprints or other documents AGIs would not be able to improve themselves even if they wanted to. It would be like if you give a very intelligent person (who doesn't work in processor plant or a lab) a processor, they might abstractly know what it does, but they won't be able to improve it using tools they have in the garage (Earth is the garage in this case) 

If some sort of magic or magical material keeps it in that shape then it would be possible to live on the flat poles, at least close to the edge, but there would be some weird effects. Gravity pulls thing towards the center of mass (of the planet) so if you are standing on the flat pole it'll pull you a bit sideways, depending on how close to the edge you are. If you drop a ball it'll just keep rolling towards the center of the pole. So for people to live there there would have to be a lot of walls. Also they'll probably have slanted floors so they are essentially at the same angle as the surface. So a town there might look like a giant staircase. The gravity will be weaker (as was pointed out by the comments) towards the center of the pole. The atmosphere near the center of the pole might be denser and atmospheric pressure higher, since there probably will be more of it above that point. At least if the atmosphere acts as normal. And depending on how the inner workings of the planet look it may be much hotter. 

Well, since you can't really defeat per se your best bet would probably be slow it down, and incapacitate in some way. Someone already mentioned various sleeping gasses, but if this is Medieval level technology and those aren't available you could go for spikes on the ground, leg hold traps, snares etc. For a more long term solution one may try to find some terrain that is especially easy to defend. I don't know what your world is like, but if there is a way to say, go across a massive river and destroy the bridges behind you, you can then leave a bunch of forces watching the river, whose task isn't to kill the enemy solders, but to thwart their attempts to rebuild the bridge. Or hole up somewhere in the mountains, where you can keep throwing rocks down to keep knocking the enemy down, etc. Basically any terrain that is difficult to get through and where being a strong warrior isn't really relevant. Based on the comments it seems like they will respawn in the home base, inside a specially created armor if the body is destroyed, which does provide some options. For example, if you can lure them into some narrow area (Castle entrance or such) and then pour in some burning oil you can send a lot of them back at once. They'll respawn, but it will take them some time to get back and it might put a strain on their special-armor-production facilities, whatever they are. In any case you buy yourself some time to evacuate/hide, setup more traps, etc. Ultimately, given the setup the most rational course of action would be to find methods to delay the enemy while you escape, since you can't really beat them 

Many people in large cities already live without interacting much with animals, so psychologically it wouldn't be too big of a deal. Maybe some people would be slightly less happy and not know why but on the grand scheme of things it wouldn't be that noticeable. Ecology, on the other hand, has to be completely different, many many plants coevolved with animals and insects and rely heavily on them for seed spreading, fertilized and so on. Many (if not most ) Earth plants will definitely die if animals disappeared, and humans will follow them. Nut on a different planet it should be possible. 

Well if we are talking hard sci-fi travelling at relativistic speed is already incredibly dangerous as even fairly small items (like gas molecules) can be devastating to ship that flies through them so a gas or dust cloud of any sort would be a dangerous obstacle to a ship travelling at 0.9 c or such. Or, you could just throw a bunch of baseballs into the area: $URL$ 

RTGs produce little power for many years, as such they are ideal for situations where the power requirement is small and where maintenance is difficult or impossible, i.e. radio beacons in far North, satellites and so on. They are opposite of ideal for the conventional power though. A coal power plant can have output of 2~3000 MW, and RTG, maybe 2~300 W, that's about ten million times less, and it takes a lot of coal plants to keep country going. Considering that there have already been incidents of people being poisoned by abandoned RTGs, it isn't hard to see that having an equivalent of tens of millions of there things is neither efficient nor safe. One of the main issues with RTGs is that they are horribly inefficient, so making larger scale ones would likely lead to engineering complexity growing faster then usefulness. Much larger device also means much larger chance of leaks or other structural problems, which at a certain size will start to negate the lack of maintenance advantage, as it will require constant monitoring and fixes in a potentially dangerous environment. In most real life situations it would be better to use solar or wind power, as it also requires relatively little maintenance with the main drawback being space, which is also true of RTGs. So they have the same drawback and similar advantage, but solar and wind are less dangerous and can produce more power. So to answer the question: if the planet had no wind and not enough solar energy reaching the surface, and the people would only use electricity for only absolute essentials, while also not having enough time or expertise to run a regular nuclear plant (like say a remote space colony or a prison planet) I think it might be plausible to use a large RTG.