No, you did that yourself. In fact you have an analog IRL: America in the sixties and "flower children" shortly after the introduction of a "might as well be magic" birth control pill that was cheap (or free). Extensive promiscuity was the result. Without any worry about becoming pregnant, casual sex between young adults became extremely common, even to the point of anonymity: That is a non-rigid, non-conformist, and uncontrolled society. It wasn't just that the guys wanted sex: Sex is fun and girls get horny too, but in most societies know they will bear most of the burden of pregnancy if it occurs, which tends to make them cautious to engage in sex without some commitment from the males in honoring their fair share of any such consequences. However, once freed of that burden, and raised knowing pregnancy is their choice, we can expect a shift in their psychology at least part of the distance toward the default position already occupied by males: Sex is pleasurable, fun, and costs no money, so if the only price to pay is in the emotional realm; friendly sex is an option. All the rigid conformism of your society is mandated by you; and somewhat contrary to the "natural" result. Cultural behaviors can be traced to costs and consequences, and you eliminated a major cost (unexpected pregnancy without support) that normally shapes a "conservative" society. My analogy would be you have made the "price" of sex something like the "price" of clever puns, jokes, or card tricks, which are fun and make people happy and seldom have any real consequences. Being good at such puns, jokes and card tricks may get you friends and comrades that enjoy being around you. In your society, were it not for all your religious restrictions, being good at sex (for either gender) might serve the same friendly purpose. 

That is a matter of fantasy, like asking about the limits of magic. It is up to the author of a fictional story, game or movie to decide how "pure energy" beings would behave and what they would build. 

The brain is an electro-chemical device; meaning it also depends on electrical fields. If the matter of the brain disappears, presumably the unattached electrical fields do not; they will dissipate in microseconds. Remember a microsecond is 1000 nanoseconds; light, at 186,282 miles per second, can travel 983.6 feet in one microsecond, or 0.19 miles. Although electrical fields in materials tend to travel around 2/3 the speed of light, a "few microseconds" is more than enough time for them to dissipate. However, microseconds will not be enough time for blood and other fluids to move very much at all; and I will presume the return position is exact to the molecular level; so no severing of nerves occurs. I will also presume the magical disappearance and reappearance do not create an absolute vacuum that causes the head to implode; although I doubt even that could be completed in microseconds (it is just air pressure that causes the implosion) we will handwave away the fact that it might start. In order to reappear in the skull as the OP obviously intends, the skull cannot be deformed by the beginning of a head implosion. That said, when the brain returns in its "original" state, it is likely to be devoid of any electrical signals in progress. The person will most likely be unconscious; and may not recover (this might kill them). Their brain would need an electrical reboot; that might occur through natural action of blood moving through the brain because of the beating heart, but might not. In fact the lack of electrical signal in the part of the brain controlling the heart beat might cause a heart attack; the cycle of charges in the brain would have been disrupted by the brain vanishing, and have a cascade effect, even though the vanishing was momentary. As an analogy, imagine a baseball game in which the first baseman vanishes for a tiny moment, just enough to fail to catch a ball that would otherwise have ended the World Series. The first baseman may be fine, but history is changed, tens of millions of dollars in bets goes to what would have been losers, and is taken from what would have been winners. The point of this analogy is this: The vanishing of the baseball player causes a domino effect of major changes. The same can be true for the momentary vanishing of the brain; it could easily lead to death by interrupting (and perhaps halting) various cycles of electro-chemical charges that are constantly moving through the brain. In fact we call them brainwaves, detectable purely by their electrical activity, as detected by Electroencephalography. 

Culture and advantage. Perhaps the parents all attended the school themselves, or tried like hell to get into it, with the urging of their own parents. Say that getting through the school sets up the kid for a rich life of influence, prestige, fame. Why do parents in the USA allow young children to attend gymnastics schools, to become Olympians, despite the very real (and often realized) potential of breaking bones? (Or similarly dangerous sports). For fame and glory and a short career that can set them up for life. Why do parents bring their kids skiing, when skiing is dangerous enough to kill people, including kids? Just because it is fun? Why do parents consent to surgery for kids that might kill the kid, when no surgery just means continued disability? Because they are betting their kid's life on a better life instead of a lifetime of disability. It beggars imagination to claim parents will not complain at all, but if releases are signed and informed consent is given, their complaints will be limited to grief (or potentially illegal vengeance if they feel they have been wronged). Minus magic, the only way to plausibly have parents "just accept the loss" is to ensure the parents do not love their children at all, that parents view children as property and an expendable resource, to the point that losing a child is no worse to them than losing a car in an accident. From an authorial point of view, I would find it very difficult to sustain reader interest in such a cold and heartless society. No matter what gee whiz magical imagination you might have, such a society would be too weird for me to suspend disbelief long enough to finish the story. One alternative, using magic: Magical forgetting. As part of enrolling their child in the school, the parents must first voluntary agree to forgo any grief if their child is lost in the process. A spell (that requires their consent) is placed upon them immediately. Nothing changes for them, but in the event their child is lost, the spell kicks in when they are informed. They are advanced magically through the stages of grief to acceptance of the loss, love of the memory of their child, their bravery in pursuing the dream they loved. Sad but magically over it, in a few minutes. 

Human choice. Get rid of the idea that mutations cannot have children (you already have mutated children); but humans are smarter than animals, and even IRL mutants (people with genetic abnormalities) are usually shunned and very frequently do not reproduce. (I have a grandson with a genetic brain disorder that leaves him about as intelligent as a five year old, for the rest of his life. I do not expect he will ever get married or reproduce or have any children.) Mutated humans are very unlikely to mate, and you can make the mutations such that TWO mutated humans, combining their mutations, are infertile or tend to have stillborn children. So in humans the mutations just die out. But animals and monsters with animal levels of intelligence are simply not as picky, not as repulsed, driven far more by scents and sexual compulsions when females are in heat. Males will mate with any female; female animals in heat can be more picky about their partners, but always choose one and mate on a tight schedule; they are biologically compelled to get pregnant within a few weeks. Mutated humans are shunned as mates. Mutated monsters are not. 

Heavy Metals. The heavy and rare elements can be produced in Supernova; things like Gold, Platinum, etc. There are other ways, but precisely how isn't important. But, they can produce them in massive quantities; then heat, explosive forces and gravity can "refine" them to some extent, sorting them by molecular weight. So you can have something like asteroids made entirely of these heavy metals; or even primarily one, like Gold. The Gold on the surface of earth most likely arrived by such asteroids; because any that was present during the planets early molten formation likely sank toward the core. One planet in the solar system, or even in a large region of solar systems, might be the lucky recipient of such a treasure (gold, platinum, uranium, osmium, etc, see the link above). Probes might be able to sense the presence of such heavy metals, and as a result the miners are stuck with wherever it might have landed, whether that is Earth-sized or Jupiter-sized, as hot as Mercury or cold as Pluto. 

Presuming the self-fitting feature of clothing was inexpensive, actually worked, and eventually the cost of such a feature was not noticeable to consumers; they would become ubiquitous. IRL many wealthy people that can afford tailors do use them, whether people "notice" their clothes are fitted or not. Fitting can make a garment you like available, particularly if the only available pre-made sizes are all either too baggy in some places or too tight or stretched in another. That means self-fitting is a valuable feature for both producers and consumers: It increases the market size for producers, and increases the range of styles for consumers. There is no reason to think it would be any less popular than other similar innovations; like color-fastness, washability, non-shrinking, stain-resistance, and so on. Even if it were noticeably more expensive, it might attract an intermediate market between the lower middle class and those that can routinely afford more expensive custom tailoring. 

All your settings are completely plausible. I upvoted the @ventsyv answer; but I need to correct one thing: Planets can rotate at any speed; in any direction; thanks to collisions during their formation. It is not mass dependent. Asteroids can spin like tops! See the NASA Planetary Fact Sheet, or for a more detailed explanation, see this more technical explanation. Venus, Uranus and Pluto all have opposite directions of rotation. Also look at the Length of Day in the NASA table; correction if anything bigger planets have shorter days. Earth is 24hrs, but Mars has a slightly longer day with less mass; in fact Mars is about 1/10th the mass of earth, yet rotates slightly faster. Venus is lighter than Earth, it's day is 100x longer. Jupiter is the heaviest, with the shortest Day: 9.9 hours. Day length can be anything you want it to be. 

Lack of necessity for change. Why do borders change? Because people are unhappy with their lot, and try to take something from somebody else, and the strongest wins. Because (like with Israel) one side loses a war, and the loss entails a loss of property, sovereignty, and perhaps a reward to the oppressed (Jews after WW II). Because a strong government conquered a people, became a weak government, and the people they conquered reassert their sovereignty. The USSR breaks up due to a failed economic pipe dream (Communism). Because of Malthusian pressures: The population increases every year until it outgrows even its stable resources, like fertile land and fresh water, so need leads to some excuse for war with neighbors so they have room to expand. What makes for a lack of necessity? Either nobody is unhappy with their lot (at least, not unhappy enough to collectively risk their lives taking somebody else's land and resources), nobody is religiously motivated to slaughter any infidels, or nobody is strong enough to believe they can win such a war. Reasons to be happy: The happiest nations on Earth today are generally the Nordic Model countries; Norway being one of them. The reason they are happy is the particular mix of socialism and capitalism they enforce; namely everything necessary for life and health is 100% free and guaranteed (healthcare, education, shelter, safety, food, transportation), everything else follows the capitalist model. I don't want to turn this into a political diatribe, I would just say evidence shows that if the existential problems of people are removed, they don't have to work at all if they are satisfied with the basics and their life is never in danger, then they tend to be happy. How can you achieve this state worldwide? Through better technology. Unlimited energy technology (nothing new is necessary, space born solar power stations could provide that, one way or another), non-conscious robots to do work and production and farming and food production, cleaning and such. Healthcare professionals can get educated for free and work, they can be paid commensurately for doing so and live in bigger houses, enjoy better entertainment and restaurants and vacations, which are not free for everybody (only comfortable survival is guaranteed, not free entertainment or spa days or amusement parks, not fine food or theaters). So, as in the Nordic countries; most people do indeed work so they can have some of the finer things in life. But the citizens are as a whole happy and not threatened by other countries. Because their survival is near guaranteed (save accident or incurable disease) they tend to have replacement levels of children and their populations are stable. So they aren't agitating for war or more territory.