I will offer you two solutions (woot Balsamiq integration!): Skew your seating position relative to the desk, if your desks are large enough. 

You should definitely let your friends know, less out of courtesy, rather to prepare them so that they know it is a legitimate request that you have initiated. If someone called me out of the blue claiming to be conducting a background check on my friend and he hadn't forewarned me, I'd assume it was a social engineering attack, identity theft, or some such thing, and promptly hang up on them. As with any reference, you might want to ask them beforehand, as a courtesy, to ensure they're willing. For personal reasons in their background they may not to want to be contacted, which could also result in a panicked hang-up. 

I would prefer to make this a comment, but I don't have the rep yet. I work in the U.S.A. in software startups; if you are working in a different industry/sector or country, my answer may not be applicable. I also like to find out about the financial health of a company when I am interviewing. I usually preface my question with, "I know that you are private and that financial information is sensitive, but..." and then ask about burn rate, how long they can last at their current ops level, etc. Most companies are willing to share, in rough numbers, this information. I agree with David K that revenue per employee is not something most interviewers will have at their finger tips. As far as it being a good idea to ask, I think it's entirely reasonable for an interviewee to get some idea about the state of the company with whom he or she may be working. If a company is very guarded about this info, it's a red flag to me. 

As Neuromancer pointed out in a comment on the original post, this assumes you know, at least to a high likelihood, who will be contacted: you can either guess confidently or you have provided a limited set of names. If not, this is kind of moot: I would have a hard time identifying with any confidence even a large number of the people I've interfaced with over the last 5 years... 

Yes, of course, if you have committed to something and then back out, it will not only look unprofessional, it will be unprofessional. That's common sense. In my industry (software engineering) even preliminary interviews often involve a small panel of people who must co-ordinate their time all to be available together. This is not trivial. Even if it's a single person, do show respect for their time. However, depending on the kind of vacation you want to take and the kind of interview you'll be doing (neither are specified) you may be able to do your interview while on vacation. You'll need to apply some common-sense: have a quiet environment, not sitting on you hotel bed in a Hawaiian shirt. Will you be staying in a hotel with a meeting room or business centre you can reserve, for example? This may not be doable, but it's something to consider. If you take that route, you may want to mention it casually at the start of the call. It may even work in your favour: you're so interested that you took steps to arrange it while on vacation. Just don't be smug about it. 

My current position is at a large-ish company that has a well-defined process for laying off or re-allocating employees when a project is terminated. This process is called "reassignment" and it works like this: You (the employee) is relieved from your normal work duties for a period of time, a couple of months typically. During this reassignment period, your work job is to find another job, hopefully with this company but also maybe external depending on everyones needs. If you haven't found another internal position at the end of reassignment, then you are let go with a small severance pay. It looks like my new job will be 100% remote, but I have several weeks left on my reassignment before I get laid off and then get my severance. I have transitioned all of my responsibilities at the old job and they do not expect me to come in the office. I don't want to resign early (lose the severance pay) but it's frustrating to just cool my heels when I could start at my new position already. These companies are not competing and I don't believe there is a conflict of interest between them. What problems am I inviting if I start my new job before being laid off my old one? Legal problems or will it damage my professional reputation? Who does my current employer report my start and end date to and are they allowed to share that information with just anyone? 

I disagree with WorkerWithoutACause's answer. It is not your job to address such misbehavior. I also think you are right to be concerned with your reputation among your coworkers; if your organization's culture is one that focuses on "getting along" over performance and facts, you may well find yourself shunned and mistreated by others if he plants enough seeds of resentment against you. Your coworker has already shown he has no compunction whatsoever about lying. If you were to talk to him in private he may use it to claim you have bullied him and make false statements about what went on in the private meeting. You have stated that he has a very good relationship with your boss. Given this, I would ask for a meeting with HR and your boss (at the same time) and lay out documented facts. I suggest you emphasize that your are trying to add value to the company (in your day to day work) and you can not see how his behavior does anything except sew unrest. Your boss may not be aware of the back-stabber's behavior towards you. If you have the meeting with your boss and HR, your boss will undeniably be aware of his perfidy. This being said, you need to be prepared for HR and your boss to say, "We expect you to work it out with him." If they do, then you need to make sure facts are well known in your organization. Call him out, publicly, and demonstrate his dishonesty. If it gets to this point, it's not going to end well for one of you and you need to be ready to find a better place to work. 

Work on it on your own time, but let the company own it. When it's close enough to ready that it can be shown being useful, have a short 1:1 with your boss about it and show how useful it is and downplay how much time you spent working on it. Let him spread it around, but be sure it's crippled in some way that only you can fix. Not like you sabotaged but it's clear there is some more work to do on it. Put your name in it, if there is a GUI put your name and email address in the "about" menu with a beta version number. Risk 1: They take it and you get no credit. Risk 2: They destroy it and you get in trouble for "wasting time". Mitigation 1: Your name is on it and they need you to work on it. Mitigation 2: You downplayed how much of your work time it took. You completed it without sacrificing any of your normal work duties, make sure they know that. 

As a counterpoint to some of the other answers, I did what you are asking about when interviewing for my current position. After stammering out a mediocre answer in front of a white board, I told the manager (now my boss), that I don't do well in such situations, but I understood his reservations (he gave me immediate feedback). The company gave me a take home programming test, which I did. I also spent a little time coding an answer to what I was trying and failing to say in person. After I was hired I was chatting with my new boss. He said the fact that I continued with the original problem and showed better what I was trying to do was beneficial in their evaluation of me. Would they have hired me simply via my take home submission? Probably, but that extra work helped. Also, look at the down side: What harm does it do if you suggest other/better answers in a follow up email? If they don't like you, you have spent some time you won't get back. If they are on the fence, you might snag an offer.