This is a great question. I think the answer is, we can't be sure. Jupiter does do a great job shepherding comets and protecting the Earth. Possibly this system is rife with comets that constantly bombard the planets. However, that's just one small part of the puzzle. Our Moon does a phenomenal job in protecting us as well. I think, when it comes to these planets, your primary concern for whether life can exist or not is the central star. It is a low-mass, ultra-cool dwarf star. These stars tend to be very volatile, much more so than our generally quiescent Sun. This means these planets are likely to receive much more radiation and be hit by many more solar storms than we are. Furthermore, these planets are so close to TRAPPIST-1 that they're all tidally locked - one face is always towards the star and one is always away. This could make one side inhospitably hot and the other inhospitably cold. The climate/weather on such a planet would likely be unsuitable for life (but who knows for sure). The tidal locking could potentially be good though as it means only the outward-facing side would generally be hit by comets, thus protecting any life on the Sun facing side (assuming its not too hot on that side). 

$^1$ Out of curiosity, I ran through some of the math very loosely and found that if you put the Moon in Earth's L1 position, the Moon survives for about 3-5 months before perturbations knock it out of the L1 position. Of course our Moon isn't the right size to cause an eclipse at that distance, but this gives a very rough estimate for how "permanent" the scenario I described above really is. 

There have been people who have tried to suggest that the universal constants (e.g., the speed of light, the mass of an electron, etc.) are not actually constant and instead time-varying (albeit slowly). No such theory has ever been successful. Again though, your idea suffers from a few problems, even if you assume it to be true. There are multiple kinds of redshift. Redshift from receding objects occurs because space itself is expanding and causing the wavelengths to expand as a result - otherwise known as cosmological redshift. In your scenario, the redshift would be caused by the (faster-than-light) recession itself (since the galaxies are physically moving away from us), also known as doppler redshift. You then complicate the problem by making the value of the speed of light change over time. This would cause light, at the moment of emission, to be redshifted both by the doppler effect and by the slowing of $c$. As the light travelled, the time-varying of $c$ would have no effect on the wavelength. In this scenario we would have long ago realized that moving objects get a double redshift, namely the doppler effect and the time-varying $c$ effect. We just don't see that. 

One such numerical simulation looked at aligned and anti-aligned mergers and found that the aligned black holes took much longer to merge and radiated away more energy, in the form of gravitational waves, before they merged. There is another way to burn off some of that spin angular momentum too. When spinning black holes merge, they experience a "kick" in their linear momentum. In other words, they suddenly speed up in their motion through space. This kick is a result of converting some of the two distinct black holes' orbital and spin momentums into the merged black hole's linear momentum. Quoting the same book as above concerning these kicks: 

The Shell theorem for gravity does not extend to a 2D ring. However, I will say that when talking about the orbits of stars in galaxies, the mass of stars outside a star's orbit are generally considered negligible. The primary reason for this is that it is Dark Matter which comprises most of the mass of a galaxy and contributes the most to defining a star's orbit in a galaxy. The Dark Matter halo is often assumed to be spherically symmetric, in which case Newton's Shell theorem does apply and the mass you're concerned with in determining a star's orbit, is the mass of the Dark Matter halo interior to the star's orbit. 

The point I'm driving at here is that the universe seems ready-made to start forming Carbon-based life everywhere. Everywhere we look, we see organic molecules which have Carbon as the backbone of their structure. Nowhere do we see complex silicon based molecules (or something even crazier). This is highly suggestive that Carbon is the way to go if you want to quickly and easily form life. There are probably a 100 other reasons to favor Carbon over something else, but that delves into more complicated chemistry than I've touched on here and I'm not as knowledgeable about that. I would think this question would get a more in-depth chemistry answer on the chemistry stack exchange. 

I think there a few problems with this idea. First off, as Stan Liou indicates, the early universe expanded extremely rapidly, potentially through hyper-inflation during the inflationary epoch. While we're still looking for observational evidence that this period occurred (e.g., the failed BICEP2 results a few years ago), the existence of such an epoch early in the universe neatly explains away several problems with the standard Big Bang theory (see the horizon problem, monopole problem, and the flatness problem). Assuming such a period existed, then any region of space-time that was "crumpled" would have been quickly and cleanly smoothed out during the hyper-inflation. Such crumpled-ness would not have been around long enough to affect cluster growth and structure. What's more, we very clearly measure that the Universe is flat over large, cosmic scales so it seems unlikely that there are constant and pervasive wrinkles as you suggest there could be. A second issue I potentially see with your proposal is that it would imply a top-down approach to galaxy formation. That is, first you get huge clusters of mass (conglomerated by your "crumpled" space-time), then you get fragmentation and individual galaxies can form, then galaxies fragment into individual stars, etc. In other words, big structures form first, then smaller structures derive from the bigger structures. The opposite formation model would be "bottom-up" formation where first small things clump, then those clump into larger bodies and soon you have galaxies clumping into clusters. I don't think there is definitive evidence that galaxy formation is either top-down or bottom-up, but simulations seem to me to suggest bottom-up is more likely (of course those simulations use dark matter). I'll leave you to think about that one. The last point of contention I have is that dark matter plays more of a role than just providing extra gravity. It contributes to the total mass-energy of the universe. Current theoretical models perform extremely well when we include dark matter. I believe a strong piece of evidence for this fact is our ability to theoretically match the CMB power spectrum using a Lambda-CDM model. I don't see that crumpled space-time could reproduce this result nearly as well. I think you'd also have a very hard time describing a mechanism that could allow "crumpling" to exist in the space-time of our universe which exactly matches the observed gravitational effects in galaxies. We can easily see that they appear to have a halo of matter which follows something akin to an NFW halo or else an Einasto profile. If you can find away that crumpled space-time would naturally form to match these profiles and somehow not be smoothed out by hyper-inflation, I'm all ears. 

You might also want to check out the Aquarius Simulation which was very similar in nature to the Millennium Simulation. However, unlike the video for the Millennium Simulation, this video shows the evolution of the universe. This really gives you an idea of the flow and motion of dark matter over the entire history of the Universe. 

I see this phrase all the time, and I have to say I've come to greatly dislike it because it's a very bad misnomer. Nine times out of ten, when someone is talking about a black hole, they describe it as an object with such strong gravity that "not even light can escape". However, this unqualified statement presents a strong misconception as to what black holes actually are and how they work and accomplishes nothing but confusing innocent bystanders such as yourself. The gravity of a black hole is no more or less strong than any other object in the universe. Black holes are not cosmic vacuums which use their powerful gravitational forces to suck up all nearby matter, light, etc. In fact, if you replaced our Sun with a black hole of exactly the same mass, all the planets in our system would go about orbiting exactly the same way and wouldn't notice a difference at all (aside from the mass extinction on Earth due to no longer receiving any energy from the Sun). That being said, let's paint a better picture of what a black hole is and how it works. A black hole is a clump of mass which has become so massive that the gravitational force of that mass on itself, trying to pull it together, actually collapses the mass into a singularity. The singularity is a point-like region of space where all the mass becomes contained. Slightly outside this singularity, the physics gets weird. For example, if you're right next to this singularity, and you calculate the speed needed to get away from that singularity (e.g., you need to travel ~11 km/s to get away from Earth) you find a speed which is much greater than the speed of light. That's the origin of the phrase "not even light can escape". But, if you start farther away from the singularity, you need less speed to escape it because you feel less gravitational pull from it (gravity decreases with distance). This means, at some distance from the singularity, the speed of light actually is fast enough to escape the black hole. This distance is so important that scientists have given it a special name, the event horizon. It can get a lot more complicated than the simple picture I've painted above, but that's the general idea. If you put all that together, then that tells you that any light which is outside the event horizon has no trouble escape the black hole. It is only the light inside this event horizon which cannot escape. Likewise, any gravitational waves outside the event horizon can escape just as easily. This is what the answer by StephenG meant by saying they were "outside" the black hole. By outside, he meant outside the event horizon. And it is true that as long as the creation of the gravitational wave happens outside the event horizon it will escape the black hole. And just for reference of size, the supermassive black hole in the center of our galaxy, which is 4,000,000 times more massive than our Sun, has an event horizon which only extends ~10,000,000 km. That's barely out to the orbit of Mercury if it were in the position of our Sun. So you can see, it's not very hard to be outside the event horizon as the event horizon isn't that big in astronomical terms.