Additional details : I am from Australia, and it might help if you give examples in Australia's work culture, however, general answers are also accepted since we aim this to be helpful for anyone, not only the ones residing/working in Australia. 

I was fiddling with my Facebook security and privacy settings when I stumbled to this option (which I wasn't aware was controllable!). 

Number 4 is the safest, however, I think I'd be spending more time as an unemployed man, and I want to minimize that as much as possible. What option would be best in terms of employer convenience and minimal unemployment time? 

These outbursts are damaging the work environment and may emotionally affect the other employees. The work productivity is most probably affected, and as HR, it is your job to take action to keep your employees at their best possible shape to work productively for the company. You said you talked with him and I think that's great, but if it's still continuing, you have to devise other methods. Maybe he needs a short break from work to calm himself, or some other thing you can think of to improve his situation. But I believe action must be done, and it must be done fast. P.S. Take my advice with a grain of salt as I am no expert in these types of things. :) 

No, don't go straight to the point asking about their reputation. If you want to have some information on the work environment, you can for example ask what is the turnover rate for the office you are joining, or ask the interviewers what they like and what they would improve in their job. Then try to read among the lines of their answers. 

The ethics would require that you get paid for what you have done. If you are faster than the average, increase your hourly rate so that the end payment is comparable. But do this before accepting a task. Doing it afterwards will only put you under a bad light. 

To optimize your effort, I suggest you take the no response as a lack of interest on your profile and move on. If you really want to show interest in the company/position, give a call before applying and ask some questions about the role. In this way when they see your CV they will already have you in their mind, and you will be "oh, this is that candidate who called me...". 

Made up example: "In my present project I am working of the validation of an algorithm for biomedical usage. Without going into confidential details, it analyzes data gathered via an echo scan and assesses the health of the patient's liver. What I do is testing the algorithm by feeding it data and checking the outcome versus the analysis executed with the present golden standard. By doing this and providing feedback to the developers team, I have been able to increase the analysis rate from 8 patients/day to 40 patients/day". You don't explain how the algorithm work, but you explain your work. 

How early could you apply generally for jobs? How much waiting time can you give employers before you are able to work? Is it a deal breaker for employers if the applicants aren't available in 1-4 weeks' time? 

What are the advantages and disadvantages in inviting and accepting all people in your LinkedIn profile? Obviously the advantage is that you'd have a larger circle and you'd be easier to find for employers, but am I missing out on a disadvantage here? 

I was wondering if some recruiters would see it as negative, thinking I might not be focused or committed to my permanent job if I had a freelance project on the side. Obviously, more showable work experience is an advantage, but I'm wondering if I'm overlooking some disadvantages in listing concurrent freelance projects. 

I'm in quite of a bind here. Although this is unintentional, I've found myself in an awkward situation where I've been offered a job that I'm interested in while being on annual leave, and I'm not coming back for 1 more week. I'm currently overseas where coming back isn't an option unless I wait for my return flight which comes in a week. I don't exactly have the luxury of time to wait until next week to personally hand in my resignation letter, so I'm looking to do it by email. Is there anything I should be aware of? Anything ethics related, or when the notice period starts, and things I could do to smoothen the process? Thanks! 

Goes along well with stating you agree with him. Stating that you are not contradicting him is a rather convolute way to express "I agree with you" and can surely take longer to be understood. 

Unless you work for some government intelligence agency, your employer has no control rights on your private life. This means you can meet whoever you want outside office hours and talk about any topic you want, as long as you don't disclose sensitive information to any other person. If the person should ask you about job, stay high level and don't tell more info than what you know has been made public on mass media. Avoid sharing office gossip or other organizational info, like managers who changed position or department reorganizations. 

First of all, check what is the company policy for applicants. Some companies do not allow multiple applications, for the sake of reducing load on HR (in big companies each HR can receive hundreds of CV in a day, do not expect them to do your job of matching CV and positions for you). If the company has no policy forbidding multiple applications, I would still advice you to narrow down your selection in any case. Multiple applications can convey the message your simply firing in the group or that you are indecisive, and you don't want to be labeled as the serial applicant. Set some criteria to evaluate the position, rank them and go for the top one. 

Here's my situation : I currently am in a contractual job and my contract will end on September. From the time of this posting, I would only be available 2.5 months from now. I am already seeing good job postings that I want to apply to, but I'm worrying that it might be too early that when I do get to the offer stage, it might be awkward to tell the employer that I'll only be available by the 1st week of October. Questions : 

Several resources indicate and suggest that you should not disclose your previous salaries in your past employments for the reason that there's a chance that the potential employer could "lowball" you and offer you a slightly higher salary compared to your previous, but a largely lower salary compared to their expected range. However, in the case of a history of a higher-than-average salary, should disclosing my previous salary be OK in terms of getting a higher salary? 

Send applications on late April to early May, and be able to do interviews before vacation starts. If the question "When will you be able to start?" comes up, I'll mention my schedule. Send applications during vacation stating that I'll only be able to attend interviews starting on June 26. Both of the above Only start applying when I get back home 

I don't think you have to fill the entire hour. Managers are normally very busy, and usually glad to cut some meeting short if possible. Therefore, once you have 

I also work in an activity based workplace, and I have noticed that early birds tend to occupy the same spot every day, while late comers have to deal with the leftovers. In your case, check first your office layout: you will surely find a few spots that are suitable to your needs. Then strive to be in the office as one of the first: you will be able to pick your spot when still plenty of them are empty. 

hinting this to most of the prospective employer sounds to them like a "hey, change your entire Excel based workflow just to accommodate for my brilliant capacity with MatLab!". Together with soft skills you may lack or need to develop (as suggested in other answers), they need to be convinced that you fit in their organization, not that their organization can easily adapt to your way of working. And don't forget, of course, that there can be other candidates more qualified than you. 

Whoever will handle your resume will only care of one thing: can he/she open the file to read it? As long as you send your resume in a format that is well known you should not really be worried about the editor you use. Also note that most online forms for applications allow you to attach a variety of file formats, among which .pdf is always present. Things might be a little different for a limited set of positions (i.e. Apple is known for "convincing" their employee to use only and always Apple devices, so I am not sure how a Word file would be perceived there). 

Additional info : They know I already have signed a contract as I've told them, but they said they still want to go for an interview. 

Additional info : I'm planning to leave, in case I can't work under Y directly. So I guess that adds to my negotiating power. 

I am a contractor and my current contract ends on May 29. I have been in this position for a total of 3 contracts (including the current one), in contract lengths of 3 months, 3 months, and 6 months, respectively. I am fairly sure that they will offer me an extension after this contract as I am the only one in this job position, and if I leave, they will have to find someone new to replace me. According to my contract, I have to give a two-week notice period, however, I believe that is not enough to both find, hire and train someone new. Given that, I would like to give a bigger notice period to my company, preferably 1 month. How should I approach my manager about this, and would it be 'polite' to do so? 

in an aggressive tone (for me, and for other employees as well, as she exclaimed this in public) She sent a request to said employee to do task A, and the employee has indeed finished the task according to specifications. I read the request, and I confirmed that he did the job. The root of the issue, she said, is that he didn't do what she asked him to do exactly, basically, miscommunication. In an IT person's head, the job was done. I read it and interpreted it as such where he actually did the job correctly, when she actually meant something else. She has no IT experience (makes me wonder how she became a project manager in the first place, but that's for another topic), so she can't communicate very well with IT staff. What is the problem here, and what should I do? Is it the miscommunication? Her lack of IT knowledge? Or the badmouthing? Should I talk to my supervisor about this, and if so, how should I approach this? 

I assume you can backup your story with evidence of the surgeries and health issue. So, in the remote case that they should ask questions and your former manager should have somehow badmouthed you, it's his word against your paper evidence. I see no big deal. Relax and just take as lesson learned for the next time. 

Stop covering the sh*t he makes. Let managers step on it and let him bear the consequences of his work. If you remove his accountability by filling the (alleged) gaps he creates, there is no way that the organization will feel the need to fix the issue. 

Normally not. Whenever I have searched for a high-tech job in the Netherlands I was almost never asked for reference letters. Normally you are required a CV/resume and a cover letter, sometimes a list of exam with grades, but reference letters is not really requested as common practice. 

A company usually thinks of its employees like "progressing". Therefore wanting to stay in the same position is already kind of strange and sometimes not well perceived. Even more weird can be the will to step down, so the crucial point here is how you motivate the question which you will get: with your experience, why are you applying for a junior position? If you are able to tell a convincing story there would be no big issues.