Something biological is likely to have a fair chance of surviving the ages, as they have the advantage of being "self maintaining". Put your temple in the jungle, create the ideal habitat for very venomous / poisonous frogs, snakes & spiders within several chambers and it should be good for a few 100 - 1000 years. Suppose it is unlikely to catch everyone, every time, but should see a decent mortality rate for small parties exploring. 

Simple put... for all we know they already are, using much the same methods we use to monitor ourselves. Place mundane satellites into suitable orbits, with the appropriate selection of observational tools. Anything less that a few metres across is not going to be seen for a very long time even in quite close orbit, especially if intentionally limiting its profile and visibility. The biggest limitation is how they broadcast any collected data back home. For example on Mars the rovers transmit to the orbiter, which in turn calls home. They would likely want to have some constellation of small observation satellites which transmit to a larger, more powerful and maybe slightly more remote transmission station, especially as it is likely going to need some form of handwavium FTL communication technology at this stage. 

Most strategies fail at the absolute level everywhere, so I expect you need to take several answers and deploy them in an appropriate order to first weaken, then thin out and then finally finish off the populations. My first to weaken would be incite racial tensions and war between the various mermaid factions and let them do the initial bulk work at low cost per unit. You will likely need to prod and provoke and breed some really nasty fanatics to get things going to the genocide level, but divide and conquer has long proven success. I really like Murphy's salt / oxygen starvation approach to finish them off, especially in smaller enclaves that become isolationist in the face of the growing troubles before you get to this final stage. The middle is more difficult though, most internal strife will be burnt out by then, populations too scattered for disease or high effort localised methods to be effective, and there is plenty of space for them to keep running at this stage. 

The main problem these aliens may have with adapting technology is not recognizing or being able to use it, but being able to replicate it in a meaningful quantity and quality. The largest issue in this scenario is materials science. Its all very well being able to see that something is made of composite plastics, or the ratios of metals in alloys, but the key is knowing the right conditions to make the stuff and being able to replicate those conditions. After all modern steel is functionally the same iron from a couple 1000 years ago, we just have far better control of the carbon ratios and tempering. On the electronics front they will likely benefit a lot from being able to see the route to take, but still without stealing a chip fab from Earth will likely have to go through the slow march of Moore's Law even if they know exactly where they are trying to get to. 

You have a pretty interesting premise, depending on how you choose to use it. If you decide to go with it as a straight-up conspiracy takeover, they'll obviously be successful without an issue. What I see potential for is a situation in which they indirectly destroy humanity. Not through direct, successful plotting, but rather through a failed attempt, followed by skillful evasion. I could see the aliens attempting a coup, but not having properly planned for it. Following this, word gets out worldwide, and humans start organizing witch hunts for the indistinguishable aliens. Over time, the hysteria and paranoia of the unseen invader applying constant pressure to the collective human psyche eventually breaks something. Local militia tearing apart neighborhoods, marshal law, strict curfews, the curtailing of personal freedoms.Eventually the aliens will have taken over earth not through action, but rather inaction. Here we see the aliens not so much as an external antagonist, but rather as a catalyst for humanity's own demise. For an even more poignant message, the aliens could have accidentally revealed themselves without any harmful intentions. I find great sci-fi does is best to teach us about ourselves in a somewhat removed setting, so that we may be an outside observer to our own condition. 

Most of the answers here are talking about hiding the water, but if you truly want it to disappear, you would have to split it apart. Water is $H_2O$, meaning with enough energy you could indeed split it into hydrogen and oxygen, as per the equation $2H_2O \rightarrow 2H_2+O_2$. The problem is that this reaction requires a huge energy input, as well as a conductive medium. You'd also have to worry about all of the flammable hydrogen gas and oxygen you would be producing all at once. If that doesn't blow up the earth, it'll certainly change the composition of the atmosphere. If you were to zap the oceans (which are able to conduct electricity, unlike freshwater sources) you would be hosting the biggest fish-fry the world has ever seen, and would decimate all oceanic life. I would certainly think it would be impossible to concentrate that much energy in one place, but hey, if someone felt like making a doomsday device, I guess they could try (why they would want to, though, is beyond me ) What you'd be left with would be an absolutely uninhabitable planet. The oceans have a huge thermal mass, meaning they can absorb immense amounts of energy while only slightly changing in temperature. If we lose that thermal mass, we would see crazy temperature fluctuations and unstable weather patterns. As well, most of the reactions on which all life depends occur in water. Those organisms which tolerate extreme dessication (think seeds and fungi) are usually in a period of stasis until they find water again. This means even life forms that are adapted to a dry environment will basically hit pause until dry earth gets its shit together. Also, the primary feature of water which allowed earth to become survivable is the fact that ice is less dense than water and floats. This creates an insulating layer on small bodies of water, which allows life to overwinter at the bottom. If there were no bodies of water, most aquatic and amphibious life wouldn't last the winter. Your scenario does allow for ~10-20% of the earth's water to remain, so there would probably be some pockets where life still exists. These oases would still have to contend with the massive-scale disruption of ecosystems and food-webs on which they rely, so they would need to re-equilibrate to their new environment. With such strong selective pressure, you would likely see what few life-forms still exist quickly evolve in dramatic ways. Since these pockets are few and far-between, there wouldn't be much genetic drift, leading to heavily inbred populations with a bunch of weird recessive traits. In summary, you don't have to hide all the water, but you'd need loads of energy to make it all go away. Assuming you'd be able to pull off such a massive feat of water-dissappearance, you would be left with broad swaths of entirely uninhabitable wasteland peppered with a few oases of vastly different organisms and violently unpredictable and extreme weather patterns. Humans would most definitely only be able to survive in these pockets of life, but agriculture as we know it would probably be impossible, since the air would be much drier than it is today. They might be farming dry-tolerant fungi or something, surviving on mushroom jerky. You don't necessarily have to strive for ultra-realism, (if you did, I think the world would just cease to be) but hopefully this might give you some ideas about where you want to go with what you've got. Good luck!