Cosmological arguments, for the existence of "God", like those of Aquinas, are functionalism and materialism. They are functionalist, i.e. because they usually focus on the singularity of "God", which is false, due to the weakness of singularity. They are materialist, i.e. because materialist empiricists, usually appreciate Aquinas's 'proofs'. Ontological arguments on the other hand use definitions and are more objective. Here's another ontological argument for the existence of God: God are "the Creator", therefore God exist because creativity exists. 

The question: "Is it proper to speak of non-existent objects? ... Anyway, what I am really asking is, are there any philosophers who think that talk of non-existent objects is merely a language game?" Talk of non-existent objects is much more than merely a language game. Please refer to the following where I motivate my answer. It seems the metaphysics of mathematics with regard to the question, relate to cosmology, The "set of all sets" and Parmenides's "One" as opposed to Descartes's ontological view below. 

I think the origin of the 'suspicion' for some philosophers relates to the origin of the word "nature", which originally meant "God", in Egyptian, according to Budge (1895). Nature can especially be viewed in the context of Hegel's philosophy, which explains, Spirit becomes nature and nature becomes Spirit. 

Short answer: Philosophy is the wrong department for this. Try spiritually instead. Ask in Christianity.stackexchange is my suggestion. Long answer: You've stumbled on a question that would be answered differently by each worldview. Atheism is one such worldview. Christianity is another. Yet another is Hinduism. As a former Hindu, former atheist, and current Christian, I'll try and answer according to each of these views. Hinduism: Hinduism is a religion that broadly says that the world is an illusion, and that our desires for the impermanent things ought to be minimized. Ways to minimize this may include doing yoga, meditating, ritualistic prayers(poojas), etc. Atheism: While there may be atheistic philosophers who have advocated being in control of one's desires, I'm not sure what arguments they may have put forward for why one should do this. If the material world is all there is, then why should one way, the way of moderation and temperance, be any better than any other way, apart from appeals to pure pragmatism? Even then it is not clear why I, as an evolved creature, should not gather so much for myself as to deprive my neighbor of those same resources, so that I am better off, but he or she is worse off. Christianity: Christianity says that ever since the fall of mankind, we have a fundamental inclination towards sin, which includes idolatory and covetousness. Moreover, our hearts are darkened without knowledge of the goodness of God, which causes us to fear for our own provision. This, in turn, inclines us towards gathering and hoarding more for ourselves than we really need. The solution, according to Christianity, is that we need to trust in Christ for our salvation, which results in a new birth, which restores or redeems our fallen nature, so that we are free to live according to God's desires for us. I'll stop for want of time. I just wanted you to see that the question you have posed indeed does touch upon spirituality, and that in order to properly answer it, you need to go down one of these mutually exclusive paths. 

Peter Singer cares a lot about animals and he is against speciesism, the discrimination on the basis of species. However, I've never heard that he had said something about plants. What makes plants or fungi different for Singer? Isn't differentiating between different organisms on basis of biological kingdom? 

Before Meditation 4 he has already determined that God exists and that he is perfect. In Meditation 4 he establishes that it is impossible that God is unfaithful to him, because God is perfect and being unfaithful is not perfect. Furthermore, he establishes that he has the ability to think, and that he has necessarily got the ability from God. Because God is perfect and thus faithful, he has not received the ability to think to mislead himself, as long as he uses the ability in the right way. Later in the Meditation, he tries to understand why he can make errors, and he concludes that it is because he has not only knowledge, but also the power of choice. 

According to Aristotelian virtue ethics, one always should find the so-called golden mean between too much of action A and too much of the opposite of action A. In other words, if you are to altruistic (self-sacrificing), then it is not good because this means that you sacrifice to much of your own happiness for that of others, and that can be considered unethical to yourself. If you are to selfish, then you are not caring about others, which is also unethical. So according to Aristotle's virtue ethics, you should care about others, but not so much that you can't fullfill any of your own interests or wishes. 

It seems as if one of the primary attractions of Bitcoin is its usefulness for nefarious purposes. I'm not sure how much of its value is underpinned by these activities, but I get the feeling it is not an insignificant amount. I was thinking about speculating on Bitcoin, but the thought of enriching someone who is harming someone else in another part of the world gives me some pause. My question seems to intersect economics, technology and ethics, and I'd like to stimulate some thoughtful discussion on the ethics of Bitcoin use. 

I'm a Christian now, but I can remember the days when I was a rather unreflective atheist. Back then, I considered the word "wisdom" to be meaningless, and would be suspicious of anybody who claimed to have it. Now, as a Christian, I think of myself as having a certain degree of wisdom, and consider it to begin with "The fear of the Lord". But what does it mean for the reflective secular person? How is wisdom obtained within the secular or atheistic worldview? 

Mew has given a very pragmatic answer, but doesn't raise the thorny philosophical problem. I'd like to add my two cents.. There a few problems with the genetic selection and modification of human beings. The biggest problem is the desacralizing of life. I have a small observation that I will probably develop more fully somewhere else, and that is this: With the desacralizing of life, death, sex, marriage, not only do we lose out on living meaningful lives, but we also lose out on the ability to know God, because ultimately the questions of objective meaning and purpose of life are inextricably intertwined with questions of the nature and existence of God. I think that this spiritual dulling of the senses, if I can put it that way, is already in progress across much of the "developed" world. There are other problems too. For example, suppose we were to be able to design offspring who wouldn't suffer from any adverse health conditions. Would they be as empathetic to another person's suffering? I have to be clear, I don't want to sound glib about suffering (I myself have had more than my fair share of it). But we may have to admit that the elimination of suffering of all kinds cannot be the ultimate purpose of life, because if successful, it could change the very nature of life itself. As for the article linked to above, again there are pragmatic reasons why it is unwise to screen embryos for potential personality flaws. But I'll just mention a more philosophical reason: Within the Christian view, an individual has free will. I have no doubt that people have different proclivities and weaknesses, but learning how to deal with these is a part of our human experience. It is what makes us unlike robots. In short, people who choose to turn their back on a religiously based arguments against these kinds of modifications merely because they are religiously based are showing a dangerous kind of cultural bias which is myopic and foolish. Humanity as we know it can morph into something less glorious in the blink of an eye. 

Thomas Hobbes in his book Leviathan promoted violence by the sovereign, for order. Machiavelli who advised princes in his book The Prince, probably did the same as Thomas Hobbes. 

Altruism and pity can be used synonymously in the context of utilitarianism. Non-profit organisations, being vehicles of pity and altruism are the results of utilitarian maximum profit. It is thus part of the same system, which should change in total. Nietzsche described the problem as follows: "The hour when we say: 'What good is my pity! Is not pity the cross on which he is nailed who loveth man? But my pity is not a crucifixion.'" (Nietzsche 1997: 7) Rousseau promoted pity as follows: "It is therefore certain that pity is a natural sentiment, which, by moderating in every individual the activity of self-love, contributes to the mutual preservation of the whole species. It is this pity which hurries us without reflection to the assistance of those we see in distress; it is this pity which, in a state of nature, stands for laws, for manners, for virtue, with this advantage, that no one is tempted to disobey her sweet and gentle voice: it is this pity which will always hinder a robust savage from plundering a feeble child, or infirm old man, of the subsistence they have acquired with pain and difficulty, if he has but the least prospect of providing for himself by any other means: it is this pity which, instead of that sublime maxim of argumentative justice, Do to others as you would have others do to you, inspires all men with that other maxim of natural goodness a great deal less perfect, but perhaps more useful, Consult your own happiness with as little prejudice as you can to that of others. It is in a word, in this natural sentiment, rather than in fine-spun arguments, that we must look for the cause of that reluctance which every man would experience to do evil, even independently of the maxims of education." (Rousseau 2004:21) References NIETZSCHE; F. 1997. Thus Spake Zarathustra. Hertfordshire: Wordsworth Editions Limited. ROUSSEAU; J. 2004. Discourse on the Origin of Inequality. Mineola: Dover. 

I maintain that it doesn't make sense to simply "create your own meaning in life". I have come across this view, which is generally held by most humanists, pretty often, and it doesn't seem to make much sense to me. I'll try and explain. When we talk of meaning in life, we generally mean some sense of larger purpose that we can hang on to, despite ups and down, so that our lives are lived out in some kind of harmony to our environment. Meaning can either be given to you, or it can be created. However, if it is created, we are left with a problem, and that is the problem of the choice itself. There are many problems with choosing one's own meaning (for example, how do you reason with a person whose meaning in life is to get drunk and fall into a ditch?), but the biggest problems is that if we select a meaning in life like we choose a meal at an all-you-can-eat or buffet, then the very fact that we are choosing reduces what could have been a larger purpose to something that is much smaller i.e. my whim. In summary, I conclude that meaning or purpose can be handed to you, as done in traditional cultures, or Christianity, or as possibly done in some totalitarian societies. But to say that you are creating your own meaning is a bit of a contradiction. How would a humanist answer this? 

On the other hand, if you take law into account, then you might end up increasing the net happiness, because at the end, you are a lot better off by turing him in instead of hiding him. If we take a look at felicific calculus, we see that the factors that play a role are intensity, duration, certainty, remoteness, fecundity (the probability that the action will be followed by sensations of the same kind), purity, extend. 

Is there place for animal utility in utilitarianism? We know that animals can suffer, so they can have different states of well-being, and thus utility applies to them. However, I don't think that animal well-being should weigh as much as human well-being. If you ask someone whether he'd rather kill two flies or one human, probably everyone will choose two flies. I'd like to know whether there are philosophers who said something about this. 

In both cases, we have 8 high scores. However, in the second case 4 high scores are not very high. On the other hand, families and friends of the immigrant are earlier (more remote) confronted with the pain of missing him. But when you don't turn him in, your friends and familiy might also be confronted with pain if you go to jail. I think it will end about equal. In conclusion it might be ethical to turn him in according to utilitarianism if he is problematic, so you increase others happiness by doing it, or if you expect him to get arrested soon anyway, because then the certainty and remoteness of not turning him in are higher.