Crime? Yes. Genocide? No. P.S. Collectivization was a (very bad) "tool", which only made things worse, but it was not a true cause. 

Soviet Union was really special market for American movies. First of all, many movies took their way into SU many years after international release. For example, "West Side Story" (1961) was shown in SU in 1979. I guess that's because old movies were sold with discount. Next, some movies were particularly banned until Perestroika (say, mentioned above "Star Wars", or "Rambo" etc.). Next, some movies got their popularity in SU only - for example, "The Sandpit Generals" (1971) could be referred as "Major Hollywood film" from Soviet POV. So a significant part of "classic" foreign films from the 60s and the 70s was shown in Soviet Union, but some "ideologically inappropriate" ones had to wait until Perestroika. While the rest (such as "Back to the Future") got into SU as pirate VHS. 

Despite what you noted in your question, I would still argue that Leonardo Da Vinci meets the conditions you state for a scientist "ahead of his time." He made a number of inventions during his life, including the parachute, functional scuba gear, and a primitive tank/armored car. As for his flying machine designs, ornithopters very much like what Da Vinci designed are a real modern heavier-than-air flight technology. It is true that ornithopters are not the dominant mode of human flight today, so they are not very widely known, but they do work. The first successful manned ornithopter flight took place in 1942, and the first successful human-powered ornithopter flight took place in 2010. While Da Vinci did not invent the idea of an ornithopter, he was the first to recognize that humans were not strong or agile enough to fly by simply strapping wings onto their arms. He was also the first to put serious effort into trying to overcome this problem. It should also be noted that his ornithopter design is a perfectly functional glider. While I am not aware of any tests, with a few minor modifications, it should be able to fly unmanned using a modern engine. 

Damn, that was a huge problem for all Soviet people - almost nothing worked on sundays. Seven days a week? Forget it. 

Napoleon's initial objective was defeating Russian army in a border battle. Immediately after that he was planning to start negotiations and, among other things, to restore the alliance with Russia. Neither Moscow, nor St.Petersburg were of any use for him. On the other hand, Alexander I considered the possibility of losing both St.Petersburg and Moscow from the very beginning. And the plan would remain absolutely same. Still being in Smolensk Napoleon tried to start peace talks, but had no success. Then he must have realized that the things didn't go as planned, and Russia was ready for a long war of attrition. And even capturing, say, St.Petersburg would change nothing. So he took his chance in pursuing Russian army and forcing it into battle. Napoleon expected that public opinion wouldn't let Russian army to retreat forever. But, as we know, the battle of Borodino gave him nothing except abandoned city of Moscow. He tried to start peace talks several times, but had no answer at all. Thus going to St.Petersburg instead of Moscow in the beginning of the war would let Napoleon to retreat from Russia easily, that's true. But he sought for a chance to win, and capturing St.Petersburg was totally useless from this point of view. 

I am aware that Noah Webster (1758--1843 AD) is responsible for the majority of the differences between British and American spelling (IE: "color" v "colour"). Over time, it seems, in his Speller textbook, he slowly phased out the British spellings for spellings he personally favored. According to the Wikipedia page about Noah Webster: 

I am not aware of any large battles with only a single survivor out of all the combatants, but there was at least one major battle that had only a single survivor on the losing side. The Battle of the Little Bighorn (or Custer's Last Stand) led to a slaughter of the American forces. Every American soldier who was present when the battle began was killed, except for one scout who left mid-battle and a single horse. 

The Emperor Charles V lived out his entire life on the European continent, with a few short visits to the north African coast. He definitely never visited the colonies in the Americas. Here's what I was able to find: Easternmost Location: Vienna, in 1532, to fight off the armies of the Ottoman Empire. Westernmost Location: Seville, in 1526, for his marriage to Isabella of Portugal. A close runner up is the Monastery of Yuste, in western Spain, which he retired to in 1557 until his death in 1558. He may have visited Portugal or Galicia further west, but I was unable to find any record of it. References: The Wikipedia page for Charles V, the Encyclopedia Britannica page for Charles V, and The Autobiography of the Emperor Charles V 

GULag was an administrative subdivision, so "deportation to GULag" doesn't make sense. People could be sentenced to prisons, ITLs ("correctional labour camps") or "special settlements" which were under GULag's supervision in 1941. All these have different regimes. 

First, to make it clear, there was a single bank in USSR which worked with personal accounts: Гострудсберкассы СССР (i.e. state workers' savings "Kassen" of USSR - the word "bank" was apparently missing), which in 1987 was renamed to Сбербанк СССР (i.e. savings bank of USSR). 

Herodotus and Ctesias clearly contradict to each other, so there is no obvious answer on this question. Yet Manetho's "king list", as it was cited by Sextus Africanus, contains the name of Psammetichos (Psammecherit) just after Amasis, so Herodotus' version is usually preferred. This argument could be considered as weak, because Sextus Africanus could only see some epitome of Manetho's "Aegyptiaca", yet the situation with Amirtaeus is even worse, as he was mentioned exactly once. There were several attempts to resolve this contradiction, e.g. by supposing that Amyrtaeus was the name of Psammetichos' son (Herodotus mentioned him several times but didn't say his name), but so far these are only the guesses without any proof. 

Ch. 5 - Ray Cummings - Project Gutenberg - Public Domain This quote has been mistakenly attributed to Albert Einstein, Richard Feynman, Woody Allen, John Archibald Wheeler, and likely others, in many different forms. 

Sources: This University of Michigan page, and the Wikipedia pages for Seleucia, The Council of Seleucia-Ctesiphon, Al-Mada'in, and Ardashir I. The image was from the Seleucia Wikipedia page, with my own annotations. 

Another good candidate is Reverend Thomas Bayes, who first correctly formulated how to use probability theory inductively, using what is now called Bayes' Theorem. The importance of this discovery was not fully understood until long after his death in 1761. Bayes never published his discovery during his lifetime, but two years after his death his friend Richard Price found it in his notes in 1763 and published it as "An Essay towards solving a Problem in the Doctrine of Chances", which went almost entirely unheralded. Bayes' Theorem was independently discovered a few years later in 1774 by the mathematician Pierre-Simon Laplace, who later learned of Thomas Bayes' earlier discovery in 1781. After Laplace's death, Bayesian reasoning almost entirely disappeared from academic circles for over 100 years (though it still saw some infrequent use in industry and the military), until Harold Jeffreys published Theory of Probability in 1939. Alan Turing was familiar with this work, and used Bayesian probability theory as part of the effort to decode Enigma codes during World War II. This, of course, was not public knowledge until many years later, since the British government tried to keep their code-breaking efforts secret. Finally, in the 1950s, with the help of Alan Turing's former assistant I. J. Good and a few other characters, the power of Bayesian probability theory became widely recognized. 

The most detailed map, I was able to find, is here. As you can see both "pockets" at the time of a surrender had area of only a few square kilometers. However, by the 25th January (the last day the 6th German army had a continuous front line) the area under German control was still upto 100 square kilometers. In the morning of the 26th January the Red army started the new wave of a massive offence along the whole front line, which not only resulted in the occupying of the Mamayev Kurgan and nearby territories (which effectively meant that the German XI corps wasn't longer connected to the rest of the army - "Northern pocket"), but also led to other significant advances, so the area under German control was almost halved at the end of the day. Nonetheless, the fierce fights were going for at least four days more - 27-30 January. "South" (Paulus) capitulated on the 31st January, while holding only few blocks in the city center. "North" (Strecker) still resisted, so it was set under heavy artillery fire until the surrender (2nd February). 

My question is, did Noah Webster ever explicitly state why he made these changes, either in his books or private correspondences? Also, are there any records of him consulting others while making these decisions or did he act unilaterally? 

The oldest confirmed use of any version of this quote that I was able to find is from Ray Cummings' short story The Time Professor, published in the Jan. 8, 1921 issue of Argosy All-Story Weekly (thanks to mgkrebbs for pointing this one out): 

The history of Bayes' Theorem is long and fascinating. An longer and better history of Bayes' Theorem can be found here. 

These national symbols are not quite as universal as you seem to imagine, though they are indeed widespread. And where these symbols do exist, they are given widely different degrees of importance by those countries. National holidays and national anthems are definitely not one-to-a-country as you claim, though for convenience they are often treated this way. For example, the United States has Independence Day, Thanksgiving, Memorial Day, Labor Day, and Veteran's Day, all of which can be considered major national holidays. The fact that one of them (Independence Day) is branded as "the national day" means very little in reality. Some countries similarly have more than one national anthem (e.g.: Scotland), or a national anthem that is distinct from their royal anthem (e.g.: Sweden). As for national flags and coats of arms, these do show something closer to a universal one-to-a-nation standard, though there are plenty of examples of nations with both lesser and greater forms of their coats of arms (e.g.: Sweden), and many nations fly different national flags on land and on ships. Furthermore, not every nation has a "coat of arms", though many nations have a "national seal", "national emblem", or similar device that performs a related function. Some nations have more than one of these. 

In reality the West still seriously depends for Titanium on Russia. The main reason is pure economics. Titanium has a very high cost price, so Boeing may take a bit, but you may be sure that GM would never want it (unless a cheap technological process of making Titanium is invented). So to establish Titanium production you have not only to invest a vast sum of money in a hi-tech factory, but also to convince a few big companies, such as Boeing or Airbus, that they should break existing contracts and buy your stuff. How much profit do you expect to make from this? Capitalism doesn't work like this, but Soviet Socialism did. So Soviet Union once made the largest Titanium production which still holds the biggest market share. 

1917-1920 is the time of the Revolution and the Russian Civil War. It was the time of disorder, hunger and, among other things, collapse of public utilities. The population of Moscow almost halved then. As for residential heating, people certainly had to use woods, but if only they could get them. In 1920s Moscow started to grow at a very fast rate, and the utilities were constantly falling behind in development. So your situation could be very different depending on where exactly you live. Here is the poetical witness from 1935, the excerpt from the poem for children by Sergey Mikhalkov "And how's yours?" (it's about the children chatting about their families and housing issues):