I'd write (1a) as ∃xT(x), (1b) as ∃xE(x). (2a) I'd treat as λy.BOX(T(y))(x) "x has the property of being necessarily tallest." and 2b I would write λy.BOX(E(y))(x), i.e. "x has the property of being necessarily existent." So what you need to do is derive a formula like: 

Like many terms in continental philosophy, this one is a little elusive. Imagine you are on a spaceship looking down on earth. Now imagine a person standing at one point on the surface of the earth. That person's "horizon" will be all the thing things that she can see--the region that contains the horizon will be a circle so many miles in diameter. Note that this person's horizon can move--if the person moves 10 miles the the west the circle that circumscribes her horizon changes as well. Hence new things come into the horizon and other things fall out of it. Now as Gadamer uses the the metaphor of the horizon is that it is supposed to understand what it is for two people to understand something. He wants to say that x understands y when there is a "fusion of horizons" and I take it that he means something like x is able to see the same thing, or some of the same things that y does. Suppose x and y were both hikers going to see Mt. Blanc. x approaches from the east and y approaches from the west. both of them see a different profile of the mountain and if they were to try to describe what Mt Blanc looks like to one another they would be talking past one another. They wouldn't be able to recognize the different descriptions they give as descriptions of the same mountain. They are only able to come to this recognition when they are standing sufficiently close together to be able to recognize that what they're talking about is in fact the same thing. That is a "fusion of horizons"--x and y can recognize they are each speaking from their own perspectives, but about the same subject matter. How to cash that metaphorical description of a horizon out as a genuine explanation of how such recognition works is a much, much more difficult issue and I'm afraid I don't how to tell that story. 

I'm not sure I fully understand the question. In the first place, logic isn't particularly about "things" as opposed to say "relations" including relations in time like before/after. However, I think what the OP is getting at is that statements in formal logic often look "tenseless", i.e. like they are eternal, timeless statements. I think OP is inferring from the fact that statements of first-order logic (the kind we learn in the intro logic class) are tenseless that therefore logic has no ability to represent time. That inference isn't right though. Here are three ways in which time can be represented logically: 

Another instructor on rhetoric from the ancient world was Quintillian, who does make the occasional philosophical remark. 

I'm not sure I really understand what's at stake here, but it seems like you are driving for some big cosmic conclusion (all is one?) on the basis of some kind of Hegelian sounding logical considerations. You say, 

As far as I can tell, you're asserting something like: (1) when I think, I am doing something; (2) any time I do something, I strengthen my ego since it is I who am doing something; (3) strengthening my ego is bad, since ego is the ultimate source of all evil; (4) therefore, I shouldn't think. The problem is that (2) and (3) are obviously false. There's lots of things I do that make me a kinder, less jealous, or self-centered person. Volunteering at a soup kitchen. Offering to stay with a sick friend. Teaching adult literacy classes. These are all actions, but none of them can plausibly be regarded as somehow inherently egoistical. Further, it is also obviously false that ego is the source of all evil. It's false in two ways: there are evils that don't result from the selfish decisions of individuals--flood, pestilence, death itself. Second there are decisions I make from myself and about my own life that aren't plausibly regarded as evil either. I decided to go to college, I decided upon a certain career, I decided to cultivate a taste in classical music. These are all expressions of my individuality and affirmations of my self, and the value I place on my own life, but there's nothing immoral about them. 

(1)-(3) is clearly a valid modus ponens argument, so if the premises (1) and (2) are true, (3) has got to be true too. The more interesting question, as usual, is why we should believe (1) or (2) true. It is hard to deny (2). It's hard to imagine somebody giving us a plausible reason to think there are no instances of one moral code being superior to another. (It might be hard to tell which of two codes is superior. For instance, M1 might be superior to M2 in one respect, but worse in another. But that won't detract from Lewis's point.) (1) is the odder looking claim to me. Burning paper is hot; molten lead is hotter, but I can't see why that would imply that there is some absolute standard of hotness. (1) looks like a more plausible claim about a property like grey. If one thing is bluer than another, it looks more likely that there has to be some canonical instance of grey. Still though. I'm not sure that's even right. Suppose we have a spectrum of fifty shades of grey. The ones at the edges will look "whiter" or "blacker" but that might not mean that there are a couple of different shades in the middle none of which is definitively grayer than any other. So my vote is that Lewis's argument here is valid, but of questionable soundness, because (1) is false, or at least in need of serious qualification and defense. 

Now, there are two clever things about this is this little argument of Moore's. The first thing is that it challenges the Skeptic to give us some reason why it was supposed to be true that we don't know we aren't dreaming. The skeptic would presumably say that Moore's argument begs the question, since the skeptic holds that a person cannot know that they have hands. However, Moore quite rightly points out that the Skeptic can't just stipulate that nobody knows this, or the Skeptic herself would have begged the question. So the skeptic needs to give an argument why it is supposed to be the case that nobody knows they have hands. Here's one thing a skeptic could say. 

It is a great question, and the subject of current debate among metaphysicians. Proponents of sparse properties deny that there is a property (i.e. a real metaphysical constituent of an object) named by every predicate of language. So sparse property theorists are going to say that things like "negative properties" (e.g. "being non-Socrates") or "disjunctive properties" (e.g. "being a bat or not") are not genuine properties at all. Proponents of abundant properties, on the other hand, would deny this and claim that there must be some feature of, e.g. the cup on my desk, that makes the sentence "The cup is either a bat or not" true, and that thing is the property of being either a bat or not. The debate is, in some sense semantic. It is about what it features in reality are required to make the sentence "the cup is either a bat or not" true. 

Now, if you like those two principles, then you can understand identity as a binary relation, and think about it having the same kind of properties as other binary relations. And if so, then you're likely to note that identity has the following three properties: Reflexivity: x = x. Symmetry: x = y iff y = x. Transitivity: if x = y and y = z, then x = z. On this view, you'd say something like: "Identity is the reflexive, symmetric, transitive relation that everything bears only to itself." 

The difference is that it appears Rover could survive the change of the one property but not the other. If the dog gets painted, he continues to live. Change Rover into something else a statue, say, and Rover ceases to exist. 

Let's try to get straight on the argument of "the philosophers" first. I think that what's at stake is a sentence like W: "The world exists". If I can read between the lines a little bit, my guess would be that these philosophers are trying to reconcile Aristotelianism with Islam. Aristotle believed the world was eternal, whereas Islam held that it was created at one particular instant in time. I think these philosophers are trying to find a compromise: the world isn't eternal, God created it, but he created it out of matter which is eternal and pre-existed the creation, so Aristotle got it at least partially right. I think the gist of their overall argument is: 

The doctrine is actually quite elegant in that it offers a unified answer to all three questions. Briefly, here's the significance of each question and how Plato's theory solves it. Re: 1. It is obvious that there are some truths we know that simply cannot have been otherwise. Think about the pythagorean theorem or a sentence like . Plato thinks it is obvious these sentences are always true for everyone and at all times and place and that they have to be true. Now he also thinks that every true sentence is made true by something (see q. 2 below), but look, nothing in the visible world around us is universal and necessary and changeless like that. Therefore the things that make sentences like this true must not be part of the visible world around us, it must be part of a different world that we know not by experience, but by pure intellectual insight. And bingo, that's the world of the forms. Re: 2. Aristotle thinks that a sentence like is going to be true if and only if there is some kind of relationship between that sentence and what the world is like--there has to be some object or thing that that sentence resembles or pictures or something. Why he thinks this isn't entirely clear to me, but it isn't entirely crazy. The forms then, are these objects that can fill that explanatory role. `Socrates is white' is true because Socrates is related to this object whiteness in some way. So the theory of the forms again solves an interesting philosophical problem. Of course, in this case the theory creates other problems: Trying to make sense of how Socrates, this individual, visible object is related to this other universal, invisible object whiteness is the biggest difficulty Plato's theory faces. Re: 3. Again the theory does seem to do some useful explanatory work for Plato in that it helps explain an interesting fact: Socrates and Callias are members of the kind `human being'. What explains their similarity? In short the theory of the forms says that they are the same kind because they are both related to the same object, humanity. The theory of the forms has really bad problems to avoid too, like the third man argument, the dilemma of participation, and so forth. But it is a really interesting theory and prior to the discovery of these problems (which happens very quickly, Plato's pupil Aristotle knows about them all already) it is a very compelling solution to a complex of difficult problems. 

The contrast between science and philosophy is spurious. Science and philosophy don't represent two exclusive alternative modes of knowing about the universe. They represent different, mutually informing approaches to different questions. Scientific claims often ride on philosophical ones and vice versa. (See, for instance, Tim Maudlin's The Metaphysics within Physics). 

There is no one philosophical position on the meaning of "person". There are at least three important camps on personhood: animalists think that something is a person if and only if it is a human being, Lockeans think that something is a person if and only if it is the subject of the right kind of mental states (Lockeans disagree about exactly which state is taken to be important), and Lynn Rudder Baker holds a view called constitutionalism, which is supposed to be a middle ground. According to her something is a person if it has the right psychological states (she thinks having "first-personal awareness" is the important state) AND it is constituted by a body of the right kind. Do a little more research on the topic and when you have more specific questions, come back and we'll see if we can help more. 

Scott Soames. 2005. Philosophical Analysis in the Twentieth Century, 2 vols, Princeton University Press This book is based upon a two semester graduate class in the history of analytic philosophy that Soames has taught at Princeton for years. It's widely recognized as the best secondary source on the history of analytic philosophy out there because it is lucid and readable. It doesn't require much in the way of technical logical apparatus, so it is very accessible to most readers. The text has a couple of important deficiencies, but they are all sins of omission. He doesn't discuss Frege at all, which is peculiar and he tends to focus on issues in philosophy of language (Soames's speciality) and sometimes give less attention to important developments in other areas, such as ethics. Nevertheless, Soames's book is tremendously useful: use it as your guidebook, reading along with the other readings below. A. P. Martinich, et al, Analytic Philosophy: An Anthology, Blackwell is a good anthology that contains most of the really important papers in the history of analytic philosophy. Analytic philosophy is much more an article field than a book field, so if you want to get up to speed you should really check out these articles.