Look at China over the last 50 years. All of the things you have talked about happened in China over the last 200 years. It was close to existing supply chains. The economic dominant nations where ideologically in favor of extending trade ties. It was a large source of cheap labor. It was politically stable. It was less protectionist than alternatives, allowing foreign firms to reap profits (at least to start). It was less corrupt than many alternatives (at similar labor cost levels). It was large enough that it could push back a bit. It started with industrialization in a few areas, and expanded from there. As supply chains moved into China, having supply chains inside China started getting network benefits, which increased growth. It controlled how much of the resulting surplus went into increased standard of living, redirecting much of it into massive infrastructure spending (again, using large relatively fallow labor pool). Imagine you have someone working generating 10\$ a day in wealth. You can pay them anywhere from 0\$ on up. At 0\$, it is slave labor. At 10\$, they are getting what they deserve. Growth at 10$ a day ends up being small, because there is no incentive to grow. China paid them (say) 1\$, gave 3\$ to foreign investors, and lost 1\$ to corruption and spent 5\$ on building infrastructure to make the next worker more productive. This sucks in the short term. The workers are getting shafted; only the fact that their alternative is starvation and there is a huge fallow pool makes this at all sustainable. Suppose every 10 years workers become 2x as productive, and labor force grows by 10x. Then after 50 years, the workers are producing 320\$ a day in wealth. They keep 30\$ (the same 10%). The foreign investors take home 100\$, 3\0$ is lost to corruption, and 160\$ is spent on investing in yet more growth, and there are 100000x as many workers. The decades of suffering and investment in growth can lead to massive change. This isn't sustainable past a certain point, because the exponential growth works by feeding off and providing services to the rest of the world economy. And eventually it starts becoming a market maker, at which point the source of growth has to change. Being 100x poorer than your neighbors isn't a long term problem if you are growing by a factor of 2 every 3 years. In 21 years at that rate you'll exceed their size. For a poor nation to become rich, it either needs a huge windfall (like an oil strike), or a way to engage in an industrial revolution and the resulting exponential economic growth. Compound interest is the most powerful thing in the world. 

Space is big. If you are low-tech, travel anywhere takes a long long time. You use chemical rockets. Getting to orbit is the hard part. You can move around the solar system, but you only get to go places, you don't get to come back: you don't have the fuel to go and stop, then go again. Your ships are tiny, fragile, and no living beings are on them past orbit around your planet. At the next tier, you are using solar sails and high velocity ion propulsion. We are at the cusp of this tier -- we have sent ion drive unmanned satallites to do some grand tours of the solar system. Unlike our previous probes, these can stop off at a planet, enter orbit, explore using sensors, then fly off somewhere else. Going beyond that you are using either something exotic (reactionless drives), or something brutal (orion based nuclear drives). The next stage I can describe is that of a K1 civilization, where you can do things like build launcher lasers to send a small probe to do a flyby of a nearby star. As a large K2 project, you could take an asteroid (like ceres) and laser-launch it up to speed to colonize another star, with flight time in 1000s of years. The asteroid would use exotic physics to break somehow, as coming to a stop without the laser-launcher is going to be difficult. At any of these stages, the kinetic energy of the ship itself is going to be absurd. Orbital velocity around a planet, all by itself, makes a pebble orbitting in a significantly different orbit go faster than any bullet we have fired in war. It just gets worse as our ability to travel goes up. Basically, space ships are so ridiculously fragile compared to their speed, there is no practical armor unless you invent force shields. Any weapon (pebbles, sand, etc) that contacts will be very very destructive, exploding into plasma. While you may think that storing nuclear weapons would somehow add danger, the KE of an interstellar ship with any decent speed is going to make a few dozen nuclear weapons irrelevant. At 0.03 C (1000 of years to nearest star) a 100 kg dumb rock is E15.5 J, or a megatonne of TNT. So a weapon will consist of a mass moving in different orbit/track. If any amount hits, the target is destroyed (chemical bonds aren't strong enough). Dodging consist of seeing the weapon and moving out of its way. Weapons track by thrusting efficiently (like a ship does). Delta-V scales, so weapons are limited by how small you can make the engine technology more than anything else (small engines mean more things to dodge). If the attacked ship has a better engine, it can "out run" (sideways) the defending weapons/dodge them. Static defences are hard, due to square law (there are lots of ways to approach a target, and space is empty). With science fiction, you'll end up wanting to think about the possibility of crazy propulsion technology and even energy shields. Because given current science, interstellar war isn't ships going pew pew. In short, interstellar travel of biological beings involves entire-civilization efforts of K2 level civilizations (capable of consuming an entire star's energy output). Interstellar travel of post-biological civilizations could be done slightly easiser, but it mostly consists of sending replicators to the target system and building a new civilization. The weapons of a K2 civilization might involve stellar manipulation to generate controlled solar flares, which are then lazed to launch relativistic smart missiles at a hostile star. Or maybe poisoning their star to make it somehow go nova. 

We can build simple simulated universes. None powerful enough to include an intelligence, but we can build simple ones. In those simple universes, we can build simulations of other simple universes. For a concrete example, we have built computers, in in those computers we have built minecraft, and inside minecraft we have built a computer capable of running programs. Now, in our universe, complexity (information processing) has a cost. As does it in universes we create. It seems reasonable that we could come up with theoretical limits on the ratio between the complexity of the simulating universe and the simulated one. We can then determine if our universe is complex enough to host a sufficiently complex universe that could itself host a simulated universe, both of which contain intelligences. I will call this "not at the end of the chain". If we are "at the end of the chain", and our universe is insufficiently "rich" to simulate a universe containing intelligence that itself could then host a universe containing intelligence, that is evidence we are not simulated. If we are not "at the end of the chain", then that is evidence we are simulated. This is because the very existence of that chain implies where we are on that chain is a matter of "luck" -- we could very well be on rungs even lower. However, the intelligence at the very bottom of the chain, which doesn't have further links under it, is an unlikely intelligence to be in the event there is such a chain. It is less plausible that we are in that special location, than if we are just another link, basically. On the other hand, I could see the argument that when simulating a universe containing intelligence, the interesting part is that universe not the universes it simulates. So making universes that are just barely able to support intelligence in your simulation might be optimal from a simulators perspective. The ratio still seems interesting towards this question. If simulated universes can be almost as rich as the one simulating them (ie, the overhead of simulation is cheap), it pushes forward a seeming certainty that we are a simulated universe. If the overhead is large, that leaves a huge conceptual space where an intelligence could exist, but no simulation could. 

The boring answer is "money, because money is a proxy for resources". But money is a lossy proxy. It was designed with human limitations in mind, for an economic structure also designed around human limitations. It is possible that an AI, stripped of human limitations, would engage in a different kind of economics -- economics 2.0 -- that doesn't rely on the approximation of "money" to facilitate trade. As a simple example, imagine if all trades where arranged based on a a multi-party barter system possibly spanning the world. You don't sell your chicken for money, you sell it for exactly the resources. It never transitions to being an arbitrary unit of currency. The chicken trade ends up resulting in an obligation by someone on the far side of the world to manufacture the fence posts you'll need in 3 weeks to repair the expected damage to your coop, plus a delivery of pizza tonight. The person you gave the chicken to promised various other things in an extremely long and complex chain that led to those things being delivered. We can go a step further and have the economics be based on promises and obligations of particular form that are not actually concrete goods, whose value fluxates based on the expected ability for each party to do their job. Going even further, the trade might involve being paid to have your own AI software modified in certain ways, changing your own preference function in exchange for satisfying your current needs. And that might be economics 1.1, because at least you can understand the description. The thing of value being traded may eventually be something actually beyond human ability to understand even a simplified version of it. Imagine describing credit default swaps to a gorilla. Now how about more complex financial instruments. If said economic system is sufficiently more powerful than ours, ours will be swallowed. What resources we are afforded will be along the lines of what resources we provide gorillas or other non-economic actors: their economic value to the system is determined less by their own actions and what they provide us, than what we decide it is. They have no framework to understand what behavior would optimize their supply of resources, other than hoping that the rate at which the optimal behavior changes is slower than their ability to adapt to the seemingly arbitrary demands placed on them. Of course, if the droids are dumb (say, no smarter than us), then probably an economic system similar to our current one (or at least one we understand) will be used to trade with them. 

Suppose you describe WW1 16" gun to a civilization that has bows and arrows. They say "what if picked one up and shot it at a mammoth?" This seems to be your problem here. The energy involved in pushing 1000T up to a decent fraction of c means you aren't doing it on an inhabited planet. The energy budgets are wrong for that. That kind of weapon isn't mounted on an inhabited planet. Similarly, a 16" gun isn't something you carry around. Using this weapon on a civilization that isn't on a similar energy level is like using a 16" gun on a mammoth. Sure you kill it, but why are you using a 16" gun to kill a mammoth? Mammoth's aren't dangerous to someone with 16" gun technology, and anything of value will be destroyed by using it. It is ridiculous overkill. Your weapon could probably hit a planet within a few light years, assuming you solve the aiming problem, but beyond that the travel time is long enough that chaos in planetary orbits and gravitational tug on the projectile will make the target not be where your bullet is. We used 16" guns in WWI to destroy fortifications designed to defeat 1800s military guns. If this weapon is built, you'd use it in a similar sense, to defeat something a slightly lower tier of technology cannot defeat. Quite possibly you wouldn't shoot solid projectiles, or you'd somehow mount guidance systems. It wouldn't be on a planet. Maybe it would be a set of solar-sail based accellerators which in turn are moved around by ridiculously high energy lasers mounted on other platforms. Each shot might involve gigatonnes of mirrors blasted off to infinity and the entire solar system lighting up with reflected laser light. The weapon you describe is a type 1.5 civilization weapon. At relativistic speeds, the KE of matter is approximetally its rest mass. Type II civilizations have 4E26 Watts of power. A Type I civilization could fire one every 26 days using the entire civilization power output. A Type II civilization can fire something like that a few 1000s of times per second. A Type 1.5 civilization could fire one using 22 seconds of civilization power budget. Storing 26 days of your civilizations' power budget is unreasonable; Tsar Bomba is about 3 hours of our civilizations' power budget. A Type 1.5-2 civilization isn't planet-bound; no significant fraction of their economy is in a Earth-depth gravity well. This is simply a side effect of heat budgets (their energy budget is too large for an Earth-sized planet to handle). Type 1.5 might be able to have a significant fraction of their economy in a Jupiter-sized body, but by Type 2 that isn't reasonable (other than having disassembled Jupiter-sized bodies for raw materials). 

Calculating what exactly happens is going to be quite tricky. For a planet-sized event horizon, the effect will be explosive at "molecular" scales, blowing objects apart. At atomic scales, I don't know (will it cause fission?). At macroscopic scales, I don't know (will it impart a large radial impuse from the matter slowing the gravitational wave down?). There is plenty of energy to work with. The kind of effect that energy density and flux could cause seem unbounded. The above also neglects the power; how long the teleport takes determines the power the wave carries (how "sharp" it is, not just how much energy it carries). 

The singularity happened. Runaway AI. Now a godlike being. It created Planck-scale computronium out of the fabric of space time with minimal disruption of the classic physics we experience. (Computronium is "stuff" optimized to compute stuff). Physics is seemingly unchanged, except in ways you find fun. Maybe there are FTL gateways, or force fields, or magic. You get to pick. However, organic life works. Low-information processing computers are as well. More advanced computers simply do not work. It has been theorized that the singularity has low level processes policing for a singularity emerging from within its computronium simulation and it is preventing it. Sort of like antibodies. We are either treated special because we gave birth to it, or because there is no danger of a singularity directly from us. The wave front of computronium expands out at the speed of light. Within it the various modifications work (for example, the FTL drive system only works within the computronium). The singularity is a computronium field created by our ancestors. It surrounds us and penetrates us; it binds the reachable universe together. 

Earth has a Schwarzschild radius of about 3 mm. This means things at geostationary orbital distance have a time dilation of about $$\sqrt{1-\frac{9 mm}{35786 km}}$$ or one part in $10^{-10}$ roughly. (if they are actually orbiting this value changes slightly, as does the rotation of the Earth) This also lines up with the length contraction factor. When the Earth disappears "instantly", a gravitational wave of that magnitude is going to be produced. How much energy is that? Well, 1 solar mass converted to gravitational waves and sent over 1.4 billion light years produced a $10^{-20}$ amplitude wave (LIGO observation). The energy in a gravitational wave is proprotional to amplutide squared. So, per meter squared, the LIGO observation would carry: 

Take a step back and examine how society would develop, especially prior to technology being nearly as effective as magic. Men would be relatively useless other than as cannon fodder compared to spellcasting women. On the other hand, you can afford to lose many men in a society and maintain birth rates, so losing them doesn't cost much. Magic would be used to save women in child birth (as a wizard, I'd want to make childbirth safer, it would be a high priority). Magic using soldiers would be far more effective than non-magic using soldiers; societies that made the women march to war would wipe out ones that did not. On the other hand, spending women's lives cheaply would cost you your next generation of soldiers. Finding ways to use relatively useless men to fight effectively would be highly useful; creating magical weapons and tools to give men a chance against female wizards would be useful. The loss of the magic-clad soldier could be cheaper than losing the powerful wizard who equipped them. We should expect the usual hyperbolic social power curve. So we'd have many women who, despite using magic, are peasants, prior to the equivalent of an industrial revolution. Hedge magic to grow crops and the like. Again, being able to enchant tools to have the men do grunt work becomes useful here, boosting male productivity beyond the simple mundane. Such tools would be benieth the notice of master wizards, a chore for lesser wizards to work at to provide the expendible cannon fodder and serfs increased productivity. The use of men in bondage would reduce the number of socially acceptable mates for higher status women; possibly you'd have a few "breeder" men selected for their appearance, social status (parent), or other reasons (maybe men carry the blood of being a powerful wizard; so the male offspring of powerful wizards becomes valuable that way). Such a society, where armies of expendible men fight for their wizard-queens, and lesser wizards generate weapons for them to use in these proxy-wars, while women who where less good at magic get relegated to hedge-magic, could go on for a while. The creation of better enchanted tools, where a guide of (possibly male-dominated) artificers who design and build mundane items to be enchanted, could lead to a technological signularity. As these tools become able to rival and eventually exceed the productivity of a competent wizard at doing various tasks, not only does half of the population become no longer a dead weight on society, but the ability to store value longer than a wizard concentrates on a spell grows the economy. First at a few percentage points faster than population growth, and eventually faster. The society that embraces this technological revolution and (limited) men's liberation ould experience an increase in power. The art and craft of using magic and technology efficiently together, making lesser wizard's and mere men able to produce goods, weapons and resources at increasing rates, could raise a backwater isolated community to being a regional, then world power in the matter of centuries or decades. Locally, socieities that mimic this technomagic revolution keep up; those that do not are overwealmed. The leaders of this revolution start to spread over the world, drawing on magical and technological resources via a growing trade network. The increased agricultural productivity and reduced death rate from pointless wars gives them a large population, and their trade craft can destroy entire wizard-citadels if they don't bow down and obey. Still, remnants remain. The idea that men are more expendible and women are in command (the matriarchy) is part and parcel of religion, society, military and trade. Men carry the enchanted weapons of war and are the blunt edge of the knife. Women command and maintain these weapons and tools, and are only used in combat when everything else fails. Safe "core" zones are built (be they ships or forts), with soldiers deploying out from it in conflict. Women only engage in combat in extreme situations, or in defensive war; it is better to waste a hundred men clad in moonshine and steel than one combat wizard. With a tradition of a large female:male ratio, the binary family is unlikely. So, women form "covens" of family support. These covens have a variable amount of men in service to them, of varying status, and the men are considered possessions of the coven that own them. A naval vessel will have one or more covens on it, with the crew being owned by that(ose) coven(s). Men can be traded or lent from one coven to another; but men without a coven are considered unnatural and unsafe (feral). The magictech revolution resulted in men having more rights than they used to; covens can no longer do whatever they want to their men, they have some limited human rights. In some societies men may even have to actually consent to being owned by a coven. Extremely liberal covens exist that let their men have lots of freedom. Some women take a man into a coven and don't manage them at all, as part of "men's liberation". This satisfied the law, while thumbing its nose at tradition.