This actually turns out to be a general philosophy lesson, more than anything specific on Nietzsche. The real answer is "The overman can be thought of as a centripetal force if that analogy works well." You have to flesh the analogy out before any statement can be made. In this case, Nietzsche's Übermensch is a tremendously complicated multi-faceted ideal. Comparing it to a centripetal force is like saying the Christian God can be thought of as a triangle. You are welcome to make the comparison, but you actually have to make it. You have to explain why its useful to think of it as a centripetal force. Likewise, thinking of the Christian God as the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit has value to some, and thinking of it as a triangle could have value. But in both cases, the analogy is comparing to something far simpler than the original, so you really have to explain why the comparison is valuable enough to a listener. You say "[you] like the idea of opposing forces at work." In that case, flesh the idea out and see what these opposing forces are. See if the imagery inspires a deeper understanding of the Übermensch. If it does, great! If not, then don't force the Übermensch into a particular shape. 

The Taoist cosmology actually operates in a very similar way. Wuji (無極) is a concept similar enough to the chaos you describe to draw an analogy. From Wuji, comes a single point, Taiji (太極), which is often translated as the "supreme ultimate," with yin and yang. Taiji then expands outwards to encompass the whole of the reality we live in. The point where Wiji becomes Taiji is a subject of great fascination, for it is a moment where a thing is polar yet non-polar. It has all the differentiation needed to flourish, yet is yet undifferentiated. I would leave it to a Taoist or a scholar to pen the exact connection between their cosmology and yours, but I see enough of a similarity to say it's worth looking into further. 

Intuitively, it makes sense that we cannot conclude he believes in Q. Language has been evolving for a long time, and it would be risky to simply assume there is waste to be shaved off from it. While the "day-star" vs "evening-star" argument provides one argument, a common phrasing in religion provides a counterpoint: 

I think that argument would have been very effective a few hundred years ago. However, science has been clawing away at Premise 3. It is no longer immediately obvious that sensations have no shape or location, due to modern neurology. In fact, one might even dare to argue that premise 3 is obviously false. Consider that they check newborn's hearing within the first 24 hours by putting electrodes on their skull and playing soft clicks in their ear while recording the electrical activity. That strongly suggests there is a location to the sensation of hearing. The focus on things like knowledge and p-zombies is more common because they are considered hard definitions to pin down. You think you know what knowledge is, until you really start to try to define it, and then you quickly realize that you know very little about how you know things. Likewise, p-zombies push at the definition of "consciousness" itself. They force us to ask question like "is consciousness even an observable property?" The complicated part is when you start talking about mental processes supervening onto physical processes. It can get harder to tell whether something is a pure mental process, or if it is a physical process whose behavior is well described as though it were a metaphysical mental process. 

The pattern shows up more than one would expect because there's so many neat things we wish we could prove with higher order logic. I have had many conversations with religious individuals who can describe the behavior of the universe they believe in using second order logic, but cannot reduce it to first order logic (the most common reason being the construction of a universe that cannot be modeled as a set). The inability to prove that they are right can be quite frustrating. 

It has never been true, in any way shape or form. It is merely a fallacious argument to inspire fear. At best, one might argue "a vote for a third party is half of a vote for x." Never is it a full vote. How much it's actually worth depends on how you choose to model the voting climate. Case 1: Not voting One simple case is to compare voting for a third party vs. not voting. Let's develop a fictitious scenario with two major candidates, Alice and Bob, and a third party candidate, Charlie. We will consider it from the perspective of an Alice supporter, so Alice's argument will be "A vote for Charlie is a vote for Bob." Now let's hypothetically say that the vote results coming in without your vote are: 

PSR is not a universally accepted concept in ontology, so it is entirely rational to consider the idea that it might be wrong. It is worth noting that the specific example of the existence of God is worded as an ontology phrase ("is"), while you tagged the post with epistemology ("behaves like"). PSR is usually thought of as a thought process, and applying it ontologically is a very very very tricky process. From what I have read, its primary purpose was to work the opposite way: we can model a "thing" as a "thing" if there is sufficient behavioral evidence to justify the effort of calling it a "thing." It was not originally used to argue that that thing "is," but rather to argue that it was effective to act as though a thing "is." There have been some ontological arguments using PSR (Wikipedia lists Kant's "arrow of time" as an example). However their universal acceptance is far from universal. 

Creationism uses science's rules, but derives from an unscientific set of assumptions. The creationist arguments that have been given to me all stem from one key scientific argument: a scientific theory which does not match the data is inferior to a theory which does. They argue that evolution does not match the data sufficiently, thus creationism is a preferable theory. Consider how much more elegant Newton's world was, but the data matches Einstein's. The argument stems from a disagreement as to what one considers a scientific source: specifically the Bible. Most creationists (all of them I've talked to, but there may be counterexamples) believe the literal words of the Bible are Truth, and thus qualify as evidence in a scientific claim. Anything which contradicts the Bible is False, and false theories are not appreciated in science. They then pile on scientific evidence to defend their claim. What I have found is that, if you accept the literal words of the Bible as Truth, the story they create with their scientific evidence is actually quite compelling. However, the general scientific community does not accept religious books as "bible truth." (such a strange topic, where "bible truth" becomes such an ironic idiom). When you remove the "evolution has to be false, because it disagrees with the Bible" datum, there is still a large body of evidence to back their claims, but it is eclipsed by the comparatively massive body of evidence disagreeing with their claims and agreeing with the theory of evolution. Daring to jump to generalities: for every one dataset claiming creationist truths, there's a dozen larger datasets refuting it. My experience is that there is a relatively hard line drawn to distinguish creationism from other religous-scientific arguments. As best as I can tell, those that believe in creationism all believe the literal words of the Bible are true. There is a body of Chistians who are willing to hold a less extreme position and argue that some of the stories are metaphorical, not intended to be read as a literal series of physical events. These people usually hold a less conflicting position. I've found many who believe God created the world, but did so predominantly with the laws of physics. I do not categorize those people as creationists because their view is often not inconsistent with measured data (there is no evidence that God gave the "spark of life" to the first organism, but there is also no scientific evidence he didn't either.) These people are usually willing to accept evolution as a mechanism, and are willing to throw that mechanism away just as fast as science refutes it, for they are not tied to the mechanism but rather the message. So, in conclusion, creationism and natural science are not on the same level, because they disagree about the credibility of a major source of data. However, it is not clear which one is on a "higher" level because of relative perspective. If you already believe in the literal truth of the words of the Bible, it seems natural science is missing something. If you believe otherwise, it appears creationists are trying to do bad science. 

This is an excellent example of a problem which is made difficult due to the challenge of defining the topic. Consciousness is a very tricky concept to capture in language, which I would argue is why we hang so much meaning on the word. One can choose to define consciousness to be anything one pleases. One can, as in this case, choose to assume the weak continuity hypothesis of consciousness and cannot be wrong because all one is doing is defining a word. However, when interacting with other disciplines, one's choice of definitions can be a sticking issue. In the example you are exploring, science has a large body of content defining "conscious" and "unconscious." If you intend to interact with those communities, you must be aware of the potential differences in meaning. Otherwise, grave failures can occur. For an extreme but highly amusing example, consider the failure to distinguish between the "trick" of a prostitute's "turning tricks" with an innocent' child's "trick or treat!" In science, consciousness is defined as an experimentally verifiable trait. It is well recognized that that trait goes away (i.e. we become unconscious) every night when we sleep. This particular definition is reinforced by personal observations (people state that they were not aware when they are sleeping), and EEG readings which suggest a potential reason for this unconciousness. If you wish to use papers describing consciousness experiments using EEG readings, you have to be aware of what meaning of "consciousness" they are electing to use. So the real question for someone who wishes to assume the weak consciousness continuity hypothesis is not whether they are correct, but rather whether their viewpoint is valuable enough for others to accept and use. I think the key question for any such definition of "conscious" is whether we have this trait, and whether it is consistent with any other axioms you might be assuming. There is a large body of philosophy arguing that humans are conscious beings, using one or more popular meanings of the word. That body of work has been heavily peer reviewed and its self-consistency is well understood. If you start from a less popular assumption (say, the strong hypothesis), you cannot merely assume that the works of others defend your opposition. It is up to you to demonstrate that their arguments defend yours. That doesn't mean it can't be done, it just means that word choice is a convenient shortcut to agreement that one gives up when one chooses less popular meanings for their words. 

I think one could define a lower bound for the progress of philosophy by charting the movement of language. When a philosopher writes their words down, their language instantly begins aging. Thus, even the mere retelling of old concepts with new language provides some forward movement, even if that movement must be thought of as nothing more than treading water. I do think philosophy moves forward outright as the progression of society moves forward. As societies find ever more novel ways to function, philosophers are right there studying those changes, suggesting meaning for them. Some times this is a very rapid movement, other times it is subtle. I suppose it comes back to Zeno. Philosophy gets half way to understanding the world around us, and within ourselves. Then it goes half way again, then half way again again. Does it ever stop progressing? 

By assuming a scientific stance, you have to understand that you will naturally arrive at an answer biased towards science's result. However, if we look at a slightly broader issue, I think there is still some room to breathe life into the counterargument. Let's look at the underlying assumptions. After all, belief in a big bang is really a result from our mathematical models of the universe, and belief in God is really a result from the reading of the Bible. So let's dig at the underlying tricky axioms that neither outlook really likes to look at. Science, with its mathematical models, explicitly assumes that the "laws of nature" are invariant. The laws of nature you experience within your lifetime are the exact same as were experienced in the era of Jesus, and all is explained with those laws (or at least "most" is explained, depending on how hard lined your scientific stance bends towards deterministic physicalism). What evidence do you have to defend this? Well, the laws haven't changed during your life, or you'd have noticed.... right? Well... maybe? Sort of? Did you ever feel Deja Vu? Perhaps the Matrix changed when you weren't looking? Such troublesome questions are the subject of a great deal of philosophy, and worth reading into if those questions are interesting to you. Likewise, a belief in God typically is deeply entwined with a belief that the Bible is Truth. What evidence does one have to defend this? Well, the wordings vary from individual to individual, and there's fair argument that they should vary. However, it turns out that no assumption they have to make is any less defensible than the argument that just because we've never perceived the laws of physics change doesn't mean they change (you happen to mention Bayesian statistics... Jeffery's Prior deals with this frustrating aspect of Bayesian thinking, at least as best as can be done). So, in the end, whether the evidence for one approach is better than the other is highly subject to the particular metrics you choose to apply to it, from a "truthyness" perspective. If I may expound, I would argue there is another metric which one might use instead: how does the application of this belief improve your life? Both outlooks have very intriguing ways to improve your life, and they differ greatly. Many would not trade God for Science, and many would not trade Science for God. There may be something to both. It might even be worth one's time to explore them both! 

In a formal system, if you can prove a statement is valid, it is valid for that formal system (yay for tautologies!) However, part of the formal system is the axioms one is assuming. If you disagree with the axioms, you can disagree with the conclusion. Consider: 

It is generally accepted that the motion of planets is almost completely governed by gravitational interactions. If we were to observe the motion of the planets, and find substantial deviations not explained by his theory of gravity, this would either falsify his theory or show that there are other forces at work. I believe we actually do see results which would falsify his work: you have to account for relativity to explain some movements (particularly in cases near a black hole)