All the assistance work would be for relatively low weight and at least 8-10 reps if not 15-20. You'll only need a couple sets. It's a lot of work, but it will help improve your posture which in turn improves your ability to perform the techniques with proper form. The assistance work also helps you become more injury resistant. It will put some muscle on you, so your body weight may go up. If you are very thin, you'll see yourself getting a little thicker, but everything will be firm. If you are slightly heavy, you may find your weight go higher or it may remain the same as you fit your clothes better. Just be mentally prepared for that. The important thing is that you are happy with what you see in the mirror. 

It does both. The amount of chest involvement depends on the width of your hand placement. Experiment with that and make note of where you feel it in your chest most. 

Training really sucked. Couldn't do the work, felt weaker. Fatigued but got through the required stuff. Average training day. Clear headed, but nothing special. The training gods are smiling, you feel like you can lift a mountain--again and again. 

unrack the bar (not necessary on deadlifts) Inhale into your spine. You should have equal pressure all the way around your core Hold that breath until exertion is over. For the squat and bench, that's down and up. For deadlift that's until you are in the upright position or when the bar is back on the ground. 

I don't have scientific studies to support this; however, Dave Tate (power lifter) has observed that you get a big bench with strong lats. His reasoning is that you need both a stable platform, and to engage your lats during the lift. This helps lift heavier. When carrying this over to some of the theory that I've read from body builders about how to build bigger muscle, you need to be able to do more work (volume, time under test, etc.). The take away is that lack of strength in your lats will limit the amount of work you can do on your chest speaking in practical terms. Seile's Thesis on General Adaptation Syndrom (GAS) basically states that a living organism responds to stress by adapting to that stress to resist it better the next time it is introduced. Essentially, in order to cause the adaptations that build larger muscles, you need to invoke the types of stress that cause that to happen. If you are limited because of muscle imbalances, you can't induce the necessary stress. Another major concern has to do with the risk of injury. Severe muscle imbalances put the lifter at a greater risk of injury. If you injure yourself so you can't lift for an extended period of time, you will never be able to get the bigger chest you desire. 

It's really hard to have any definitive study about the digestive system because there are a number of interrelated systems and you can never be fully confident that the trends you are seeing are because of the stimulus you changed. To that end I can only offer my own experience. 

I personally lift with a bare bar. I've worked my way up from squatting just the bar to currently 220lb (100kg) and will be going up tonight. There are other lifts that work to help build the back muscles to comfortably support that kind of weight. It's at this point that padding wouldn't help me anyway. If you want to get rid of the padding, I recommend incorporating overhead presses and deadlifts (pulling the shoulders back) to build up the upper back muscles and create a stronger core. This helps you support the heavier squat weights. I also recommend going to YouTube and watching the Rippetoe videos on how to squat. It answers many questions you may come up with. Also note the depth the woman in the picture I linked to has. Whether you squat high or low bar, you want to get that kind of depth. 

Your first scenario is what is commonly known as a split. You work some parts of your body while allowing other parts to rest. There are several types of splits depending on your goals. Light weight/high rep work can help get blood flowing through your muscles, which is one way of getting what is called a "pump". It's a temporary thing that helps show off your muscles, but it soon goes away. As long as the work is very light, it should be easy to recover from. 

Those guidelines are basically there to keep a reality check. Your body can only build muscle so fast. When you are obese (abs are covered by layers and layers of fat), you can lose weight faster and not have problems. When you are fairly lean, all you need to do is adjust your diet about 200-300 calories a week until you are within this rate of gain/loss. 

You have the basics covered, and I will interject that while manipulating carbs is a proven way to lose weight they should be a part of your diet. Even with the paleo structure, fruit is paleo and has carbs. There are a number of things you'll have to take a look at and be honest with yourself: 

The short answer? Keep doing it! The idea of these programs are to get you to a point where you can do all these push ups and sit ups. Same with the Couch-to-5k/10k programs. Building up your stamina and your strength sensibly is only part of the battle. The remainder is to keep it up. Now, I don't know about you, but the idea of doing a bunch of push ups and sit ups doesn't sound like it will keep my interest for very long. So an alternative to keeping up with the existing program is to transition to another type of program that will challenge you further. If your goal is strength, you can only get so far with just your body weight. You might consider transitioning to weight training, or progressively adding weight to your body (such as the barbell plates on your back). Alternatively, you can also pursue another area of fitness. If you ever fancied running, martial arts, biking, or swimming, those are all different challenges to keep you going. 

There is no best. That concept is a marketing ploy in the fitness industry. There's what's best for you give your training maturity and how you respond to exercise, but there is no unequivocal best approach to training for everyone. You might find that what works very well for someone else doesn't really do anything for you. There can be any number of reasons for it ranging from training maturity to personal genetics. Just train, and make minor tweaks as you go along. After a decade or so, you'll have a very good idea of how to train yourself better than anyone else. 

Beware of any blanket recommendations you read for anything fitness or nutrition related! The recommendation may be correct... for a certain population. It doesn't mean it's correct for you personally. Your best bet is to: 

Now, those are guidelines. Even within those guidelines, some people can't handle certain carb/protein combinations or carb/fat combinations. Others can handle it quite well. When you can't handle a combination your body responds in a couple ways: 

The bottom line is that your food should be coming from a variety of different sources. Just chapati and rice robs your body of what it needs to function properly. Additionally, you'll have to be ramp up your activity a little slower so that your body has a chance to catch up. Do not neglect conditioning work as well. In fact, it might be a good idea to get a physical to see where you are starting from. For your sake, I might suggest starting with conditioning work so that your heart and lungs can get used to working harder before you transition to weights. The last thing you want to do is black out with a bar over your chest. A question for you: did your heart race uncontrollably at any time during exercise? If so, that is a sign something a bit more concerning is going on and might require you to get that checked out by a doctor. 

Another option is to "clean" the dumbbell to your shoulders. That is, use your hip to launch the dumbbell up to your shoulders. That will help keep your core involved as well. This approach has more carryover to front squats (where the bar is across the front of your deltoids in front of your neck). 

You may want to pair a set of ab workouts (crunches, iso-ab plank, etc.) with your pushups/chin-ups. 

There is always a price to becoming stronger. It's a question of how badly do you want to be strong, and what kind of price you are willing to pay. The biggest price you pay has nothing to do with money. The basic principles to getting stronger are: 

The article I linked to has a few tools of the trade that have been proven to work. You can even mix and match the tools together to help speed things along. The protein is non-negotiable for people who lift weights. Your body needs to repair your muscles and build them back up stronger after exercise. It needs protein to do that. However, try to get your protein from whole food sources like chicken, fish, and beef. This is better, and less expensive than protein supplements. Don't worry about timing the protein, but just try to get the daily requirement in. The only macronutrient that seems to respond better if you time it to post workout is carbohydrates. Carbs provide energy for your muscles, so they help with recovery. Post workout, your muscles will be hungry, so to speak, so having a meal higher in carbs at that time will help them recover better. 

The important part of the goal is that you know when you've achieved it, and it's something you honestly believe you can do. Don't set out to deadlift 600 lbs right off the bat. Start with a more modest goal that's above what you can do now. When you get that goal, increase it and push for more. Keep a log of what you did, and how you felt, or if you think you didn't do something quite right. Review the log with your trainer, or just review it yourself. It will help you figure out why you might not be hitting the goals you've set for yourself, or let you know when you are really close. Once you've filled up the log book, start a new one. The old log book will only be important for a little bit. You can use pen and paper, or an app on your smart phone, but just keep track. Eventually, you will have to change your plan/program. Those changes are required either because of your advancement as an athlete, or because of changes in your more immediate goals. If you start out with an interest in soccer, but then develop a love for cricket, the style of training will need to be adapted for your new sport of choice. 

As with any rehab, you should be lifting a weight that does not cause pain in the injured area. The higher reps help get blood flowing through the injured area more which in turn speeds up the recovery. For normal strength training, keeping overhead work in your routine will help maintain and strengthen your rotator cuffs. I think that was the point that Rippetoe was wanting to make. Is overhead pressing the only way to work on the rotator cuffs? No, but they also provide other benefits such as increased core strength and confidence under the bar. Overhead pressing to a full lockout helps keep your shoulders healthy. I've also found that hang snatches help with shoulder health as well as dumbbell shoulder exercises. Rippetoe's target audience is newbie and beginner lifters, so he is trying to give them the best bang for their training buck. 

Now, if you are still a beginner (either untrained or novice level), you might look at the variables that affect recovery before assuming you've gone intermediate already. Sometimes you get stuck, even when doing everything right. There are a few ways of dealing with that: 

This progression is helpful to get your body moving properly. Save stretching for after you train. If you focus on having good posture both while training and when you are at rest, it will help address the issues you had on the Jillian Michael's workouts. Assistance Work I recommend having one main movement per workout. That would be squats, floor press, deadlifts, and overhead press. After that you can have 3-4 assistance movements. 

It only comes while your body is getting used to doing work. When you gradually increase volume or intensity, you may not get any DOMS or it is very mild. Building muscle or strength is related to the training stress you impose on your body. As you gradually build intensity and volume, your body will respond by getting bigger and stronger. How do I know if I did enough? There's a few modes of strength training: 

That said, since I lift and I do martial arts, my performance in the anaerobic range is pretty good. I can sustain a high heart rate for a good while. I just get into the anaerobic range a little too quickly. Working smarter will get you results quicker. 

As anything it depends on your goals. As a powerlifter and strongman, I have to lift heavy weights. For Powerlifting it's the heaviest deadlift, but for strongman it could be one set weight for as many reps as I can within a timelimit. That's very different from a bodybuilder who is looking for a better physique, where weight is irrelevant. Addressing Discomfort 

The same will happen with my keg abs. My "dunlap" disease is gone (where your belly "done lapped" over your belt), and the core below the belt line is tight and right. Unfortunately, above the belt line I have this bump of fat--slowly but surely shrinking. Eventually it will start looking like abs, but for my body it's the last place my fat is holding on. I really wish it was possible to target weight loss, but the best I can do is leave something strong for when the fat is burned off. 

That's not really the best way to think about it. Will the time go quicker? Yes. Will it be easier? Definitely not. A key aspect to supersets is dealing with fatigue. Because fatigue is now part of the training, you have to mentally push yourself harder. Accumulating fatigue can be an effective way of intensifying the training stimulus, as it never really lets you come to a full rest. 

Why 5/3/1 Strength Training Doesn't Work 7x a Week The problem with taking something designed for 4 days a week max and then applying it to 7 days a week is that it throws off the overall volume of work for the week you need to do. If you do too much volume, your body will get too fatigued and you'll likely see your progress going backwards. This is particularly true because 5/3/1 has you doing AMRAP (As Many Reps As Possible) on the heaviest set. That means you'll be maximizing volume every session. It's designed to let you recover properly with 4 training days a week, but not more than that. Training 7 days a week is fairly common for Olympic weightlifters, and is one of the tenants of the Bulgarian Method. It's important to manage the following: 

Honestly, what you are doing is just fine. Lifting weights with big compound movements do wonders for your hormonal profile, the diet is good, and the aerobic work helps lower your resting heart rate. The only things I would worry about are: 

The answer to your question depends on your current goals in training. A deadlift done for competition is always done using 450mm plates with a 50mm diameter hole in the middle of the plate. The height of the bar is dictated by the width of the plate. Those are the IPF/IWF standards for plate dimensions. When you are training for a competition, or just for a stronger deadlift, you might have problems with a sticking point. That's the point where you have the most trouble with the lift. 

Since my routine has me going up 5lb each time I workout (except for deadlifts, those are by 10lb) the 2.5lb plates are nice. When you are getting close to outgrowing the core set, you can buy 45lb plates separately and add them on as you need. That way you minimize your initial investment while still being able to work toward those 600lb deadlifts and 400lb squats. RE: Calibrated vs. non-calibrated A calibrated plate is certified to be the weight advertised on it. While a non-calibrated plate is not certified. It will likely be very close within a certain tolerance, but the calibrated plates are required for competitions. You can likely do what you need with uncalibrated plates. RE: non-Olympic bars Most non-Olympic bars I've seen have a smaller diameter (i.e. less than 2 inches) for the plates, and are also a lot flimsier. They simply can't hold the same amount of weight. While they are better than nothing, they aren't going to grow with you like an Olympic bar.