Legalization and its effect on the long term We can find a lot of research notes and papers on the abortion rate trend in the various countries of the world. All of them draw the conclusion that the trend is downward in the majority. In particular, some draw that conclusion: 

There has been some changes since the OP asked this question and at least one relevant research paper has tried to provide a new answer to this question. According to study this (Mäntylä T. 2013) published in one of the top ten peer reviewed journal of psychology: Yes there is evidence... but men seems better at it (emphasis is from me) 

From the various researches found, we can draw the conclusion that Yes, it does decrease abortion rate in the place where it is banned 

Mäntylä T., Gender Differences in Multitasking Reflect Spatial Ability, Psychological Science, April 1, 2013 24: 514-520 

Limitations The author is aware of some limit of his experiments. Most of them are related to the assumption that multitasking involve spatial abilities. I extracted the most interesting part of the discussion, but refer to the original paper for better understanding of their impacts. (again, emphasis is from me) 

Note: I'm not including theft here. I think risk of theft might increase with use, but a stolen laptop is likely to remain in use, just with a different user mmary: TL;DR Yes, the lifespan of laptop does depend significantly on its usage. 

I would say almost certainly not. I can't see any evidence the Japanese government has passed any law or made any promises to assume liability, and they are not liable under international law - the main law that governs this is the amended IAEA Vienna Convention which most but not all countries using nuclear power are signatories to. Certainly it would appear to be a pretty stupid move to assume responsibility here, and with no source for the claim it doesn't seem credible. 

Der Spiegel has a formidable reputation for investigative journalism and operates what the Columbia Journalism Review called "most likely the world's largest fact checking operation". The report by Der Spiegel was partly compiled by Laura Poitras, who collaborated with Edward Snowden and the Guardian on initial release of information from internal NSA documents. Both the Guardian and the Washington Post (who have copies of the leaked documents) have confirmed the report by Der Spiegel (Guardian, Washington Post). Based on all the above, yes, this is a credible claim from reliable sources. 

This clarifies that the trend is still positive, but much lower than before. In summary, life expectancy is still improving but much more slowly than it did up to 2010. Call that a "stall" if you want, but you will probably just confuse things. 

And that sounds like a compelling public health case. But you should always be suspicious about percentages as it is easy to exaggerate when using them. The piece of information not given is the number of deaths expected in the context of all road deaths. When I posed the question I asked whether there would be a significant increase and I expected the context for significant to be all road deaths. 16.6% sounds significant. But motorway deaths don't account for many road deaths in the UK (it is likely that something similar applies in most countries, though UK motorways are particularly safe). Conveniently the BBC recently produced an interactive visualisation of UK road deaths with a variety of useful classifications (see the interactive pages here). The key statistic is this: out of more than 3,000 annual deaths they report fewer than 150 on motorways. That is less than 5% of the total. Even if these increase by the amount seen in the USA on increased speeds, the total extra deaths would be about 30 a year (<1%) or so small as to be in the noise from natural variation from year to year. Neither the editorial or the previous answers provided this context. I draw from this two conclusions: what happens on motorways isn't significant in the context of road safety as a whole; if we are going to do anything the focus should be elsewhere. We could make roads perfectly safe by making a man walk in front of all cars waving a warning flag. But we accept some degree of risk because of the major benefits of driving. Changing the speed on motorways is not a significant issue in this context. 

What I've established with these references appears to support some similarity of the immediate effects. I don't want to draw conclusions which are not in the sources, and I'm not sure whether they are adequate to support the idea that the cumulative effect leads to addiction; perhaps we need more references to support that or perhaps an expert in addiction could confirm that this conclusion can be drawn. TL;DR There is scientific evidence of the effect on the brain and there are some similarities to cocaine use. 

The lifespan, using this definition, can be affected by usage. Break this down by the reasons why the laptop ceases being used: 

The article links (in the 4th paragraph) to the original article from Der Spiegel which is available online for free and in English: Der Spiegel: Inside TAO: Documents Reveal Top NSA Hacking Unit 

** EDITED to reflect edits to the question and discussion in comments. ** Everything in the article seems credible, and doesn't seem to contradict other sources. It does seem guilty of sensationalising the subject because there doesn't seem to be any unique link here - you can could equally draw similarities with love, food, sex, sports or many other things. Certainly we can say there are some similarities between facebook feedback and cocaine use which are backed up by scientific studies, such as this study published in the journal Frontiers in Human Neuroscience in which researchers used Functional MRI scans to establish that positive feedback on Facebook does stimulate the reward centre in the brain. 

His argument is partially that the catastrophic scenarios for future climate are now thought less likely but also that there are better ways to spend the money than current polcies (which feel good but don't make economic sense): 

This makes it clear that the poor tend to be more democrat voting. This view is reinforced by analysis of the pattern of voting for congress shown below: 

Clearly an actual nuclear reactor would count as a natural nuclear radioactive hotspot. Luckily it wasn't in a built up area and occurred a couple of billion years before there were any built up areas. But people do live in places where the geology exposes them to potential natural radiation. As an example consider the variation in natural radon levels in england. Public Health England have an interactive map here. This clearly shows greater than 30-fold variation in the percentage of houses affected by concerning levels of radiation. People living in high risk areas such as devon and cornwall, for example, are advised to take precautions to reduce the level of indoor radon. The radon is thought to have significant health effects (from PHE radon website): 

I came accross one of those top 10 video today on youtube (while I remember trying to learn more about particle filter...) and it was about the longest living creatures. I already knew lobster and tortoise were amongst the top ten, but to my great surprise the number one was a jellyfish. The video claims that they can live forever. I did find some other websites claiming that scientists agree with that, but I would like to see a proof (if there is any). Video: $URL$ 

So at least, we know that legalization does not spread the use of abortion as a contraceptive method if alternatives exist. 

Education, policies clearly influence We can find a lot of work regarding the influence of good sexual education explaining lower abortion rate in some countries such as Netherlands. It is truly intuitive to believe it, but research demonstrate it. In 2003, a study over abortion data of the United States from 1974-1988 induced that abortion policies influenced greatly the rate. It concluded that: 

Effect of the ban in United state As we said, the legalization does not increase the number of women that want to rely on abortion at a certain moment of their life (at least over the long term). That said, we could conclude that for similar education (on contraception, religion), the rate should more or less the same inside a country. The book "Abortion Rates in the United States: The Influence of Opinion and Policy" study the various researches published on the subject to draw few conclusion. First, public opinion is the most influential factor between state were it is legal. Second, reported abortion number were much lower before legal abortion. Third, illegal abortion increase dramatically the chance of dying. There is no clear statement or proof that illegal abortion result in lower abortion rate (since we cannot count unreported abortion). But from known statistics, from the facts on influential factors we can draw the conclusion that yes it decreases the abortion rate in the place were it is illegal. However, as stated in the beginning, it might artificially increase the abortion rate in the country or state beside where it is legal. Hope that my little literature review has helped. 

This requires some explanation. The 12% is the ratio of people attending who have taken alcohol to total attenders over the observation periods. The higher 15% number is adjusted to account for future attendance outside the observation periods (and basically means that people who have attended once with alcohol-related issues are more likely to re-attend within a year). The vastly higher numbers are not the percentage of alcohol related attenders at the whole weekend, but the maximum ratio for any hour of the day. Alcohol-related attendance is focussed between the hours of midnight-4am which are also the quietest hours in typical emergency departments. So the percentage is a percentage of a low base and not at all representative of the whole day. Here are two charts from the paper that illustrate this: 

"Big Data" is a big trending term on the internet (especially on the web sites of big companies selling data management services). For example, I came across this article while reading the Irish Times in an airport. It contained this recent claim from IBM which has been frequently repeated elsewhere (my emphasis): 

Mechanical failure causing end of use (Note: Almost anything is technically fixable, but to calculate the lifespan we are looking at events which result in the laptop not repaired, whether for economic reasons, unavailability of parts, user not being aware of repair options or anything else): 

Viruses, malware, etc. A laptop can only be practically attacked while turned on, so the chance of malware is drastically increased by usage. User initiated software problems i.e. the user deleted something vital or caused a performance problem by installing software. I would guess this is the more frequent cause of replacement of 3-5 year old laptops. 

Cocaine use and many other things also stimulate the reward area of the brain. This article in the Journal of Advanced Practive Nursing says that love, cocaine and gambling are all similar: 

Software faults causing end of use (Note: Software faults can always be resolved by a competent person, but in the real world laptops do get replaced for this reason, thus affecting the lifespan): 

Evelyne Ameye, 'Channelling of Nuclear Third Party Liability towards the Operator: Is it Sustainable in a Developing Nuclear World or is there a Need for Liability of Nuclear Architects and Engineers?' (2010) 19 European Energy and Environmental Law Review, Issue 1, pp. 33–58 TL;DR Japanese citizens are not liable for accidents abroad under international law. No evidence of assumed responsibility. 

In an article in the Guardian about how ideas in nutrition science have advanced and have influenced dietary advice to the public, the authors quote Max Planck as having said, famously: 

Update Eduard Ernst summarises a recent (april 2014), and fairly comprehensive, Australian review (pdf) of the subject thus: 

Heating will have no effect on the oxygen level in the air unless something burns, which will use up oxygen. This is basic chemistry. An electrical heater heats because electrical current passes through it, not because anything burns, so oxygen levels cannot be directly affected. Most burning reactions in the normal atmosphere involve things burning in oxygen: it isn't obvious that the phrase "burn oxygen" means anything at all. This is all basic school level chemistry (so deserves a wikipedia reference). Here is the Wikipedia definition of combustion: 

Shakespeare wrote the plays and the arguments that he didn't are mostly based on very implausible assumptions. I hope I'm not misrepresenting any of the arguments against Shakespeare authorship, but it seems to me they all rely on just a handful of key assumptions. First, that the the plays and sonnets are about the author's life, and not primarily imagined. Second, that they are therefore coded references to the identity and experience of the author. And, third, that Shakespeare didn't have the relevant experience to write the content because he could not have had the necessary range of experiences. I don't know how easy it is to definitively prove any point one way or the other, but it seems to be a big stretch to assume that an author cannot write fiction from their imagination rather than their life. Moreover it is a very modern assumption that everything is autobiography. According to James Shapiro's review of the evidence (In Contested Will) nobody at all made this sort of assumption about Shakespeare until 1780 at the earliest. And it was decades more before anyone used the assumption to build a case for a different author. It makes no sense in general to assume that all fiction is really about the author or their experience. Did Thomas Harris have to experience cannibalism or psychopathology to write about Hannibal Lecter in The Silence of the Lambs? Or did he do some research and imagine the character? How can we judge so long after his life that the author was writing from experience and not the imagination? And if we don't establish that he did, the other assumptions fall down. If the works emerge from the imagination, perhaps based on research, we can't use them to challenge authorship on the grounds the author didn't have the relevant experience. Even the literary evidence backs this up. As Shapiro summarises: