There are far, far too many people that get profficient at clipping up indoor gym routes and then decide to try it outside thinking that cragging is just an outdoor gym. It's not, and make sure to stress that to any new person you take outside climbing. Just because you are strong enough to climb 5.12 doesn't mean you are a good climber outside, this applies triply so for trad climbing. ONE FINAL WORD Spontaneous gear explosion/failure is responsible for a tiny fraction of climbing incidents, of which the majority are related to fixed gear failures. The rest of the non-act-of-god (read:rockfall) accidents are due user error, your number one risk in climbing is you or your partner making a mistake (or several) so do everything to minimize the risk of mistakes, including your choice of partner. If you partner objects or is offended by you checking their systems, their gear, their rigging, or their belaying, DO NOT CLIMB WITH THEM. 

Choices vary significantly on your hiking philosophy, The Ray Jardines out there will say that you need to go as light as possible, bringing only a poncho for rain protection (both sleeping and hiking) and a sweater as a ground cloth, hike in sandals, backpack over one shoulder, etc etc. the more old-school expeditioners will rely on heavier packs and gear to be ready for everything and just deal with the weight. The modern athletic through hiker brings state of the art light-weight everything to combine both for a cost. Essentially all you really need is a pack of some kind with food, and footwear. Depending on the conditions/terrain/country you may need or want to bring a tent, water purifier, stove+cooking equipment, navigation (gps/maps), snow/ice gear, entertainment. You may not need everything the entire time so your resupplies may require gear drops/pickups as well (for instance, early/late season PCT through hikers usually send themselves crampons and ice axes only when they get to the mountains, to avoid dragging the weight through the desert) 

I am searching for a down sleeping bag and found two alternatives. They are from one manufacturer so data should be comparable. 

Always drinking pure water can be boring and tasteless, especially when you have to filtrate it or use sterilizer/purification tabs which might cause the water to taste really bad. What are easy (lightweight and not complicated to use) ways to get some flavour and diversion in my drinking while being outdoors for several weeks? 

They are designed to fix your ice axes to the backpack so that they won't move very much. This task should be realized in a lightweight manner and it should be easy and quick to release/adjust. One very common approach is the one from your picture, e.g. explained in this video. Of course you can adjust e.g. poles with them too. Or anything else if you get the point. 

I don't know if anybody uses this to rapell without backup (e.g. on top of a climb). But if so I would like to have some idea how secure this setup will be. 

Separate answer because I feel it addresses a different point than the other answers As stated in the other answers, you should of course teach basic clipping and leading techniques, making sure to emphasize the stuff that will get you killed (whenever teaching beginners I don't dance around this issue, "don't do this or you will die" ) basic anchoring and the like. However, I like to stress, besides just teaching the technical details, is the proper APPROACH to outdoor climbing vs indoor climbing. Just because you can clip a dozen draws and lower off an anchor does not make you a good outdoor climber. Things to stress 

Boiling eliminates only a certain class of contaminants that can make you ill. Specifically living bacteria and other microorganisms (protozoa, amoeba). It does not purify, or decontaminate the water completely. Certain bacterial and algal toxins can survive boiling and make you sick, and as Russell pointed out, there are also inorganic contaminants that will definitely survive the boiling process. Distillation on the other hand, will produce water that is safe to drink in most cases. 

You know that there is a lot of snow already in those heights in Austria? Even in 1500m people not used to it will get problems. Please have a look at webcams and detailed descriptions of the route you are trying to hike. And check out the conditions! I was never on that mountain but it seems there are exposed ridges and even wire-assured parts on the route up. This means you have to watch your step even when it's dry and snow-free. So even without a kid this might be dangerous in current conditions. This depends highly on your skills and experience. In general I wouldn't recommend your plan with a 6 y.o. kid under winter conditions. During summer, some (trained) kids can have a great time on such a tour though. Besides the lines above regarding your specific plans, I will give some hints regarding tours with a kid during winter: 

The last weeks I observed couple times that I am getting stiffness/muscle ache in the upper arms after a boulder session. What's special about this is that it is very delayed. For example I went to the gym yesterday in the evening. Today I had no problems at all while working on the bureau. Arriving at home tonight an intense pain in the upper arms starts. Sometimes the stiffness even comes two days after the boulder session. I am not facing cramps during or after bouldering. The issues I have while climbing are the typical hard forearms, lacking strength in the hands and skin resistance. No problems with the upper arms while climbing. When I am facing muscle ache after an exhausting endurance run or a soccer match they come directly after the sport or by no later than the next morning. Therefore I am really wondering what is going on here? So besides the general opinion that my body needs minerals like magnesium/calcium and lots of liquid what would you suggest? 

Every ski resort gives lessons, and that's how you should begin. You can rent skis, and they will help you get them on, etc. Dress in clothes you would wear to go sledding. Remember that you work hard, get wet, then sit still. Layers, of wool and acrylic will keep you warm when wet and let you adjust as needed. Cotton makes you cold when wet, so avoid that, especially on you innermost layer. If you have a waterproof outer layer, that helps. Cover as much skin as possible: hat, gloves. Ski goggles are good but you can buy one after the first class if you like skiing. Having strong legs helps. 

Learning specific plants is helpful, but each person can have different food reactions, and they can change over time. So learning to taste well is a valuable skill: 

From your question, it sounds like you already have a plan to supply your body with calories. I'll further assume you will have protein and fat, not just carbohydrates. With those covered, you then need vitamins and minerals. Fiber is a good idea, too. It is possible to be healthy eating only wild animal foods (hunting / trapping) for quite some time, but you have to do it right. Eat the fat and the organs, as they are nutrient rich. (Lions eat only the organs, and leave the muscle to scavengers!) Liver is rich in Vitamin A, which is great but must be balanced with Vitamin D. Very lean meats such as rabbit will leave you nutrient-deficient (if that's all you eat), so you'll still need to fill in the gaps another way. If you learn a few edible wild plants for your area, you can round out your nutritional needs very nicely. I believe that wild plants tend to have much higher mineral and vitamin content than farmed plants. Here in Pacific Northwest, I would focus on: Miner's lettuce, so named because miners would eat it for this very reason. It's very tasty. Stinging Nettle is very nutritious. I eat it raw, but most people will steam or boil it to avoid the stingers. The stems are good for cordage - maybe a bracelet to remember your trip. Dandelion is nutritious and easy to find in many places. I love the yellow flowers, but dislike the stems immensely. Leaves are good, especially when new. Don't confuse it with catsear aka false dandelion. These plants are easy to find & eat, and give you fresh leafy greens that you can't pack with you. To learn more, you can take a wild edibles class and get an edible wild plants book for your region. 

I recently read the suggestion that one shouldn't do strength training unless one is able to climb UIAA 7 just because it's better (and faster if you want to improve the difficulties) to learn climbing technique first. If so, would it be best just to climb, climb and climb? 

What kind of trip are you planning for? It makes a big difference if you are going for a multi-pitch climb on an alpine route, a long distance trekking trip maybe even in high altitude or a sporty one day hike. For a simpler hiking trip I would say if you are used to each other already from work, just go for your trip and enjoy it. Requirements are small for those kind of trips and if the new guy really drops out after 30 minutes hiking you are most likely not going to hike with him again. There should be a similar level so he won't ask you again to take you for a strenuous hike. For anything more demanding: Do a smaller version of the tour you are planning, you will see if the groups chemistry works and if the skill levels are appropriate. Don't hesitate to invest some time for your preparation. You are working at the same place so you can't live that far away from each other. If you are planning to go climbing on your trip, at least go climbing in the gym. If you are going for strenuous multi-day hikes, test your condition on a shorter hike. You naturally will get used to each other and notice if it works. And you get some idea of the fitness level. 

You always learn how to do things better by doing them. But take baby steps: Start by spending a night in your back yard. See if you can do dinner, sleep, breakfast without going back in the house. Take note of what things you use and what things you don't. There are campgrounds you can drive to. So drive to one & spend the night. If things don't go well, you can always hop in the car & drive home. Find a friend that likes to go camping, and ask to go with them. 

Species in the forest will vary by locale. Here in the Pacific Northwest, Thimbleberry aka Salmonberry leaves are thick and soft, so they make a good wiping implement. The subtly-named How to Shit in the Woods is a good primer on this topic. One option described there is to use urine. Basically, you hold back the urine until you're done with the bowel movement, then use the pee to wash up. To clean your hands afterwards, cedar can help. Take a bite of cedar scales (leaves) straight from a tree. Chew it up & mix with saliva. Spit it out on to your hands and rub all over. 

Neglecting the wind (advection) the tarp shouldn't make any noticeable difference. I doubt you could measure even one Kelvin difference. Even a tent isn't providing a lot of warmth during night but as long as you stay active in the tent (by moving and/or cooking) you will notice an increase in the temperature. During night you are passive and most of the produced body heat should be restrained in the sleeping bag if you use it right (warm enough bag, as little openings as possible). If you (with you I mean the system of you and your sleeping bag!) release too much heat, this is bad for your comfort level, so there is not that much energy to heat up the volume of air in the tent. That being said, the smaller that volume of trapped air in the tent, and the less ventilation the tent has, the more will the air be heated up. In a tarp setup the ventilation and the "volume of air" is extremely high, mathematically spoken: tends infinity. Even surrounded by dense vegetation a tarp won't increase the temperature underneath noticeably. Another source of heat, or better said a source of heat loss is heat radiation. During night - especially clear nights - the heat radiation cools the atmosphere quite a lot. If you'd have a very big tarp, this source of heat loss should be reduced, therefore helping you to heat up. But for a normal sized tarp I doubt you feel the difference. 

A smart phone with a gps and maps app, and a solar panel to charge can replace a gps reciever, extra batteries, and a stack of maps. Many AT/PCT through hikers have this set up, when it rains they place the phone in a plastic bag and can still use the screen while keeping it dry. This can also double as your nightime entertainment (download movies/tv shows when in town) and emergency communication. Additionally, a spare phone is not more expensive than a new gps receiver, the extra batteries, and map software for it 

A general answer to a general question Long distance through hiking is a fairly well developed activity in terms of common best practices. I would suggest picking up a book on more popular through trails (The Appalachian Trail or Pacific Crest trail in the U.S.) that has many handy suggestions. Take from it what you will based on the terrain you will cover. 

Through hikes are typically separated into "sections" between resupply points. Nobody carries all their food on them the entire time, and people exit the trail to hike out to a nearby town (or the town is on the trail) to purchase supplies, relax, do laundry, etc. In certain areas it may be necessary to ship yourself supplies because there are no general stores available to purchase food and gear. It is important to identify those sections and plan ahead. Some areas it might be possible to hike from town to town and sleep in hotels, other areas it might be necessary to hike a week or more in the wilderness. Europe is a fairly well developed place compared to the western american wilderness, It may well be possible to hike through without much issue by going town to town and maybe skipping sections by hitchhiking or public transit with the most difficult parts in the eastern rural areas, without being familiar with the trail I wouldn't know which sections would be the most wild and which the most urban, but I suspect the trail is most likely very similar to the Appalachian trail with historic foot transit paths interconnected with constructed wilderness trail sections. The easternmost section hits the balkan mountains and is probably your most difficult section Your average through hiker will typically do 15-30 miles ( 25-50KM) a day on flat terrain, dropping to 10-20 (20-40km) a day in mountainous terrain. When I hiked the signficantly shorter John Muir Trail, we were pushing 30-40 km a day with 1000-1500M of elevation gain every day, many of the longer distance through hikers did the same. Keep in mind that this doesn't include "zero" days or shorter days for recovery, which will drag your average down significantly. What limits you more than your vacation time is your weather window, you will likely not want to hike in winter, early spring, or late fall so your choice of route direction and time frame will be dictated by this. Making sure you pass your colder/taller areas in the summer to avoid winter mountaineering conditions 

In general the idea (#1) of the guide is not a bad one but it is way simplifying weather forecast. It is not as easy to predict even short-time. Of course it could be a local guide with lots of experience (we don't know that by your question and maybe you also didn't know while on tour) and he will be right most of the times because he knows his mountains well. Still, high intensity weather conditions like arising storm aren't stable and easy to forecast. Things like moving direction and intensity can change quite rapidly. So this conservative idea #2 to search shelter in possible danger of lightning strike is a better idea than #1 in my opinion. What's most important here and missing in the question: What type of tour was it and on what kind of mountain? E.g if you are happily scrambling a via ferrata on an exposed mountain, I - without thinking a second - search ways to get shelter or off the route IMMEDIATELY when the first signs of lightning storm show up. Other extreme, walking through dense forest on the way to the approach hut while lightning might not be that bad (depends on winds but you are more secured to lightning strike). I guess you get the idea, conditions also count a lot for this kind of question. 

There are many folk and wild remedies you could learn, depending on what you're carrying & where you're hiking. Some examples: Honey will protect from infection. Spider webs will stop bleeding (for small cuts). Common plantain soothes burns, scrapes, etc. Chew it up to make a salve. 

Start with a clean mouth Take a small bite Chew it in the very front of your mouth Spit it out Notice how it tastes, and how you feel. Not just in your mouth & throat, but throughout your body. Dizzy? Fuzzy vision? Weak? 

If you didn't bring rope with you on purpose, you may still have shoelaces. You could use them in a bowdrill to make a fire in an emergency (but you better know how to make and use a bowdrill well beforehand). Two plants that make good cordage here in the Pacific Northwest are Stinging Nettle and Fireweed. You can use it fresh and green, but if you properly dry it out you can get a very strong rope. Traditional rope is made by laying up. Take 2 strands and hold the ends together. Twist one a 1/2-turn one way around its own axis, and then wrap it a 1/2-turn around the other strand. Do it again with the other strand against the first. With practice you can add a 3rd strand to the mix. This is a very strong setup, as any weakness in 1 strand gets covered by the other 2. When one strand nears its end, overlap it with a new strand for a few twists. For a bigger rope, lay 3 smaller ropes up together. Repeat as needed for size & strength.