The second photo can be seen in the Reuters article Japan makes no-go nuclear zone, PM faces more criticism, and was taken a month and a bit after the earthquake and tsunami in 2011 

Is there any scientific evidence to back up this claim? (This isn't the only defense made against the claim - other Muslims claim that Aisha wasn't nine when Muhammad had sex with her) 

An ad from World Vision advertised on Channel Seven today: A gift that lasts a lifetime | World Vision Australia (another Aussie mentioned TV personality's Melissa Doyle's story to me previously, so World Vision's promotion of this story is effective) $URL$ 

but doesn't indicate what proportion weren't "Japanese foreign nationals", or define what "Japanese-American" means (someone with Japanese ethnicity, or Japanese nationality?). 

Have more British Muslim men joined the Islamist groups ISIS and Nusra Front than are serving the British armed forces? 

From the Fairfax website traveller.com.au: Tourism and environmental damage: How travellers are ruining the world: 

The tweet references a mainstream media report published in 2004, but I'm a little skeptical for a couple of reasons. Sometimes individual news reports are mistaken, and sometimes individual individual assessments by counter-terrorism agencies are mistaken. I'm also skeptical because misinformation about Japan and Islam has been fairly popular. Did Al Qaeda attempt to commit a terrorist attack in Japan, and fail to take place at least in part because of a lack of Muslim manpower? 

Source (Replica sales website) Were there World War II propaganda posters in the United States telling people not to speak German, Italian or Japanese, and to "Speak American"? 

In addition, there's another photo (example link) of the book with a sticker on it, seemingly with a different background: 

Fukushima Diary is also implying that the nuclear incidents associated with the March 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami is making heart attacks more likely, and seemingly not because of a lack of exercise. From Death rate of heart disease in Fukushima became the highest in Japan 

The man received treatment for rabies, and it appears the treatment was done immediately, without checking whether he had developed any symptoms of rabies: 

Ninjas are alleged to have determined the depth of moats by taking a reed that's attached to the bottom of the moat, and measuring the height of the reed above water, and how far forward they had to push the reed until it was submerged, and using Pythagoras' theorem. Is this the case? Some characters in the Japanese drama series "Nihonjin No Shiranai Nihongo" debate this claim, starting from around here in this YouTube clip. As background, while most of the students in the class are fairly silly, the character who speaks at 2:48 saying that Pythagoras' theorem was mentioned in Edo period documents is a very serious and studious individual, and therefore unlikely to support bogus claims. The claim is also mentioned in this CIA document posted in 2007. Apart from the paragraph about ninjas turning into a stone, most of the content in the document is at least plausible. 

While the Daily Mail is well-known for publishing articles about science, it isn't as well known for reliability, so I'm not confident about it being used to evaluate a claim. Was the Fukushima Dai-ichi accident responsible for earless bunnies? 

Soviet Literature, Issues 1-6, from Foreign Languages Publishing House, 1974 - Russian literature has 

Has freedom of movement of people lead to a reduction of wages, and a worsening of working conditions, in the UK? From 'If you've got money, you vote in ... if you haven't got money, you vote out' 

Assuming that "successfully manage" means managing a presedential campaign that resulted in that candidate's election, is Trump's election campaign the first successful US presidential campaign with a female campaign manager? 

Spotted via $URL$ (courtesy of a parody picture in $URL$ but described as real by Mother Jones in The Enemy in Your Pants: The military’s decades-long war against STDs.: 

Are a large proportion of programming job applicants unable to implement FizzBuzz (or a similarly simple task)? 

This is contrasted to Jefferson saying "When the people fear the government, there is tyranny. When the government fears the people, there is liberty." (There's a logo of "Gun Owners of America" in the top left hand corner) 

The figures vary. There may or may not be more British Muslims serving Britain than Islamist groups, but figures indicate that Muslims are under-represented in the armed forces. From The Guardian, British army aims to recruit more Muslims after worries over low numbers (talking about the army, not the armed forces as a whole) 

The Atlas of Humanity (about page, about page for DeFactory) and Wikipedia explicitly say that women who have not undergone FGM are not allowed to wear clothing, with pretty much the same text: 

Mainstream media reports suggest the fandom is genuine. So, like, likable: Tony Abbott's Facebook popularity soars thanks to Narendra Modi indicates that Indian PM Narendra Modi has a lot of facebook fans, and getting mentioned by him may have slashdotted Abbott: 

Some pages talk about whether tightening creams work or not, but they don't seem that reliable. For example Do Vagina Tightening Creams Really Work? and Here Are the Real and Ridiculous Reviews for Vaginal Shrinking Cream. One product's site has a page titled Clinical Trials, which talks about a "Prospective, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo controlled Pilot Trial of the efficacy and safety of PK24® for women with vaginal wall relaxation", but the page doesn't indicate how the control group fared. Can you tighten your vagina with one of these creams? 

Based on a pubmed search for the two authors, the Nature article referred to is presumably Conservation science: A market approach to saving the whales (paywalled) (paper metrics - tweeted by 50, picked up by 4 news outlets, in the 82 percentile of Nature papers) I'm suspicious that Endo, or the authors of the Nature paper itself, is comparing two different numbers, such as overall turnover in the anti-whaling activism and the net profit on the part of whaling, to make the numbers look similar. Is anti-whaling activism almost as big an industry as the whaling industry? Just to be clear, I'm only talking about comparing anti-whaling activism to the whaling industry, not about comparing either of them to alternative commercial utilisation of whales (for example whale watching being an A$2.1 billion a year industry). 

The Atlantic: The Plight of Vietnam's 'Mail-Order' Brides has a colour photo of the Chinese version of the ad, though it wasn't taken by the journalist themself: 

Obama is probably descended from a black slave - but from his white mother. From the Wikipedia article Family of Barack Obama: 

I can't vouch for the authenticity of this particular ad, but Vietnamese brides are a real phenomenon, including them running away. China’s vanishing mail-order brides: The imported wives who won’t stick around 

Does China have the death penalty for spammers? Example claim: Welcome to the United States of Canada. 

Did Sir David Attenborough say the following about Israelis? From Israel has lost both the battle and the war (Wikipedia article on Arab News), but the quote has been circulating elsewhere as well: 

43 is a citation of Bhana, Surendra; Vahed, Goolam H. (2005). The making of a political reformer: Gandhi in South Africa, 1893–1914. Manohar. pp. 44–5, 149. ISBN 978-81-7304-612-4. 

Texas Daddy Whacking the Lies of Comfort Women quotes "Texas Daddy" citing a report by the United States written in August 1944 (that is, when it was at war with Japan, and had every reason to paint Japan in a negative light): 

The sentence quoted is the only sentence in the article that mentions sex involving US forces and Japanese women. This makes it difficult to know exactly what the article is alleging or not alleging. As the Alternet article doesn't explicitly allege that individual clients knew that the women were sex slaves, or that the US government knew the women were sex slaves, I won't investigate whether there was US complicity in the enslavement. 

Do 100,000 deaths in the US occur per year which could be avoided by health care workers washing their hands more? The CDC Foundation (not the CDC itself) says that 99,000 deaths a year are caused by healthcare associated infections, but doesn't say how many are caused by a lack of hand-washing. Hygiene Fast Facts by the CDC claims that 1 million deaths world-wide are caused by a lack of hand-washing by everyone (not just healthcare workers). 

Note: the white stuff is probably snow, not ash. An image of this was posted to Reddit, and has received at least 1699 upvotes. There's no news of this incident in English on Google News. (Searched using firefighter cat Denmark) Kitty Saved from Fire, Happy Reunion cites a reddit commenter mentioning an article from JV.dk. Unfortunately, I can't read Danish, but the sentence mentioning cats is 

Did Persian rug makers traditionally deliberately include imperfections, often called Persian flaws? If so, did they do so because only Allah was perfect? Example claim: 

Hiroshima survivors: Obama speech moving, 'more than enough' surveys ordinary Hiroshima residents who lived through or were born soon after the atomic bombing. One of them said that it was an apology, while another implicitly said it was not an apology by saying that a US apology can't happen until Japan apologises for Pearl Harbor: 

From The Straits Times: "Fake rice made of plastic reported to have reached Asian shores but not Singapore's" 

At the National Museum of Ethnology, in Osaka, Japan, it's claimed that an inner, stretchy layer of a hijab is referred to by Malaysians as a "ninja", and that it was thus named based on the clothing ninjas wore. I'm aware of non-Muslims referring to wearers of various headwear as ninjas, but not of this. Do Muslims non-ironically refer to a part of their hijab as a "ninja", and was it etymologically derived from the Japanese word "ninja"? 

Are people with depression more likely to commit murder than people without depression? In Claims about Andreas Lubitz's mental health only serve to stigmatise depression, Pete Etchells writes 

Meanwhile, one of the articles linked to even says the ban was in place from 2011 Does Kuwait have, or has it had, a ban on several Muslim-majority countries? A ban on Jewish-majority Israel, though very plausible, would not be confirmation of this claim. 

Coober Pedy is an opal mining town in the middle of nowhere in Australia. It's very hot, and lots of people live underground. I've frequently heard that it means "White man in a hole" in a local Aboriginal language. Example claim: 

I'm not interested in whether vaccines can cause autism (there's lots of questions on this site already about that), but in Alex's claim that autism doesn't exist in dogs. Can dogs have autism? 

By comparison, the Wikipedia article Ukrainian collaborationism with the Axis powers only mentions the Crimean Tatars once, as an ethnic group which was the victim of racism along others such as Jews and Roma (gypsies): 

The Wikipedia article has since been deleted, with one user citing Puppy Channel Is Dog Tired, written in 2005, suggesting that the channel never existed: 

The Huffington Post has reported on a video showing a man sexually harassing a woman and then getting beat up by her: $URL$ It looks fake. For example the harasser tries to grab her breast by reaching over her shoulder rather than reaching around her, which doesn't seem practical, and it seems strange for an incident to have been noticed by the owner of the closed circuit TV footage (not to mention being leaked to the internet, and also reaching English-language media in a couple of days), unless one of the two reported the incident. Is this video genuine, or is it staged? 

From twitter, a tweet that's going viral, including among climate change skeptics (action against climate change is being discussed at Davos): 

Doing a brief search came across censuses created by Nazi Germany after the country had officially discriminated against minorities, such as this one in 1939, plus mentions of one particular book, IBM and the Holocaust, which alleges that the 1933 census was involved in the Holocaust. Did Nazi Germany use the German census in its "targeting" (an understatement by FD, if you ask me) of minorities? In particular, did they utilise German censuses which were perceived by those filling it out as genuine? 

Is this a phrase that has been used a reasonable number of times in Asian countries before it was called an "Asian Proverb"? 

(I think it is talking about creams - I might be wrong and it's talking about surgery, but the following is definitely talking about creams) 'Feel tight and wanted again!' The disturbing 'vaginal shrinking' creams that promise to make you feel like a virgin again from the Daily Mail gives more information on vaginal tightening creams. It says that there are several of them, and that some people say they work, and some people say they don't work 

One newspaper article is asserting that some betting is from individuals with a legitimate financial interest, while others others are not: Legitimate financial interest: 

Copy of an opinion piece run, and subsequently retracted, in the Korea Times (probably authored by a pro-Japanese troll) 

From Billy Baldwin (verified user, 109 RTs, 805 likes, Wikipedia biography), referring to Jenna Jameson, who used to be a porn star: 

In March 2005, was it illegal for employers to discriminate on the basis of intelligence under US law? 

(Lisa Wade's PhD is in sociology) A screenshot of this blog post has received at least 515 retweets and 421 favorites on twitter. The claim seems surprising for me, because I suspect that there are some people who are extremely intelligent but are absolute monsters. Also, I would have thought that if someone with a strong justice sensitivity witnessed someone acting cruelly, they'd engage the parts of the brain associated with logic to try to ascertain why someone was behaving cruelly. Is concern for equality linked to logic, not to emotion? 

Yes, he gave the talk, and the translation is authentic. A blog post TRANSCRIPT: [Putin at] Meeting of the Valdai International Discussion Club [partial transcript] has a transcript matching the clip which was tweeted, and says that it's from the Valdai International Discussion Club, and was given on 19 September 2013. It gives a link to the YouTube video Broadcast: Vladimir Putin's Speech at the Valdai Club's Plenary Meeting. The Wikipedia article on Valdai International Discussion Club gave $URL$ as its official home page, and it in turn links to $URL$ , the uploader of the video. The BBC has an article about this speech: Russia's Putin shines at Valdai summit as he castigates West. The bottom half discusses the content referred to in the tweet. 

Made prominent by Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) with 7K Retweets and 9K Likes, but also retweeted by Lalo Dagach and others: 

"Help" is is being used rather ironically here, as can be seen by the pause. It means the city being the target of an atomic bomb. As described in the NZ Herald: 

the article mentions statistics about a rise in the number of reports of hate crimes, but I couldn't see any mention of numbers of investigations, prosecutions or convictions, except for a single case in the last paragraph. 

In the following ad, a trainee German coastguard is shown the equipment, and then left to his own devices. He receives a message from a ship which is sinking, saying "Mayday, mayday, we are sinking", to which the coastguard replies "What are you thinking about?". The ad ends with the Berlitz logo, and the apt slogan "Language for Life" underneath. $URL$ The ad is regarded as real by the piece Berlitz had to learn a new language to save its business, an excerpt from "The End of Competitive Advantage: How to Keep Your Strategy Moving as Fast as Your Business" by Rita Gunther McGrath: 

He has since apologised for offending people, but hasn't said that he got the facts wrong. Did the United States only, or predominantly, involve Japanese foreign nationals in its internment program in WWII? I know it's not 100% correct because Italians and Germans were also interned, but I want to know if the statement is even vaguely close to the truth. The Washington Post article mentions 

Google translation: Cross-sectional view of the female genital. Plus a photo of an actual vagina, $URL$ , which has a description in multiple European and Asian languages, and which is used on the Finnish edition of Wikipedia amongst others. To satisfy those who distrust Wikipedia, I did a google image search for "女性器の断面図". One page I came across was $URL$ , a page about Endometrial cancer treatment: