What your mother gives you can be called a scholarship - similar to what some governments and organizations provide to students who need financial support. In this case, she is your sponsor. Scholarships might be taxable or not - see the example of the Australian tax office. If you need to find an accurate name for that cash, that would be up to you (opinion based). As stated in the comments, you can use allowance, family support or any other of the namings mentioned by luchonacho. Cheers 

I've worked in 2015 on a survey collecting ~300 answers from 130 different countries. We had similar requirements to what you described, with multilanguage functionality on top. it was not a RCT (Randomized Controlled Trial), we were surveying on conditions of work. We ended up using SurveyMonkey which costed 900€ and had only the online functionality, which is a mobile optimized web page survey (compatible with any system), very fast to set up and with the ability to skip questions and add pictures. We could not capture GPS data (never heard of surveys doing that), but we could get the IP address of respondents, which can be a proxy for their location. Pictures were also possible to add, but we used it only to brand the survey. We used Word-files via email for "offline answers", which we then manually inserted back on the website. We didn't have much field work, but I know it would have worked great to fill the survey in a phone or tablet easily, as long as there was internet access. The main thing that made us take SurveyMonkey vs using self-hosted open-source software like LimeSurvey was: 

A consumer is rational if he decides for the option that maximizes his/her utility. When studying the bachelor for Economics, in microeconomics class, the teacher would always tell you that it is assumed that consumers are rational, meaning that they maximize their profits based on their utility payoffs. The teacher would state that the utility expressed in currency, and the student compares this to the cost of several homogeneous goods, choosing the cheapest that maximizes the payoff and consumer profit. Economics graduates often forget that in real world there are rarely homogeneous goods and consumers cannot easily express their utilities. So, when I'm buying a 3\$ water in a coffeeshop instead of buying the same water for 1\$ in the supermarket next door, my utility of buying together the water is different, therefore i'm rational even if I spend more to buy an apparently homogeneous product - because i'm buying the service, or because the time saved amplifies the utility of the water. Besides this, take a look at the concept of bounded rationality. 

I can recommend to read the source from UNDP, gives interesting inputs on the other dimensions too. There are mathematical reasons to chose a low minimum It is also convenient to choose minimums that make the dimensions non-zero, or not too close to zero even for countries which would score close to the minimum. Since the HDI is all about the combination of several aspects, and the formula is: $HDI = (I_{health} \cdot I_{education} \cdot I_{income})^\frac13$ If any country would score a zero in any dimension this would dominate the whole HDI (make it zero), which defeats the purpose of the index. The index aims at acknowledging average human development balancing the three aspects. 

Referring to the Haiti earthquake, you can see this example of reporting from SOS Children's Villages on their use of funds, or if you want to see how policy can be improved, you can read more from OECD. Naturally, several emergency relief initiatives are accused of having outrageous costs, as people in these kind of scenarios are typically paid a premium for their hardship, but also due to the need of special protection or transportation equipment. An example from Haiti, helicopters or special airplanes had to be used to land in a runway which is affected by an earthquake. Also, the chance of corruption or appearance of guerilla groups is very likely in disaster situations. 

As to pricing your items, you can set the prices as a percentage of discount from the market price in general, and adjust for a lower discount on the items where you have losses. 

Although this doesn't answer your question per se, is the only reference I could think of on the topic of "destruction". 

This source has several links for different methods (such as the income replacement method or the needs-based method). 

Regarding your later comments on "maintaining currencies that are a false measure of wealth": This is a different question already. Exchange rates and valuation / devaluation of currency can be influenced by the central bank of a country, with different aims. Many countries artificially devaluate their currency to make their exports cheaper - with a consequence that national wages are lowered compared to the rest of the world. See my answer here for more details. 

This is not the insurer's problem. If you suffered damages, you receive the previously agreed compensation. It is up to you to rebuild or not with the compensation you received, with whatever conditions the market has at the moment. 

The theory behind free trade is denominated comparative advantage, and as mike stated, the advantage is that a country, as a whole, benefits from specializing in the fields at which it is best, as it will get more than it would if it would produce everything alone. In practice, a big advantage is the ability to operate for a bigger market, reaping economies of scale. This is particularly advantageous for small countries. The downside is that, although free trade will make the country as a whole richer, it wont make the society necessarily equally richer, so it wont guarantee that an economy will develop. This connects with the concept of exploitative trade and fair trade: by entering international trade, developing countries might leave their economies vulnerable to foreign companies or governments, sometimes in critical sectors such as food and energy. 

The violation of the preference axioms is frequent in the real world, which questions the usefulness of neoclassical model results. This is something that most neoclassical economists will say that it is just "noise", or has a minimum effect, while there is limited empirical data to sustain this - maybe some lab work (controlled experiences), but not real world observations that I know of. The consensus in most policy making institutions and economic universities it is, still (and unfortunately), that neoclassical assumptions are what should be used. You can read Transaction cost economics for a different perspective which doesn't assume the preference axioms, from Oliver Williamson, Nobel Prize in 2009. It refutes the preference axioms, stating that there is bounded rationality in every choice: humans have limited reasoning and searching capabilities. Here's a summary of his work on TCE: 

Beyond what is written in this Economist article, the general principle is an estimation based on statistical data. The 4 major aspects are private consumption, government consumption, investment and net exports. I've worked as an auditor and cooperated with colleagues from the national bank of Portugal, which collected and cross-checked financial data to be able to calculate the GDP. Looking at the individual components: 

I agree with EnergyNumbers. A few more points on coal however: the value and investment can vary slightly depending on the region of the world you are on. Australia still as significant interest in coal with several mines in place and new mines being planned, such as Adani. Coal investments, here in Australia, are under extreme pressure from environmental groups and citizens in general. China and Australia still have a high interest in coal, due to existing investments which will last 10-20 years more. The energy plants in Australia are mostly coal based, and the steel production in China uses coal extensively (currently). Even in Australia, though, the end of the coal era is discussed already. The major use of coal is energy (through burning it). There are other uses, but I don't think these could sustain the industry as it is now - the demand would be much smaller. For possible uses, check here: $URL$ Finally, ethically you shouldn't invest in Coal. Looking at ethical or sustainable funds do not have coal industries in their portfolios.