Human rights are not absolutes. Rather, they're our best attempt at expressing and codifying the golden rule. They are as imaginary as other ideals, laws, guidelines and best-practices - so again, whether they exist or not/are imaginary or not will depend on whether your definitions include other abstract concepts. Logically, it makes sense for humans to treat each other respectfully (so that we are treated respectfully in turn) and to protect vulnerable segments of our population (so that we too are protected during times of vulnerability). Scientifically, we can show that the ideals expressed by the golden rule translate to happier people and improved productivity and quality of life - and assuming those are values we collectively agree on, we can continue to study ways to improve the situation for as many as we can. 

The short answer is: We cannot. Assuming that we humans have finite powers of perception, it is impossible to distinguish a being that exactly fills our perception window from one that extends beyond it. For example: 

The base position in a scientific endeavour is that we don't assume something to exist (or to have some specific attribute) until we have some reason to think that it does - i.e., evidence to support it. So yes: atheism is both scientific and supported by the current body of evidence. If you can design a proper experiment and collect data that casts doubt on the current atheistic conclusion, go for! Just know that your god-concept will not only have to explain your own experimental results but also the decades of null results. 

My opinion as a former mathematician, is that infinite series prove nothing of the sort -- you can make silly paradoxes with them if you're not trained -- IMO an infinite series converges or doesn't, in neither case is it a proof of God. You appear to be, are you, deifying your concept of infinity? I.e. you have some concept of infinity (or some limit to infinity), and saying, "that is God". That seems to me an example of man creating god, a mind-made artefact. There's a fable I read once, 

Are you making some kind of religion out of science? Why are you taking, as the subject of your argument, what you yourself describe as "metaphysical" topics in science (cosmology and quantum mechanics)? If these don't "lead to welfare & happiness" (I studied them at university, and I'm not sure they do), why not choose other topics (scientific fields) which matter more, which have more practical/tangible/beneficial/knowable consequences? Alternatively do you know the physics or history-of-physics (not "metaphysics") well enough, that you could explain to a clever 12-year-old (who is curious but uneducated) what experimental/experiential observations led people to develop theories like "Big Bang" etc.? 

The weak anthropic principle essentially states that when we observe the universe, we have 100% probability of observing a universe in which it is possible for humans to exist - because we already know that we do. If the universe is such that it is impossible for humans to exist, we obviously wouldn't be here to do the observing! This is sometimes important to remember when we're observing the universe that we're in - just because it is impossible for humans to observe a universe filled with 'Smergs'1 instead of galaxies doesn't mean that the alternate universe is impossible, just unobservable. Sometimes the answer, unsatisfying as it may be, to the question of 'Why do we observe the universe to be like this?' is that it's impossible for humans, specifically, to be in that different universe. So that said, Lee Smolin's mistake comes in at point #2. Smolin states: 

That said, as a species we've developed a pretty big perception-window that an infinite-being candidate would have to fill! (And if one day we do encounter a being indistinguishable from an actually-infinite one we'll probably have to say 'Close enough. Now what?') 

Social animals (including humans) learned long ago that cooperation is a winning long-term strategy. Can you imagine how shitty life would be if we didn't have our modern division of labour? If nobody had time to program a computer because we were all so busy foraging food for today and desperately hoping we'll be able to do the same tomorrow? Evolution (descent with modification) is an 'is', not an 'ought'. It happens to populations, not individuals. Selfish behaviours may help some individuals short-term, yet can be disastrous for the population as a long-term strategy. Our history shows the evolution of the concept and codification of human rights from earlier social constructs, such as the earliest expressions of the golden rule right back in antiquity. There is nothing unnatural about an evolving social contract among social animals such as humans. 

Writing this answer reminds me of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance ... in which, about two thirds of the way through the book, the protagonist becomes angry to discover that "What is good?" is not considered the central question of philosophy, but was somehow demoted by Aristotle to a sub-sub-category, of "logic" or something like that. 

As you already know, being a user on Buddhism.SE, that (i.e. ending suffering) is the central theme of the Buddhist doctrine, for example as it's described in many of the suttas of the Pali canon. To address the comments, just while I'm here: 

The converse is true, i.e.: "If assuming that a premise is true leads to a paradox, that shows that the premise isn't true." There are mathematical proofs that work like this: Wikipedia calls it proof by contradiction. For example, "How can we prove that the square root of 2 is irrational? Well, assume that it's rational. Then, (see Pythagorean Theorem Proof which shows that if it is rational then a paradox exists). Therefore (to avoid the paradox) the premise (that it is rational) cannot be true: therefore Q. E. D." 

For that reason a Buddhist might say, "I don't see an atman (i.e. an eternal and independent self or soul) in the skandhas, i.e. in the body or in the consciousness or in the sensations or etc." Buddhism furthermore teaches that views about "self" are a source of dukkha (which means 'suffering' and/or 'unsatisfactoriness'): views like "this is me" and "this is mine" are unastisfactory e.g. because of illness and death etc. The Dalai Lama said that he prefers to think of himself as being a human like any other; that if he thinks of himself as special, as being "the" Dalai Lama, as being "the" Nobel Prize winner, then that thinking "imprisons" him. Buddhism recommends not being 'attached' to things (because the 'Second Noble Truth' is that attachment is the cause of suffering). Becoming detached from a view of self is part of the first stage of enlightenment. 

Atheism is a null hypothesis. Treating atheism scientifically is to say "I don't believe that god(s) have any effect on [thing being studied]". Calling atheism into question is as simple as providing statistically significant data demonstrating an effect where the null hypothesis would predict none. For example, an experiment to test the efficacy of some arbitrary treatment on some arbitrary disease would be roughly formulated as: QUESTION: Does [treatment X] have any effect on [disease/condition Y]? Null hypothesis: Use of [treatment X] is statistically indistinguishable from a similarly-administered placebo. Now, using 'prayer' or any other supernaturally-themed technique as a possible treatment, it's easy to see that the null hypothesis is one formulation of atheism. To scientifically demonstrate that god(s) exist requires starting from an assumption of atheism and then demonstrating that the null hypothesis fails to explain some set of phenomena. The long history of failure to do so is actually evidence against certain god-concepts, especially interventionist ones. Indeed, if god(s) exist, we might expect to see some unambiguous statistical trends such as: 

So for human beings to be able to observe galaxies, humans need to 1) exist (to do the observing) and 2) galaxies need to exist (to be observed). If humans can't exist without galaxies, then anything that disrupts galaxy formation will thwart us humans from doing the observing right at that first step. Thus, once we have proved the necessity of galaxies for human existence we can conclude that the cosmological constant must be in the range of values that allow galaxies to form, thanks in part to the weak anthropic principle. 

The logic of the paradox in the OP depends on "zero multiplied by infinity equals zero" (i.e. zero-probability-per-point multiplied by infinite-points equals a paradox). You get that equation by doing a division-by-zero, "one divided by zero equals infinity" (i.e. finite-area-of-the-table divided by the size-of-a-zero-area point equals infinitely many points). But "division by zero" is an undefined operation. Using it results in well-known, trivial (grade-school level), easily recogizable algebraic fallacies, for example as shown here: Division by zero -- Fallacies It doesn't prove anything about the universe, it's pushing the numbering system until it stalls. You can divide one by n, where n is any non-zero number. 

These take the same adjective but are not the same "things". Your adding the noun "life" in your statements lets you say, "A and B are both human life, C and D are not human life", which lets you equate A and B. But notwithstanding your equation they're still not the same thing. I suspect that "a fetus is a human being" implies some type of reification. Statements like "all human lives are equal valuable and equally protected" is only more-or-less true, and in limited/specific circumstances. For example people are naturally inclined to protect their family and friends more than they protect strangers and enemies. And for example the national law (in many though not all countries) is more inclined to protect post-birth independent human life more than pre-birth non-independent human life. 

I think the answer to your question also depends on the definition of 'Falling' as well as the definition of 'Bottomless Pit'. If endless free-fall is your goal, pretty much any ol' orbit will do. You will be constantly falling, but barring a chance collision with an object whose orbit crosses your own at just the right time you would never collide with another solid object. If you want to be falling INTO an identifiable something, rather than simply being in free-fall at any arbitrary point of open space, see Joseph Neathawk's answer regarding black holes. If by 'pit' we mean something with physical walls surrounding the falling object, not just open space or a gravity well, we still have a few other options. One of the things to remember with a question like this is that there is no preferred 'down' in the universe - there's only 'away/towards' some other reference object. 

Ah. Short answer: No, and a solid argument for the opposite. ASSUMPTIONS: First, by secular argument I assume that you mean one that does not include magic - i.e., that relies only on what we know of the physical universe, how it works, and some reasonable extrapolation from there into areas where the results aren't in yet. Second, be aware that you are taking as a given that something called a 'soul' exists. While the nature and properties of 'soul' are not well defined, I will assume for the sake of argument that by 'soul' we can mean 'some core aspect of self'. Third, we must assume that the 'soul' has some effect on/control of our minds/bodies while we are alive in order to meaningfully represent 'us'. This should follow fairly obviously from the second assumption, but it is a critical consideration to keep in mind. Fourth, in order for a soul to carry that core aspect of self into the future postmortem, we must assume the soul pre-death is largely the same as the soul post-death.