This adds up to the widely published figures of roughly 8% of men and well below 1% of women. One example of an authoratitive source publishing this summary is the American National Eye Institute, who give the following: 

Summary: complete colour blindness is very rare (less than 0.01%). What's common is deficiency in red-green colour vision in men, which is around 8% (sex-linked because it's from an X-chromosome fault). This is based on a huge amount of evidence from accurate, widespread diagnostic testing. You're unlikely to notice it in another person through normal social interaction because people with red-green colour blindness very often have enough contextual clues, experience, and data from other aspects of colour that it's rarely an issue outside of certain situations that require unusually accurate colour identification from hue. 

It's a matter of perspective. One average individual is likely to suffer less from contracting Zika than they would from many other diseases, including the much more unpleasant and more often deadly Dengue Fever. But looking at whole populations, Zika is much harder to monitor, trace, predict, control or treat - for many people, there may be little to no sign they had it or were even at risk until it's too late. The (very effective) strategy used against Ebola was all about tracking and tracing, isolating people and beginning treatment as soon as they were found to be at risk, before symptoms developed. And there's another good reason why it's difficult from a public health point of view, quoted from Mike Turner, head of infection and immuno-biology at the Wellcome Trust, in the same article: 

I suggest you read the current WHO report on Alcohol and Health 2011. Look for example at page 26, Figure 12: Alcohol abuse is the main cause of liver cancer (which can develop following liver cirrhosis) in the Western World (in other places it's still Hepatitis B). Other cancers linked to alcohol consumption are esophageal cancer, mouth and oropharynx cancer, and a few others (colon cancer, breast cancer) where it appears to be a risk factor, too. Quoting from the same report (p. 20): 

without saying anything about whether those results were accurate. But even if they were, my guess would be that changes in oxygen saturation caused by a severe bout of malaria would far outweigh any possible changes in light absorption caused by Plasmodium parasites. But I'm curious anyway. A quick PubMed search has turned up nothing, but maybe I've been using the wrong search terms - is there any evidence available that such a device/app could in fact work? The students have won the "Women's Empowerment Award" from Microsoft's Imagine Cup in 2013, which is wonderful, but the website doesn't have any additional information, either. 

We won't know rates until we've weeded out the false diagnoses that result from heightened awareness of a rare condition. I'm trying to find a plausible published ball-park estimate, no success so far. But as always, beware of alarmist reporting of relative increases in rates. Plenty of sources talk plausibly about 1,000% increases - but a ten-fold increase in something very rare is still rare. Do other mosquito-born diseases cause birth defects and how does their threat level compare to the Zika virus? It does appear to be unusual: 

Counting any win in a single event, league or series, by a single competitor If we treat this as any case of one competitor winning one event, series or league, arguably, the longest odds would be jockey Frankie Dettori winning all 7 consecutive races in one day at Ascot Champion's Day, 1996, at odds of 25,051-1. Great British Racing magazine: 

Here's another 2013 quote, this time from a lobby group on behalf of Asian-American cancer patients calling for more access to clinical trials: 

Lots of related links can be found here - it appears to be more frequent than I thought, even Vitamin C supplements containing sorbitol have been found as a cause of diarrhea... 

Survival of three weeks is definitely not possible. The longest time you can survive under ideal conditions without drinking (or being administered) any water is projected at 10 days. Other than that (depending on whether the depth of the coma interferes with your breathing regulation), a few days should be survivable. But I doubt you'd be in a good enough condition to outrun a zombie afterwards. Hard to find references on that, though. 

Today, I was made aware of a research project made by Ugandan CS students who claim to have built a smartphone app together with a device called a "matiscope" that 

However, studies appear to contradict this. According to the book "Alkohol und Alkoholfolgekrankheiten" by Singer/Teyssen (in German, sorry), studies during wine degustations (where ethanol is brought in contact with the oral mucosa but not swallowed), there was no relevant rise in blood alcohol levels, unless contact was for more than one hour (and then only to a BAC of 0.015). They conclude that a stronger buzz after drinking ethanol through a straw has never been scientifically observed. 

Upper-class swearing has been not uncommon in UK literature for decades too. Tom Sharpe's satires are a good example, though I can't find many good quotes online. 

Health organisations are always quite restrained in their descriptions of psychological or behaviour-related symptoms, and the violent behaviour tends to follow indirectly from the combination of "rabid" hyperactivity and fear. For a more vivid description, here's an article in i09 discussing how this kind of rabies inspired popular tropes in zombie fiction: 

I've seen many articles simplify this 2-3% estimate to "less than 5%". Here's one example from 2014) in an article discussing why so few US patients access clinical trials. This appears to confirm that whatever the very latest estimates are (and it's possible they're not be published yet), could certainly be as low as 5%, and may be lower. 

Snopes have looked into the claim that he apologised, and found it to be false. The Atlantic have published an analysis piece around why it is common in diplomacy to stop short of an apology like this, and why the line is drawn where it is. 

If you've seen the movie Zero Dark Thirty, you've seen how the CIA tried to ascertain the identity of Osama bin Laden by sending a doctor to the compound where bin Laden was suspected to be hiding. The doctor represented a sham vaccination program (against Hepatitis B), asking for permission to vaccinate the children in the compound, with the intention of running DNA analyses on the syringes afterwards to determine whether any of the children were bin Laden's. The effort failed because the doctor didn't get a chance to vaccinate any of the children. On a recent episode of Star Talk Radio, Lori Garrett (sp?) asserted that this caused a violent backlash against healthcare workers, including numerous assassinations of volunteer helpers to the Polio eradication campaign. An article in Scientific American seems to corroborate this. (The doctor himself appears to have been sentenced to 33 years in a Pakistani prison for his actions.) Moral issues with using healthcare workers for non-healthcare purposes aside, is that really true? Did the Taliban (or other Muslim groups) start or increase their anti-vaccination actions after this became public? I was under the impression that religious "aversion" to vaccination campaigns (together with all sorts of conspiracy theories) has been around much longer than this incident. Are there any studies on this? 

I can't find any other mosquito-borne disease with a link to a specific pattern of birth defects. It's worth mentioning that there are other infections that cause microcephaly, notably: 

As for their evidence and reasoning, they mostly draw on analysis of existing reports, highlighting that the more outlandish claims weren't the only objections: 

The above all refer to "adults with cancer" while the original quote didn't specify adults. However, children make up less than 1% of Americans with cancer so couldn't make up the difference to bring the total up to 5% even if 100% of US children were on clinical trials. 

It's certainly not universal. In the UK, swearing is relatively common among the upper and lower classes and aversion to swearing is a primarily lower middle class trait. This has been studied quantitatively in this wonderfully-titled paper: 

I can't find any evidence that it's an official estimate, and there's nothing resembling this estimate in any of WHO's official fact sheets or information pages that I can see. I'd be amazed if they were publishing official estimates when so little is known. Bare in mind that 60%-80% of cases are asymptomatic - which makes it very hard to judge how many people have had it. It looks like this was an unguarded ball-park comment by one official which the media have jumped on. Is the number of people potentially infected large compared to other tropical diseases? The speed and rate at which it is spreading is very high - even in an article questioning the claimed risks, Nature describe it as: 

The argument as I know it goes somewhere along the lines of "water drops act like lenses that focus sunbeams so that they burn the plant". Several experiments have failed to reproduce this, though (link in German, sorry) - a drop of water, even a perfect half-sphere simply doesn't act as a lens. However, there are circumstances where it might happen, and that appears to be if the structure of the leaf surface is not flat but irregular or hairy. In that case, water drops might "hover" above the actual leaf surface, and sunbeams might be focused enough to cause damage. This is not to be expected with grass, though. 

Yes, for example you could consider cervical cancer a sexually transmitted disease. If you don't have sex (with others), you won't contract HPV. 

In this video, Ted Cruz is asked by the newsanchor how he feels about asking for disaster relief funds in the wake of hurricane Harvey when he opposed such a bill for hurricane Sandy. He argues that he is all for disaster relief, but that the hurricane Sandy bill became a 50 billion dollar bill, 2/3 of which were "pork spending" that had nothing to do with Sandy, which is why he opposed that bill. Is it true that the bill contained that much unrelated material? One of the YouTube comments links to an act that reads more like a 10 billion dollar increase in spending for the National Flood Insurance Program. But maybe that's not the relevant bill in this case? 

Actually, it appears to be even lower than this. From the book A National Cancer Clinical Trials System for the 21st Century by the Institute of Medicine (US) Committee on Cancer Clinical Trials and the NCI Cooperative Group Program, published in 2010: 

However the story had already been reported in many places, including in the French press, as if the knee-touching led directly to Fallon losing his job. For example (Google translation from French): 

They then list 10 examples, of which the longest odds were 1,000-1. Sporting Life magazine also make a reasonable case that it is the most unlikely sporting event ever (if only single bets are counted): 

The speech is very, very consistently about training and supporting the opposition to ISIS / Daesh / ISIL / IS, with details about who exactly is being trained and what the plan is for them. If "training of ISIL forces" was intentional, they'd be training ISIL to be "a new force against ISIL", "fighting ISIL on the ground" to "end the terror that is ISIL" and ensure that "Iraqi cities and towns are liberated from ISIL". It's a very embarrassing slip of the tongue, but it's clear from the context that this is what it is. 

Well, to some extent, but probably not when drinking the stuff. Urine contains urea, which is used pharmaceutically as a rehydrating (water-binding) and keratolytic agent, e. g. in the treatment of skin disorders that cause scaly, dry skin, or to assist in removing skin detritus. So the presumed usefulness in diseases such as ringworm, tinea, sores, dandruff etc. appears at least understandable, although it would be a purely symptomatic treatment. Some research also appears to indicate that urea possesses some antimicrobial activity and that it enhances the skin barrier function against external factors like bacteria/fungi. But this is only for external, topical application, not for drinking. Now, why camel urine, not human urine? Well, this is all guesswork, but camels are able to concentrate their urine much higher than humans (which makes sense from an evolutionary standpoint if you're a desert animal), so you'd get a higher dose from camel urine than from your homemade stuff. But if you don't have a camel around and don't mind the social disadvantages of this treatment, human urine should also work to some extent.