After I asked the question, the Rosetta mission sent back some glorious images of rocks as jagged as those on any science fiction book cover: 

I conclude from this that mountains on active worlds without erosion will generally appear jagged; the smoothness of the Moon's mountains is not due to the absence of erosion - rather, they're smoothed because of erosion, which in the Moon's case is primarily due to micrometeorites and takes place over a very long time. This is possible because the Moon is not geologically active, so its mountains are far older than the ones in the pictures above. Finally, I can't resist editing again to add another image from the Rosetta mission, taking during the spacecraft's final descent before a controlled collision with the comet in September 2016. It's just an incredibly beautiful image. (source) 

I'm curious about how mountains on an airless world such as the Moon would look if you were standing on the surface and looking at them. There are plenty of artists' impressions, of course, but I'm curious about whether there are any existing photographs of such a scene. From browsing photographs of the Moon landings, there are a few surprisingly rounded-looking low hills on the horizon, but not what you'd call an actual mountain. This makes sense, since the missions targeted large flat areas where it would be safe to land. There are photographs of mountains seen from Lunar orbit, but not from the surface. There are photographs of Mount Sharp from the Curiosity mission to Mars, but Mars has an atmosphere, and to my untrained eye Mount Sharp looks quite eroded. So I'm wondering whether there are any such photos in existence at all - either because a probe has landed on an airless body close enough to a mountain to get a picture, or because a camera in orbit has been aimed at the horizon in order to capture a mountain range from the same angle at which it would be seen from the surface. Alternatively, are there any mountains on Earth where (for whatever reason) erosion hasn't played a big role in shaping them so far, and which therefore look similar to the uneroded mountains one would find on an airless world? 

It's Legendre polynomials, not Lagrangian. The zonal harmonics (the $Y^0_l$ terms) depend only on latitude. These zonal harmonics are closely associated with the Legendre polynomials $P_l(x)$, where $x$ is the sine of the geocentric latitude. The tesseral and sectoral harmonics (the $Y^m_l$ terms, where $m\ne 0$) are closely associated with the associated Legendre functions $P_{lm}(x)$. (Note: These are sometimes called associated Legendre polynomials, but they aren't polynomials.) Spherical harmonics are widely used in physics, so the presentations readily found on the internet generally reflect how physicists use spherical harmonics. There are some key differences between these easily found references on the internet and the forms used to represent gravitation. One is that physicists typically use colatitude, and hence use $P_l(\cos\theta)$ as opposed to $P_l(\sin\phi)$. Another is that physicists tend to use the complex form, while gravity models are expressed in terms of real sine and cosine forms. Finally, a set of gravity coefficients is inevitably going to be fully normalized coefficients, while physicists use a form with a different normalization. 

The simple answer: Because it is. There's a nice theory that explains why the rotation axis of a big gas giant is more or less coaligned with its orbital angular momentum vector. Those big gas giants form somewhat like a snowball rolling downhill becomes bigger and bigger and bigger. This doesn't apply to rocky planets, let alone lesser gas giants and ice giants. Saturn's rotation axis is inclined by 27°, Uranus by 98°, Neptune by 30°. It's a bit random. With regard to the rocky planets, whatever rotation Mercury had in the distant past is long lost. Tidal interactions with the Sun will necessarily have locked Mercury into a resonance between rotation and orbital rotations. That the resonance is 3:2 rather than 1:1 is a result of the largish eccentricity of Mercury's orbit. Mars is not tidally locked, but it's obliquity is notoriously chaotic. A number of past and future recreations of Mars' rotation show chaotic behavior. Whatever rotation Mars had when it formed has long been lost thanks to that chaos. The obliquity of Mars has gone through huge changes over the last few billion years, occasionally changing rapidly, occasionally remaining stable. That's the nature of chaos. Venus also isn't tidally locked per se, but essentially it is. The rotation of Venus is rather bizarre. The solid part of the planet rotates retrograde at a very slow rate. On the other hand, the upper parts of Venus' thick atmosphere rotate prograde. The combined rotation represents one of the four final states in which Venus as a whole can rotate (multiple articles by Laskar, and by others). Venys is in its final rotational state. The Earth is a marked exception amongst the rocky planets. The key to that marked exception is our exceptionally massive moon. The Earth's moon acts to stabilize the Earth's rotation. Whatever obliquity the proto-Earth had prior to the giant impact is long lost. On the other hand, the obliquity after that giant impact has remained fairly constant thanks to that stabilizing influence. 

It mostly has to do with the fact many minerals are partially translucent. Trace impurities or even crystal structure can dominate the color of a translucent material but when ground in to a fine powder (streak) they can no longe do so and you can see the true color. In other minerals surface oxidation can mask the true color. 

Your best bet with something like this is find the nearest museum and bring it in, they will be familiar with the local geological artifacts. From just the photos it is hard to check for all the marks we would expect from a natural mold. As Ash said there is a chance it is just a pseudofossil but without being able to see all the internal surfaces I do not feel confident saying for sure. 

Sonar (passive or active) or ground penetrating radar with both work, it can also be estimated from a published geologic profile of the area which are often built from both in addition to drill data. 

Basically oceanic crust is guaranteed to be reworked eventually, check the age of oceanic crust, while continental crust has a more random factor involved meaning some in the more stable regions of some continents has not been reworked. That is why they are only small scattered areas. 

If you look a wider view from above and a bit to the west, you will notice Massanutten is not that straight nor is it unique most of the surrounding mountains are the same, especially to west. Basically you camera is pointed in exactly the wrong direction to see the other mountains. on a geologic map it becomes even more obvious. 

the first one would have been the entire planet soon after it formed (~4.4 billion years), the planet had to cool quite a bit before liquid water could exist. deserts basically predate all the other climes on earth. 

I'm curious about how much is known about this topic: how much has the total amount of life on Earth changed over the 4 billion years or so that it has existed on this planet? Are there estimates of global Gross Primary Productivity (GPP), or biomass, or both, for previous geological epochs? If so, how certain are these estimates, and what assumptions are they based on? If the total figures are thought to have changed much in the past, what are the main factors thought to cause these changes? Conversely, if the totals are thought to have been relatively stable, what are the main feedbacks that are thought to have ensured this? 

I suppose the difference is that these are on the surface of a comet, which, unlike the Moon, is geologically active. These are hardly what you'd call mountains - the whole nucleus is only 4km long, so the features shown must be hundreds of metres in size at best. But still, I would imagine freshly formed mountains would look something like this in the absence of erosion. It never rains but it pours. Here is a glorious photo of mountains on Pluto from NASA's New Horizons mission, from September 2015. Pluto is another (surprisingly) geologically active world, with apparently little erosion. These ones really are mountains, about three kilometres in height. They are probably made of water ice rather than rock, which is very hard at those temperatures. They also apprear very jagged. 

Earth, Titan and Venus all have large amounts of $\mathrm{N_2}$ in their atmospheres. (In the case of Venus it's a small proportion, but Venus' atmosphere is very thick, and the total mass of $\mathrm{N_2}$ is greater than Earth's.) However, other planets and moons, and Mars in particular, have hardly any. Why is this? $\mathrm{N_2}$ is a relatively light molecule, so I suppose it could be lost to space from smaller bodies. Did Mars start with a thick nitrogen atmosphere and then lose it? Or alternatively, is there some process that produced lots of $\mathrm{N_2}$ on Earth, Titan and Venus, which didn't occur on Mars or the other outer Solar system moons? If so, what is this process likely to be? 

I would take even the sourced graph that I used with a grain of salt. That unsourced wikipedia graph: A very large block of salt is needed. 

During the 20th century, the global mean temperature in January was 12°C while it was 15.8°C in July. This is a bit paradoxical as insolation is currently about 7% higher during January than it is in July. So why is July warmer than January? The solution to this apparent paradox and the answer your question (how does apsidal precession alone affect the climate) are one and the same: The uneven distribution of land and water between the northern and southern hemispheres. The northern hemisphere has about twice as much land as does the southern hemisphere. Continental climates exhibit much more seasonal variability than do maritime climates. That worldwide insolation is greatest in January and least in July is a bit irrelevant. What is more relevant is the length of the seasons in the northern hemisphere. Right now, summer is longer than is winter in the northern hemisphere because perihelion is in early January. This situation will be reversed in ten thousand years when perihelion and northern hemisphere summer solstice coincide. Looking at precession only, glaciation is much more likely during periods where northern hemisphere summers are short and winters are long. 

The formation of a T-Tauri star spells the beginning of the end of the protoplanetary disk from which planets and asteroids can form. The end is nigh when that star ignites. The large solar winds and solar radiation pressure sweep the disk clean of all small objects. Some spirals inward, some outward. There's no dust and no gas from which new planets and asteroids can form. All that can be done is a mopping-up of the not-so-small objects that escaped the solar wind and radiation pressure. 

the great oxygenation event was caused by the evolution of photosynthesis, photosynthesis turns CO2 and water in to sugar and oxygen. so the oxygen came from CO2 and water. keep in mind CO2 levels were many many times higher (~20X) than today. Hydrogen was not released it was combined with carbon and oxygen to make sugars 

the trick is not all isolated rocks are produced the same ways. Of the two in your pictures the first is an old volcanic events; intrusions, dikes, ect. depending on which rock in the region you are talking about. The whole deccan plateau region is full of them, some have been exposed on the surface via erosion. Basically everything else eroded faster than they did leaving them sticking out. 

First look at the article, is cites no sources and is not written by an an expert. It is written without peer review and does not seem to understand how to measure nutritional content (brix is only a measure of sugar not minerals) or what controlled conditions are. No methodology for collection, type of hydroponics, sample size, or anything else is given, this is important becasue many many thing unrelated to the farming method can effect Brix. So you can safely ignore the unscientific claim of the article and go with scientific ones, which show no difference when tested. First always look at the source of a claim and when in doubt search google scholar first. This is clearly editorial click bait. 

Because it is not the strong portion that gets displaced. The mantle just below the crust bends, just like the crust above it, together they make up the lithosphere, It is not the thing being displaced it is the thing doing the displacing. The asthenosphere is being displaced. Your image is missing something important. 

When you read one of those science-for-the-masses type articles, it's a good idea to jump to the underlying journal article. In this case, you should try reading Livermore, Hollerbach, and Jackson, "Electromagnetically driven westward drift and inner-core superrotation in Earth’s core", PNAS 110:40 (2013). 

The magnitude of these seasonal variations differ from location to location. The graph below portrays variations in CO2 levels at Point Barrow Alaska (PTB), La Jolla California (LJO), Mauna Loa Observatory (MLO), Christmas Island (CHR), Samoa (SAM), and the South Pole (SPO) over the last 60 years. 

Continents move slowly. Glaciations are ephemeral in comparison. That said, there apparently is a huge connection between plate tectonics and whether the Earth is in icehouse or hothouse conditions. There was very little if any ice on the Earth when the Earth was in hothouse (aka greenhouse) conditions. Dinosaurs roamed close to the poles. The Earth's climate was (and is) considerably cooler during icehouse Earth conditions. Widespread glaciation has only occurred during icehouse Earth conditions. Note that we are currently under icehouse Earth conditions; we just happen to be between glaciations. The following conditions that contribute to icehouse Earth are all due to plate tectonics: 

The Earth's climate switches between "hothouse Earth", where ice is nearly absent worldwide, and "icehouse Earth" where the Earth intermittently has ice that stretches far from the poles. Periods when the Earth is in the icehouse Earth phase are called ice ages. The most recent ice age began about 2.6 million years ago and has not yet ended. We are still in an ice age, as evidenced by the fact that Antarctica and Greenland are still covered by ice. Ice ages last many tens to a few hundred of millions of years. Ice ages are characterized by glacial periods where ice reaches far from the poles separated by interglacial periods where the climate is a bit more moderate. The glacial and interglacial periods within an ice age last tens to hundreds of thousands of years. The current interglacial period began about 12,000 years ago. It's the Milankovitch cycles that are responsible for the short duration glacial and interglacial periods within an ice age. These cycles are still present when the Earth is in a hothouse Earth phase. The Earth was in the hothouse phase for about 250-260 million years before the current ice age. That's 2000 or so multiples of the very longest Milankovitch cycle. The Milankovitch cycles are not responsible for the hothouse Earth / icehouse Earth phases. It's plate tectonics that dictates whether Earth is in a hothouse Earth or icehouse Earth phase. So what aspects of plate tectonics govern whether the Earth is in a hothouse phase or icehouse phase? Below are a series of images depicting how the Earth looked over recent times. $URL$ 35 million years ago, hardly any ice anywhere. $URL$ 20 million years ago, just a tiny bit of ice in the very far north and very far south. $URL$ Current ice age, (~2.6 million years ago to present), with ice sometimes reaching as far as 45° latitude. Source: Ron Blakey, via wikimedia.org. (Blakey's maps are 1200x600, which is a bit wide. I used the 640x320 previews at wikimedia.org.)