I am aware that a similar question was asked about the type theory in the principia, but I'm more interested in what the relationship between, say Martin-Lof Type theory and intuitionistic logic is. 

As far as I am aware, its a standard distinction. The idea is that the appropriate reference of lots of terms is not directly known by everyone, but we all use those terms correctly because we interact in some more or less direct manner, with the experts. An example might be `brain'. Putnam is a semantic externalist, so he holds that there must be some connection between brains' to refer to brains. However, I have never seen a brain not had anything to do with one. This does not stop me from referring to brains because I have an appropriate, indirect, connection to people who do see brains etc. Thus, there is a division in linguistic labour: I rely on others to ensure that the reference of some of my terms is correct. 

Let ZFC2 be the Second-Order formalisation of ZFC. The Second-Order Axiom schema of Comprehension (part of the deductive system for SOL) says that for every formula (of SOL) there is a relation with the same extension (shapiro 1991). If we formalise ZFC2, then the domain is all sets and the second-order quantifiers range over all the subsets of the domain. But then, what stops Russell's Paradox from arising? I know it doesn't because ZFC2 is equivalent to Morse-Kelley set theory. 

No. Any concrete proof of a higher intelligence would have long ago been presented to the world at large, tested, experimented, and confirmed. At that point you would no longer have rational non-believers, as you do now, especially in this age of universal information. But I see that you have a particular instance of evidence in mind- your statement that we are "sophisticated machines" and therefore a higher intelligence was involved. This could be interpreted as strong evidence, given no rational alternatives. If there is no route for existence outside of a creator, then surely it must be the creator. if(A) then A; However, you are missing a piece of the sophisticated machine. In a way, it is even more sophisticated than you have given it credit for. This machine builds itself, and builds copies of itself. The machine can even make random improvements to itself through successive generations by making mistakes. It is through that mechanism that these sophisticated machines were originally much less sophisticated and much more robust. This can be seen by looking at the diversity of other creatures on Earth, and comparing the DNA and RNA markers between them. All of them appear to share the same ancestry, suggesting a much simpler root origin. You may wish to bring up the creation of this original root organism, then. Things are a bit foggier in that regard. It's hard to "test" or "investigate" the origin of the Universe. So I don't have any good answers for you there, nor does anyone have any proof. I would caution the assumption of a creator in this case, however, since rationally speaking that would necessitate a creator of the creator too, would it not? Perhaps simpler to just say that the Universe exists because it exists. 

Haacks Philosophies of Logics (or something similar, I don't remember the exact title) is a classic. Dummett's Logical Basis of Metaphysics, which Mauro Allegranza suggested, is one of the most exiting texts in the field, in my opinion. However, it is also difficult - very difficult in parts. So before reading that I'd suggest Dummett's philosophical basis of Intuitionism (also the final chapter of his elements of intuitionism) and justification of deduction. [Both of these papers are available in `Truth and Other enigmas]. 

The clearest example, in my opinion, is `on denoting'. There, a logical analysis of the definite description in language is used to offer an account of how we can meaningfully talk about non-existent objects, such as unicorns, without having to commit ourselves to their existence (as abstract object, for example) - see meinong for such a view. The way Russell did this was to analyse a proposition such as `the present king of France is bald' as, there is an x((x is the king of france and x is bald) and, for any y, (if y is the king of france then y=x)). This then allows us to talk about the present king of france or unicorns without having to commit ourselves to the existence of such things. 

I found the NEA Code of Ethics. It offers some basic principles for ethics in education. I think it is quite helpful as an introduction to the field, and the Code also seems to be quoted regularly by academic works in this field. 

What arguments speak for/against tolerance towards intolerance? Can someone be called fully tolerant, if they don't tolerate intolerance? Hence, does tolerance exist in a pure form? On the other hand, doesn't tolerating intolerance kill tolerance? 

The veil of ignorance is not meant to fix something, it describes the problem of the determination of the results of a decision. Rawls applies it to the example of people in a society who have to decide about their future social order, without knowing their own role in the future society. Rawls calls this "not knowing" the "Veil of Ignorance". I think the problem applies to all societies, also to America. Nobody knows about all implications of any political decision. For example, the introduction of a medical health care system in America was very controversial. However, nobody in America really knows if they would possibly depend on such a system in the future. 

There is a large literature on this: priest has two relevant chapters in his doubt truth to be a liar. It is true that there are many logics, all of which are more suited to some purposes than others. However, this does not preclude there being one true logic in W's sense of the term. The thing to bear in mind is what the purpose of logic is. The philosophically interesting one, which W plausible held, is to capture logical consequence (See Dummett's Justification of Deduction for an argument that this must be prior to any other concept). Hence, if we are not pluralists about logical consequence (Beall and Restall are an example of such pluralists) we should think that there is a single notion of logical consequence we are attempting to capture. The logic that does this would be the one true logic. The other logics we have are appropriate for other purposes, or where the domain allows us to add further restrictions on the consequence relation. But from the mere fact that there are different logics we are unawarranted in concluding that there is no one true logic. I think this is all irrelevant to concerns about the supernatural. One should always, in my view, be careful about reading too much into logic -see for example those that misuse Goedel's Incompleteness Theorems.