In this setting I imagine the planet has about 4.2 atmospheres of pressure at sea level and 1.17 G's, this is not necessarily fixed and if other values would allow earthlike life and human civilization, and produce more interesting effects then feel free to solve for other gravity values and atmosphere pressures, but both values are higher than on earth. The planet in question is earthlike but larger with more gravity and a thicker atmosphere. Since a planet with a earthlike atmosphere, but higher atm's would have a higher partial pressure for oxygen and nitrogen, I think it could be reasonable for life to have evolved to deal with that so as to avoid toxicity from those elements. If the atmosphere just can't be plausibly similar to earths, but still allow earthlike life under these high pressures, assume it is different. As for the aviation technology most things are the same, but there isn't any computing and engines can't generate any more thrust than a muscle of the same size limited by realistic earth biology, because magically grown muscles are the only power source. This severely limits how much power an aircraft can have. Certain materials are cheap and easy to to produce in this setting such as spider silk and limpet teeth like materials, and rare and heavy elements are far more common on this planet. Other than muscle power the only other form of propulsion is rockets, but the rockets have to use magically generated explosions, as thus the rockets are more like nuclear Orion rockets than traditional ones, though the explosions can be smaller down to that of a large cannon. My question is, how would you expect aircraft and rockets to be different in this environment, with power limited to magically grown muscles (limited by biological realism, they're only grown and controlled via magic), and magical explosions, but more available rare materials, and different gravitational and atmospheric conditions? 

As mentioned in your question, quantum entanglement can't actually be used to send non-random information, as a result the only way to send things or information FTL is by using a warp drive (which still relies on theoretical negative energy that may not even exist). The warp drive is what you need to get FTL travel, but it is also the only way to do FTL communication, if you had another way you could probably use it for travel as well. It seems the only way to do communications FTL is going to be communication drones, but the drones would probably send their information in radio waves once they dropped out of FTL near their target. Intercepting communications or stopping them would be tricky, at FTL speeds intercepting anything would be nearly impossible, but once they have dropped out of FTL messages would probably be sent with radio waves, which would entail using the same methods we use today. In addition we know that the basic idea behind a warp drive doesn't break any laws like many other proposed FTL. We already know that space itself isn't limited to the speed of light, only matter and energy is. Galaxies sufficiently far away will never have their light reach us due to the expansion of space due to dark energy, to us they are effectively using a warp drive go FTL. Warp drives are dependent on whether we can harness negative energy, but we already suspect that the fabric of space has negative energy as dark energy, but that would probably be impossible to harness since it's evenly distributed. 

There are two major differences between a moon and a planet: 1) Distance to the sun rapidly changing If we take the largest moons in our solar system as an example, a decent sized moon would have an orbital radius of 1-2 million kilometers. On one side of the planet to the other, in a matter of about 1-2 weeks, we could be talking about a moon being 4 million km closer to the sun than it was a week ago. The differential between the Earth's closest and furthest points from the sun is about 5 million km. The thing is that the seasons are not based on distance from the sun, so I'm entirely unsure what effect this would produce. I imagine, at the very least, the weather would be slightly more chaotic than on Earth. With an axial tilt, you might end up with something akin to mini-seasons, though the effect might be very slight. 2) Much more powerful gravitational forces If we again take our system's largest moons as an example, we would have a habitable moon with, at the very least, a gas giant affecting it instead of our own Moon. That's almost 26,000 moons worth of mass, which is equal, given the masses and distances of Jupiter and Callisto or Titan and Saturn, 17-19 times the gravitational exertion between the moon and gas giant than our planet and moon have over each other. Thus, if we're talking about a truly habitable world that's fairly earth-like, the tidal forces we have on our planet would pale in comparison to the tidal forces a Callisto- or Titan-like moon would feel under the shadow of a Jupiter-like planet. This would result in possibilities like 

Parting from the attempts at pessimism, I would suggest that a second neural mass could easily evolve to handle sensory input from a second (or more) location for some perfectly reasonable environmental factor. At first thought, I would suggest a creature that walks long, narrow tunnels. A second predatory species (or multiple) might hunt that species in those tunnels. The prey might easily develop sensory organs for the "front" and "back", and "brains" to handle both. Given the right circumstances, these brains might develop towards higher cognitive functioning simultaneously, eventually resulting in sentience. That, however, is just an example. Any environment requiring multiple distinct sensory locations could result in similar evolutionary tracks. Multiple locations needing sensory organs -> favoring neural masses to handle reaction speed -> raising of complexity of those neural masses. The end result depends heavily on the environment. In the above example, the physical environment and nature of the predators. They could be very similar, or one could be specialized for one task or methodology while another for another task or methodology. In the above example of the push me pull you-esque creature, maybe the front brain evolved for hunting food and results in a sentience good at engineering, math, the arts, etc. The back brain might be the sentry brain, and have evolved for predator awareness resulting in a sentience good at "fighting" or athletics or vision and spatial-awareness. As a note, your own octopus example is a good reference for this concept, and was the first example of which I thought when I read the question title. You say that the octopus' secondary neural areas aren't brains, but that doesn't mean they wouldn't evolve further if the need was present. A pressing evolutionary need to advance those neural masses in the arms, and the octopus might one day have a sentient head and sentient arms. Sentience is simply the evolution of incredible neural complexity.