HLW is only 0.06% of the total radioactive waste, and only 1% of the HLW is solid, the portion of waste that includes spent fuel. So less than 0.0006% of nuclear waste is the spent fuel assembly, the only part of the waste included in the EP blog. Said differently, nuclear power creates 160,000 times more radioactive waste than the spent fuel assemblies alone. (IAEA 2018) Per unit of energy, this means nuclear produces 500 times the waste compared to solar panels, but only if you count the entire solar panel and ignore the waste produced by nuclear plant decommissioning. Spent nuclear fuel rods must be contained for several thousand years. In the case of breeder reactors such as a thorium reactor, the 0.0006% of the nuclear waste stream that is spent nuclear fuel is recaptured. From the spent fuel, the plutonium is separated, introducing the additional hazard of nuclear weaponization. (Ford and Schuller 1997, p111) References Desai, J. and Nelson, M. (2017). Are we headed for a solar waste crisis? Retrieved from $URL$ Follett, A. (2017). Solar panels generate 300 times more toxic waste than nuclear reactors. Retrieved from $URL$ Ford, JL and Schuller, CR. (1997). Controlling threats to nuclear security: A holistic model. Washington DC: National Defense University Press. Fthenakisa, V. and Kim HC. (2010). Life-cycle uses of water in U.S. electricity generation. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 14. pp2039-2048. Retrieved from $URL$ Heard, A. (2014). Response to Mulvaney. Retrieved from $URL$ IAEA. (2017). Trend in electricty supplied. Retrieved from $URL$ IAEA. (2018). Status and Trends in Spent Fuel Radioactive Waste Management. Retrieved from $URL$ Middleton, D. (2017). Waste from solar panels: 300 times that of nuclear power. Retrieved from $URL$ Mulvaney, D. (2014). Are green jobs just jobs? Cadmium narratives in the life cycle of photovoltaics. Geoforum 54 pp178-186. Retrieved from $URL$ World Nuclear Association (2017). Radioactive Waste Management. Retrieved from $URL$ 

Just a quick term definition: "Endothelium" is your vascular tissue. Your blood vessels. The study concluded that: 

So Dave Asprey is taking a hypothetical refutation of a study over the study itself as evidence that it's perfectly fine to high levels of saturated fats while still claiming the diet itself is based on science. Caveat emptor. 

"The beans are left out in the sun where they can be contaminated by animals." Yes, they are. However, like coffee beans - cocoa beans (after being dried) are roasted. "..caffeine and theobromine are bad for you..." Well, what do you consider bad? Caffeine is widely used and unregulated, and a dark chocolate bar contains about 30mg of caffeine - less than a cup of tea - which means you'd have to eat about 20 dark chocolate bars in less than a day to enter the "danger zone": 

So it's confirmed that the diet outlined in your question didn't result in his abs by itself. And no, I wouldn't trust him about that either. He drinks his BulletProof coffee to "stack" mTOR even though Caffeine is an mTOR inhibitor. There are a bunch of other red flags in the link provided in your question, but aside from the usual extremely biased or non-peer-reviewed websites he links to and unpublished studies, I found this one particularly hypocritical: 

And the comparison for chocolate is going to depend on what chocolate you favor. Dark chocolate will have different nutritional info from milk chocolate, but since it seems milk chocolate is the standard, let's try 15g of Hershey's Milk Chocolate Chips: 

No. Nuclear energy produces far more toxic waste than solar. Distribution of the fake news story The fake news that began circulating at the end of June 2017 stems from a self-described "study" conducted by the nuclear industry advocate, Environmental Progress (EP). James Hansen, a nuclear proponent previously a lead in climate modelling at NASA, has unfortunately been dispersing this disinformation. In February 2018 he said he had been unaware of the method used to produce the graph he displayed. EP published the graph only in their blog, where they described their method: "The study defines as toxic waste the spent fuel assemblies from nuclear plants and the solar panels themselves." They used TrinaSolar module specifications, assumed a 25 year lifetime, and used the module's entire installed volume as the volume of toxic waste. For nuclear, they used only the spent fuel assembly. They arrived at the two numbers displayed in a bar graph and repeated in various articles and Hansen's presentation: 34,000 cubic meters per TWh for solar and 101 cubic meters per TWh for nuclear. (Deasi and Nelson 2017). The blog was immediately embellished by several conservative news outlets, including SlashDot and the the National Review. Some articles added to the strange logic. One, for example, did a life cycle cost analysis comparing solar to nuclear by using the assumption that this solar panel waste will need to be buried in 2-5 km deep boreholes being considered for spent nuclear fuel. (Middleton 2017). Another article in the Daily Caller explained why solar panel waste should be considered more dangerous than nuclear waste: nuclear waste is radioactive and will therefore go away, while after 30 years on your roof, the solar panel module doesn't radioactively decay and will have to be disposed of permanently. (Follet 2017). Toxic waste stream of solar PV The majority of a solar panel module's mass is glass, which can be recycled. The steel housing is also recycled. The panel itself is usually silicon, which is also non-toxic and can be recycled into new semiconductor material. A fraction of solar panels use CdTe as the semiconductor material. Lead and silver are captured in the waste stream for all solar panels, but the cadmium is the most problematic waste generated by manufacture and disposal of solar panels is cadmium. Even for CdTe solar panels, nuclear power generates more cadmium waste on per-unit-energy basis. (Mulvaney, 2014) Manufacturers of CdTe panels monitor for worker safety and environmental emissions and have 0 incidents across ten years of US manufacturing. (Heard, 2014) Even if you only look at cadmium and make the faulty assumption that solar panels will be disposed of instead of recycled, nuclear power generates more cadmium in waste than solar panels use in the entire manufacturing process. Nuclear power generates a wide variety of toxic waste materials, and one minor constituent is cadmium. Even as a minor constituent of the total nuclear waste, it is still significant compared to cadmium produced by other energy sources (Mulvaney, 2014):