The assessed value of the stocks goes down. Non-stock related example: If my prized family portrait is assessed at 1000 dollars, and is later reassessed at 250 dollars. That value is lost, 1000-250=750 dollars lost. No money ever went anywhere, but I, and as result all of society, is now poorer by $750. This loss is because we believed the painting was worth a lot, and we were wrong. 

To help exemplify this second point, let us consider the case of normal discounting rates $\beta$, where each period is worth a fraction of the prior period, say $\beta=1/2$ the value. The value from now to forever is: 

This market is an oligopoly that is subject to government regulation. It cannot be a monopoly because there is more than one firm. The presence of the regulating government body is a "red herring", it distracts from the main point- there are multiple firms. It does not appear to be competitive because: 

EDIT: The time value of money in a capitalist society stems from the fact that a capital now can be invested to yield a larger capital later. Thus, it has a dynamic, a potential and there lies its time value. And that's its connection to the interest rate, as explained above. In a socialist society, that's not the case, as there is no private investment for profit. The "more is better" argument is debatable, as it lies on psychological reasoning. To what extend money for consumption now is better than money for consumption later in any kind of society can vary according to individual's preferences, views, current needs, economic security of a given society, etc. 

The prevailing explanation for the existence of rate of interest (aka time-value of money) is the one thoroughly explained above by Alecos. My objection to this is that it analyses the phenomenon from a psychological perceptive, and not from a purely economical one. I will give Marx's arguments on the matter, as an alternative for you to consider. According to Marx, there is no such thing as "Natural Interest". There is nothing natural in it. The rate of interest is just an agreement made between money capitalists on one side (banks) and the industrial and commercial capitalists on the other (factory owners, merchants, etc.) and it varies depending on the competition between them. The theory behind this explanation, lies on Marx's central idea that profit is not made during product exchange, but during the production, by extracting the surplus value from the workers. So, how does a banker makes a profit? What is really happens, in simple words, is firstly he lends capital to the factory owner/merchant, then profit is produced via the production process and in the end profit is shared between the two. Thus, competition between the two different types of capitalists (relation between real capital/money in an society at a given time period), determines the rate of interest. Given these arguments, the answer to your question is that in a capitalistic society, there is indeed time-value of money, as there has to be rate of interest (credit system will always be essential for such a society to exist). However, in a non-capitalistic society, ex. in a socialist one, there can be banks to serve public needs, public sector projects & state-owned enterprises, but there won't be a rate of interest for that, thus the time-value of money disappears in such a society. Capital Vol. III Part V Division of Profit into Interest and Profit of Enterprise. Interest-Bearing Capital Chapter 22. Division of Profit. Rate of Interest. Natural Rate of Interest. 

Step 1) Improved manufacturing efficiency would lower the marginal cost of production for firms, thusly lowering the average total cost per unit. Step 2) In a generic competitive market, lower ATC leads to profits in the short run, and increased number of producers in the long run. Step 3) Increased number of producers moves the supply curve to the right (increasing supply), and the resulting equilibria has a lower price and a higher quantity. Profits for the individual firms decline as price falls, settling again at zero. 

On remittances: It is not unusual to hear about income being sent home by, say, US immigrants. However, the product of their labor and the side effects of their intellectual capital, sometimes called positive spillover, do not occur in the home country. As such, they are not as beneficial as some counterfactual world where an equally profitable job existed at home. There may be a class of menial labor which results in a net benefit to the county from moving, but this strikes me as profoundly rare. Necessary conditions for this would be that is a job with low positive spillover, likely one with low education, and a tremendous gap in wages between countries, perhaps caused by a world with huge stocks of fixed-location capital. On unemployment: Unemployment is calculated as $\frac{Number \space of \space employed}{Population}$. If we reduce the population, then the denominator decreases, $$\frac{Number \space of \space employed}{Population-Immigration \space out \space of \space country}$$, suggesting lower unemployment after immigration out of the country. 

As economies become more complex and sophisticated, certain systemic risks gradually emerge and R&S jobs are needed to monitor and control these risks (e.g. the development of the banking systems in Western countries has generated the risk of systemic financial instability, as seen in the numerous banking crisis throughout the last centuries); Growth often comes through innovation, which brings disruption through the formation of new sectors of activity which tend to replace or substitute old ones. As these new sectors grow and become more mature, the limitations and risks they pose become gradually apparent to society which will ultimately demand to regulate and supervise them either through private or public action (e.g. the current debate around the use of personal data by social networks and the need to regulate it); Rogue economic actors can exploit institutional loopholes or lack of oversight to perform illegal or borderline illegal activities for their profit. Once society identifies these shortcomings, R&S is improved to avoid repetition of these unfair practices (e.g. the Enron scandal and the resulting Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the US). 

Both classical and marxian schools assume the (cultivated) land to be means of production. The differentiation between land and shovel for example is that the land is considered natural resource (subject of labor) while the shovel is an instrument of labor. Subjects + instruments together = means of production. Owning the means of production is a necessary but not sufficient factor for a capitalist to exist. There is an umbrella of conditions and pre-conditions (i.e. ownership of labor-power, ownership of capital, capitalistic mode of production in society, advanced credit/banking system etc. ) that need to occur. For example, big land owners in Medieval times were feudal lords but not capitalists, since capitalistic mode hadn't emerged yet. A small peasant who owns a small piece of land and uses it to feed his family nowadays or sells some part of the crops in the local market, is not a capitalist, since he lacks capital and doesn't have ownership of other labor but his own. PS. That was the analysis for the question, bearing in mind that we are talking about land used for farming. Using it for other purposes (ex. rent) needs a more elaborate analysis. 

If you come up with something that didn't fit into these categories, but is not P or Q, the result is still a shift! You probably just need your imagination to squeeze it into one of these 7 formal categories. For example, if the supply curve was P=2Q+3, and there was a decrease in the cost of inputs, the demand curve could shift to P=2Q+2. Note how the price levels are lower at every level of Q. Changes in supply and demand that are not "shifts" are called "slides along the curve". They are any direct change in P or Q. This is easiest to see with a linear, mathematical example. Let us say the government wants to set the price of a product. If P=2Q+3 is the supply, then consider that if you set the price (by law) to be 7, then Q is now 2. The curve remains steady, but we slide along it to get to the new P=7, Q=2 position. From wherever P and Q started (P=12 in the example), we now end at point P=7,Q=2, and the curve remains unmoved along the entire line P=2Q+3. 

These functions can be accomplished either by public or private actors: for example, in the UK the Financial Conduct Authority is responsible for regulating and supervising the behavior of individuals working in the financial sector; on the other hand, auditing companies such as EY and PwC are hired to monitor whether companies comply with accounting standards. Is there any paper which studies the size of the R&S sector in the economy or its impact of the economy? Is there any economist which specializes in this? These can also be old economists from XIXth or XXth Century which thought and wrote about it. Why do I ask this? Roughly speaking, as economies (such as countries or regions) grow over time, their economic fabric becomes more complex and sophisticated as they transition to activities with higher value added. My impression is that economies will experience a continuous, long-term upward trend in the number of R&S jobs both in the public as well as in the private sector, with the portion of economic activity belonging to the R&S sector converging towards some sort of equilibrium point (I do consider the existence of R&S cycles). The need for these positions comes from different structural factors, among which: 

It has nothing to do with new products in the market, nor with confusion of use-value and exchange-value. To make it a bit simpler: 1) Commodities in capitalism have a two-fold character. The use-value (they are useful products for the buyer to consume) and the exchange-value (they can be exchanged to another products in a given way). 2) The exchange-value of the product depends on the embodied labor of the product, which is named as Value by Marx. So in a sense, exchange-value = Value. 3) Products can only be compared in relation to one another. You cannot understand anything by saying ex. 2 apples = 2 apples. Thus, we reach to the Elementary Form: 20 yards of linen = 1 coat In this equation, linen plays the active role or Relative form and coat plays the passive role, or Equivalent form. In other terms, you define the Value of linen comparing it to the Value of coat. Now, here is the core of the analysis. Marx claims that since there is a comparison (20 linen=1 coat), there must be a common element to compare. That common element is not the use-value (linen is not the same as coat). It is the exchange-value, or Value, or the human labor embodied in the two products. In other words, this equation states that labor needed to develop 20 yards of linen is equal to labor needed to develop 1 coat (given constant technological advancement, resources, etc.) Use-value, on the other hand, just acts as a carrier of Value. The importance of this realization, is to understand the essence of exchange in capitalistic world and connect it to the money form (20 yards of linen = 1 coat = 100 Euros), and understand socio-economically how money was created and what does it really mean. Karl Marx. Capital Volume One, Part I: Commodities and Money, Chapter One: Commodities