It is possible to make them part of the critical development without them actually writing the production code. You can work them into tasks like this in an incremental way. 

People can work very hard and not be compensated. Do different/more profitable projects pay more? This is very confusing. Is it linked to job title or seniority? What else is there that is outside of their control? You don't want them to discuss salaries. That's common. Next time someone wants a better pay raise or bonus and they compare themselves to someone else, point out that they are not suppose to discuss this. There have to be consequences. You can give a warning. Document the incident in an employee record. Reduce compensation the next time. After a warning, temporary or permanent dismissal may be necessary. You can't just ask people to do things when they feel very strongly about it. I would spend more time fixing my broken compensation plan or just get rid of it. EDIT: I think it is a bad idea to tell your employees not to discuss salaries. You appear as if you have something to hide. Having rules with no intention (or in this case no way) of enforcing is a counter-productive waste of time. 

No offense, but often programmers are not the best articulators about how we feel about certain things. Programmers can get very passionate about tools, languages and technology stacks. I personally have an aversion to repetition. The notion that I have have to click this button at the end of every month is nauseating. Taking this off my plate may only improve my performance by 0.001%, but does wonders for my sanity. You've already made your suggestions and requests and they were declined. Your employer may not have realized how important these things are to you. I mean, who decides what job to take based on the IDE? So what if you have to program on a Windows laptop that's 5 years old; it still works. They just don't get it, so I wouldn't say anything unless they really press for it. 

What's the reason for failure? If you're a technician who didn't understand the market, that shouldn't hinder you from getting a technical position. However, if you had notions that you could "be your own boss" and work 4 hour weeks, so you failed due to laziness, I wouldn't want to hire you for anything. What did you learn? This is as much about running a business as it is about yourself. You tried something different, but decided it is not for you and you want to be an employee. Sometimes people discover they're better at taking orders than giving them. You need to be able to tell this story in your cover letter and be prepared to answer a lot of questions about it during the interview process. Make sure you convince yourself first before trying to fool anyone else. 

You assume everyone who is leaving early is still getting paid for 8 hours. That may or may not be the case. Ask HR what hours you should expect everyone else to be available. If they have a different set of rules for you (maybe you're the only one they caught or they want to make an example out of the new guy), then I would consider it a punishment. Otherwise, if you don't put in the time, don't expect to get paid. Those are the rules of your contract, so you can look at it any way you want. Check your contract to see if there is anything about lunch. In the US, there are rules about getting breaks every so often which are paid. 

7 years with a company is probably more than average in the tech world. You gave plenty of notice. You've been cooperative in helping the company make the transition (e.g. wrapped up projects, produced additional documentation, trained new programmer, etc.). 

Unless it is a work-related conversation, disliking the sound of their dialect sounds prejudicial. They're talking out loud and answer their personal phone in a closed office, ask them to stop. If the dialect is so irritating to you, I see that as your problem, so get some headphones. If it makes you feel excluded or like they're talking behind your back, you should mention that instead. Your office may be the only place they get to exercise their native dialect. You may feel trapped in a foreign place in the office; imagine how they feel everywhere else they go. Hopefully you can build a working relationship to further understand and address this issue. 

I worked at a place where just about all the other workers were racist, but the topic didn't even come up on a monthly basis. I disagreed with them and on occasion expressed my differences. That was good enough for me because I had knew I wasn't going to change their minds. I've also run into this over religion (Head of HR conducted a women's Bible study lunch.). During the exit interview, I suggested they be careful. You have to deal with people you disagree with in your way to the level of what you can tolerate. If you don't want to engage, then don't. If constantly hearing this bothers you and/or hinders your work, say something. At some point you may have to ask them to hold off on the topic if you're around. If they feel you don't fit in because you don't hold these views, I'm not sure what you can do about it. Hopefully, you have some legal recourse if they go too far in creating a hostile environment for you or try to push you out. 

Just like it is difficult to anticipate all the features an application would need, it's tough to predict the future. Usually, something comes up and you have to learn it on the fly. 

Unless you plan on working with each other in a café under informal circumstances, you need more ways and settings to evaluate your candidates on how well they'll get along with teammates. Some people are the life of the party and get along with everyone until you ask them to explain a suggestion or worse yet, try to question any of their actions. Try and structure a meeting and possibly simulate a client meeting (that could happen in a café). This could involve making a short presentation, fielding questions or gathering requirements. I would use the casual café or lunch interview as just one final check only for candidate(s) I was going to make an offer. Make sure everyone can sit down, relax, drink a beverage and have something to eat if available. Don't expect them to carry the entire conversation unless that is a part of the job requirement. It's not the time to ask them a hundred personal questions either. That's too much like an interview. The key should be on conversation and natural interactions and just make sure they don't do something very inappropriate. At the end, I think your team just needs to vote "yes" or "no" and you can decide what score is required. 

I think you need to convey to people when something is due and why. Some things are simple, we need the amount by 4:00 PM because the bank is closing. If there is something more complex or time is required by others, there should have been more formal processes in place, so everything can be addressed. For things without objective due dates/times, try to come to some agreement on when to expect it. Maybe even consider suggesting, if I don't hear from you on the day before, is it all right to send you a reminder. Many people will appreciate it and others will use it as a crutch. So what if it means getting things done on time. Please and thank you go a long way. At some point there should be consequences for not getting things done on time, but you're probably not in a position to administer any of those except when it's time for them to ask you to get something done... 

I think you need to address this from the perspective of the company & team and not make it about you. Is there a policy that all of these things have to go through you? Most bosses don't want a bunch of different people presenting suggestions to them, so they have someone like you to manage and pull all this together. It seems your boss is encouraging this person to come directly to him. Maybe the boss is a nice guy and has an open door policy and won't say no. Talk to him about it. You could be doing him a favor by getting this person to stop. Ask this person why they don't come to you. Do they see it as inefficient? Is there a history where you don't take this person's suggestions? Maybe he doesn't like you? Be willing to work with the person, but let him know that everything must come through you; leave the boss alone. You are responsible for tracking all of this and going behind your back makes your job harder. Many times when people are very good technically they get away with not following procedures. If you can't get buy-in from the upper management, at least you have made them aware how this negatively affects your job performance. 

Then you need to get some of these people to tell the group how much they enjoyed it. Everyone is different, so give them a variety of ways to do this: 

I think you need to have a conversation with your boss and find out how to balance this situation. It almost sounds like you could build this application in the time you're given if you had no subordinate at all (Sort of the Mythical Man-Month). Your supervisor may be willing to sacrifice some time and code quality if it means getting the new person up-to-speed quicker and make him more useful in the long-term/next project. There are several levels of involvement. Maybe you can use one or some combination? 

Everyone has a price. Whatever method you can get through to this person, send your demands. If you really can't get over texting, increase your rate or demands to compensate. My guess is this person will stop bothering your until he realizes no one is going to put up with too much of this and he'll come back. Be very explicit in your demands to describe what you'll do, how it will be determined that you did it, and how, when and how much you'll be compensated. Accept nothing but direct answers. Do not deal with strangers and/or those who are not professional with some sort of "hand shake" agreement. It's not worth the paper it's written on.