Yes, the bit in Master and Commander was based upon the real life action between the 14-gun H.M.B Speedy and a Spanish 32-gun Xebec-frigate named El Gamo in 1801. The British commander, Lord Thomas Cochrane, pulled off a series of bluffs to allow his ship to get along side. The Spanish captain was supposedly killed by the first broadside fired by the Speedy and so his ship was in disarray when the British came alongside. Cochrane's entire crew then boarded (with the exception of the ship's surgeon). The bulk of the Spanish ship's crew were on the lower gun deck, so the British attackers were fighting only a similar number of men on the upper deck. Cochrane then bluffed again, calling for more men to be sent up from the Speedy (there weren't any more to be sent) and also had one of his own men lower the Spanish flag, which was the usual symbol of a ship's surrender. The bluff(s) worked and the Spanish vessel was taken. You might also want to take a look at some of the "cutting out" operations performed during that period. These were operations where a ship's boats (carrying marines and a proportion of the crew) were used to capture larger vessels in a harbour or anchorage. A fine example of "cutting out" was the re-capture of HMS Hermione from the Spanish in Puerto Cabello. Again you had a big difference in manpower on each side (100 British against 400 Spanish) and again the loss of the Spanish captain proved a decisive point. In respect of why it's possible to capture a warship with a small boarding party, it's essentially down to the design of ships of the period. The top deck (or weatherdeck) of a square-rigged sailing ship was the bridge and engine room combined. By taking control of the top deck, you controlled the sails and, therefore, controlled the movement of the vessel. The main armament of a sailing warship of the time would be along the sides, with very little ability to fire forward or aft. So if you could immobilize a vessel it would be a sitting duck for any other ship, even a much smaller one, who could maneuver into a position across the bow or stern and attack with little risk to themselves. Also the limited points of access from the lower decks could cause bottlenecks that would prevent large numbers of defenders coming from below at the same time. So, once the top deck had been taken by a boarding party, any defender counter-attacking from below could find himself fighting multiple opponents (who had more room) and, at the same time, blocking his own crew mates from coming to his aid. As a consequence of these factors, it was usual for a ship's crew that had lost control of the top deck to surrender the ship, even if they were still numerically superior to the boarding party. 

Under the Meiji Constitution of Imperial Japan, the Prime Minister - like all Ministers of State - were technically appointed by the Emperor solely on his own discretion. In practice, appointments were always made on the recommendations of the genrō, a clique of prominent elder statesmen who had orchestrated the Meiji Revolution. Whenever a vacancy arose, the genrō would meet and name a replacement. If the nominee accepted, the Emperor would then formally appoint him as the next Prime Minister. In the last years of the Meiji Era, the Genro typically accepted the recommendations of the outgoing Prime Minister. 

Perhaps the best studied case is in Messenia, where the palatial state of Pylos thrived. Between 1962 and 1968, the Queen's professor Richard Hope Simpson and Minnesota historian William Andrew MacDonald led an interdisciplinary effort to survey the region. Their pioneering effort is known as the University of Minnesota Messenia Expedition. Based on the results of their survey, McDonald and Hope Smith cautiously estimated the Mycenaean population of Pylos to be at least 50,000 based on the 250 settlements discovered from the period.3 This figure has since been generally accepted. More recently in 2001, Todd Whitelaw, Professor of Aegean Archaeology at University College London, made the same estimate.4 In addition, Messenia's Palace of Nestor housed a large trove of Linear B tablets. These reported administrative inventories from the Pylian polity's final year, attesting to some 4,000 people. As a sidenote, the distinguished British Linear B scholar, John Chadwick estimated the Mycenaean Messenian population might have been about 100,000,5 though this is not supported by existing archaeological evidence. By far the largest collection of Linear B texts are found at Knossos, on the island of Crete. Using a multifactored approach that combined the written records and archaeological surveys, Richard Firth in 1995 proposed a total of 110,000 residents on the island in the Post Palatial period (LM IIIB).6 For comparison, the Sheffield archaeologist Keith Branigan estimates that Neo-Palatial Crete (MM IIIB) a few centuries earlier had a population of 140,000 to 160,000.7 

The old naval term 'hulk' is applied to vessels that are no longer in sea service but still perform some support role in port. So in the case of a "battery charging hulk", it's used to provide additional battery charging facilities for the other diesel-electric submarines. In most cases, hulks are stripped of any items that are not essential to their new role and are not, therefore, sea-worthy. In a diesel-electric submarine, the batteries are used to power the ship while it's submerged. These are usually charged by the diesel engines when it's on the surface. However, there may be circumstances where the submarine is unable to fully charge these batteries in the normal course of its activities when returning to port and it's unable/undesirable to run its own diesel engines to recharge them. So the hulk uses its own batteries to re-charge the Romeo-class submarines. I would think it's unlikely that there were any purpose-built vessels of this nature. If you were intending to manufacture a separate facility to do this, it would make more sense just to install the diesel generators and the batteries in a building on land - it would have more room, be easier to maintain, easier to cool and cheaper to build. The only reason for going along the hulk route is that you extend the life of some equipment that you already have (or, in this case, are able to purchase cheaply). According to the wikipedia entry for the Whiskey-class, Cuba also obtained a vessel to serve as a battery charging hulk for their own (Foxtrot-class) submarines. 

The extent of the Dutch Republic upon founding in 1579. Light cyan marks early Spanish reconquest. The new Dutch state was envisaged as a confederation of autonomous members. An old Burgundian institution, the States-General became its central government, with the Council of State as its executive. A prince, Francis of Anjou, was also secured to be the sovereign (though he soon crashed and burnt). Thereafter, the very fact that the United Provinces was able to prosecute an on-and-off war against the Spanish Empire for 80 years proves the the young Dutch republic was independent to all practical intents and purposes. The formal recognition by Spain in 1648 was no more than the Spanish Crown belatedly conceding defeat in the Dutch Revolt. In fact, by the time Holland's landsadvocaat (effectively, the prime minister of the Dutch Republic) Johan van Oldenbarnevelt arranged for the creation of the Dutch East India Company in 1602, the United Provinces had achieved an astonishing victory over what was then the premier world power. The Dutch army under Maurice of Orange had already evicted the Spanish from most of the north. His campaigns essentially marked the modern borders of the Kingdom of Netherlands today, with the Southern Netherlands remaining in Spanish hands later becoming Belgium. Thus shielded from the fighting, the Dutch heartland in Holland thrived in spite of the long war being waged around them. This prosperity formed a sound basis for their colonial empire, and the Dutch Golden Age is also thought to have begun around this time. 

I can't answer when the term was first used but I can take a guess on why it was called that. Arab sailors sailing the spice routes would have been dependent on the winds. Crossing the Indian Ocean, they would have experienced the prevailing winds, known as trade winds, blowing from the North East. So from the point of view of these Arab sailors, "the world east of the Bay of Bengal" would have been "behind the wind". 

Because this is linked to mythology, most of the references to them seem to be heavily invested in woo. However, it does seem that in this case, the snakes were real grass snakes (as the Wikipedia article notes, žaltys is literally 'grass snake' in Lithuanian) kept in the believer's homes. 

As the Metropolitan museum's article on armor notes, it took several centuries from the first introduction of gunpowder on the battlefield to the elimination of armor for the infantry man. The decline took the form of a gradual shedding of armor from the arms and legs and then finally from the body. The main reasons for this decline were weight and cost. In theory it was possible to make armor capable of stopping a musket bullet. However, as firearms became more powerful (thanks to better manufacturing, which reduced windage, and improvements in the formulation of gunpowders) the armor required for protection got thicker and, therefore, heavier and more expensive. Heavier armor meant that your soldiers were less mobile and would suffer fatigue more quickly, neither of which is an advantage on the battlefield (or even getting to the battlefield). Ultimately, of course, no amount of personal armor would be capable of stopping a cannon ball (or even something as small as a 1-pound grape-shot) so even a bulletproof armour was no guarantee of safety. One of the advantages of the musket was that it required relatively little training (compared to a bow or a sword) to be an effective weapon. This meant that armies could be raised from lower-class men with comparatively little training (who were free to work on the land in times of peace). These men could not have afforded to equip themselves with armor, so this cost would have fallen on whomever was raising the army. The sad fact is that it became cheaper to replace the soldier than it was to provide armor to protect him from the enemy's small arms fire. 

It is difficult to verify pre-historical social practices, but monogamy must have been very ancient. At the very least, monogamy was standard by the time historical records began in both Ancient Greece and Rome. While men certainly kept concubines and had sex with slaves, these were not recognised as wives nor give birth to legitimate children. 

In conclusion, contrary to the dogmatic assertions of modern commentators voicing their political preferences, in 1778 Judicial review was so well established that it is simply assumed to exist. The lack of controversy surrounding it is evidence for how well it was accepted by contemporaries. Marshall's Supreme Court did not invent it in 1803. 

陈旭《明代瘟疫与明代社会》西南財經大學出版社 (Chen, Xu. Ming Dynasty Epidemics and Society. Southwestern University of Finance and Economics Press, 2016.) 林富士《中國中古時期的宗教與醫療》聯經出版公司 (Lin, Fushi. Religion and Medicine in Ancient China. Linking Books, 2008.) 

Figuratively speaking, Angkor Wat thrived on its water resources. It provided a massive irrigation system fuelled by a network of water reservoirs. This enabled the high agricultural productivity that allowed Angkor Wat to maintain a large population. It was the failure to maintain these water distribution systems that eventually led to the city's abandonment. 

The Invasion of Iran was carried out by British and Commonwealth forces in the south, and Soviet forces in the north. The Shah of Iran was forced to abdicate, and the new Iranian government under his son was obliged to adopt a pro-Allied stance. For the remainder of the war, Iran was occupied by Soviets in the north and British forces in the south. The occupation continued until 1946. Why Was Iran Occupied? It is naive to claim that Iran had nothing to do with "their war". Iran was of great strategic importance to the Allied war effort; the Allies would not tolerate a pro-German Iran. Iran however, have a history of business with Germany, and when WW2 began, the Iranian government sought to pursue a policy of neutrality. Unfortunately, that failed to reassure the Allies. Therefore between July and August 1941, Britain issued two ultimatums demanding Germans be expelled from Iran. The Iranians refused, and the Allied invasion began on 25 August. The main motivations of the Allies were: 

The tradition of having ships inherit names from earlier vessels (which, as noted above, might also donate materials in varying degrees) can make it difficult to establish the true service life of a particular ship. This can be further confused when ships change names and/or owners (captured warships were often repaired and put into service with their new owners and in some cases these were recaptured or captured by a third party). Therefore, we really only have accurate records from the start of the Age of Sail when the European sevices became standing navies and acquired the corresponding bureaucracies. Even with this improved record keeping, it can be difficult to determine exactly which ship is being referred to. Wooden warships were expensive to run. They required much larger crews than merchant ships of the same size and keeping a ship at sea in all weathers generated a lot of on-going maintenance. As a consequence, it was normal practice to mothball the bulk of a navy's warships in times of peace. This meant they were kept in a sheltered anchorage or harbor and typically had the masts & rigging removed (and often the guns as well) to reduce the strain on the ship's hull. This reduced peacetime costs and had the additional effect of increasing the ship's potential service life by reducing wear & tear. Looking at how a famous vessel (mentioned in another answer), HMS Victory, has survived for 250 years, it's mainly because she wasn't at sea for most of her life - along with a spot of good fortune and national sentiment. The Victory was launched in 1765 but remained 'in ordinary' (i.e. mothballed as a reserve) before being fitted out and commissioned for active service in 1778. After 4 years of service in the Channel, she was paid off and had a 'middling repair', which took six months. She then spent 4 years in reserve but still required a 'large repair' before being commissioned again in 1789. She was in Channel service until 1792 when she transferred to the Meditterranean where she remained until 1797 (with the exception of 3 months being repaired at Portsmouth in 1795) including taking part in the Battle of Cape St. Vincent. In October 1797, she returned to Portsmouth where she was surveyed and found defective. She was therefore paid off and refitted as a hospital ship (and the ship's name was struck from the Navy List). That could have been the end of the story for this HMS Victory. However, the loss of a newer First Rate, Queen Charlotte, to a fire meant that the Navy required a replacement. Rather than building a new vessel from scratch, they chose to rebuild the Victory. This was a major reconstruction that took three years (and cost more than her original construction). When the reconstruction was complete, she was recommissioned and served as Nelson's flagship in the Mediterranean from 1803 to 1805. She was heavily damaged at Trafalgar and had temporary repairs at Gibraltar before returning to Chatham to be paid off in 1806. She then remained in ordinary until 1808 when she refitted as a 2nd Rate (which reduced the number and type of guns she carried). She was put back into service in December 1808 before being finally retired from active (sea) service in November 1812 (including a period as a troop ship). She then remained in ordinary until 1823, including another major reconstruction between 1814 and 1816 (this again cost more than her original construction and incorporated the construction of a new round bow). From 1823 until 1922, she had various harbour roles which included being a guard ship, a Port Admiral's flagship and a tender to HMS Duke of Wellington as well as periods in ordinary. In 1922 she was dry-docked where she's remained ever since. However, being in dry dock has not meant an end to the reconstruction and repairs. The desire to re-create the 1805 version of ship meant that the round bow (introduced in 1816) had to be replaced with one in the original beakhead style and many of the later fittings had to be replaced with period replicas. From 1955, when a large scale repair was started, the ship has been in an almost continuous process of repairs. 

However, as the example above hints, the main exception is religious or ceremonial items. "Did such a trade network exist only in the core areas, such as in the the Tu'i Tonga empire, with outlying islands being isolated?" In fact the Tu'i Tonga trade network is an example of such trades in ceremonial goods. 

Neither, really. The Zhou Dynasty classed its vassals into five ranks, 公 侯 伯 子 男, which are usually translated into English as Duke, Marquis, Count, Viscount and Baron. The State of Lu held a rank of Marquis (侯). Accordingly, its rulers are properly referred to as Marquis of Lu (魯侯). For example, Marquis Xi of Lu (魯侯戲) whose given name was Xi. However, within their own realms, all vassal lords may be addressed as "Duke" (公), as an honorific (because dukes are the highest of the five ranks). In addition, when a vassal lord died, he may be given a posthumous name. The title of Duke (公) was typically used for this in conjunction with one or two other words that are meant to summarise their reign. For instance, Marquis Xi mentioned above is known as Duke Yi of Lu. The "Yi" part comes from it being a posthumous name. When Xi passed away, he was given a posthumous name to commemorate his reign: Yi (懿). Per convention, he then became Duke Yi of Lu (魯懿公). In Chinese history, rulers who were given posthumous names are typically recorded via that name. Moreover, one of the main sources of historical knowledge on that era came from the Annals of Spring and Autumn, which was the national historical record of the State of Lu. Therefore, seeing their rulers referred to as Dukes (公) are more common than by their actual names. This has led to them all being translated as dukes. Unfortunately, when the actual rank is lower that Duke, it became a confusing mismatch of "Marquis being hereditary dukes". 

My emphasis on the last sentence to highlight that, from the perpective of the injured party, his protection was from being judged a pirate in his own country, i.e. he could return laden with the goods he gained in recompense without fear of being condemned at home. Obviously, these were not international laws, they gave the injured party no protection in the foreign state other than identifying that the party was acting on their own behalf (and not as an agent of their state) to settle a personal dispute. [1] Commentaries on the Laws of England, Volume 1, pg 192-3 - Sir William Blackstone, et al. [2] Ibid, pg 193 [3] Ibid, pg 193 

The book The Eventful History of the Mutiny and Piratical Seizure of H.M.S Bounty by Sir John Barrow includes a chapter on the remarkable voyage of Bligh and his 18 companions in their 23-foot boat, drawn from Bligh's description of the voyage. Unfortunately, Barrow concentrates on the hardships of the men and includes few details on how navigation was accomplished. Bligh's own, more lengthy account, was given in A Narrative of the Mutiny on Board His Majesty's Ship Bounty which was published in 1790. This includes details of the mutiny itself and the subsequent voyage of Bligh and his companions. As far as the navigation tools available, Bligh states that as he and his companions were placed in the boat, the boatswain and seamen were allowed to collect items to take on the voyage.