There are searchable compilations of his writings on religion, like Mark Twain on Religion and The Bible According to Mark Twain. You can also search Twain's letters here and here. No dice. 

I'm not finding evidence that China ever actually came to directly possess an actual and complete F-16, and the following passage from the same article seems to imply otherwise. 

As explained in the article "What ISIS Really Wants" by Graeme Wood, ISIS supporters see Baghdadi as a legitimate caliph. This is a defining feature of ISIS. Muslims in general recognize that bay'ah to a legitimate caliph would be a fundamental duty. But only ISIS supporters (not even Al-Qaeda) believe that any legitimate caliphate has existed since (at least) the fall of the Ottoman sultanate. According to Wood, referring to a particular sermon by Baghdadi: 

EDIT: Given the negative reaction this last quote is garnered, I will state clearly here that it describes the result of a small experiment and should not be taken as a well-supported generalization about fans of metal music. The authors of that particular study also found that, "participants’ usual music preference or listening frequency [were not] related to the variables of primary interest in this research." 

Various reputable media outlets have written articles down through the years to the effect that the higher the ratio of women in a group, the higher its collective intelligence. Examples online: 

I was going to edit my question to make some clarifications on the question. which in retrospect could, perhaps, have been more focused, in particular with respect to the notion of "collective intelligence". But then I realised that it would be better suited as an answer. 

Personal interpretation: In general, these articles promote the idea that groups with a higher ratio of women are naturally "smarter", that individual intelligence does not matter, and that this has been demonstrated scientifically. However, they sit on the politically correct interpretation of the principle they suggest to have scientific backing. For example, I do not find articles suggesting that groups consisting only of women are smarter than those with some men, despite this being a natural conclusion of the same principles they claim have scientific basis, nor do they suggest to fire men, irrespective of their individual intelligence, and hire women instead, based on the same principles. 

Results along these lines have been replicated in multiple studies. Here are quotes from the abstracts of a few relevant articles. Note that most but not all of these studies list Gerulf Rieger as an author. Published in Psychological Science, 2004: 

This is going to be a pretty disappointing answer, but here are various data points that might help. (Given the bickering in the comments to the question, I'll use the term "Romani" and hope for the best!) 

However, these studies should be viewed in the wider context of the literature. For an overview of that research, here is a good place to start. To quote an especially relevant paragraph. Note that it seems to basically contradict the findings above: 

Unlikely. First of all, there are at least five different YouTube videos where people try it out and have no problems. Here is one that includes various sizes and shapes. Secondly, if this were possible, it is likely that cases would appear in the medical literature, but they don't. It is not difficult to find documented cases of light bulbs stuck in people's rectums, of children swallowing small LEDs and so on. Here is a dataset of nearly 2000 light-bulb related mouth injuries presented at hospitals. While only some descriptions are available and all of them are brief, they are just burns, cuts and the like. None of the available descriptions mention one getting "stuck". EDIT: To be clear, cuts from light bulbs in the mouth don't necesserily imply that the bulb was stuck. Here are typical descriptions of the injuries. 

The study found a significant positive correlation between average individual intelligence (r = 0.15, P = 0.04) and "collective intelligence" and maximum individual intelligence (r = 0.19, P = 0.008) and "collective intelligence". Whether these count as "strong correlations", probably they do not. At the same time, the more problematic issue is the misleading representation of collective intelligence as indicating "smartness in groups". In some sense, the indirect language is getting more and more tenuous and further and further away from what the studies can actually tell us. 

The main paragraph explaining the results on which the third claim above is based appears to be the following: 

This is perhaps interesting in that the paper does not give details on the selection of members of groups, nor the relative gender balances and so forth. The gender issue was left rather as a postscript, but became the main talking point in the press. 

More effort at pooling and analyzing case-control studies has since taken place. Here's an example from 2004: 

He probably didn't. There are slightly different versions of this quote out there, and the earliest example I was able to find appears to be from 1931. 

A lot of the discussion on this topic was provoked by a peer-reviewed study published in 2012. Quoting from the abstract: 

TL;DR: There is a lot of relevant research and the findings are complex. They neither strongly support nor deny the assertion that listening to certain music or watching certain music videos may contribute to violent behavior. === This book chapter from 2003 covers research on "violent music" as it relates to child and adolescent development. It covers a lot of relevant ground, and is worth reading if you really want a full picture of what the research does and doesn't show on this question. Here is an analysis that comes under the heading "Suicides and Shootings". [Emphasis added in all cases.]: 

Considering collective intelligence, one can find a general factor, called the "c-factor", which refers to a correlation across expected performance on different group tasks. A comparison is drawn to the "g-factor" underlying (individual) IQ tests. The c-factor of a group does not have a strong correlation with the average or maximum individual intelligence (based on g-factor/individual IQ) of the group. The g-factor of the group instead correlates more strongly with the number of women in the group. This is (partly) explained by the idea that women are better at reading the emotional state of other members of the group. 

It is not clear how this conclusion can be drawn from the paper cited. There is only a speculative relation between the types of tasks defined for the "smartest groups" here (ability to face up to the mentioned "existential tasks") and the types of tasks used in the studies of the paper. (But probably there are common-sense arguments for why the claim is true in that you want to draw from the broadest talent-pool possible, which should of course include women.) 

Gender violence seems to be a specific focus of a lot of research. Here is a study from 2006 with such a focus, which found music videos could "make an individual feel and react more violently with regards to responses to questions about fictitious scenarios." This was the only similar experiment I could find that looked at music on its own. One of the findings is perhaps, very vaguely, relevant: 

Mentions of China directly obtaining an F-16 are conspicuously absent from this article and other relevant sources. 

The primary question being asked here doesn't seem to be about this particular incident, but rather about whether it is representative of a wider difference in food safety standards. Unfortunately, there hasn't been much effort to objectively compare the food safety records of these two countries. Compared to other OECD countries, Australia was found to be in the bottom third. China was not included in the study. A different study looked at "over 3,400 verified instances of food safety violations associated with products exported from 117 countries", and China was second only to India for the highest number of violations. However, keep in mind that China is also the world's largest food producer, and Australia's third largest foreign supplier. Given that the United States was also in the top ten violators, and is an even larger supplier of Australian imports, it arguably deserves equal scrutiny. 

With respect to the claims made by some of the mainstream media based on this paper, I'll just focus on the claims made by one source in particular since other sources make similar types of claims. (I just chose the first source rather than selecting one based on content.) Huffington Post: The Collective Intelligence of Women Could Save the World 

The phrase "group IQ" is problematic. Everything else is fine, but it's worth noting that the correlation with respect to ratio of females was (r = 0.23, P = 0.007). Earlier, the correlation with respect to most intelligent member (r = 0.19, P = 0.008) was dismissed as "not a strong correlation". Granted the latter correlation is lower, but with a range of [−1,1], the difference between both correlations over the range of possible values is 2%. More importantly, it seems misleading to dismiss one correlation as not strong and herald the other as "positively and significantly correlated" even when that latter description applies equally to both. 

The survey mentions no research about music in particular, but there are a few studies that address rap and rock music videos: 

Note that in the available translation of the sermon itself the specific language of "infidels" or "apostates" is not used directly by Baghdadi himself, but arguably implied. EDIT: ISIS directly discusses "apostasy" in various statements included as an appendix a Brookings report. In these statements they explicitly label the following groups as apostate: "[t]hose worshiping—or perceived to be worshiping—stones, saints, tombs, etc.", Shia muslims, "sorcerers", "whoever participates in the political process", "whoever extends to the occupier and his supporters any kind of assistance", "whoever disparages [the] honored stature and position [of the Prophet or the Rightly Guided Caliphs]", "all the rulers and armies of these states [of unbelief]", etc. This falls short of literally labeling all Muslim non-supporters as apostates, but it comes fairly close because it is so open-ended. The only explicit limit they place is where they say "we do not believe in the unbelief of the generality of those entering [the political process], so long as legal proof has not [yet] been furnished for them." 

So those are some highlights from the paper the claims are based on. I would say aspects of the paper are vague and some language is potentially misleading (particularly "collective intelligence"), but I find no reason to doubt the information given. 

This appears to be based on the data from the original paper since the same number of groups is present in both. 

In other words, are the previous media articles based on robust scientific results? Or are these results more preliminary? Have these results been replicated independently? 

The link between the tasks used in the first study and these quadrants is not specified in much detail, nor could I find details on how performance on the tasks was evaluated. The paper also performed a second study with 152 groups ranging from two to five members. A subset of these groups (of unspecified size) worked on an additional five tasks, numbering ten in total. Summarising the main results: 

I won't address US defensive capabilities or attempt to conclusively answer the question, but here is some of the key information one would have to consider on the North Korean side. From a 2015 article on Ars Technica: 

A similar paper based on North American case-control studies and published the following year also provides "direct evidence of an association between residential radon and lung cancer risk." 

I don't feel qualified to say decisively that Karnad's statement is untrue, but I suspect he might be oversimplifying the technology transfer described by political scientist Jonah Blank in a Foreign Affairs piece from 2015: 

No, there is no evidence to support this conclusion. What Hersch's article actually suggests is that Al-Nusra may have produced sarin in Syria. It had support from Turkey and possibly Saudi Arabia, but not the United States. 

=== Another survey from 2006 looks at how media portrayals of violence (in general, not in music specifically) impact violent behavior. Quoting from the abstract: