Have you tried it on other bikes? I own one bike on which I can not really ride standing up while I can do it on others, just because of the position (and size) of the handle bars and the pedals. Of course, building up muscles will help, but some bikes are just not build for standing up. If it is really 4 seconds max, I would say that you will not find it easy to ride standing up on this bike, not even when you have build up your muscles. And sometimes it is the combination of rider and bike. 

In short: There is no definite answer and there are better places to ask. Having used two different mesh seats (both with a cushioned sit upon part and a mesh back) and one kind of hard seat, I feel I can give some advice. But as most is a case of availability and preference, I will not be able to give a definite answer. When cycling you sweat and with your back on or against your seat (depending on how much upright you are) you want ventilation. So your wooden seat is out unless you can introduce a ventilation layer or system. Next your position on the bike is such that you have much less options to take your weight (as you would do on any bike where your pedals are below you) so your seat will have to work with whatever springs and shock absorbers you have on the bike. The more absorbers you have, the less flex or cushioning you need in your seat. On a bike with no spring or shock absorbing you need a seat that takes up all shocks, not a hard one. Cushions can work but are hardly anytime enough. On all 'bents I have never needed anything to keep me in place. On the other hand, I prefer to be able to change position a bit so I can use different muscles or skin spots to avoid problems on longer rides, just like you may want to shift around on a horses saddle or an upright bike. The ventilation and cushioning can be aided by the cushion you select. Ventisit pads are one kind which I have often seen in use, but as far as I know they are not the only kind around. While I love the stack exchange sites, I feel a question as important as this should be asked where a lot of recumbent riders come together, exchange information and are willing to help out others. Like the Bentridersonline forum. Again, there are others, but this is one I know that works. Added: If your bike is more or less standard or you plan to repair it to standard, why not go for a seat that is standard for the bike or as near to it as you can get it? The designers have experience with bikes and the design is proven. 

Is it feasible for an experienced single seat cyclist to serve as captain of a tandem bicycle and effectively "pull" the stoker behind as if the said stoker was riding in a trailer? It's understood the said stoker will be required to maintain some cadence and balance, but it seems possible that a sufficiently skilled single seat cyclist would theoretically be able to compensate for significant stoker errors. Additionally, I know it would help if the captain had tandem experience, but some experienced single seat cyclists may not have time to try out a tandem before pairing with an inexperienced stoker. 

When I'm alone and plodding along the shoulder of a state highway, I like to stand up to catch a wind gust as large vehicles "fly" by me. The amount of "fun" I get from this is exponentially proportional to the size of the passing vehicle. Unfortunately, I have a few concerns regarding my mischievous behavior. Since my average speed is about 15 MPH [1], I'm typically only in the slipstream of the said vehicles for a short period of time. Does standing up for this short period of time actually give me a substantial increase in speed? Also, I often wear highly recognizable clothing and/or gear. There may be a few non-cyclist motorists that recognize me. I'm concerned that my act of standing up right before I'm getting passed could be perceived as "aggressive" behavior. If I continue to stand up to maximize my slipstream from passing motorists, do you think I will encourage some motorists to dislike me more than they already probably do? [1] - My maximum speed is 40 MPH but that's downhill. Also, I can typically get up to 20 MPH on a flat way when there is a strong tailwind. 

Under what circumstances would it be advisable to ride a century without stopping? If a person had: 100% daylight; no mechanical failures; and, no stop signs or lights to deal with, it would seem possible that she/he could ride 100 or more miles on a bicycle without ever putting a single foot back on the ground. Given the above assumptions, I'm wondering what other conditions make it favorable for a rider to forgo all stops. Apart from the above mentioned perils, it would seem to me that nutrition, hydration, waste disposal and arm fatigue would be the greatest challenges. 

I did an unsupported century last year on my 30 pound "shop" mountain bike. The first 55 miles were easy but the last 45 or so were pretty horrible. This year, I want to try it again but with more hills. I really don't want to lug my 30 pound mountain bike up the hills, but I don't have the money for a decent road bike. If I follow a reasonable training plan on my 30 pound mountain bike this year, will I be "safe" moving into high-dollar 15 pound rental road bike 24 hours before an unsupported century? WARNING: This question was edited from its original version. It originally used the term "homemade" century to denote an unsupported century. Also, the question originally asked if it would be okay to switch to a road bike the day of the mentioned century. Now, the question asks if it is safe to switch 24 hours before the mentioned century. 

It will not work everywhere, but where I live, if you need a cheap second hand bike you ask around your network of relatives and friends. A lot of people have bought bikes in the past for a wide range of reasons and quite a few of those are collecting dust and/or rust now. Most of those owners do not go through the trouble of selling the bike actively but might be willing to let it go to someone they know or friends of friends. Most of the time the costs will be low, in the 'stolen bike warning' range, but not because the bike has been stolen but because the owners really do not need the money and like to help out people, or are seriously happy to get someone who takes that unwanted bike of their hands. The down side is that the bike(s) you are offered might not be the model or make you would like best, but it is always worth it asking around if you do have the time. This question is about buying a bike for yourself, but someone else might read it and if you are looking for a bike for a friend who is out of money it is certainly worth asking around. Most people rather see a bike used than go to the waste heap. 

Unlike riding horses, there are no body movements that are dangerous for pregnant cyclists in any stage of pregnancy when riding on roads. Mountain cycling is not as safe and I would certainly talk that over with a Dr or midwife. The risks are mostly the same as any other road user in your area. How do car behave around cyclists and how safe are the roads and paths for cycling. The risks of falling and being hit by a car are greater, the chances of it happening not much. In the Netherlands all or almost all pregnant women ride through most of their pregnancies. I have to add that most Dutch women ride bikes to get places, the percentage riding bikes for sports is much lower, although likely still higher than in many other countries. I do not see cycling as sport but as transport. There is an old joke in the Netherlands: How do you transport five children on one bike? One in a seat on the handle bars, two on the rack on the back and the other two in mommies bellies. (Only work with twins, of course.) This was nothing special back in the days and now it is quite common to see mothers transporting two kids and have one on the way, families with four or more are rare. 

It's like a heavy black graphite-looking grease, definitely oily and not just dirt. There are no signs of leakage from the Alfine SG-700 hub or the bottom bracket. (Hub oil is a much lighter product more like automatic transmission fluid and there is only 25cc of it.) If either the hub or the bracket had leaked all its lubricant I would expect at least some creaking or other noise but it's still all smooth and silent. I haven't ridden in anything but normal wet weather. If I had gone through a big puddle of grease I would expect to find some on the frame, my clothes, experience disc brake issues - but everything else is clean. Gates technical support says that the belt would not deteriorate so quickly and even if it did it would not release any residue, and that it can be removed and cleaned with no ill effects. Any suggestions as to what I should check next? If this stuff came out of the bike then something needs some attention. If it didn't, how can it be confined to the belt and sprockets? Update: It almost certainly is a leak from the Alfine 11 hub, Spot Bikes say it has been known to happen and there are a few search hits with people describing exactly this problem. The bike is in for service with a local shop now (under warranty), I'll update again with the outcome. Annoying to be without a bike... Second Update: I'm picking up the bike tonight, after a cost-free fix under warranty. The hub was inspected by Shimano's representative and pronounced OK once the seal was replaced. The Gates drive components were decontaminated and everything is said to be fine now. If I experience any further leaks, shift issues or if exposure to Shimano's $$$$$ hub lubricant has had any negative effects on the drivetrain I'll continue the saga here. Third Update: I've put a few hundred km on the bike after the fix and everything seems OK in terms of seal. I might be mistaken but it seems be slipping a bit more often when I put a lot of power on the pedals. I'm watching it and will start making some noise about a complete replacement from Shimano if it gets worse. Fourth update (early April 2015): It's leaking again. Have asked the bike store to talk to Shimano about replacement :-( When it works it is a nice product but at this stage I would not recommend it to anyone - maybe if they give me a replacement and it works for 12 months with no leaking I might change my mind. Fifth update (early June 2015): The hub is back from Shimano after being with them for approximately two months. The repair note, once it came back, says "replaced internals and seals". I don't know if that means my hub is now the equivalent of a current production Alfine 11 or if it has just had a new seal installed. Maybe it has just been patched up like it was the first time and it will start leaking again in 12 months of moderate use - or maybe it is now as good as current production Alfine 11 is claimed to be. In any case it has cost me a not-inexpensive wheel build + $20 more to ship it to Shimano, and I'm not that confident. Overall this has been a negative experience and I will be thinking carefully about whether I get another wheel built using this hub or just leave it on a shelf in the shed. Sixth update (late July 2015): I built a new wheel with the hub. Left the wheel leaning against a wall for a couple of days until I had a chance to properly clean the Gates sprocket after the last leak. When I went to complete installation of the sprocket, shift lever etc. - I found it leaking again. Shimano can now replace this with a new one that doesn't leak. Or I give up, try something else, and do my best to help the rest of the world avoid the Alfine 11 hub.