The scientific method is simply a method for ranking theories. Logic and Theology are other methods. When using Logic to rank theories, we are asking the question "Which theory makes the most sense?" When using Theology to rank theories, we are asking the question "Which theory most closely matches my Holy Scripture?" When using Science to rank theories, we are asking the question "Which theory most closely matches reality?" The way science performs this ranking is simply by comparing the predictions of the theory to reality, i.e. performing experiments. Theories that match reality better are considered better than those that do not. People talk about "falsification", but that is really just an extreme form of ranking. Falsification is not at all necessary to the scientific method; all you need are multiple theories that experiments can distinguish. Science can rank the two theories as "better" and "not as good" without necessarily throwing either one out. For example, the theory "Newton's Laws of Motion" has been superseded by "Enstein's Theory of Special Relativity", since Einstein's theory more closely matches reality. But that doesn't mean we throw out Newton's Laws. They are fine approximations, and in most practical situations, the two theories are indistiguishable. Science cannot answer the question "Is the Earth 4.5 billion years old, or is it much newer than that, but created to appear exactly as if it were 4.5 billion years old?" By definition, those two theories will match any reality equally well, so comparing them to reality cannot rank them differently. However, the question "Mr. Smith has kidney stones. Will acupuncture be an effective means of treating him?" is one that science can help with. The two theories "Acupuncture is effective in treating kidney stones" and "Acupuncture is not effective in treating kidney stones" are distinct and will match reality with different degrees of effectiveness. Furthermore, theories have inherent suppositions: the theory "Acupuncture is effective in treating kidney stones" presupposes the the theory "There exists some mechanism by which acupuncture could affect kidney stones." We can test this theory by searching for such a mechanism. We can test it further by categorizing types of mechanisms that could exist and exploring other effects the existence of such mechanisms would have. Any such mechanism would have other effects which could be detected with other sorts of experiments. One twist of the scientific method is that it sometimes does not provide the same ranking that Logic or Theology would. For example, Logic tells us that Newtonian Relativity is the most sensible theory, and Einstein's Theory of Relativity is much less logical. Logic would also tell you that Quantum Mechanics is one of silliest and least logical theories ever devised. And yet Science tells us that these two illogical theories match reality better than the more logical counterparts. If you want to rank theories because you want to make predictions about what will happen in reality, then Science would be the way to go. If that is not your goal, then you should pick the method that best matches your goal. 

For what it's worth, I speak as someone trained as a Quantum Physicist. I have a Ph.D. in particle physics. I say this to make it clear that when I speak of Quantum Mechanics, I'm not just quoting something I read by Deepak Chopra, but am basing it upon established science and research performed by me and also by actually well-known scientists. There are boundless exceptions to the Law of Cause and Effect. Every time a radioactive particle decays, it is an effect which has no cause. One of the most interesting things about QM is that this theory enables us to differentiate between "information we do not know and cannot get" from "information that does not exist." Data that we do not know and cannot get are called "hidden variables." Experiments have demonstrated that theories that rely on hidden variables to explain quantum phenomena make predictions about these phenomena that are inconsistent with observed results. In more succinct terms: Any theory that allows you to predict specifically when a particular radioactive particle will decay is a theory that does not describe the universe in which we live. Literally, the information on when the particle will decay does not exist until the time when the particle decays. This has been demonstrated irrefutably, numerous times. There is no way to logically assign a cause to such an event. So, you might ask, do we really need to care about when tiny particles decay? We're talking issues regarding massive humans. Where's the connection? If a radioactive particle decays, emitting an electron, and that electron crosses the junction between two neurons, the event could trigger one of the neurons to fire. One neuron firing often causes a cascade of neurons to fire. If this happened to occur in the part of your brain responsible for memory of scents, you might get a sudden flash of the smell of cooking meat flitting across your consciousness. If you're on your way home from work, you might decide to stop for a burger, rather than continuing home and having leftover pasta. In this scenario, what you have for dinner that night would depend on whether the particle decayed while you were on the way home. In other words, the information on what you will have for dinner literally does not exist until partway through your drive home. The cause-effect chain for your decision on what to eat would not go back any farther than that moment on your drive home. Might, might, might. How often does this sort of thing actually occur? Well, considering the amount of C14 in the environment, the amount of carbon in your brain, and the half-life of C14, that comes to about 50 decays inside your brain per second. I don't know of any research into how many of these events trigger decisions, but I doubt the number could be absolutely zero. 

No. I would say that "Does A imply B?" is equivalent to: "Are there zero valid models where A is true but B is not?" If there are valid models where A is true and B is not, then it is not the case that A implies B. This is a useful definition of the word "implies". Are there valid models where the universe has a beginning but does not have an end? Yes. Therefore it cannot be the case that the universe having a beginning implies it must have an end. Do we live in a universe that had a beginning but will not have an end? That is a different question. My understanding of the data available is that the answer to this question is "probably". 

Godel's incompleteness theorem essentially states that any formal system complicated enough to create a statement like "This statement is not provable" is either inconsistent (some statements are both true and false) or incomplete (some true statements are unprovable within the system). It seems that you are trying to get around this problem by redefining what is allowed to be a statement. One could certainly alter a logical system by adding the rule that any valid statement must be provably true or provably false. Such a system would no longer be incomplete, though it might become either inconsistent or trivial (no statements exist). 

I think what you call the "presumption of atheism" is just a specific instance of Occam's Razor, which translates as "Don't complicate things unnecessarily." In other words: don't assume the existence of anything that does could possibly not exist. Also, definitions of God are often so vague that proving God doesn't exist runs into a perpetual game of moving goalposts. "Sure, you proved that God, by that definition, does not exist, but what if you define God as..." Asking the theists to prove God exists also allows them to firmly establish a set of goalposts. 

Judging Dawkins' argument solely by the quotation above, I would say that Dawkins response is a form of "argument by satire" which is a type of fallacy. Furthermore, the argument is truncated (whether the truncation is by Dawkins or by OP, I cannot say). The argument could go on to say "we define the maximum amount of smelliness as 'Oscar the Grouch'". Then again, Dawkins, being British, may not be familiar with Oscar. Some flaws with Aquinas's argument are (these flaws are not explicitly stated by Dawkins in the above quote): 

Maybe not a riddle, but some other type of puzzle. There are many types of puzzles where guessing the answer does not count as solving it. This is because sometimes brute-force guessing is too easy (eg. Sudoku) or too time-consuming (decrypting a properly encrypted long message). Riddles do tend to favor guessing rather than constructing the answer. "What is the best strategy for playing chess?" is a conundrum that humans shall never know the answer to. It is simply too hard a puzzle to solve. We've made pretty good guesses on what some good strategies are. An omniscient deity could know the answer without contradiction. There are several known sudoku puzzles that cannot be solved using any technique any human has tried. Yet, each has a known and verified solution. One could extrapolate a puzzle so complex that guessing all the possible solutions is impossible, and that no other technique would solve, yet which has a solution that could be verified. Certainly an omniscient deity could know the answer to such a puzzle without causing any sort of paradox. 

This is not question-begging. To claim that argument is question-begging is to conflate the two statements "X is mature enough to drink" and "X should be legally allowed to purchase and consume alcohol". These are not the same statement. For example, someone might argue that allowing 18 year-olds to shop at liquor stores would be a bad idea due to consequence X, even if they are mature enough to drink. I'm not saying any such argument would be something I'd agree with, only that the argument cannot be ruled out on purely logical grounds. Essentially what I am saying is that P2 above is an arguable statement, which should be backed up with facts, etc. To claim the overall argument is "begging the question" is in essence claiming P2 is a tautology, which it is not. 

My evaluation of Dawkins' argument is that he is so shocked that Aquinas fails to notice this third point that Dawkins forgets to explicitly state it. Or else he thinks it is so obvious that it does not need to be stated. 

See Noether's Theorem. This theorem states that for every symmetry, there must be a corresponding conserved quantity. It's math. The universe is symmetric regarding translations in space (if everything were moved three feet to the left, nothing would change). The conserved quantity for this symmetry is momentum. Thus, because the universe is symmetric regarding translations, momentum must be conserved. "For every action, there is a (quantifiably) equal and opposite reaction" is logically equivalent to "momentum is a conserved quantity." Newton justified his law as a generalization of many observations. We justify it today because Noether's Theorem says it must be true. 

Combining 1. and 2., you can derive: 4. W ⊃ M Combining 3. and 4., you can derive: 5. W ⊃ A I'm not sure the exact rules of inference that allow these derivations, but you can certainly prove them using truth tables. 

The point of the scientific method is to distinguish theories that match reality from theories that do not match reality. To that end, a properly methodological approach will work. But with any methodology, shortcuts can be taken, which sometimes make no difference and other times will invalidate the method. Weaknesses in the scientific method all stem from which shortcuts are being taken. Hempel's paradox is a very useful tool in considering how to do science correctly. The basic idea of the scientific method, as you outlined above, is to start with a single hypothesis, and test to see whether it matches reality. The problem is that if you pick the wrong experiments, you can confirm that a poor theory looks good. A more rigorous approach would be to take multiple theories and try to compare them. This leads to an approach where Hempel's paradox is no longer a problem. Hempel's issue is that the theory "All ravens are black" is the same as "All non-black objects are not ravens". The two statements have identical truth values. But the obvious approach to test the two theories differ. For the former, you would find ravens and look at their color. For the latter, you would look at non-black objects and see whether they are ravens. But what if you wished to compare multiple theories. "All ravens are black" is the same as "100% of ravens are black." That theory could be compared to "0% of ravens are black." Looking at a single raven would distinguish between the two. But since most everyone has seen a black raven, a more interesting comparison might be with the theory "90% of ravens are black". An experiment where you look at a single raven would obviously not be useful to distinguish between those two theories, since the most likely result (a single black raven) would be consistent with either theory. But if you examined 200 ravens, there are no results that would be consistent with both theories (to 1 part in 1 billion). Likewise, everyone has seen lots of non-black objects that are not ravens. If you wished to compare "100% of non-black objects are not ravens" with "99.9% of non-black objects are not ravens", no one would care, because we already know that ravens of any color make up far less than 0.1% of objects that exist. So, in summary, if you start with multiple theories, write them down ahead of time, and compare their predictions, then you can determine which experiments can usefully distinguish between the different theories. This approach leads straightforwardly to determining which experiments are most likely to yield useful information and also other details, like how large a sample size would be needed. I would say this approach is the "true" scientific method. People will often take shortcuts (e.g. not identifying ahead of time multiple theories they wish to compare), and when they do, those shortcuts sometimes invalidate the results. But the simple fact is, if you take the approach above, at the end of the day, you will have a definite answer "Theory A matches reality better than Theory B" (or vice-versa). This is the goal of the scientific method. The fact that it will work is almost a tautology.