100 Bucks is complete chump change when avoiding RSI for someone, so your manager will most likely have no problem with that. You brought the best argument for that yourself: You're a presumably nicely paid employee, and the employer wants to get the most out of the time they're paying you for, so 100 bucks for a mouse that will help you do that and additionally help you avoid RSI (which can be costly for the employer due to mandatory slowdown in the healing period and even potential absence) is well worth it in terms of a business expense. If your employer has a history of quibbling over very minor expenses like this, it may be worth it for your standing in the company and for your own sanity to just pay it yourself and not expense it. But thats up to you. Like you said, thats less then a day's pay, so its not that big of a deal in any case. 

You need to consult an employment lawyer before you do anything here - we can't and won't give legal advice here. Things you need to ask the lawyer would be: 

Ask yourself what you want to gain from such a conversation. You say they re-assigned you because of a "business need". In that case, even if you complain to your manager, they'll probably leave you in that position, because it's a business need. All that ends up doing is make you look bad. You should evaluate for yourself if you'd be happy with your current situation, and for how long you're willing to wait for them to improve. If you reach that threshold, leave for a new job. 

You should probably try to get that amended. Sadly, your only bargaining power in this situation is threatening to leave if they don't, which can be a career limiting move. 

I don't know if this is legal in your jurisdiction, but you probably need a consultation with an employment lawyer. Generally speaking though, if you're in a country like the US with at-will employment, you may be out of luck here and your choice may be work for less or get thrown out. (Definitely do consult an employment lawyer though) 

As other have noted, it depends on where and it depends upon what the game is. If you are in the break room and everyone else is engaged in non-work activities then you should be fine as long as you aren't playing a game that is likely to be controversial (i.e. Grand Theft Auto) or contains objectionable activities. Depending upon the industry that you are in, puzzle games might actually reflect somewhat positively as it shows that you have problem solving skills which can be desirable skills in an employee. Consider two employees reading a book, one is reading a non-fiction book about something that is mildly indirectly related to work while the other is reading a random fiction book, which do you think is going to look more impressive to an employer? In the event that someone does object to playing the game, I would say you need to be careful about how you address the game playing, but depending upon the type of game, you could point out others playing sudoku or doing a crossword puzzle and ask how that is different? 

There are any number of reasons why someone might not work on outside field-related projects outside of the office. These reasons may run anywhere from "I/We have a new born." to "I pursue my hobbies outside of work." Neither of those answers give you any real insight into the person as well and generally not everyone wants to spend their off time working on the same thing that they do at the office - or the fact they are doing work outside of the office could also be the sign that they are moon-lighting and may not be around that long if they are able to work for themselves. 

Turns out that this is actually quite the complicated field and that there is also quite a bit of difference between how things are treated in the United States and the United Kingdom so this answer will focus on the United States usage. With regards to the order of post-nominal letters the standard order in the United States is as follows: 

Right. Go for it, then. You have to look out for yourself, and employees quitting, while unfortunate, is a known business risk. Your current employer will be fine. (They may not like you anymore and refuse to provide a reference, but ah well) Do whats best for your career first. 

As a non native english speaker, yes, please do. Its not rude, and he probably doesn't know he is making mistakes. If you are so inclined, please take the time to correct him. The vast majority of people will really appreciate that. 

Outside of talking to a lawyer and closely examining your contract, you should definitely never work with that agency again. Suggest to your employer to do the same. 

Just always answer the questions truthfully and try to give a honest asessment of your skills. Overinflating or exaggerating skills or qualifications gets noticed by competent recruiters, and is unlikely to do you anything but harm. Even if you get hired based on an exaggerated portrayal of yourself, you now sit in a job with unreasonably high expectations. In short: No. 

I think you're overthinking this. They wanted to dissolve the department. That means they're getting rid of it. Instead of laying you all off, they gave you another chance to try and see if you could contribute in a different position. That may not be working out, and they may have to get rid of you then. It doesn't strike me as particularly retaliatory. Now, it may very well be. It may even be a combination of both. Maybe they though: "Let's give these people who no longer have a place in our company in their former roles a shot at another position, see if they're good at it. If not, we even get to avoid severance/unemployment." In any case, whether or not what they're doing is legal can only be determined by a lawyer. So if you want to explore that avenue, you'll have to get one. Otherwise, the writing is on the wall for you. You know what's likely happening, so prepare for it and find another job. 

Again, this isn't really a good question because there are a lot of employees that will do this while at the office and on the companies clock when they have downtime or as part of "recharge" time at the office when they need to take a break away from what they are currently working on. The question that I generally is going to give you the most insight into how well motivated a candidate is something along the lines of the following: 

The others raise a lot of good points about how to handle the situation; however, at the end of the day, if the schedule of your group is disrupting others in the company then you must correct the problem and ensure that things run smoothly. With this in mind, you need to find out when other groups need reliable access to the developers and if there is any room for flexibility in that schedule. If other groups need access to developers when they are at the office on an unpredictable basis then a core segment of developers need to make sure that need is accommodated. If this means that some developers have to be at the office at fixed periods of time, then it is what it is. With regards to moving the developers to some sort of a fixed availability schedule, your best bet is to ensure that any "hard hours" are softened as much as possible. For example, if the "core hours" are from 11:00 to 15:00 then you can also make sure that the core hours on Friday are not present and Friday is a true flex time day. As Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday are traditionally considered the most productive days of the week you might be able to have the core hours apply to those days and allow Monday and Friday to be full flex days as well. In terms of ensure that the hours are adhered to, if the direction comes down from the top and is approved by upper management then ultimately the developers must adhere to it as part of their employment. You should do what you can to ensure that it is phased in and if some developers have flex-time written into their employment agreement it should be addressed (eg. by changing their compensation and benefits, grandfathering them in, etc.); however, at some point you are going to have to ensure that the policy needs to be adhered to which may also require official disciplining of employees. Likewise, if some choose to leave it may be worth trying to see if they are willing to stay with compensation and benefits changes; however you may also have to accept losing some of the developers. Ultimately, if your job requires that you enforce a cultural change to the group to meet the needs of the business then you options are going to be limited to an extent. You can and should do everything to soften the change and elicit any compromises with other groups as you can, but eventually you will need to enforce the change and accept any personnel change that may come with it. 

There aren't easy answers here. You need to decide what level of acuity you can sacrifice for making your research understandable. So for instance if you know your hiring manager will be the head of research at a company, you can afford to go into more (otherwise prohibitively detailed) explainations as to what it was. In essence, you have to tailor your resume based on who will be reading it. In general, you can do some things to make it more readable for non-tech people though: 

Thats entirely dependant on your HR department. In most cases, this won't be an issue. But they absolutely have the right to refuse (if they so wish) to grant leave during probation (at least that goes for all countries I know the stance on this of, your mileage may vary). But honestly, just talk to your HR department. Lay out to them why you want the leave, and barring any serious business reasons, it shouldn't be a problem. The earlier you do this, the better. Companies usually prefer plenty of notice on when an employee is taking time off. 

To start off, I can't give you legal advice on what consequences this could have for you, but if you're in the US, your employer could fire you for taking it, fire you during it, and fire you after it, so if you believe that your employer is liable to do that you might want to re-think the entire plan. Asides from that, or if you're in Europe, just ask. Be honest about why you want a month off, and inform yourself prior to asking what consequences your absence might have. This is important because you need to make sure that your company can do without you for a month. That includes finishing projects where applicable or telling other people that might need to fill in for you about tasks that they will have to do. Other then that it will probably be the decision of your boss. Be prepared for questions like "How will Task X be handled when you're away for a month?" or "How do you plan to take this?" (combined leave + unpaid some leave). Its worth noting that if you're in the US, unless your employer is very much interested in retaining you, a full month of vacation at once is almost unheard of.