In addition to the other answers, I'll mention the I-400 class submarine. They were under water aircraft carriers and each carried 3 M6A seaplanes. They were conceived in 1942 as a way to bring more than just a submarine's one little deck gun to the US west coast. The Japanese knew sending a surface fleet to raid the US west coast would be a nightmare. Going beyond Hawaii meant an extra 5000 miles round trip. 5000 miles of extra fuel tankers and logistics ships. 5000 miles of patrolling and very angry US aircraft, ships, and submarines. Even if successful those ships would be out of action for weeks while in transit. Their solution was the I-400. The I-400 class married the stealth and operational range of a submarine with the strike range of small bombers. Instead of a normal submarine firing at the coastline with its little deck gun, the I-400 could launch three bombers which could head inland and attack vital industrial and transportation targets. Unlike many Axis "super-weapons" this one worked! But also like many Axis super-weapons, it took too long to reach the battlefield and there weren't enough. 18 were planned, 3 were completed, only 2 entered service before the war ended. The plan was to attack the Panama Canal and stem the tide of US ships flooding from the East Coast to the West. The Panama Canal was well guarded against conventional surface, air, or submarine attack. The thinking was that a fleet of I-400s could sneak up and launch its aircraft late at night. They could do this in 30 minutes. The aircraft would attack from an unexpected direction bypassing the defenses and having the element of surprise. By the time they were completed the war was basically over. And like everything else in the Japanese arsenal it was planned to be sent on a suicide mission against the US fleet. But the elaborate plan failed and the submarines were captured at the end of the war. There's a good documentary on the I-400 by World War II in HD Colour. 

And then there's the notion that fights should be "fair". Fair fights are for suckers. In warfare you want the fight to be as unfair for the other side as possible. Hide your weaknesses. Trick them into attacking where you're strong. And attack their weaknesses with your strengths. This could be using the political situation of your enemy to your advantage, perhaps exploiting unrest as in the Vietnam War, or taking advantage of complex rules of engagement. It could be economical, making it too costly for the enemy to win. It could be logistical, wait and starve them out. You can use your superior mobility and intelligence to avoid their military units and attack their supply lines. Your side might simply be willing to absorb more casualties than the other. The whole notion is generally referred to as Asymmetric Warfare and it's what a successful civilian insurgency is likely to employ against a conventional army. A war is rarely won simply by the weapons of the two sides. 

Now the space and weight is used for other things. Better efficiency, better accommodations, more computers, more electronics, and more power for all those computers and electronics. 

The First Barbary War between the United States and the Barbary pirates matches your criterion. The cause was clear: Tripoli demanded their traditional protection money from the US and the US refused to pay. Tripoli declared war on the US by chopping down the flag in front of the US consulate (according to Wikipedia, this is traditional). The US Congress did not formally declare war, but ordered that armed American vessels were to to seize all vessels and goods of the Pasha of Tripoli "and also to cause to be done all such other acts of precaution or hostility as the state of war will justify." Tripoli harbor was blockaded by a multinational force and raids were conducted against their fleet. After years of blockades and raids, a US mercenary force approached Tripoli by land via Derne. The US commander requested safe passage and supplies. The city governor refused, reportedly with "My head or yours!". The American's target was a fort and the governor's palace. I have no mention of civilian casualties, but city battles are never pretty, and mercenaries aren't the best behaved. Soon after the capture of Derne, with Tripoli threatened and the blockade being bad for business, the pasha surrendered. A treaty was signed declaring a "inviolable and universal peace, and a sincere friendship", exchanging all prisoners, ending the blockade, and withdrawing from Derne. Curiously, after refusing to pay tribute, the US agreed to pay ransom for American prisoners. 

Then there's the problem of penetrating the heavy hull armor. Finally, there's the real sailor's fear: fire. Battleship and heavy cruiser hulls were designed to withstand large caliber armor piercing shells usually as large as their own guns. The USS Iowa had over a foot of armor designed to stop a 16 inch armor piercing shell weighing 2500 lbs moving at 1000 mph. In contrast, it's deck was "only" 7.5". This was done to save weight. The trade off was considered acceptable as long range plunging fire and aircraft bombs had less penetrating power. Most other armored ships followed the same pattern, more armor on the sides, less on the decks. USS Hornet had 2.5 to 4" of belt armor, but only 1.5" protecting her hanger deck. Light cruisers and destroyers were often thinly armored and were vulnerable. They weren't valuable targets in and of themselves, but they would form the picket line of anti-aircraft defenses up to 80km away from the fleet. As such, they were a target to roll back a fleet's AA defenses. As testified by this list of all ships lost by the US Navy and Coast Guard, destroyers got hit hard. A kamikaze will do some damage just from the impact, shrapnel, and spewing aviation gas around, but it's superficial. A kamikaze normally carried a small 250 or 500kg bomb. For the bomb to be effective, it has to penetrate the armor and explode inside the ship, else the explosion will reflect off the armor and go (mostly) harmlessly out to sea. Aircraft are very frail things. In order to penetrate they need to maximize their speed and minimize their armor. This means a dive against the thinner deck armor. Once they crash through that deck armor there's nothing to stop that 500kg bomb. It plunges through unarmored decks and eventually explodes somewhere deep in the bowels of the ship causing damage. Worse, there are a lot of things on a WWII US Navy ship that burn really well. Fuel, ammunition, rags, oil, paint, wood, rubber... it's this fire that has the potential to do damage well beyond what a relatively small bomb can do. A raging fire can put a ship out of action for months. That's exactly what the Japanese hoped to do, severely damage ships so they would have to be sent back across the Pacific for extensive, lengthy repairs. 

The Pound Sterling, and national currency in general, as we know it today is a fairly recent invention. Getting "hard currency" was always a problem for colonies, in part, because mercantilism said that Britain should try to keep as much hard currency as possible, plus the problem of getting it shipped around the world, and then that the colonies were trading with all different nations. As a result, British colonies were using all sorts of currency. A bank note from the Bank Of England was just a piece of paper that some foreign bank said was worth something. Banks back then were far less stable than now, and British fiscal policy got pretty crazy (for example, watch this series on the South Sea Bubble). Who knew what it was actually worth? You couldn't just walk down to the local Travelex and get it exchanged. Without a branch of the BoE around to redeem their notes at face value, who knew what it was going to be worth in trade? Its value could fluctuate on the international market. This was a risk, and traders mitigated that risk by accepting paper bank notes at a fraction of their value. If you wanted to trade and get the best value, you needed coins made of hard currency: silver and gold. Spanish Dollars were particularly popular as an international currency because they were uniform and it didn't rely on any nation or exchange rate: it was a reliable quantity of precious silver. It was "hard currency". In 1825 the British decreed that all their colonies would use Pound Sterling buuuut they set the official exchange rate with the Spanish Dollar too high and very quickly people were turning in their gold sovereigns for more valuable Spanish Dollars. Whoopsie. 

There are plenty of reports of police trying to use psychics to find lost children, often it turns out the psychic's role is overblown by the psychic themselves, or it's the actions of individual police officers not sanctioned by the department. This is an example of the latter where we have a report of Mexican police using voodoo to battle drug cartels. 

In the 1950s and 1960s titanium was a very exotic metal which few had the know how to make or use at the quantities and qualities required for a high tech military vehicle. Titanium is a notoriously difficult metal to work with. You can't refine it like iron ore, instead you get titanium carbide. Instead, you use a more complex process resulting in titanium sponge, basically refined titanium metal. It burns when exposed to oxygen or nitrogen at high temperature, so traditional wielding doesn't work. Working it with traditional tools will quickly wear and break those tools. It takes time to find the ore, build mines, mine the ore, transport it, learn how to refine it, refine it, produce metal, learn how to produce higher quality metal, etc... When a secret US military project in the 1960s (the A-12) suddenly needs large quantities which TiMet (the one large US producer at the time) could not meet, they have to look elsewhere. The Soviet Union was also investigating titanium for military use, they had a stockpile ready to be purchased, so Lockheed did. 

If people were paying attention, March 1929 when Die Weltbühne published an account of secret German rearmament. If they weren't, rearmament was officially revealed in a speech by Hitler on March 16, 1935. Here's a list of public violations of the Versailles Treaty and public displays of military power. 

This is a polite closing remark, not a ringing endorsement of a historical theory, and a curious choice to devote so much space to. Likely this is the closest thing to a supporting quote they had. It would appear This is the Truth is co-opting Professor Palmer's authority to prop up its argument. Newspaper Source: "Western Scholars Play Key Role In Touting 'Science' of the Quran" Daniel Golden published an article about all this in The Wall Street Journal Western Scholars Play Key Role In Touting 'Science' of the Quran (sorry about the paywall). It talks about how various reputable scientists have had their quotes about the Qur'an taken out of context by Abdul Majeed al-Zindani and his Commission on Scientific Signs in the Quran and Sunnah. 

Source: Associated Press Part of the disparity is the sheer scale of the USS Enterprise vs the USS Nautilus. The Enterprise is 85,000 tonnes carrying 5,800 people. The Nautilus is 3,500 tonnes carrying 105 people. 

While the siege of the city gets all the attention, the real Battle of Stalingrad was won and lost at the Don River. The German push to the south was creating a larger and larger strategic salient. Their flank was anchored on the Don River to the north, but the German army was stretched so thin they increasingly had to rely on allied units from Italy, Romania, and Hungary to guard their flank. Poorly equipped and their hearts not really in the fight, they would be the German's real downfall. The German army could no longer cover the enormous front it had created. The Germans again underestimated the Soviets and did not think it possible they had any reserve to mount a counter-offensive, and again they were wrong. A million men, 1000 tanks, and 13,000 artillery pieces crashed into the weak covering forces north and south of Stalingrad. They blew through the Romans and Italians and surrounded the German armored spearhead of just 300,000. The quick operational thinking of the German staff could have saved the entrapped army, but a lack of fuel, and Hitler's meddling meant they remained obsessed with Stalingrad and holding out. By the time a breakout was attempted, the entrapped army was too weak to mount one, and the Soviet encirclement was too strong to be broken from the hastily thrown together relief columns from outside.