Now not knowing anything about Hegel I of course do not know enough to get the joke, aside from the obvious juxtaposition in the pictures. What is this le sacre monstre according to Hegel, and why do the 3 views/person see it the way they do? 

Ah qualia, a source of much controversy in the field of philosophy of mind, some deny it entirely (What really?) others argue about what exactly it is... Before we talk more about it, let us loosely define what it is exactly : 

I found the Oxford Handbook of Epistemology quite helpful. It does a great job at clearly defining what each view or topic in epistemology is, before diving into the problems, virtues, and arguments for and against each view. There is a ton of information in it (around 600 pages) and I have yet to finish it, but it is very readable and a great reference. I checked the index and unfortunately Hypnagogia is not contained within the book bindings. The titles of the chapters within are as follows 

It seems like you are worried that betting on your life might cause you to die somehow through some kind of supernatural means. This is just your personal superstition at work. You will not magically die because of your bluff. However, if you bet on your life to someone that might decide to extract revenge on you, there is the possibility that they might try to make you pay your self proclaimed stakes. This bet might be OK in casual circumstances with friends, but don't verbalize it inside of any crime rings. 

A Facebook group Philosophy Matters posts philosophy related jokes from time to time. Today they posted this image : 

I believe the simple answer would be that this intelligence is not naturally occurring, but engineered or created. Once created it learns naturally, but there is still the prerequisite of being created. 

I will attempt to contest this point under the rules of the thought experiment. I'm assuming when you say "you" you mean a "me" on twin earth. and 

So really your acquaintance almost hit the nail on the head when they claimed you were describing except what he REALLY meant was as you pointed out. The "Objectivist" is not arguing from an "Is" to an "Ought" but from an "I want" to an "ought" and as such, they really have an even bigger gap to close, if they want to provide a gap closing rationale. 

Coherentism Note their view on skeptisim of an external world (Brain in a vat / trapped in virtual reality / universe is a simulation arguements) 

Reading Speed it's really really valuable to learn speed reading so you can read more philosophy. reading a lot (and rereading) does matter. if you can't read philosophy at 500 or more words per minute, it will be hard to do as much as those who can. it's also valuable to be able to read using both text and audio so you can read books while going for a walk or driving or at the gym, etc. you can listen to ebooks using text to speech software such as $URL$ (you aren't limited to audio books) the most effective speed reading approach is called Rapid Serial Visual Presentation. here's a free web version to see what it is (it takes a while to learn and get good with it, but you may be able to use it around your normal reading speed immediately. you can do higher speeds with 2 or 3 words at a time instead of just 1, and some people also find 3-4 words at a time is easier initially): $URL$ learning how to skim well, skip around to the important parts of books, look up relevant parts in the index, etc, is also extremely valuable. good skimming can save even more time than speed reading. both speed reading and skimming can have major downsides if done badly. you can lose a lot of comprehension of the material. but if done with enough skill and good judgement, they can work for most material, and you can occasionally slow down as needed. (as you get better at it, you can slow down less often for less kinds of material.) and reading faster allows more rereads. if you can do 2-3 fast reads instead of 1 slow read of a book, that's usually better. or do 1 slow read and 2-3 fast reads instead of 2 slow reads – that's pretty much always better. and getting good at speed reading can improve your minimum reading speed too. Rest Regarding rest, knowledge workers like programmers typically do about 10-20 hours a week of really serious hard work. They spend the rest of the time answering emails, doing meetings, checking reddit, etc. Most people can do more temporarily but would burn out if they kept it up. People also tire from other types of thinking such as playing chess or reading difficult philosophy. Getting tired normal. People also like excuses for not doing much. So be careful! Some people are exceptional. The philosopher Karl Popper had a reputation for working long hours all the time and not doing much else. Try to be honest about how much rest you really need. The more you really like your work, the more it should energize and inspire you! If that isn't happening, maybe something's wrong. 

I second the above mention of "Descartes' Error" by Antonio Damasio, although the fundamental argument has been more succinctly stated in other places. "Mental Events" by Donald Davidson is an excellent essay, arguing for metaphysical reduction of the mind, by way of explanatory non-reduction (it is genius.) "What is it like to be a bat?" by Thomas Nagel is an absolutely foundational essay on the explanatory gap. "On Confusion About a Function of Consciousness" by Ned Block is also prerequisite reading for most modern philosophy of mind. Although you were very explicit about this, Dennett has some excellent literature on constructing an objective phenomenology, that is very interesting. Finally, Richard Moran has an entire novel out called "Authority and Estrangement," that deals with the asymmetry of self knowledge and knowledge of other types, and "privileged access" to some parts of our minds. Self-knowledge actually has some import in terms of whether or not the mind can be reduced. I can recommend other essays. Are you interested at all in functionalism? 

I take your term "conceptual" to really be getting at representational, where information is really being represented and "deliberated" on. Allow me to give some examples: Many studies show (as Dreyfus argues in many papers) that skilled labor actually occurs in a non-representational fashion. For example, a chess-master need not consciously deliberate on the "best" or most "rational move" in order to play well. In fact, this conscious deliberation causes people who engage in skilled labor to become more inept than they normally are. To take a mundane example, when I see someone who is angry, I don't need to actively represent some information about anger to verify that a person is indeed angry. There is some complexity that goes into this, and I would recommend a paper called "Intelligence Without Representation," that talks about being-in-the-world and maximum grip theory very succinctly. By contrast, even Dreyfus admits to the fact that some representation does occur. For example in self-reflection or the rational deliberation of a particular belief/propositional attitude (i.e How many people are in the U.S? should people gamble?) However, some such as Richard Moran argue that even though information is being represented, our primary means of introspection is non-inferential/non-perceptual/immediate, meaning that propositional attitudes are actually self-constituted by introspection. To complicate things further, take one of the tenets of the somatic marker hypothesis, which argues that some of our emotional states are actually a conscious or unconscious representation of a particular emotional body state, suggesting that some parts of phenomenal consciousness. Similarly, if part of our conscious deliberation is based on emotional content, then some parts of prop. attitudes might actually be non-representational. Needless to day, any argument that floats around "fully conceptual" would be facile in its approach without addressing the concerns of many, many philosophers. From an intuitive perspective, it's hard to believe that every decision we make is some rational deliberation of evidence (for example. every step you take in a particular direction) but it also feels strange to admit to the fact that all decisions don't depend on some so-called "conceptual content" or informational representation. This is ignoring mind-extension theory, how conceptual content might alter phenomenal experience (vice versa), causal pathways in the mind, potential metaphysical reduction, self-knowledge (what kind of "concepts" exist?) and so forth. There is a lot going on, so it is a difficult question to answer in this kind of format. I would suggest starting with that Dreyfus essay. Perhaps Moran's "Authority and Estrangement," some Ned Block David Chalmers etc., perhaps some literature on the somatic marker hypothesis. It sounds like you would also enjoy donald davidson's "mental states" and Charles Taylor. 

there's mysticism here. a simulation of a human is a human. it's the same thing. human minds are software running in a classical computer. that's what you already are – a computer running software. the hardware details don't matter to the computations. no soul or organic molecules required. an intelligence software program has to do certain things. included on the list is create knowledge. the only known knowledge-creating process is evolution. knowledge can be created through replication with variation and selection. (in the case of ideas this would more normally be called brainstorming and critical thinking to eliminate errors). software that does this within various parameters, and does a few other things, would be a thinking person. that's all there is to it. stuff like emotions are emergent properties of software, they aren't tied to souls, hardware made of organic molecules instead of silicon, etc 

government should protect everyone, not just the weak. it should treat everyone equally instead of define a privileged class (e.g. those deemed "weak" by some criterion). the point of government is to protect men from force and keep that defensive force organized and careful instead of just a bunch of chaotic vigilante justice. defense against force (e.g. robbery or enslavement) is an important value for everyone (strong or weak). a hard part is who pays for this defense, and how much from each person? ideally funding would be voluntary. currently that isn't figured out yet. 

Suffering involves having preferences and not getting them – basically not getting what you want (which requires wanting something). A rock has no preferences about what happens, so it can't suffer. (A rock doesn't want anything, so there's no opportunity to be disappointed.) The debate about animals should focus on whether or not they have minds involving preferences, rather than on mixing up physical pain nerves with mental suffering. Pain nerves could easily be included in a robot that (that is, we could make a robot with sensors to detect damage and send information about the damage to the software running the robot). Despite the word "pain" in the name, it has nothing more to do with suffering that sensors to detect pressure or light or sound. What people usually do is take attributes of animals that we see in today's video game enemies and then say "see! animals learn! animals are just like people!" An indication that animals do not have preferences is their inability to create new knowledge such as philosophies. This shows they are not universal knowledge creators like people. (Universal knowledge creator = able to create any knowledge that any knowledge creator can create. Think generic knowledge creator rather than specialized within some limits.) So an animal would have to either be a special case knowledge creator that somehow creates preferences but not philosophies, or else it can't suffer. There are no reasonable proposals for how this would work. The underlying problem is the people debating this topic largely aren't familiar with the key concepts like preferences, universality, and knowledge creation. If you want to understand universality better, and how knowledge is created, the best place to start is $URL$