I'm 51, 6', 205 lbs and train 4-5 days a week (5/3/1 program). I'm currently taking: a Multi (GNC for old men), D3, Calcium/Magnisum/Zinc and Fish Oil and Fiber. I also try to get to about 130-150 grams protein a day. I'm feeling good, good recovery BUT want to see if there's any changes I can make to improve overall stamina/strength. 

I current have a solid 50lb kettlebell that I use. I'm looking to upgrade, but prices for solid kettlebells are very expensive. I saw this adjustable handle on amazon (pic) for about $35 and it can take up to 70 lbs...still not the max weight I was hoping for, but an improvement and ability to adjust down for other kettlebell exercises. Does anyone have any experience with this model or similar low cost ones? After following Dave's advice and checking out the parts needed via RossTraining, here's my homemade version - cost $15 (I do need to shorten the handles a little) 

What you need is a combo nutrition and strength training program to put on some muscle and keep your BF% low to show them off...doing both at the same time is a bit tough and the Mark Wahlberg look is a combination of full time nutritionist, full time personal trainer and probably a part time plastic surgeon. Set some realistic goals and go for what is healthy and makes you feel good. Here's two books to get immediately, so you can begin studying and creating a good workout plan for you: Starting Strength and New Rules of Lifting. It's pretty tough giving you a good, long term plan without knowing you and seeing you train....take it slow, ramp up and keep in mind that every 3-4 months you'll need to modify your training to keep your body guessing (which helps with your gains and metabolism). 

I think this is a good question to ponder after a good workout. Does height/weight differences affect the person's ability to perform an exercise - definitely yes, depending on the exercise. I think squats are easier for shorter people, deadlifts for taller people, benching for people with shorter arms...but a tall person could out squat a shorter person based on MANY factors: genetics playing a significant role here in regards to muscles, stamina, muscle fiber distribution/type, energy processing, etc.......I think if you look only at height/weight your looking at a small set of potential differences impacting performance. OVERALL - I think each person is different in many ways BUT similar enough to be able to perform the same as anyone else if enough dedication/determination is applied. I've seen to many 'challenged' (missing limbs, post-cancer, etc.) people out-perform genetically gifted people to realize, like most things, it's 90% mental. 

Like George Throrogood says - I drink alone when I'm by myself. Working out alone isn't for everyone, if you feel lack of inspiration or mental fortitude when you're by yourself, you have two options: change your situation and find a workout partner (or trainer) or learn to inspire yourself. How can you inspire yourself? 

Your question is somewhat vague, but I think typical of someone looking to lose some weight and feel better about themselves health wise. There's a few steps to take prior to the hard work: 

Rule #1: keep it simple Rule #2: make a plan and stick with it (at least for 2-3 months) Rule #3: don't hurt yourself I've been using a combination of my home gym and the local YMCA for many years AND actually get more of a workout at home. I tend to go to the Y for more 'social' aspects. Given that, I think you need to include some 'social' aspects to your training to ensure you stay motivated. (it could be once a month get together boot camp). In regards to home training - keep the the 3 rules above. I highly recommend you first purchasing 2 books: 

$URL$ Neither of these should be done exclusive to all other exercises, but part of an overall program - with the focus on your core and next areas. The problem with focusing on a specific 'body part' is that the supporting muscles (to that part) also need to be developed otherwise they could become overloaded. Post use soreness (you mentioned that you were sore afterwards) is a sign that you are straining parts of your body, normal, but also a sign that you need to gain strength to reduce risk of injury - especially to the next/back areas. Sounds like what you're doing is a lot of fun - if you get a chance, please post a video! 

There's two products I would recommend (I hate to push a product, but these are relatively cheap and effective): 

If your focus is on strength training and your only means was working out at home (Home Gym), what equipment would you purchase, at what cost and how would it provide assistance for a complete strength training program? 

I found this 9 week basic program: $URL$ Personally, I like to switch between HIIT and Weight training - alternating days....I've always felt that some weight program is essential to overall fitness and health. It provides long term improvements in muscle, tendon and bone health as well as long term/post workout calorie burning. 

I think more information would be helpful, where does it hurt and what exercise(s) are you performing. Pain is your body's way of saying 'stop' that you are proceeding to do something that will potentially cause short (or long) term damage - dependent on the level of pain, your natural pain threshold and where the pain is. A LOT OF TIME pain is an indication that you are performing the exercise incorrectly - so, be careful and get help/advice prior to proceeding. Ligament-strains, tendons-tears and bone-stress-factures are common for people new to exercise and could stop short any continued progress. 

Here's a good article on Bodybuilding.com - $URL$ I think your question answers itself (which makes it a great question). If you separate the muscle building from other physical improvements (stabilization, ligament strength, physiological), then there probably is little difference and possibly more benefits to using cable/machines. Cable/machines help focus effort on specific muscles and that focus probably helps them build faster....the overall problem is that a big muscle in itself has little benefit (outside of looking good and if the bicep a way to attract women). If you want a healthy, fit body, you need to develop the entire human structure and mental fortitude at the same time - and yes, I think lifting free weights has physiological benefits over cables/machines...muscle strength, stabilization, bone density, muscle-to-bone (tendon), bone-to-bone (ligament) and cardio build together better with unstable, heavy objects - free weights, sand bags, kettle bells, sledge hammers, etc. 

I've been trying to dead lift heavier (up to 380), but seem to have reached a plateau...the biggest obstacles seem to be my grip strength (thinking of using straps) and pressure on the lower back. Is it time to use a belt? what are the drawbacks to using one? and should I just put it on when I get to the heavy sets? 

Losing weight is all (mostly) about diet/nutrition. The first step is truthfully recording what you've eat throughout a 2 week period. If you signup with LiveStrong you can track your calories via their tracker (they also have a mobile version): $URL$ Losing weight requires a lot of dedication, especially in the beginning, since it's a life style change. I would recommend getting together with a nutritionist/personal trainer once you've recorded your intake to get a good diet/exercise program together. Adhoc approaches to health result in adhoc results...take it serious