Perhaps they are called Igneous Petrologists ? Someone who studies magma/lava flows tends to go by Geophysicist because they inherently study continuum mechanics and fluid flow. 

With some informal conversation with a peer of mine, he had suggested that there is evidence (which he couldn't find,but had remembered reading) that there was Silicon in the Earth's core. I referred to him to a rather famous paper by Micheal Drake which says: 

Each node represents a system of equations, and these equations are only calculated on these points. Therefore, the model can only exist on the points in which they are calculated. Since B and C are dimensionally between A and D, a smoothing factor must be imposed to graphically represent them. So while there might be a line in between A and D, the model only exists on points A and D. To find the model at point B and C, you would have to build them in your model, creating a higher resolution mesh. This is perhaps why it is so important to have a dense seismic array when doing seismic studies. So in your case, the model is dependent on information on information at two stations, making each node TWO STATIONS. This would mean that the it is impossible to give an exact geographic location to where the inversion is, just a generalized idea of between these two stations. 

Most of the physical oceanography students I know studied mechanical engineering, physics or mathematics in undergrad. Strong physics and mathematical skills are very important. Programming is also a plus. Having a few earth sciences courses is good, but the physics and math is much more important, so I think you will be in good shape. However, beyond the basic background, clear ability to do research is very important in PhD admissions. Even if the applicant doesn't have any research experience, there are ways he/she can show that potential. A clear statement of purpose that outlines and contextualizes the problems the student wants to address in graduate school will catch the eye of any professor looking for students. There many students who have posters at AGU, GSA ect, however, the truth of the matter is that most undergraduates with research experience entering graduate school aren't ready to hit the ground running anyway. Professors know that, as they have had students before. For courses, I would say skip the environmental modeling course unless it is directly related to what you want to research. Take the remote sensing, and instead of environmental modeling, take a full on numerical modeling course. A rigorous undergraduate level (or if you can stomach it, graduate level) will give you a very strong foundation for whatever simulations you may or may not to run during your career as scientist, even if you start out as a purely observational scientist. Fluid Mechanics is also a no brainer if you still have time. Finally, the oceanography researchers at LDEO (columbia university) are top notch. So are the ones at University of Washington, Hawaii, and Rhode Island. Good luck on your applications, you have a lot of time to decide what you want to do (since your junior year just started I'm assuming). The best advice I can give you is look at what researchers are doing on their websites and try and read a few of their papers. If you know any professors with these same interests, ask them what you don't understand. Earth Sciences is much different than math (I came from pure physics), spend some time trying understand what an oceanographer does. If you can figure that out, you will be more than prepared to reflect that in your statement of purpose and you will be a stellar candidate for graduate school. 

Inspired by Chris McKay's Possibilities for methanogenic life in liquid methane on the surface of Titan. In the paper, the PI's found that the consumed acetylene, ethane, and other organic solids would produce enough energy for bacteria to live. They hypothesize that because the Cassini-Huygens probe detects a depletion of acetylene, ethane and hydrogen on Titan's surface, that living bacteria could be a possible causation for this anomaly. Obviously, there is some fantasy in this paper, but it is interesting none the less. My question is, How could a scientist falsify this hypothesis? What biomarkers would be useful to look for? What kinds of sensors would track these biomarkers? 

To add a bit more mathematical conception to the idea of a grid: think about a 2-D grid(X,Y) as a matrix: this matrix represents a solution to the system of equations you are trying to solve at grid point x,y (individual points on X,Y respectively). Why is it important to make this distinction? Because knowing the resolution, span, regularity and structure of your grid will determine how you set up your numerical process in order to get reliable numerical solutions. In particular, the boundary conditions are especially sensitive to the grid, which can be difficult to properly place depending on the type of numerical process you are using. Furthermore, in heavy numerical tasks, your grid can often determine how long it takes for your model to resolve (if it even can)! So yes, a grid is how spatial data is organized and represented, but more importantly, it is fundamentally where the solutions are calculated and live. A well resolved, thought out, and executed grid is fundamental to any scientific study using numerical methods in their argument. 

You can ignore the "Shallow" vs "Deep and Wide Box" comparisons, those only matter for building a modeling domain. What is important is noticing what happens to the slab when it hits the 660km boundary: it has a much more difficult time subducting. The slab "glides" through the upper mantle, but deeper in the earth, the mineralogical phase changes make the mantle much denser, creating a much stronger normal force on the slab. This normal force transfers energy into the slab and "pushes" back causing a drag between the deeper slab and the slab in the upper mantle. Since the under-riding plate and the overriding plate are weakly coupled viscously, only a small portion of the overriding plate is pulled with the trench. This causes extension/rifting. Not all subduction zones have a back arc: weaker slabs tend to have a much harder time forming one as the transfer of energy in a strong slab is much more efficient. It is also important to note that these phase changes are currently the leading theory, but our dynamic models have a hard time dynamically developing trench rollback. Sure, the literature might sound optimistic about it, but thats with surface kinematic boundary conditions and not pure dynamics. These rifting centers form from trench roll-back. We can measure this roll-back with GPS. What causes trench roll-back is a much harder question to answer, in my opinion. 

I don't know the exact percentage. But it is way more than just oil fields, EarthScope has done most of the continental US. $URL$ 

This will give you the grid you want, as long as your Lat/Lon Vectors are spaced how you want. To get the 'color" of the pcolor, you will need to have a nxn matrix of rain values: you will need to know what those are at each point. If you do not know those, then then you cannot plot it in map view unless you do some form of modeling or interpolation. If you have an irregular shape, I would not use matlab. I would use Visit or Paraview, and there are many guides online on how to use this. If you must use matlab, I would create "fake points" to make the grid a regular shape, and give them false rain values (such as NaN). I would then edit the plot in a postprocessor (photoshop) so that Only the irregular shape appears. The spacing of the grid does not matter as its specified via your vectors. 

Ok, so this is a somewhat complicated question, and while this isn't a full answer I think I may be able to help you find the right direction. It sounds like you are doing a completely theoretical study, so in this case I would advise you to look at Fault Maximum Displacement vs Fault Length Ratios (commonly referred to as D/L in te tectonics community). Here is an older but good study on D/L ratios: ftp://ftp.gps.caltech.edu/pub/avouac/OwensValley/Dawers-Geology-1993.pdf You will have to make some assumptions based on the type of faulting that occurs in your model. I found a observational study on D/L ratios and slip rate: $URL$ Which seems to be a well cited article on the subject. It seems there is some correlation, but perhaps it is different depending on the area. I know that Mars, Earth, and Icy Moons around Jupiter/Saturn all have different average D/L ratio which is directly correlated to the strain rates and material properties. Slip rate should have a similar, if not identical correlation (though slip is usually calculated on the surface where strain is often subsurface from my understanding). What software are you using to model this fault surface? Is it a homebrew or is it a community code? I realize you might need to be a little secretive about what you are researching when posting on the internet, but a little more information might or might not go a long way in helping people provide a better answer. Hopefully this helped. 

As you can see, the "beachball" diagrams are visual representations of the three linearly independent stress vectors or moment tensors. I may be getting these colors reversed (so someone check on it) but "white" means dilation and "black" means compression. A fault rupture will have some compression and some dilation, meaning some "white" and some "black", but an explosion will appear to be fully compressed because an explosion pushes on every direction. Think about a slinky: when you push on it, there is compression, and when you pull on it dilates. So an Implosion, that pulls everything towards one point, would be extensional, and thus be fully "white". 

I think I can do an OK job explaining, but I could not find a proper diagram to illustrate this. Perhaps, if you could locate a professor at your university to draw this out and explain it would be best, as doing an illustration on computer is a bit time consuming. Lets start out with a two plate system, plate $A$ and $B$. ${}_{A}E_B$ is the relative plate motion of $B$ with respect to $A$, meaning that $A's$ motion is fixed while $B$ is free to rotate. Since this is only a two plate mode, $A$ and $B's$ relative plate motions are always the same, no matter where they are in time, you can always go back and forawrd in time, as nothing changes the relationship between $A$ and $B$. IE, there is nothing to interfere with their relative plate motions. Only 1 Euler pole is needed to fully describe the motions of two plates, in general. Lets now add a 3rd plate, plate C: ${}_AE_B$ is the plate motion of $B$ with respect to $A$ ${}_BE_C$ is the plate motion of $C$ with respect to $B$ ${}_CE_A$ is the plate motion of $A$ with respect to $C$ These three motions describe the 3 plate system. So now lets imagine we are standing on $A$ looking at $B$ and $C$, what happens? Since we are on $A$, we move relative to $C$, and $B$ moves relative to us. But wait, a problem occurs, because $C's$ motion is dependent on $B$ being relatively fixed, and $A's$ motion is dependent on $C$ being relatively fixed, meaning if two poles are fixed, the third and final pole must wander to accommodate the reference frame. IE, because All of the plates are moving relative to each other (depending on the reference frame), the Euler poles are changing over time. This gets more complex as we keep on adding plates into the system. 

Obsidian is formed when a rhyolitic (or felsic) lava flows cool rapidly. This must mean that it's mostly available on the surface (and I think if you go near volcanos you can find pieces of Obsidian on the ground) because molten rock cools much faster above ground than it does below, allowing the melt to cool with small crystals (as opposed to intrusive rocks which have larger crystals). This means that Obsidian is an extrusive igneous rock. I am betting that Obsidian is very common around most active volcanos around the world! 

This is a very simple answer, and it depends on the what the seismometer is measuring. I'm assuming you mean the time derviative/intdegral $\frac\partial{\partial{}t}$ or $\int{dt}$ Most seismometers measure displacement over time or velocity over time (series). So taking the time derivative will give you the spectral velocity or the spectral acceleration respectively when you take their derivatives. When you take the integral of displacement, you calculate the total area displaced over time, and when you take the integral of velocity, you calculated the displacement. It's all physics 101 really! 

from ($URL$ As you can see, we know that P-waves(compressional) will generally arrives before S-waves(shear). Also, in general, S-waves will arrive before the much stronger in response body waves. To distinguish which waves are which, we use a three directional seismometer, which will record three different seismograms: Radial, North-South, and East-West. Notice that all these directions are perpendicular to each other. The characteristic wave motion of the specific wave you are analyzing will cause stronger or weaker perturbations on each of the different directional seismographs depending on how the wave arrives. For example, if a shear wave arrives directly beneath a the seismometer, because of the wave motion, it will show up most on the East-West and North-South seismograms and less so on the radial seismogram where there is no deformation caused in that direction. Suffice to say, there are a lot of factors and "tricks" that seismologists use to distinguish these waves from one another. Becoming a master at this takes years of doing this, and being good at this could also result in a very nice paycheck. 

At the 2011 AGU Fall meeting, this poster claimed that the water erosion from Taiwan's wettest storms could prematurely trigger large magnitude earthquakes , $ M \ge 6.0 $. If this was true, this discovery would be incredibly important for not only our understand of earthquake mechanics but also hazard prevention. Could this theory really be correct? 

Ah yes, this is a very good question. The formation of back-arc spreading centers is an open research problem, and happens to be the main topic of my office mate's dissertation! While these aren't exactly "clean" back-arcs, the formation of them is similar, I'm fairly sure. The formation of back-arcs is caused by "Trench Roll-back". Trench Rollback is where the trench is pushed back in the opposite direction of the subducting slab and causes extension in the back-arc, forming a spreading center. Below is a diagram from Modeling the dynamics of Subducting Slabs, Magali Billen, Annual Reviews of Earth and Planetary Sciences, 2008: 

I believe you understand the first factor, so I will focus on the other two. The most common GLOBAL velocity model is PREM, which is depicted below(Image Source): Velocity models basically assume the internal P and S velocity structure of Earth. If the crust is thinner than average in the area where the source is, the arrival times will be faster than if the crust is thicker than average, though depending on the distance this could be negligible. This is because seismic waves travel faster in than they do in the crust, so the least time tends to involve travel through the mantle. The other controlling factor is composition, or in other words, heterogeneities within the earth. Depending on the composition the wave travels through, arrival times could be slower or faster. For example, imagine an interplate earthquake traveling through a subducting slab and into a seismometer: the arrival times are slower because the wave speed of lithosphere is slower than the wave speed of mantle. In fact, its these deviations from our velocity model predictions that help us find heterogeneity in the earth to begin with! This is essentially how we find our natural resources, though instead of using earthquakes as the source we use man made active seismic waves. 

But since this paper was published 12 years ago, I am wondering if there is any compelling evidence that Si is in Earth's core, and at what concentration it might be? How might it have gotten there? References Drake, M., Righter, K., 2002. Determining the composition of the Earth. Nature 416, 39–44. 

Among the people I interact with in the geodynamics community, it seems that almost all of us are in full support of the mantle plume theory. What are the strongest arguments against this theory? Is the earth science community not as divided on this subject as some people have led me to believe ? 

While there are specific cases of continental sinking, I think this needs to answered on a global scale in which continental lithosphere is significantly more buoyant than 1) the mantle and 2) oceanic lithosphere. For a continent to sink you either need to add mass to the continent (pushing down on the mantle causing a diverging mantle flow underneath) or you need to push mantle from underneath the continent away from internal forces. The latter case is difficult to see happening unless there is a heating gradient caused by mantle heterogeneity, there is certainly no evidence of that. Furthermore, in regards to the effects of mantle flow on sea-level rise, I encourage you to read the seminal piece of this field, Muller et al. 2008 Mantle flow can have just as great (if not greater) effect on the sea level relative to the continent as it can on the height of continents. But because Isostasy and erosion largely governs the height of the continent, its hard to see some complex dynamic where you get global continental sinking (meaning flow is completely divergent under all continents) seems rather extraordinary and not physically consistent with our geophysical models. Subduction zones along the ring of fire certainly do their best to cycle the mantle underneath the continental lithosphere, for example.