"Vibration" could indicate a bad chain angle or a misadjusted derailer. On the other hand, it's typical to have smoothest operation near the middle of the cluster and some very slight noise/vibration higher and lower. Hard to say whether you have a problem or not without knowing the precise nature and severity of what you're experiencing. Note that a chain will last roughly 2000mi or 3000km (+/- 50%). After that it's sufficiently worn that it's beginning to cause excessive wear on the sprockets. A rear cluster will last roughly 5000mi/8000km under normal use but will wear faster if a worn chain is being used. Also, if you're on your third cluster your front chainring is likely fairly worn, though the condition of a single front ring is usually not a major issue. 

Being faced with a wheel with these devilish things, I'm wondering how people keep them from twisting when tweaking the nipples. I've been using a pair of Vice Grips, but that's clumsy and seems a bit crude for such exotic items. Anyone got a better idea? Note: These are Easton spokes which are round, with the nipples in the rim (not "backwards" like some fancy rims). The stub end is very slightly flattened, but there's no practical way to reach that end when the spokes are in place on the hub. 

There are so many variables here. Strength and endurance varies widely between riders, and the situation gets even more complicated if heat is at all a factor. And many riders may be on bikes that lack a decent granny range. Less experienced riders will have difficulty holding the bike steady on a hill, even if they have the strength to easily manage the hill. The thing to tell your companions is that, for most hills, with an adequately geared bike, it's simply a matter of persistence -- gear down and spin, at whatever rate of effort suits you. Set a "good" example for them by spinning up the hill yourself, rather than charging it. You can also teach your companions a few hill maneuvers, such as how to turn sideways (on a lightly-traveled road) to safely come to a stop. On a curving hill (again on a lightly traveled road or one with good shoulders) one may want to move to the outside of the curve (even if it's the "wrong" side of the road), both because the slope is less there and because it better positions you to turn downhill in case you need to stop (since the outside of the curve is banked). Also, of course, explain to them how on a hill it's more important than usual to "claim your lane", since you'll tend to be a bit wobblier and you want to discourage motorists from trying to "sneak past". But mostly you just need to give your companions a chance to develop as riders -- baby steps, not forcing them to climb Col du Galibier on their first ride. If you're picking the routes avoid hills that you would consider "average" and stick with "easy" for awhile. 

There are tires made out of thin layers of relatively soft rubber, and ones (usually for puncture resistance) made out of thick layers of relatively stiff (almost like plastic) rubber. At a given tire pressure, the soft tire will be "bouncier" because the softer rubber has less of a viscoelastic damping effect than the harder rubber. As a result, the softer tire will have less rolling resistance for a given tire pressure. (This is why I prefer puncture-resistant tires that employ a Kevlar belt (eg, Forte K models) vs those (Schwalbe Marathon) that employ a thick hard rubber layer in the tread -- less rolling resistance.) 

I'd generally recommend a "hybrid" or "city" bike. The "hybrid" looks like a mountain bike but isn't really. It may have front suspension (which is NOT a particularly good idea for you) but will not have rear suspension. The "city" bike may be similar to the hybrid or may be a "retro" style like you rode as a kid (though note the latter is often referred to as a "comfort bike"). (The meanings of these terms change over time, and are pretty vague to begin with.) I'd suggest you not get a single-speed bike (IIRC there are some hills in Central Park) but rather a bike with at least five speeds -- either a geared rear hub or a derailleur style bike. You don't need 30 speeds, though. Likely the bike you find will be have "26-inch" wheels, which is a slight problem, since you often cannot easily interchange tire widths on a 26-inch wheel. (You can interchange widths on a "700c" wheel, which is the slightly larger diameter wheel commonly used on "road" bikes.) So you should make sure that you get a bike with tires of 1-1/4" to maybe 1-3/4" width (32mm to 45mm). If the tires are in poor shape (on a used bike) or have heavy lugs in the tread you should change them out right away for tires with a relatively smooth tread (rides much smoother and with less effort). And keep the tires inflated to the maximum pressure listed on the side, which will be 50-80 PSI. (Note that wheel size depends to a degree on how tall you are and how long your legs are. If you're taller than 5-10 or so you may want to consider a bike with 700c wheels, as that gives you a better selection of tires, and often a better fit to a tall body. But "hybrids" with 700c wheels are not as common as ones with 26-inch wheels.) You will very likely want to replace the seat ("saddle", to the purists), even if you buy a new bike. You should get a woman's seat -- wide, but not the absolute widest you can find. Gel or foam padding is probably good, but don't look for the softest seat you can find -- a mushy seat makes for a poor ride. And as I said elsewhere, invest about $50 in a good floor pump, with built-in pressure gauge. 

One thing to check is whether the crank integrity is intact -- the shaft could be bent, there could be a cracked cup, or the axle/cartridge could simply be loose. Also, the crank arm may be bent or loose. If the crank shifts under load (due either to the axle shifting or a loose arm) it could easily account for your phantom shifts. Next is the rings. You imply that one ring has a "slight wobble", which may indicate a bent arm or may indicate the ring needs replacing. Also, the rings may simply be worn to end of life -- from experience this can cause phantom shifting. Another possibility is a "galloping" rear derailer. If for some reason the rear derailer is not taking up chain smoothly it can cause front ring phantom shifts.