Look at how much time is spent on various sites and see what kind of ROI there is. Perhaps no one is found and hundreds of hours are spent which would lead to thinking it isn't that effective. On the other hand, if only a handful of hours can produce a few good candidates then it may be much more effective though I would likely consider having a few levels of what is effective here. Getting a hire is one level but having that hire get past a probation period and contribute greatly are a couple of other stories to consider here. 

How to Win Friends and Influence People has more than a few ideas that I'd consider worth noting first here: 

You could look into the SDLC that may help with the big pieces of IT projects though I'd be more tempted to suggest being aware of slang terms and then talk about them in a social setting so you can understand what they mean. Kludge, hack, and patch would be just a few words that I'd imagine could easily be misinterpreted if one doesn't know the context of how it is being used. The key here would be picking up on the lingo used which may or may not be easily known. Another route is to consider researching various companies within your specialization as well as knowing a bunch of acronyms. 

You have transparency in telling her where you stood before so I don't see how this is regaining that at all. You are trying to regain privacy though the question here is to understand that from her perspective of getting the basics: 1) Are you still available? and 2) What kinds of positions interest you? 

Time off in lieu - Various places may allow one to take off time later in the week or year for working extra hours earlier. For example, someone may put in an extra 16 hours for a project to get done and then after that is finished take off a couple of days a week or two later as a way to balance the time here. Overtime pay - Some places that pay hourly would require an authorization to be paid for this of course. You do state that this wouldn't be the case but is that after asking about it or just presuming based on what you think they may say? 

First, I'd ask myself what is the intended result of addressing the criticism: Is it that I need to be heard, to punish the other person, or something else? Given the desired result, there would be different choices that may make sense. I have support groups if I feel the need to vent about someone that picked on me or pushed my buttons really hard for one idea. Secondly, going to management repeatedly asking someone to be nice may well have limitations in a sense. Thus, considering what I want could lead to various plans. Lastly, I remember how I am more than my job. Sometimes someone may have a rough day and it can be good to give them space. Course this is one of the easier ways that disengaged employees are made. 

Did you ever have any school conflicts where a teacher or other figure said you had to say you were sorry but you didn't apologize? Did you ever have time on a playground and may have left someone without apologizing for cutting them off or taking their toy? Has there ever been a time where you could have apologized to make peace but didn't? That may be another way to think about this question. 

Ever consider how you may see things differently and thus you may notice things your manager misses? Ever consider that you may have better ideas than what was done previously? 

How clear are you about what roles within his line of business would suit you well? How clear are you about what opportunities you'd like to pursue in his area? What support are you expecting from him: Look for opportunities for you, put in a good word, help you develop your skills, help you figure out your passions, or something else? While you want his support, how clear are you of what this would look like? This would be where I'd focus as the, "I want to work in your line of business," may well be quite vague to my mind. 

I'd question what level of work did you do before asking for help and after asking for help. If you figure that someone has to come give you the answer that could be seen as a problem since sometimes in software development developers have to solve their own problems. As for what to do now, depending on your country there could be various labor laws to research as well as consider if this kind of work is a good fit where you may have to figure things out on your own and help isn't always available exactly when you need it. 

I'd be for sharing performance problems where you may have deadlines that are too aggressive or unforeseen circumstances arise that create doubt in being able to meet the deadline. The main reason why I'd suggest this is that if you repeatedly keep saying, "I'll do better next time," when a deadline is missed, then at some point you'll likely be terminated or at least have no credibility when someone wants to hold you to a date you gave. There is also something to be said for how isolated are you in this workplace as if you are part of a team, then there may be times when the rest of the team will step up to save you rather than let the team fail horribly. Where it can be challenging to say, "Hey, I don't think I'll meet that deadline we had," consider what may happen when you do raise the flag that you need some help to get things done. It can be great to either get the help or adjust the deadline, workload or other factors that make this less stressful. The other point here is that this is all professional since it is about the work and not one's individual personal problems that aren't material here. The earlier you can identify that a deadline isn't realistic or likely to be made and tell someone then the easier it is to remedy. If you wait until the 11th hour, then this can be seen as making things worse as you either didn't see it, didn't care or didn't trust to bring it up. Just as a couple of minor side points to consider before bringing this up: