The point on the earth where the sun is directly overhead is commonly called the subsolar point. I've also heard sublunar point which would be the point corresponding to the moon. I'm not aware of any more general term for this point relating to any other astronomical objects. 

My first thought would be that the apparent path of a satellite across the sky can appear to turn even when it is straight. Your brain doesn't easily understand straight lines in all cases. (Look up lunar terminator illusion) I've several times seen Mir/ISS passes that seem to arrive from one direction, appear to turn, then leave in some unrelated direction. It's always really moving in a straight line though. Web sites can show you what path the satellite will make across the starfield, but it can't simulate the illusion you might have on seeing it from the ground. The ground track alone can't tell you the visibility from the ground because it also depends on altitude. A low-earth-orbit satellite might be visible from a circular patch about 3000km in diameter. Higher altitude objects would be fainter, but visible across a wider area. 

Ursa Major is relatively close to Polaris in angular distance, so this motion is easier to see. But in fact all the constellations appear to revolve around the axis. The closer they are, the tighter the arc and the easier this motion is to see. If they are far away and you are not at very high latitudes, they will be obscured at some point by the horizon and the motion is hidden. So for your question, look at a starmap and the closer a constellation is to the future axis, the more it will behave like Ursa Major today. 

Fire is actually the rapid oxidation of a combustible material. Smoke is the airborne particulates and gases that result from the combustion, or from pyrolysis. The sun is not undergoing an oxidation reaction, so it's not producing particulates that one might refer to as smoke. The process the sun is undergoing is nuclear fusion, where hydrogen are combined and create helium. This reaction is very energetic and releases heat, visible radiation, and other radiation along a wide swath of the electromagnetic spectrum. The reaction is self-sustaining - as long as there is fuel, the emissions of fusion reactions cause nearby fuel to react as well. No oxygen or oxidizing agent is required. Further, the resulting helium is comparatively heavy, and the sun being a huge mass keeps both the hydrogen that is the fuel and the helium that is the product nearby - they don't leave like hot smoke does from a fire. So there is no smoke as we might consider it - just helium gas (plasma), and even if there were it would simply drop into the sun, there is no such thing as "rising" from it as one might consider smoke does on earth-borne fires. You might find this music video provides further instruction on composition and reaction of the sun. 

As soon as possible. When interstellar voyage becomes possible, we should start sending out ships to colonize other planets and star systems. This will likely take a long time, but if we are to survive more than a billion years, it is necessary. Keep in mind that the Sun and Andromeda are events we can predict. We don't know, and can't predict, the next cataclysmic asteroid strike, which is likely to happen in a shorter time than a billion years. There are lots of reasons to exit the planet, we should be worried about the ones we can't predict or see, not the ones we can predict. 

I've been reading about SN 1054 and how most professional investigators believe that it is the Crab Nebula today. But the wiki article has this to say: 

Well, then I remembered the precession of the equinoxes. I know precession does not change the fixed background of stars, but can change their relative location. If we rewind the precession 1000 years, does Zeta Tauri cross the zero meridian or the celestial equator? 

Our Sun follows an 11-year cycle of low-to-high activity. During high activity, there are much more sunspots and much higher chance of flares and other disruptive behavior. Can we observe the activity of other stars? I'm particularly interested in other G-types like the Sun. Do they also follow an 11-year cycle? 

I've found various sources on the web stating that the limiting apparent magnitude of the Hubble Space Telescope is about 31 or 31.5. Wikipedia lists that here and it has a cite to a pdf about it. What I want to know is how is that calculated? I'm aware of two methods found at the bottom of a table here, but they seems to be general calculations for ground-based telescopes, because if I plug in Hubble's numbers, I get something around 21. The difference between an apparent magnitude of 21 and 31 is actually something like ten thousands times (in terms of brightness). Also, one key factor missing in their formulas is exposure time. I'm pretty sure the limiting magnitude has something to do with exposure time. Hubble Ultra Deep Field, for example, had an exposure time of about 1 million seconds. So to sum up, how would we calculate the limiting magnitude of a space-based telescope, in visible light? 

Edit: this is my attempt to draw something approximately to scale. I think I got the Earth/Moon sizes about right, but the Moon-Earth distance should around 4x greater. And the solar rays are of course not parallel but I don't think it's possible to draw or perceive tiny angles for this scale. The green line is the ecliptic. The Sun and Moon are supposed to be aligned along a horizontal line, but for some reason I drew the solar rays half and half beside the green line which is deceptive. I'll try to edit the pic when I can. In technical parlance, the Moon could be slightly above or slightly below its Node. If the Moon was exactly at its node, then the umbra would absolutely be centered somewhere between 28.5 N/S (actually 23.4 N/S because the Sun never goes beyond that). But as you can see, the farther it gets from its node, the steeper the shadow impacts Earth and the farther towards a pole it gets. Too far from the node, and the shadow will not intercept Earth at all and we won't have an eclipse. If you draw a line from the center of the Moon to the center of the Earth, you can see that the sub-lunar point is definitely within 28.5 degrees N/S. But the shadow does not necessarily follow that imaginary line. The shadow always follows the line from the Sun to the Moon. You could even imagine a very extreme case where the shadow falls on "the other side" of the pole. I think that may be the case here since that eclipse looks really short. 

Yes, but in small steps. Manned missions to space, to the moon, and living aboard the ISS have provided significantly valuable information that will be used in such interstellar missions. As we continue to push the boundaries of our ability to survive in space we eventually will be able to live in space, perhaps whole lifetimes will be spent in space. As engine technology progresses beyond simply lifting people out of Earth's gravitational well, we will eventually be sending people on long voyages outside our solar system. It's a very, very long way off, but each advance takes us closer to that eventual goal. 

Assuming that human beings, or life, still exists on Earth at that time, they will have survived so much due to the ongoing death of the sun, that the gravitational pertubations due to the galactic collision will be nothing. Keep in mind that in about 1-2 billion years, the sun will be so hot and large that all the water will have boiled off the earth into space. About 3 billion years from now, the surface of the Earth will be so hot that metals will be melting. Any life that has survived those events and still lives on Earth will surely take a galactic collision in stride. I imagine, though, that most humans will have fled Earth - if not for distant star systems, then at least for planets in our own system that are going to be warming up enough for human habitation. 

While looking at sunspot information in connection with Amateur Radio, I found that the Sun rotates on a period from 27 days to 31 days. Its rotation is differential, at the equator it spins at a rate of about 27 days, while at the poles it's closer to 31 days. Earth's moon also rotates at a rate of 27.3 days. I suspect this is nothing more than coincidence, but was wondering if there is more than a coincidental connection between these two rates of rotation, similar to how tidal locking forces the moon's rotation and orbit around earth to be the same rate. 

The Sculptor Dwarf Galaxy is a small satellite Galaxy of the Milky Way. There are many such satellites galaxies and I'm trying to compile basic data on them. However, I can't find an estimate for the number of stars in the Sculptor Dwarf (and many other satellite galaxies too). I'm disappointed that Wikipedia doesn't have this basic information, and that makes me suspicious that estimating the number of stars in other galaxies is not very easy or reliable for current astronomy. Googling these things has resulted in nothing but a bunch of pop science sites...which is no surprise except that these sites don't seem to have the number of stars either. This lack of basic data is surprising and only adds to me worries that no reliable estimates exist. Can anyone find a link to this info? It would also be very helpful to point me to a database that has the number of stars for all galaxies in the local group, if such a database exists. 

Known TNOs: about 1,750 according to the Minor Planet Center's list. Estimated existing Kuiper-Belt Objects: 120,000+ according to Britannica. (That number is only estimating objects of 100-km diameter or more, but that's fine for our purposes.) Note: 120,000 is only for KBOs. There are other TNO sets such as the oort cloud (and the scattered disc if you define it separately), so I expect the number to be much much bigger than 120,000. 

Let's consider Mars' two moons for a moment. They're small, not even spherical, and most likely are captured asteroids. They weren't discovered until the late 1800's. Telescopes are much more powerful today, so you'd think we'd have found any similar moons at Venus or Mercury by now, if they exist. The trouble is, there are some very dark asteroids out there. And of course, there are some much smaller ones too. How do we know Venus or Mercury doesn't have a small dark asteroid moon? Did any probes actually try radar to find them?