I don't think that gold and salt ever were equal in value, that's an exaggeration. Salt was very valuable however, particularly because of its use for conservation - valuable enough to make one very rich. This allowed cities that sold salt (e.g. Lüneburg) to get very wealthy and influential. The Wieliczka salt mine supposedly was responsible for one third of the Polish state income between 14th and 16th century. But they obviously had to sell salt in large quantities for that. 

Again, seats would be a good candidate to be mentioned, not only the wind-protectors. But this article doesn't talk about them. Having decided from this indirect evidence that seats on the original elevators were unlikely I found the 2010 book Elevator Systems of the Eiffel Tower, 1889 (that's apparently the book where your illustration comes from). And judging from this book, your graphic refers to the elevator with the smallest capacity (in terms of persons transported), by Otis: 

I tried looking at the biographies of known native Africans. An obvious starting point is Nelson Mandela, he went to the University of Fort Hare. Close but no cigar: that university was founded in 1916. However, his biography also mentions University of South Africa (founded as University of the Cape of Good Hope in 1876) and University of the Witwatersrand (founded as South African School of Mines in 1896). Mandela studied there half a century after the period you are asking about here but if one is to believe Wikipedia on this, there were no acceptance restrictions for black students before late 40's of 20th century. So at least theoretically native Africans were allowed to study there. To prove that it also happened practically one needs to actually find somebody who studied there during the period in question (e.g. Sol Plaatje had to resort to private lessons, no good). Looking at personalities from Ghana, things first looked worse there. I could find lots of people who studied in Europe: Germany, France, England. For example J. Benibengor Blay who studied at the Regent Street Polytechnic in the 30's of the 20th century. Or Jacobus Capitein who studied at the University of Leiden in the 18th century. Then I found J.E. Casely-Hayford, looks like he attended Fourah Bay College in Freetown (Sierra Leone) somewhere around 1890. Seeing that this university existed since 1827 it must have been an obvious destination for native Africans looking for an education option. Africanus Horton and Samuel Ajayi Crowther attended the same university earlier. One of the sources for the Wikipedia article even says: 

This question makes little sense. The only definition of "successor state" that is relevant from the historical point of view is a concept where a newly established country "inherits" the relations of a country that no longer exists which might mean transfer of obligations, treaties, rights etc. You can find an overview of the concept on Wikipedia. A claim of succession generally relies on other countries to accept it. A typical example would be the Russian Federation which is the accepted successor state of the USSR. Modern Germany is the successor of the Weimar Republic which was the successor of the German Empire. Brazil as a successor of Portugal makes little sense in this concept: 

As far as Union states go, this table seems to provide accurate information. However, the info on Confederate army is very incomplete. You can find statements that North Carolina supplied the most soldiers (125,000) to the Confederate army all over the Internet. The original source seems to be a speech from 1904 by Hon. Theodore F. Davidson in Raleigh: 

That doesn't mean that the demobilisation immediately started, merely that the plan was ready and the demobilisation could be prepared. It then started "on 16 August 1945, the day after Japan surrendered." Makes sense, doesn't it? 

Ok, first we need to find the destination port. Wikipedia notes that Ada and Prampram were important ports in addition to Accra. Good, can we find logs from any ships that traveled from England to these destinations? I searched but couldn't find anything for either Ada or Prampram (maybe these ports already lost their importance in the 19th century). For Accra I finally found two travel descriptions: HMS Amphitrite in 1848 and MV Apapa in 1930. It seems that HMS Amphitrite only lived until 1875 whereas MV Apapa wasn't built before 1927. So none of them could have been used in 1895. Looking through the list of British ships that could have been used in 1895 I found SS Fazilka, a steam cargo ship that was also used to carry migrants and troops at some points. With a top speed of 12.5 knots it wasn't much slower than MV Apapa (14.5 knots). It took MV Apapa 9 days to go from Liverpool to Freetown (Sierra Leone), SS Fazilka should have been able to make the same journey in 11 days. The trip from Freetown to Accra took another 4 days, SS Fazilka would have been able to do it in 5 days. Now you have to consider the stops of course. The logs of HMS Amphitrite aren't very representative, the paddle steamer HMS Hydra in 1852 is probably a better example: 

Supposedly, the first time aviation was used in a war was during the American Civil War (meaning 1861). Both parties used balloons for reconnaissance, mostly hydrogen-filled. The balloons obviously couldn't be used for any kind of attack - they made a very big target and a single bullet was sufficient to ignite the hydrogen. Edit: It seems that first use of balloons for reconnaissance was earlier, during the French Revolution in 1794 (thanks @Nikko). The Austrians attempted to use balloons for bombing in 1849 and some of their successors apparently did so even with success - read the linked article. The first time aviation played an important role was during World War I however (airplanes by then). It took some time to recognize the potential here, airplanes were mostly used for reconnaissance again. Using bombs was relatively rare and very experimental - typically the pilot would take a bomb and throw it overboard. As you can imagine, the precision of such bombing wasn't exactly high. Air combat was also rare in WWI, with the necessary technologies still developing. The very first problem was mounting a machine gun so that it could shoot without damaging the propeller. Synchronized machine guns only became the accepted solution during the war, at the beginning of the war a bunch of other solutions were attempted as well. One option were machine guns mounted on the wings of the aircraft, the pilot then had to pull strings to trigger them (something that wasn't quite easy while steering the aircraft at the same time). There is a large Wikipedia article on the use of aviation in World War I where you can find more details. 

The book Manhattan, the Army and the atomic bomb has a chapter dedicated to the choice of bombing targets on pages 528 – 530. It makes clear that the original intention was to drop four bombs. Originally the targets selected were Kokura, Hiroshima, Niigata and Kyoto. Later it was decided to spare Kyoto for its historical relevance and bomb Nagasaki instead. Judging by this book, no additional bombings were planned. In particular, on page 541 it says: 

The USA inflation calculator tells us that 1982 prices have to be multiplied with 2.35 to get 2011 prices. Consequently we get 9,659 * 76 * 2.35 = $1,725,097. Wow, that's remarkably close to the value calculated by the museum. 

He uses this quote to support the idea of Hitler being a crazy idiot. But what did Hitler really say? I managed to find the original on Google Books, it says: 

There is a long documentation of the process on Wikipedia which doesn't really answer your question however. It does make it obvious that there are large population groups both in Romania and Moldova opposing a reunification (this group seems larger in Moldova). I think that there is a number of reasons: 

Mummification wasn't limited to pharaohs, state officials could get mummified as well (while obviously not being buried in pyramids). In fact, the overwhelming majority of mummies found aren't pharaohs and most of them remain unnamed. E.g. the title of one article discussing a cancer case is "Colon cancer in a Ptolemaic mummy from Dakhleh Oasis". While I don't have the article itself, I'm pretty certain that it doesn't mention who that mummy was - merely when he lived (thanks to carbon dating). 

Given that a pound sterling was equivalent to 240 pence this estimate apparently assumes 240,000 pounds of tea. I consider that number rather unlikely and it is unclear where it comes from. Maybe damage from similar accidents has been added up here and attributed to the Boston Tea Party. Now it is a big question how much £9,659 would be worth in todays money, most estimates I've seen are significantly lower than the one mentioned above (a million US dollar or less). This article gives various estimates for the historical value of a pound sterling but after reading it you are probably no wiser than before. Let's go for a simplification, the article The Wealth of Women, 1774 uses the following approximation: 

There are no magic recipes to win a war. Caesar's tactic was new and surprising, it demoralized the attackers who were certain of their superiority. But this only works once - once that tactic was known it was no longer effective. Note that this wasn't the only reason that Pompey got defeated, it is probably even more important that Pompey's behavior was passive, he essentially gave up the initiative in this battle to Caesar. The general question amounts to "which is stronger, cavalry or infantry?" This question makes little sense - as usually, it depends on a number of factors (tactics, unit numbers, positions etc.). Cavalry is faster than infantry but typically limited in numbers, it is very strong in an attack but useless in a defense. So all armies used both infantry and cavalry and the success of the battle largely depended of whether the advantages of both could be used in an optimal way. 

I found Vincent C. Jones' 1985 book Manhattan, the Army and the atomic bomb. While it doesn't mention the death toll estimates, it does offer some insight on pages 531 and 532. In particular, it quotes Oppenheimer with the words: 

The German Wikipedia article lists the following numbers (most likely taken from Salvador Bofarull's book "Pigeon mail through history" which I couldn't find online, the numbers are confirmed in a bunch of other places however): 

And in fact, in this photo of this elevator you can clearly see that the women on the right are sitting. So to answer your question: yes, originally most people indeed took a seat in the Eiffel Tower elevators.