There is no contradiction in the answer; the issue arises from your interpretation of duty. It's just not the case that all duties are necessarily absolute. Imagine you're walking down the street with a piece of trash in your hand when you see someone falling out of a tree in front of you. You heroically catch the falling person, but you only by dropping the trash along the way. When you turn around the trash has blown away in the wind. Now: did your duty to not litter go away just because it conflicted with a more important duty, saving people from injury? No, of course not. You shouldn't litter, but you didn't really have a choice in this situation. You say But both of these statements are false. First, there is a penalty for littering---the planet is a little bit more polluted because of your actions. And second, your definition of duty is one I have never heard of. A duty is a responsibility or an obligation. You'll have a tough time proving that in every single case of a duty there is a penalty for breach. Even if you are right, though, the point is, your view is far from obviously true. And a very good response to someone making the editorialist's argument would be "on the standard account, many duties bind relatively, and the duty to protect one's family might be one of them." 

There is no such principle, because it is simply false. In fact, incredibly improbable things happen all the time in real life. Consider that something might happen, say, once a second. That's 2.5 million times a month. And there are billions of people in the world. The chance of a one in one quadrillion event happening somewhere to someone is not that unlikely. There is an interesting book exploring this by a statistician, David Hand. It is called The Improbability Principle: why incredibly unlikely things keep happening. 

What you have written is correct. It doesn't depend on the distinction between synatactic and semantic consequence, it is fundamentally an instance of the so-called paradoxes of material implication. The problem arises when you attempt to interpret material implication as representing "if...then" in natural language. In the propositional calculus, material implication is the nearest thing there is to a conditional, but it does not correctly capture what we ordinarily mean by conditionals, because we ordinarily use them to express a relationship between the content of the antecedent and the consequent: something like saying that the consequent follows from the antecedent. There are many alternative ways of expressing the meaning of conditionals, particularly using possible world semantics and non-classical logics. There is a huge literature on the subject: some useful books include Bennetts' Philosophical Guide to Conditionals, Rescher's Conditionals, Adams' The Logic of Conditionals. 

At the tail end of Kant and the Critique of Pure Reason Gardner discusses Kant's influence on his successors. He claims---and I'm paraphrasing here---Hegel wanted his metaphysics to be scientific, i.e., to all unfold from a single principle. Kant's work does not descend from a single principle, but instead draws from actual experience to get us, for instance, inner and outer sense, and the specific categories. This rings true. There are certainly a number of times when Kant seems to throw his hands in the air and say that things just are. Hegel's response, quoth Gardner, was to try and make a new system, which would surpass Kant's, and all unfold from a single principle. Is this actually Hegel's definition of a science? I couldn't find anything online that would confirm it. I've only read PR and some of PS; I can't say much about Hegel's metaphysics. But in PR Hegel explicitly states that philosophy is a circle. Of course a circle has no point of origin. Did Hegel think his system did indeed unfold from a single point? How did he explain this, given the whole "philosophy is a circle" thing? 

In the physical sciences especially, we commonly think of causes and effects as being facets of events. A brick hits a window (an event) and this causes the window to smash (another event, caused by the first). In this sense, one could hardly say that the absence of something could be a cause, because the absence of something is not an event. But in ordinary speech we use the language of cause and effect to describe actions, situations and motivations that relate to people and by extension to the things people make. In this sense, causes and effects are rather more diverse in nature, and some might be purely negative. For example, if I ask, "Why doesn't my car start?" (i.e. what is the cause of my car failing to start) the answer might be: because there is an absence of fuel in the tank. It is not an event that is the cause of my car not starting but an absence of something that one would normally expect to find. Or again, "Why did this machine break down?" (i.e. what caused it to break down) might elicit the response: because the operator had not been trained and did not know how to operate it correctly (i.e. an absence of the required skill). Often when we speak of causes in the context of humans and human artefacts we work from a model of what we consider normal and identify the cause as the deviation from normality. So if an aircraft crashes and we enquire what caused it, we don't give the useless answer: gravity, which is part of the normal operating conditions of an aircraft, but pilot error, or birdstrike, or component failure, etc. This deviation from normality could be positive or negative in general. 

I've read several papers on modal natural deduction but I've only been able to find one clear explanation of []-Introduction ( if can be proved from no assumptions/premises). But there were no separate rules for <>-Introduction. Instead was defined as . And there were no rules for quantifier elimination at all. For aesthetic reasons I'd prefer to work in a logic where all symbols are defined primitively and their correspondences are results, and where we cannot manipulate terms in the scope of a quantifier. Is there a formalization of modal logic of this sort? What are its introduction and elimination rules? Are there any papers on it? 

Of course we do have some rational beliefs, so we have to put some trust in the mechanisms by which we acquire beliefs. But of course we also have some irrational beliefs, so we shouldn't just trust in our ability to form beliefs blindly. In fact, we can be certain that our belief-forming mechanisms are sometimes unreliable, or else we would never have wrong beliefs. 

The question is slightly out of focus: it is conventional to say that the material conditional is defined by the truth table that it has. One does not need to argue why it has this truth table, though it is relevant to ask why such a truth function is useful and important. In the propositional calculus, all connectives are truth functions, and it is a principle of compositional semantics to try to account for the meaning of a compound sentence as a function of the meanings its parts, as far as possible. One of the truth functions we would like to have is one that minimally captures certain relationships in deductive logic, such as modus ponens and modus tollens. If we posit a two place truth function A * B, we want a relation that satisfies A * B; A therefore B (modus ponens) and A * B; ¬B therefore ¬A (modus tollens). These constraints are not enough on their own, because they are consistent both with the material conditional A→B and the material biconditional A↔B. A further constraint is that affirming the consequent is invalid, i.e. A * B; B does not entail A. The material conditional is the only truth function that satisfies all three. Consequently, it serves a useful role within the propositional calculus for expressing implication relationships. An important feature of the material conditional is that it is purely a truth function and cannot express the full richness of what is meant by if/then sentences in natural languages. This is not a problem, since we can define all kinds of other conditionals if we wish, and the literature is replete with examples. For example, there are strict conditionals, which are just material conditionals under the scope of a modal operator. There are analogs of material implication in non-classical logics that have different rules of inference, e.g. in intuitionistic logic, where the → conditional is naturally interpreted as "I can prove that a proof of A can be transformed into a proof of B". There are conditionals in non-classical logics with different definitions, e.g. those of Kleene and Łukasiewicz. There are semantically defined conditionals, such as those given by Frank Jackson, Robert Stalnaker and Hartry Field. Also, the conditional probability P(B|A) is a kind of conditional that is defined within probability theory and has its own logic. All of these are tools in the logician's toolbox and it is part of the logician's art to know which tool to use for which job. It is important not to suppose that the material conditional is the only way to represent a conditional relationship. It is one tool in the box, and usually the first conditional you are introduced to when learning logic, but not the only one. 

There is indeed a rule saying that if a set of statements generates a contradiction, the conjunction of those statements is false. We do not allow anything that violates basic logic. How can we have Russell's Paradox, then? The problem is, we have no notion of the priority of rules inside a particular formal language. So while our principle of non-contradiction tells us that 

It's not clear to me why rational beings are objective ends. It certainly seems possible that every rational being could hold itself as an end, but it is by no means the case necessary that they do that. I am trying to figure out how this all works by contradistinction with that which cannot be objectively valuable. There's this funky little passage right before the Principle of Humanity in Groundwork section 2 (bolding mine): 

There are more objects that can be spoken of, or conceived, than there are objects that can be experienced, or that we could have direct physical evidence of. Consider God. God doesn't exist in time, but our experiences take place in time, so we cannot possibly experience God. Yet we can plainly talk about God---we're doing so right now. You might not like this example, especially if you don't believe in God. In that case, try what it is like to be a bat. Presumably it is like something to be a bat. You don't know what it is like to be a bat, because you are not a bat. You can't see a bat seeing things, only its head and eyes moving. Maybe one day we will be able to experience life as a bat. (I don't think so, but I suppose it's not inconceivable. The words are certainly sayable.) But if you did experience batness, you still wouldn't experience experiencing batness. You don't see seeing or hear hearing, you just see and hear. We know about God and the internal experience of bats not through sensing but through thinking (in combination with sensing, in the case of bats). I think that's the only way to gain knowledge of non-experiential objects. 

I wish I could give a comprehensive answer to your question, but my knowledge is limited. I'm moved to reply because I think the comments to the question are giving the OP a hard time; I think the question makes excellent sense. Unusually, I disagree with Mauro: logic is not fundamentally about truth, it is about consequence, or deducibility. One of the striking things about the relation of logical consequence is that it is not confined to statements with truth values. Many, perhaps most, speech acts possess their own logic. Obligations can entail other obligations, commands can entail commands, necessities can entail necessities, etc. Validity is not exclusively about preservation of truth. A valid argument in a deontic logic is one that preserves obligation from premises to conclusion. An intuitionistically valid argument is one that preserves constructive provability from premises to conclusion. Typically, it is a standard move when dealing with such modalities to introduce box/diamond notation and to replace "A is necessary" with "□A is true", for example. We commonly wrap up semantic properties and put them in the box in order to reduce everything down to truth. This tendency towards a semantic monism in which only truth is considered important is fairly pervasive, but I share the OP's desire for it to be justified. After all, many theories of meta-ethics do not assign truth values to moral judgements, so why should we assume that a logic governing moral obligations should be expressed in a truth-theoretic way? An initial observation might be that since we already have a calculus that expresses the implicational behaviour of propositions that are connected by 'and', 'or', 'not', etc, it might be a duplication of effort to create new rules to show how these connectives behave when they connect things other than propositions. The axiomatization of a modal logic has the effect of demonstrating how to reduce sentences involving connectives between modalities to sentences involving only propositional connectives. For example, the K axiom of modal logic effectively reduces strict implication to material implication. If we can axiomatize a modal logic and perform this reduction correctly, then this suggests that the logics of modalities other than truth are eliminable. Another point is that we desire our logical operations to be computable. We might argue on the basis of the Curry-Howard correspondence that our best understanding of computability corresponds to the concept of provability afforded by classical logic. And classical logic has the natural semantics of truth and falsehood. This suggests that any logic worthy of the name is ultimately either about truths and falsehoods or about something that looks just like them. Another consideration is that logic has epistemological consequences. We use logic because we want to come to know things by inference from other things we know. But we usually conceive epistemology as being concerned with knowing things that are true. Think of all those theories of knowledge that are taught in epistemology classes: "X knows that P iff..." and typically one of the conditions is that P is true. Maybe such accounts are too limited and we can have knowledge that is not of things that are true or false, but detractors might claim that we would be describing mere sensibilities and not real knowledge. But all this still leaves the question that if the logic of modalities is reducible to that of truths, what are modal claims true of, exactly? Are there really necessary truths, moral truths, even aesthetic truths, etc? Modal logic is commonly expressed using Kripkean possible world semantics, but does this mean that if we judge a modal claim to be true, we are committed to the existence of PWs? David Lewis thought so and embraced modal realism, but his position has not proved popular. Others have adopted anti-realist or quasi-realist positions. I suspect that in the last analysis a full answer to your question can only be given on the basis of a comprehensive account of truth and realism and the relationship between them. 

That would obviously be fallacious---going from "is the case" to "necessarily the case". Now for the inference rules. []-Introduction: 

which is even worse. Unfortunately truth is defined inside a particular language. Therefore we cannot tell within the language itself which one is in the wrong: or any one of to . Instead of throwing out particular theorems because they are paradoxical, we throw out sets of rules that generate those theorems. The new set of rules in the case of set theory had the axiom of restricted comprehension which avoids the problem. 

In Three Dialogues, Berkeley advances a theory of subjective idealism. Things only exist as experiences of individual consciousnesses. These things are static and themselves unthinking, as they are pure ideas. And they persist even when we are not looking at them because God is looking at them all the time. Here's the thing, though---if esse est percipi, how do we exist? We aren't always perceiving ourselves. We sleep, for instance. And our actual selves are not just pure ideas. We are active and thinking. So we can't exist in God's mind in the same way that, for instance, a tree does. If only unthinking substances can be perceived, and only that which is perceived can exist, how does anything exist to do the perceiving? 

Since you have asked for a non-formal answer, I shall try to oblige by not using any numbers or equations. Fundamentally, your question is, how does it come about that individual events can be completely unpredictable but when you pile a lot of them together, either in a sequence or in a mass, the behaviour of the whole pile becomes, if not totally predictable, at least substantially predictable? The answer is something called the law of large numbers, and it is one of the most fundamental concepts in statistics. As an illustration of it, imagine something called a Galton box: it is a triangular shaped box standing vertically, with its base on the ground and one vertex at the top. There is hole in the top to allow a ball to be dropped in. A series of pins or pegs are placed such that a ball falls either to the right or left in an unpredictable way until it reaches the bottom. As illustrated in this diagram, when lots of balls are dropped in, the result is a heap in the middle. We cannot predict where a single ball will fall, but put enough balls in and we can be increasingly sure that we'll get a bell-shaped curve, simply because it is very unlikely that a ball will consistently move left, or consistently move right. One way to think of it is to count the possible paths to a point on the bottom. There is only one possible path to get all the way to the right, or all the way to the left, but lots of paths will take a ball to the middle. 

(OGM 1:13). The triumph of slave morality came about when Christianity conquered the west---Christians being the inventors of slave morality. (Actually here Nietzsche says Jews but he's pretty clearly not talking about actual Jews; he has nothing but praise for the Old Testament.) This is probably the weakest part of the argument and some later commentators take the slaves' revolt in morality as either semi-mythical or tied to capitalism. Now unless you are already inclined in a Nietzschean direction this should all seem pretty implausible. So much of his argument depends on how it all hangs together as a coherent story, and I cannot present very much of the story here at all. So I'll leave you with a motivating example: 

In Affect: What is it Good For?, Mazzerella distinguishes affect from emotion. The key difference is that affect is presubjective. I have a pretty good idea of why emotions have to be subjective, and what it means for them to be subjective. But I want to say that anything capable of experience is a subject. Is that true? If so, how can a component of experience be presubjective?