In PIE, e̯oinos meant "one alone", "one separated", it has the same root as in the word for "goes", e̯eiti. Semantically it meant the one that went away. At the same time, som meant "one united", "all as one", "together" and had the same root as the reflective pronoun meaning "self". That is, the first meant one thing of a set or quantity while second meant the whole set as a unity. In a sense these words were antonyms. Do any other languages have similar opposition? 

PIE was spoken in Eastern Europe between 4000 and 3000 years BC (6000-5000 years before now). Apparently it is far from what time scale that u want. The language was similar to Ancient Greek and Latin. Therere is a lot of online sources on PIE language, including the Pokorny dictionary, Wikitionary and others. If u want I can provide some links, but I am afraid it is not exactly what u would want. 

Can the name of the Greek goddess Demeter come from PIE word for tamer, dōma̯tēr (especially given the Aeolic form of the goddess' name, Δωμάτηρ)? I am interested in both whether it is possible from sound change perspective and semantically. 

Edit: Since I got a downvote, I reworded my question to better reflect my original intent. You are right in claiming that there is (very probably) no "pure" ergative language (although some, such as Dyirbal, come close). But then also consider that there is possibly no true accusative languages as well. While English certainly aligns fundamentally, accusatively, there are some constructions that are sensitive to other distinctions than subject/object. Past participles are one such example: 

Past participles can only ever refer to objects (P) or affected intransitive subjects (Sp). This particular instance of alignment found in English participles (which some call "split intransitivity") is actually the way normal sentences work in languages such as Lakhota or Guaraní. So the true answer is: there is no pure accusative/ergative/split-intransitive language, but linguists, as anyone, need labels for effective communication. That's why we use such convenient descriptions such as "ergative language". 

Before answering this question one must agree upon a definition of parts of speech. I will assume that we define POS not semantically (which would give rise to an almost infinite number of categories), but structurally, i.e. by the way they behave morphosyntactically. It is nowadays evident that POS (as any construction) cannot be established cross-linguistically. Some languages do not even distinguish between nouns and verbs, at leat not in the way English does. But even if two languages seem to share the same POS category, despite the similarities it is almost never going to be the exact same. Verbs in Russian inflect for aspect, while German ones don’t, for example. When we talk about "verbs" or "nouns" we always have in mind some prototype category that we compare language-specific categories with. When we ask "does language X have category Y", we are actually looking for something similar to Y, so the answer doesn’t have to be "yes" or "no", it will often be "somewhat". To answer the question about "like" one must consider how it behaves. Of course, it doesn’t behave like an adverb (it takes a complement), so that is ruled out by any traditional notion of "adverb". It seems to behave more like a proposition in that regard; interestingly its complement is also in the oblique case ("like him", not "like he") very unlike German for example (note however that the oblique case has long spread to constructions like coordination as well). On the top of my head I cannot think of structural features that contradict the preposition theory, but it is possible there are some (I’ve never studied English grammar in detail). There is no a priori reason why the word couldn’t be in a category all of its own. Note also that I didn’t consider the uses of like as subordinator or discourse particle. These would be other lexemes. 

It seems to me that many Arabic female names are ending in -a: Fatima, Yamina, Aisha, Aziza. Is this a modern innovation imported from Indo-European languages or a native feature? Also I wonder about nouns and country names like say Jamahiriya, Arabiya etc. 

How it happened that the same roller coaster type is called "Russian mountains" in America and "American mountains" in Russia? 

No, they are not borrowed, they are cognates. The Proto-Indo-European word was dusmenēs which meant "hostile" (from dus- "bad" and men- "think"). See Mallory & Adams. 

History does not know of any mixed language that would not have a language family (except purely constructed languages). Thus for any creole language can be determined its family to which it properly belongs. Languages never mix in equally, it is always the case that one language heavily influences and changes the other, so that the most core features of the original language (such as numerals, pronouns, prepositions) usually remain more or less unchanged even if all other was mixed up. An English-German mix can either be English heavily influenced by German or German heavily influenced by English but nothing else. 

Deriving all these words from one proto-source seems impossible though (especially the Turkic ones). So I wonder whether Kazakh etymology of these words has been ever explained through borrowing? 

I'm sorry but this cannot work without significantly stretching the boundaries of "categories" and making the task in a way arbitrary. While it's true that nouns and verbs seem to be distinguished (though not everywhere by the same means) in many (but not all) languages (and some languages do have this distinction, but it's much weaker than in, say, Latin), everything beyond that is highly dependent on the specific language. In particular the suggestion that "determiners" are in any way universal is just incredibly short-sighted. 

I think you got that wrong. Syncretism in a number of forms (as typical in the neuter in IE languages) does not mean that the structural categories themselves merge. And a language that "fails" to distinguish nominative and accusative case everywhere, cannot really be said to have either of them. (which would mean that arguments would have to be differentiated on some other basis, e.g. head-marking, word order, direct-inverse marking or so) If you have to tag a form that could be either nominative or accusative you'd usually employ whichever is appropriate in the context; if no context is given or you need to be explicit you can also indicate the syncretism e.g. as "nom/acc" edit: and you (mostly) got that case relationship wrong. with respect to their prototypical usage, nominative, accusative and dative are closer to each other as they all express argument roles while the genitive is typically used for possessor constructions (although in a number of IE languages some verbs do actually require a genitive argument, but this is a minor pattern) 

Austronesian is usually regarded as a separate family, not related to any other. It is never groupped into Eurasiatic or Nostratic. Yet it seems to me that it may be related to PIE. I wonder whether it is just a coincidence. Usually the most close relative to PIE among other Eurasiatic languages is considered Chukchi-Kamchadal family. First of all, lets look at numerals. It is accepted that Eurasiatic languages do not have common numerals because counting emerged after the proto-family split. one PIE: sem "one united", PA: sa two PIE: du̯oe̯, PA: dusa three PIE: trei̯es, PA: telu four PIE: q̆etu̯ores, PA: apat, sepat alternations r/l and q̆/p are common in IE family and in world languages. Compare also PIE q̆eta̯ "pair", Proto-Uralic ket-ka "two", Yukaghir ikit "two", Itelmen (Chukchi-Kamchadal family) katxan "two" It seems numerals greater than four do not coincide. Pronouns. I PIE: eghom PA: i-ka-u Chukchi: e-ɣә-mi We PA: i-ka-mi Thou Chukchi: e-ɣә-tu PA: i-ka-su It should be noted that Chukchi-Kamchadal family is usually considered the closest to PIE because it is the only family that has a cognate to PIE's first person singular pronoun eghom rather than more ancient mi(n)-based. It is hypothesized that eghom is a compound of something like "e̯e + ghe + mi" which meant "it is me". It seems, Proto-Austronesian had the same pattern. 

Most languages (excluding highly polysynthetic ones) generally have a finite set of morphological word forms. From this, it follows that the language's morphology can in the worst case be described as a regular language simply by a disjunction of all possible forms; the question remains how elegant (and how explanatorily adequate) such an approach will be. Affixation can be very easily modeled via finite state automata without the need to explicitly enumerate each possible form, but full reduplication, stem alteration (like suppletion and ablaut) or templatic morphology (as in the semitic languages) require more work. A good book on the subject is Finite State Morphology by Beesley & Karttunen (see here). Although it makes reference to a proprietary software (the xfst tool), there are open source alternatives that work very analogously. 

To my opinion, as long as a language is not insanely difficult, constructed languages will only be of a very limited range of complexity, since communication and languages are by themselves complex. This, and the fact that children seem to be able to perfectly well learn even the most puzzingly complex language, leads me to the assumption that all questions as to whether a language will be gaining widespread usage will not be dealing with intrinsic properties of that language, but much more with external factors. One can make a case that modern Hebrew is in a way a constructed language (even if it is not constructed from nothing) and it did gain widespread adoption; and for Esperanto there's nowadays native speakers as well. However, in most of the cases I believe people simply don't see the reason for learning a constructed language. Linguae francae are generally acquired from culturally dominant and prestigeous groups, but constructed languages simply have no such group of speakers that would inspire others to take their lead. In any way, what is certain, is that once a language - constructed or not - is spoken routinely by a sizeable number of speakers, it is inevitably going to change. 

In Proto-Indo-European there was the word for not, it was ne. So affirmation would be ne e̯esti tod. The affirmation would be e̯esti tod. 

Indeed in the Proto-Indo-European language there is a known phenomenon called "s-mobile". Some roots in PIE could occasionally have an initial augment "s-". Since all PIE roots begin with a consonant, this gives initial "sC-" cluster. The meaning of this extension is not known. We only know that some words with a root had it while others did not. There is a theory that this initial s- could be result of fusion between the usual PIE ending -s/-os with the following word. But most of the examples you gave are irrelevant. The word for star in PIE was a̯ster, with the first phoneme being a laryngeal which was either lost or became a vowel. It is conjectured that the initial form was even more complicated: a̯e̯ster and related to a̯ee̯tr, "fire". Russian "strana" on the other hand, sometimes considered to derive from a root with s-mobile "(s)tero̯-" (Pokorny) which meant "stretch" but this root may be considered s-mobile erroneously due mixing with other roots (Starling gives this root with a solid s). The origin of the "schnell" and "snell" is unknown beyond Proto-Germanic. The word "stamina" origins from the root "stea̯-" which had no mobile "s" at least in the observable PIE stage. The origin of the "spyros" is also unknown. 

Kiranti Languages are known to exhibit a remarkably unique feature, so-called altitudinal cases. Nouns are always (? I think, it's been a while) marked as being either "above", "below" or "across" (= level). This is tied to both the geographic profile of the region and to the mythological dimensions of verticality. 

I think, traditionally examples like A and B would just be considered homonyms, that is as two separate lexical entries which consequently are also allowed to have different plurals. There are other examples for this in other languages. Somebody mentioned German "Wort" (although in that case the meaning distinction is slowly getting lost, I think), "Bank" (with the plural either 'Banken' or 'Bänke', depending on the meaning) is another example. C (and part of B) seems to me to just be free or regional variation. I don't see the connection to A. But of course, theories of lexical semantics differ in many regards and you will find other people using different terminology or analyses. 

No. I have yet to meet structural categories in linguistics that have single, universally agreed upon definitions. Even "word" is not strictly defined in any way. You can compare terms only within the same framework. "Mediopassive" is a term used generally in historical linguistics for a certain kind of language-particular constructions/forms - anticausative is a term i know from typology. Unless given a precise definition of the terms, I don't think it is possible to answer your question. 

Rules for placing commas is a very difficult part of Russian grammar and even not all native always put commas the correct way. 

In all books I have read so far (Beekes, for example), it is assumed that the word for hundred in PIE cmtom came from the word for "ten", decm. They thus postulate that the oldest (non-attested) form was dcmtom. I wonder whether another explanation is also possible. For example why it could not origin from the root com meaning "together" plus a common neuter adjectival suffix -tom? cmtom thus would mean "something put together". Is this explanation possible and if no, why? 

In PIE: du̯oe̯ = two trei̯es = three q̆etu̯ores = four (derived from q̆et- "fit together") penq̆e - five su̯ecstis = six septm = seven 

a̯ena̯tia̯ duck e̯ele̯nia̯ female elk cu̯nmusia̯ dog-fly melitia̯ honey-bee plusia̯ flea u̯lq̆ia̯ she-wolf The suffix could be combined with other suffixes as well, to form constructs like -ikea̯/-ika̯/-ikia̯, -tria̯/-tra̯/-teria̯, -nia̯, -u̯ia̯ etc. 

All native speakers possess knowledge of at least spoken form of the language. But of course there can be difficult areas especially in written form. In Russian for instance, native speakers often experience problems with punctuation: where should or should not be placed a comma. This is quite difficult topic even for the well educated. Another difficult (but less difficult than punctuation) area is single vs. double "н" in spelling. 

I thought it was a bilabial trill; maybe in coarticulation with an uvular one, at least sometimes? Sounds slightly different at the beginning of the video than later. 

Have a look here, maybe there's something useful among those tools: $URL$ Technical note: A "database" would be a less than ideal format for a language's morphology given the high redundancy among different word forms (all with the same stem); one typically uses a finite state machine/transducer for that. 

I disagree with the accepted answer. If there is a difference in inflection between mouse "device" and mouse "animal", the natural way to model this is with two different lexemes. Anything else seems like a poor model to me. Historical categories don't remain the same. Just because the etymology of "mouse" is still transparent, it doesn't mean it's still both the same lexeme. Of course, concepts such as "polysemy" and "homonymy" are made up by linguists; I don't expect them to have psychological reality. But that doesn't mean we can't use them to model semantics, just as we use terms such as antonyms, meronyms, etc. Be that as it may, there are certainly several competing defintions of homonymy and polysemy, so it's kind of wrong to argue which one is "right".