Do not say anything negative or overtly damaging. That kind of sensitive feedback should come directly from Joe's manager. You can get into a real murky area if you say things that damage his reputation and cause loss of job and he finds out. Don't rehash previous bad projects, failed deployments, or anything like that. One thing that I have found works is to say lukewarm things about the person that are mostly irrelevant to what the primary work they will be doing. What you don't say about a person in a referral is equally as impactful. If I was asked to give a reference for a dev who I thought had poor skills, I would say something along the lines of: 

We can't know this and neither can you unless you ask them. Make sure you understand what the expectations are around after hours support, on-call rotations, emergency scenarios, etc. 

It sounds like this is a great man to have in your life both professionally and personally. Make sure you do whatever you can to keep this person a friend. Regarding your new position, people grow and people move on. Make sure you communicate to your boss how great this new opportunity is and how you would have never been able to get a shot at it without his excellent tutelage. Thank him for his immense generosity with his knowledge and time, and tell him that you are going to pay it forward to any junior members you come across so that you can try to be as great of a mentor to someone as he was to you. After that, do a fantastic job documenting anything you can regarding a knowledge transfer, get your projects wrapped up or to a good stopping point, part ways as friends, and invite him out for a beer or coffee 30 days into your new job. 

I would recommend against it. Based on your post, it sounds like these associates are no longer at the company you are applying to. An HR person who is reviewing your cover letter may not even recognize the names or be able to find them in the current email directory. I would use the fact you are being referred as the cherry on top and instead focus on making the case of why you are a good fit through your actual skills, abilities, accomplishments, and job history. Those are the things that will ensure you are taken seriously during consideration for the role. Your application will already get a check in the box that indicates its a (internal?) referral. The referral can be used as a good talking point during the interview. "Joe, Mike, and Dave actually recommended I apply for this position. I have heard them mention several times how great the company is, how much fun everyone is, etc. etc". 

The best way to reduce the amount of unrest is to give people plenty of notice that the tests are going to become policy. Give the employees 6 weeks notice and let them make the decision to either go clean or to find new employment. If you start testing immediately, people will be stressed that tomorrow may be their last day if they are chosen at random for a test. 

If the company wanted to fire you, it would. No matter what you said, no matter how much you cried. That said, leave whenever you want. Specially if management doesn't give a crap about what you think, as this seems to be the case. This is bussiness. 

In every company I've worked so far, we had customers. Be it internal or external customers. In this case, she is an internal customer, because she requested something from your department and she is an employee of the same company as you. 

If other employees from other departments do it, and if it is allowed/encouraged by the company, then go for it. You might get some "funny" comments from your colleages the next day, but at least you had fun and did what you wanted. 

As you stated in your comment answering mine, he makes offensive comments face-to-face during work. First, do as keshlam says. Unfriend him. He is a toxic person, avoid contact as much as possible. After that, go talk to your manager. It surely will have no positive effect talking to the offender, so you have to talk to your superior. Explain what is happening and ask him to deal with it. In many places around the world such offences are against the law and might get the offender and the company in trouble. Wait a few days. If it doesn't stop, ask the manager if he talked to the offender. Depending on the response, go to HR. 

Why would they know you've been promoted? In the off chance that they call your current employer and he tells them, just say the obvious: you thought it would be a good thing, but it didn't meet all your expectations. 

If your boss is a person worth not cutting ties with, a simple "Thanks for all the help and opportunities, but I'm off to new adventures" is enough. 

All the companies I interviewed for so far didn't try to actually run the code, AFAIK. They just wanted to check the quality of the code. So, as long as your code is good, censor it. Maybe tell them why you censored some of it when you send them the code. 

Your boss already knows that most likely you won't stay for five years. Also, consider that if YOU said that you had to stay in this position for five years and your boss promoted you anyway, he wouldn't think twice if he had to fire you halfway through this period. So, take the position. If asked about, say the truth. If he hires you anyway, it's up to him to prepare for your departure. If he doesn't hire you, at least you tried. 

I've been through this once. Dreaded going to work. Had to do 2 hours of overtime almost everyday and sometimes work during weekends and holidays. I dare to say that there's no "nice" way to say you're tired of overtime. At least, I didn't find one. You can say to your boss something along the lines of "my productivity has gone downhill in the last weeks due to overtime. What can we do about it?" and see how he responds to it. I believe he won't care. Be it because of lack of business process, or your incompetence, he thinks you HAVE to stay late. And I doubt he will change his mind. Then it's up to you to decide what to do next. I can tell you that after I left that job my quality of life has increased a lot and, after I got a new job where I'm forbidden of doing a single minute of overtime, I'm much happier. 

I would suggest you take the laptop they are offering and use it strictly for work. Use the work laptop for work, and use your personal machine for non-work related things. You can get into real trouble if sensitive information gets on to your personal machine and gets compromised, especially in the healthcare vertical. You can also get into real murky water if you happen to produce a real cool program in your free time and the company claims it as theirs since it was done using their property (check your contract). Another thing worth noting (not my area of expertise) is that the computer expense may be totally different on the books than a signing bonus. The finance department might not want to give out cash and would instead spend it on hardware. P.S. See Ed Heal's post about other logistics of using a personal machine. The company most likely does not want to deal with those headaches as well. 

This response does not put you in a position of saying anything unsubstantiated that Joe could sue you for saying, and the person you are talking to will absolutely get the picture that you do not have a high opinion of Joe's ability. 

In short, no, you should not remove an account number or refuse pay. You must be doing something right, because if you were really doing a bad job, you would be fired. It is understandable to feel like you aren't doing any good work or you are burned out, but the ultimate decision on how you are performing comes down to the company. If you really need some form of validation, go ask your boss/colleagues/ceo of the startup for a quick status meeting and ask if your work lately is up to snuff and satisfying all requirements. If they say yes, then you should feel good. If you still feel bad, maybe that is indicative of something deeper and aligned with you not feeling challenged or engaged at work. 

Set the duck under or beside your monitor and either very quietly or silently talk out the issue. Having a loud conversation with a duck will be understood by some, but not by most. It is also distracting. The alternative is to use your colleagues more since your duck has one main flaw: it can't ask questions back or offer alternatives to your methods/thinking. Working on your interpersonal interactions with a colleagues, doing code reviews, seeing alternative methods and solutions to an issue, these will all be immensely helpful in your career. It will raise your profile among your peers and your management will most likely notice your increase in productivity as you pointed out. When it comes time to promote someone or pick someone to lead a high profile project, your colleagues and manager will be able to give you a good recommendation based on how well you work with others and how your work is above standard. Your duck, on the other hand, won't have much to offer at all. 

First question, you would keep your current position even though you don't like it and it is not in your field of interest just because they matched salary/pay? Next, if you decide this new opportunity is right for you, don't say anything until you formally accept and get your offer/particulars in writing with a start date. Then schedule a meeting with your advisor/boss/supervisor and say: 

You should make it clear to your employer during interview that you haven't had contact or don't know X product or technology. Then it's up to the employer to hire you and wait a little time for you to get up to speed, or just don't hire you. If they happen to hire you and you didn't warn them about this during the interview, it might be very bad to you, because you ommited very important information. Anyway, you have experience with Unix, it won't be very hard for you to gain some knowledge in Windows. Most things are easier to do on it than on Unix. Unless you are apllying for a SysAdmin role, then I suggest you study a lot before hand instead of trying to learn on the go. 

If they sent the letter over a month ago and you didn't answer them and yet they haven't tried contacting you again, just pretend you never received the letter. 

Depends on your industry. But, since your boss said they dress casual, I'd say that wearing a suit will do no harm nor good. I, as a software developer, have never cared about over/under dressing. I've worked in start-ups, small companies(50~150 people) and big companies (2000+) and in none of them someone said anything about the way I dress. In all of them it was casual. I always go to work with jeans trousers and a T-shirt. But in all interviews I keep the jeans trousers and change the tee for a polo. I noticed that anytime someone overdresses, people make light jokes about that. But, if you work for a bank, for example, you might have to wear a suit and tie. 

What do you expect from this? What do you think would change? What random amount of time do you think would make your quitting less unprofessional? 

It's business. You're leaving because you found something better. It they found someone better than you, they would fire you on the spot. 

Just go on and tell him. You're helping him save money. Were it the other way around, then you would need an excellent document. Edit: If you need help explaining, just say something along the lines of: "Hei b0ss, I know that you're worried about my productivity and wanted to buy that new machine. But I found this 10 bucks cable that will be more useful and way cheaper than a new PC. What do you think about this?". 

I see three options: 1 - Ask the company to buy one, so everybody can use it 2 - Raise funds with your colleages to buy one (we did this with the coffee machine here) 3 - Bring your own, but be prepared to see people use or eventually break it. Anyway, ask your boss or HR first to see if it is allowed to bring your own stuff to the office. 

I've been searching for a new job as a software developer in the last few weeks and have noticed that in every single one of the interviews there's a pattern. First, there's a "get to know you" interview with a HR representative, where I'm asked things like who do I live with, what do I expect of the position I'm being interviewed for, which were my past professional experiences and things like that. After this interview with HR, there will most likely be a techinical interview. The problem is that I'm searching for a job in a specific part of town. To get there, I have to leave earlier (and lose almost the whole afternoon) and come in later (and lost most of the morning), since my current company is kinda far from where I'm interviewing and I need to use public transportation. So, would it be unprofessional, impolite or come off as if I didn't want the job that much if I ask if there really is a need for an in-person interview or if we could use the phone or skype? Edit: I work as a web developer in Brazil.