There are trends that has allowed stock markets in advanced economies to grow faster than GDP for a long time: 

Depends on who "one" is. For american companies it is good, since it increases their profits. For the resource producers (seamstresses, cotton farmers etc) it is bad since it reduces the demand for their resources. 

First we need to discuss what wealth is. Is it just the amassment of valubles? In the 16th-18th century, rulers thought so. This notion is called mercantilism. This idea was rejected by Adam Smith in book IV of The Wealth of Nations. The current meaning of wealth is not the amount you own, but rather how much you can consume (sustainably). Formally, the definition is Total of all assets of an economic unit that generate current income or have the potential to generate future income. This is of course the same amount as the amount that you can sustainably consume. This means that we can measure wealth either as production or as consumption. Thus, there is not just how much riches you own, but also how much you can create. Also, remember that you cannot consume money. You can only consume goods and services. Amassing riches has little value in itself. It is mainly a way (for an individual or group) to postpone consumption to some point in the future. Thus, wealth is measured not just by the current riches you own, but also by the ability to create more riches in the future. A man with 100,000 and no income is poorer than a man with no money but with an income of 50,000 a year. 

In the long run, consumers cannot spend more than they earn. In the short run they can spend more, increasing consumer debt, or they can spend less, decreasing consumer debt. There is a limit to how much consumers are allowed to borrow. The limit is determined by consumer income and the interest rate. If consumer debt increases faster than consumer income then eventually consumer debt will peak; bank and credit companies will stop lending more money causing a halt to the spending spree. Note that consumer credit tends to increase market fluctuations. When times are good more people have jobs and consumers with jobs are allowed increased credit. When times are bad you see the opposite. 

The last time, in 2010, there were around 400 million 50 öre coins in circulation with a total value of 200 million kr (around 25 million USD, or $2:50 per capita). Around 70% of those were never returned. While we no longer have smaller cash than 1 kr, money is still charged in increments of 0.01 kr. When you pay electronically, the exact amount is charged. When you pay with cash the amount is rounded to the nearest krona. It is possible to game the system by using a card when the amount would be rounded up and using cash when it is rounded down. However, no one seems to do that. It just isn't profitable enough to be worth your time. Edit: Bottom line: There doesn't seem to be any significant (measurable) effect of removing the lowest denomination coin once its value is so low that it has outlived its usefulness. My conclusion is based partly on the low total value of the removed coins, partly on internet searches for news articles or comments relating to the change. The only noteworthy subject that came up was related to the change of deposit on soda cans from 50 öre to 1 kr in 2010 and the public response was slight confusion on whether the higher deposit would apply to cans already in circulation (which it didn't). 

allocative efficiency = Using resurces where they add the most value. Example: The resources needed to create a branded t-shirt (or any other product with a strong brand) is the same as for the creation of a no-name t-shirt. However, the price/value of the branded product is considerably higher. So, if you can switch production from cheap no-name products to more expensive branded products then output value increases but resource consumtion is unaffected. This value increase is separate from the resource reduction caused by an increase in productivity. 

That depends on whether you consider branding a market imperfection. When measuring it is very difficult to distinguish quality and branding. If a no-name t-shirt costs \$6 and branded t-shirt costs \$30, how much of the price difference is due to quality and how much is brand name? 

They are not necessarily proportional. GDP contribution is the value added by a company. You need to deduct the cost of inputs that are either imported or bought from another entity that is included in the GDP. Even if two companies seem similar the value added can differ. Let's compare two imaginary sneaker companies. CheaperSneaker buys/manufactures sneakers from Asia for \$10 and sell them to department stores for \$20. \$3 are spent on labor and \$5 are used to buy various services from domestic companies. Profit is \$2. Sales: 20 GDP contribution: 5 (25% of sales) FancySneaker also buys/manufactures sneakers from Asia. The cost is \$12 per pair. \$5 are spent on labor and \$20 are spent on domestic services (mostly ad campaigns and PR firms). The sneakers are sold to stores for \$50. Profit is \$13. Sales: 50 GDP contribution: 18 (36% of sales) The GDP contribution is not the same. As a general rule of thumb, highly profitable companies and companies with high domestic labor costs contribute a higher proportion of revenue to GDP. 

Listen to the 30 seconds leading up to that claim. To me it is clear that he is talking of factory jobs. And there he is right. The top countries have no trouble producing more than 10 times the per capita consumption of industry goods per worker. What he is saying is that production of goods is very efficent. He then goes on and mentions Germany and the US. I looked up the numbers of my home country, Sweden. In Sweden, the number of factory workers has decreased by more than a third since 1970, but production is way up. His point is that lack of production capacity isn't the reason why not everyone has a car, tv, washing machine, etc. We have the technology to produce the same material wealth (things, not services) for the entire world using just 10% of the population. 

The supply curve depicts the short time supply curve. If resources are abundant, low cost producers can easily increase production by building another factory that is at least as efficient as the exisiting ones. However, building a new factory takes time. In the mean time the slack will be met by increased production from higher-cost producers and overtime work, both of which have higher costs. If there is a lasting increase in demand, the most efficient manufacturers will build additional factories that can produce at a low cost and thereby increasing supply, shifting the supply curve to the right. If resources are scarce, then increasing production will mean that you have to use resources with higher cost. Higher wages for workers, using farm land that yields smaller harvests, mine lower quality ore and so on. The cost increase can be offset by technological advances or lowering of other factor costs. Take the shale oil industry, where improved drilling technology has greatly increased the production per drilling rig. Also, the factor cost has fallen for labor and drilling services. The combined effect has reduced the cost from ca \$70 per barrel to ca \$40 per barrel. This has allowed US shale oil producers to increase production despite oil prices dropping from \$120 to \$50 per barrel. However, there is no guarantee that this can offset the entire cost increase; increased demand can result in permanently higher prices. 

Branching out abroad. This gives access to faster growing markets in developing countries. This trend will end when all countries are advanced economies. Fewer private companies. This trend will end when most of GDP is generated by companies listed on the stock market. Multiple Expansion. Reduced interest rates and increased money supply can reduce returns expectations and increases PE multiples. This trend has worked both ways through time but for the last 10-20 years it has generally acted in an expansive capacity. 

There is no contradiction between PVM and Fischer effect. Perhaps you are misinterpreting what "expected nominal return" means. Expected nominal return is the return an investor expects from his investment. The theory does not imply that incresead inflation will automatically increase company profits by the same amount. Instead the value of the stock is reduced, just as the NPV calculation implies. 

Dividends. Dividends increase stock market return without increasing its value. Though not really considered growth, dividends are often included when comparing stock market growth with GDP growth. 

OLS considers all values. The method doesn't care if some samples have the same X value as long as not all of them do. In many cases there is no controversy in having multiple samples with the same Xi but different Yi. For example, if you plot company turnover (Y) versus number of employees (X) for a sample of companies there can be companies that happen to have the exact same number of employees. 

The key is that $X_\sim$ is a finite set. That means that there exists an element $x_i \in X$ for which there is no element $x_j \in X$ where $x_j < x_i$. Thus we can safely map $x_i$ (and all other elements that belong to the same equivalence class) to 0. We can then repeat the process with the remaining elements and map then next equivalence class to 1 and so on. If $X_\sim$ had not been finite there would have been no guarantee of the existence of a smallest value in $X$. 

What criteria define an optimum minimum wage? Is there even such a thing? The reason why you haven't found a satisfactory answer is that there isn't one. There are several and depending on who you ask you will get a different answer. Some people will say that the optimum minimum wage is 0 and that the state should note interfere in the matter. Laissez-faire. Some people wants the minimum wage to cover basic living expenses. What that entails varies widely but is usually connected to the general economic level of the country. In some countries it covers only the cost of basic food for 1-2 people. In others it covers rent, utilities, food, a tv, a mobile phone. Some people want the minimum wage to be as high as possible. Some unions. 

The book is talking about the short term effect. And yes, such a policy would be thought as Keynesian. In the long run, excessive government spending will cause inflation (if unfunded) or reduce both private production and demand (due to excessive taxation).