Sound is generally very localized and even massive amount of zombies would not make enough sound to be heard a couple miles away. It's conceivable that a very loud sound such as thunder can gather all zombies within a couple miles but just a bit further and other localized sound could overshadow it. If you imagine a stadium full of people during a football game or something cheering as loud as they can, even though there are tens of thousands of people, if you go down the street a couple blocks from the stadium, the traffic would be louder than the people in the stadium. This means even a ball of hundreds of thousands of zombies would not have that large of a radius to gather more zombies. What will also happen is that zombies will gather into a very compact area and the effect all the zombies trying to get towards the center eventually reach a point where flesh and bones can no longer sustain the tension and stress and compression of the mob. Even though the zombies are immortal, it would be expected that the middle of a very large gathering will liquify as the zombies are trampled and crushed by other zombies. As such, most mobs will be unlikely to move very much as they reach a sort of equilibrium as the pressure of zombies outside are equalized by the flow of the liquid zombie mass inside. 

If the Earth was completely smooth, then there would be ~2.6km water covering the entire surface. I guess you can imagine some event which made all the lands sink below sea level and the ocean trenches being filled up. Realistically this is extremely unlikely and has never happened to Earth as far as we know. 

Which means that nuclear weapons are some of the most optimal size per energy weapons that can be designed currently. If you don't want your weapon to work on magic pixie dust, you can only look at maybe using antimatter as a source because anything less energy dense would not power a pistol sized weapon with enough energy as a nuke. Antimatter's energy density 2*(C^2) where C is the speed of light. 

The technology to propel objects to different locations don't really matter, what limits travel of humans in space in this case is the acceleration you can apply. You can't expect normal people to undergo acceleration of more than 3-4G for short time frames and you definitely can't have a constant acceleration of much more than 1G for a long trip. More than 1G means you feel more weight and if you do 2G, it would be like weighing 2x as much. The physical limitations of space travel really means you need to constantly accelerate once you are off the planet to get to your destination. Once you reach half way, you can decelerate at the same rate. This is really the only physical way to move large distances in space without "teleporting". People will die if you accelerate/decelerate too fast and your ship will fly right past your destination if you don't decelerate. Since there is very little friction in space, you won't decelerate naturally. The mechanism to do this the simplest way would be some sort of rocket with some sort of fuel and the propulsion pointed in the direction you need to accelerate/decelerate, since current chemical fuel is unlikely to improve to densities required, you'd probably need some form of nuclear fuel. Another way is to use lasers from earth/orbit to accelerate and lasers at the destination to decelerate. This would require a ship built to handle large amount of energy being delivered with lasers. Another thing is that when you are traveling for a long time in space, the time on your ship would not be the same as the time on Earth or your destination. For you might only experience the travel to be a day or so, it could be a week for someone at your destination. If you were commuting, this could be a real problem. The basics is that to you, you can constantly accelerate past the speed of light if you want from your perspective on the ship but to anyone looking at you from outside, you won't ever go faster than the speed of light and the faster you go, the more energy you need to get ever so slightly toward the speed of light. This is simply time dilation meaning that time moves slower for you than an observer as you move closer to relativistic speeds. 

With the exception of the "time dilated bubble", which makes the question quite meaningless in regards to energy calculations. You can get an idea of that actual cost of energy to move presents to all children in 24 hours. Solving this with conservation of energy Using the 226 million mile (360 million km) number for how much distance the presents need to go from Zoey's answer and assuming a 24 hour time for all presents to delivered. This averages to about 4 million m/s. Which is ~1.3% c. Just using: $E_k = 1/2 mv^{2}$ then multiplying by 2 to get the acceleration and deceleration. Allowing Santa to pre-accelerate the sleigh for 24 hours before Christmas so he is at max speed the second Christmas starts. Even ignoring the effects of relativity, that is ${2*10^{13} J}/ kg$ of energy needed to accelerate and then decelerate reindeer. That is about $5*10^{12} cal/kg$. So for 9 reindeer of ~200 kg each makes about 2000 kg. So total reindeer takes about $1.0*10^{16} cal$. Which is about 12000x the amount in Zoey's answer. If you are using the area of rode island to farm the oats in Zoey's answer, you'd need about 12000x as much land, which is about 10 million $km^2$, the size of Canada. There isn't enough farmland in the world to do this. Zoey expected a linear relationship between energy and speed which is not true. Kinetic energy rises to the square of the velocity. So all the accounting for how much energy a reindeer takes to go 10 miles would not work here. If you expect each present to be about 1 kg and about 2 billion presents, you'd get a total energy of $10^{22} cal$ for the presents. This would is about a billion times the energy of just the reindeer. This is about 100x the energy consumption of the world per year. Note: This is assuming a perfect engine and that there is no air resistance and that the sleigh only accelerate and decelerate 1 time. This also means presents are basically taking the whole 24 hours to slow down while being delivered. This is a minimal answer and probably underestimate the actual amount by a couple million order of magnitude if you want Santa to actually slow down at each house and personally deliver the presents. 

The advantage of pheromones in communication is that it persists, which is why it is often used by animals to mark territory or for animals to find mates for sparely populated animals. The disadvantage is that it is very localized and can't be projected very far so it can't easily communicate at high speeds. Which it will be very hard for you to do complex communication with pheromones. Think if you release a gas with pheromones, then someone else has to wait for the gas to disperse and travel to them, then they would need to respond in the same way. This means "conversations" in pheromones require a lot of time. Which will limit the development of deep communication complexity. Technically, there is nothing to stop pheromones from communicating a lot of information because the use of many chemicals and the composition of chemicals can be used to boost the number of bit of information can be sent but ultimately the limiting factor of bandwidth comes down to the speed at which chemicals you release can reach the target. 

To put this into perspective perhaps, this guy is comparable weight to a motorbike plus a normal person riding it so the effect will be something like a motorbike going 65mph into w/e you imagine. If it hits a person, the person has serious injuries if not dead. However going into buildings would heavily depend on how fortified the walls are but if the giant is well protected against self damage, it could do considerable damage to wooden walls. 

The consequence would be he stops being a very functional human. Having all these things will make for a very problematic disability. 

We don't know what makes people self aware for all we can gather it may be simply once you reach a certain point in how naturally smart something is. We know that some animals are aware of themselves but most are not. If we apply the same to androids, it might just reach a point where they are smart enough to reach self awareness without any human intending it. 

Light can be bent with mirrors and lenses. You can create effect like this by using different mediums with different refraction properties such as glass. You might be able to use a system that uses a manipulated magnetic field can alter specialized charged particles of some glass-like material. The end affect would be a "glass sculpture" that changes over time as the field changes, which could potentially be possible. Such a device isn't possible today because we don't have the power to manipulate magnetic fields this well but may be in the future. The glass like substance doesn't even have to be solid which would make for something similar to 3D holograms. Another idea would be to program people's vision directly. This would involve sending data directly to people's optical system. Pretty much a HUD for everyone and this can allow for additional information. Today this can only happen with a screen in front of their eyes and a headset like Hololens. In the future, we might be able to implant a chip that can alter your optic nerve directly to allow for additional images to be added. 

You can easily get depression hanging around depressed people and not having any other social contact. It is generally reversible but in some cases depression is chronic and requires medication. Some people are more susceptible to depression than others. 

Magically encrypt your spells and have what is delivered to the person be a script to connect to you magic network for magical online validation for each use. The person won't own the spell, only license the use of the spell attached to it. They will need to register an account and launch your magical spell manager to activate the spell which comes with a one time use spell that expires when used. If people want they will have to resort to magically pirate your spells by magically breaking your DRM but you counteract that by making it easy to get spells from your store and hard to get pass your DRM. Most people will buy your spell and the few that pirate them will not be significant to matter. Basically magical itunes. 

If he is truly omnipotent, everyone should instantly know he is God the moment he wants them to. If he is a deity such as a Greek god, all he would need to show is supernatural powers that help(if he destroy things people would think demon rather than god) the people. People who don't believe in magic would be unswayed but eventually if no alternative explanation appears plausible, most people would come to believe it. 

Divinity has nothing to do with power level. It is fully encompassed in how holy others view you. There are many divine creatures without any special powers in stories. There are also Gods who never uses their powers in the eyes of humans. Just because someone is super powerful or can perform miracles does not really make them a god. Only when other people worship him does he actually become said to be a god. Godzilla isn't a god just because he is immortal and indestructible and can level cities, all of those qualities actually put Godzilla above the power level of many contemporary gods. However, if people started worshiping Godzilla, then Godzilla actually can be called a god. The reverse is true with god kings, they are technically physically only human but they make people worship them as more than that and thus, they are then regarded as gods or descended from gods and are thus divine. 

Sure, if the object was small enough and in the right position. I don't see why you can't move a superconducting coil the size of a bacteria with the extremely weak EM waves you can generate from your brain. 

The animals won't really die off before the people. The thing that kills things during large sudden climate changes is the lack of food/water available. If the nuclear exchange really did bring a nuclear winter, the people would be unable to grow/find food just like the animals. Nuclear winters are caused by the nuclear blasts creating so much debris in the atmosphere that large amount of sunlight is blocked. So the townspeople likely knows by the fact that the sky is dark long before the animals start to die off. But the affect of the lasting nuclear winter would probably start killing things within a couple weeks because of the lack of food as plants die. 

Manipulation of gravity is currently impossible so the plausibility of your question will largely depend on how far outside the realm of plausible physic you think it is. Due to general relativity, it is impossible differentiate gravitation and acceleration on an object from the object's point of view so in theory if you could generate gravitation, you are generating acceleration. Other than that, this is what you are describing if you take out all the physic mumble jumble: 

Sounds like the aliens have more than sufficient technology to farm humans at the bottom of the ocean. Just need to dedicate enough power to farm some form of vegetables to feed the humans and then you'd just need maybe 2,000,000 humans on a farm and then you can kill 0.1% per day and it would be fully sustainable. 

Nobody ever fought animals with martial arts. I don't see how martial arts relates to the human condition in relation to physical strength. Martial arts at this point is more about tradition than combat but they are all based on fighting verses other humans even when they were about purely combat. Hunters don't need martial arts to hunt and if they ever met a bear or a tiger, they wouldn't be doing drop kicks on it. Most martial arts moves don't even work on non humans. Your animals would have to fight each other and probably develop techniques to fight each other. A bear fighting a bear will definitely have the advantage if it knows how to best use it's body to fight. Knowing how to fight is basically what martial arts is at the core if you strip away all the tradition and art of it.