When I ran my first 20km (almost HM, which is ~21.1 km), I had previously run 5-10km, and twice 12km and once 17km, with about 1-2 runs per week over 1,5 months. Plus I trained acrobatics 3 times a week. I managed to finish, in just under 2h (so roughly 10km/h), but could barely walk up stairs the two days after. Half a year later, my first HM, I had completed a training plan with 4x Running per week over 3 months, including 4 runs of 20, 22, 22, 24km respectively. I ran the HM with a friend who was an avid tennis player, but only ran 2 times a week for the past month with max distance 10km. We finished both around 1h45 (roughly 11,5 km/h). I was very happy at having improved my time, and a bit vexed, that even though I ran much more, my friend seemed to manage just as well. He fell sick that day, and only went back to work 3 days later. I think the moral of my experience, is that amount of specific running training directly correlates to your wellbeing after having run a HM. If you are generally fit, and have run 10km, you should be able to finish, while being quite exhausted the days after. If you want to finish with a smile - you should run the half-marathon distance once or twice in a very slow speed (3h), although it is best to work your way up to that distance in successive runs and not straight away. 

I was taught once by my trainer (he is 75 yrs old) how to train to get defined and how to train to get bulked. 

What exercises are good to train the external oblique and serratus anterior muscles from beginner to advanced exercises?I am interested mostly in isolated exercises. 

I started training at 87 kg with a 21% Body Fat Percentage I now have 83kg with a 10% Body Fat Percentage I would like to get to 90kg with a 5-6% body fat percentage.Would this program help me?(My dream? big arms rounded shoulders and well defined muscles everywhere on my body) Monday Back training 

You have a better mood because when you work out especially in the morning when you can accelerate the recovery from lethargy caused by sleep (most of the times you won't even need your morning coffee ) because you release endorphins that lead to an effect known as a "runner's high" that give you a feeling of good mood. Sources: 

Saturday Observation Saturday I train the muscle I consider it is behind and must get more attention The problem with my program is that I cannot make use of the 48 hour recovery time that my body gives me. I want to point out that I do every exercise slow and with low weights 4 seconds down 2 seconds up and fully extend them(no cheating). Edit Another thing I forgot to say before each training session I do 20 minutes of HIIT on the threadmill 

But,sometimes I am in a hurry and I must hurry up the pace and I do them combined,for example I do a 15xLeg press I wait 20 seconds and I do 15xDumbell military press then I wait 1:30 minutes and again Leg press,20 seconds pause, Dumbell press,1:30 minutes pause a.s.o. Am I stressing my body too hard when I do this?Should I train only 1 body part when I really am in a hurry? 

So simply go through your calorie intake and your physical activity during a normal day, and you will know why you gain weight. If the above doesn't add up for you, go see a doctor - you might be retaining water or something worse. 

I have personal experience with shin splints, traditional "heel-cushioned" running shoes, and barefoot running in Vibrams and without shoes at all. For many years I suffered from extremely painful shin splints. I asked for advice on how to get rid of it every time I met a fellow runner, but the solutions suggested to me didn't give a clear picture; run more, run less, heat, cold, creams, herbs, ... you name it. After testing various things, I found that heat helped me; keeping my legs and feet warm seemed to do the trick. I also tried to run toe-strike in my traditional heel-cushioned running shoes, which actually seemed to help a bit - my personal explanation to this was that toe-striking activates the calves more, and active muscles produce more heat - but that is my own non-scientific explanation. After many years with shin splints I got rid of them by wearing thick wool socks and long legged underpants, and never run with naked shins. A friend of mine claims to have literally cured her shin splints with fenugreek seed powder, which she got wet, distributed on her lower legs, wrapped it all in plastic and left it there for an hour. Others will tell you that cooling their shins helped them. All in all, my experience is that shin splints are not so much cured by changing running style. And after I cured mine, I could run any way I wanted, and only when the weather is extremely cold, I can feel a tiny bit of the old shin splint pain again. That being said, switching from the heel-cushioned running shoes to Vibrams is the best thing I ever did for my running. But be aware that you can't just put on a pair of Vibrams, and then expect to do better on every parameter of your running; your body will have to adapt. The cushioned running shoes will pamper your feet and calves instead of letting them work the way they were made to work. That means, that after running with cushioned shoes for years, your feet, ankles and calves are not trained for this running style, and you will find it tough on your feet and calves - many people give up on barefoot running in this phase, since they expect miracles from the shoes, but only are suffering from the impact of their "old" cushioned running style. When you feel you get slower when running in Vibrams, it's just because you are doing something you haven't done for many years. If you are patient, and give yourself time to train and learn the barefoot running style, it can improve your running experience significantly. I was about to give up running 3 years ago, since my knees were hurting more and more from running. In an act of desperation (and after consulting a fair amount of the theory behind barefoot running), I decided to buy a pair of Vibrams. After a period where I ran once or twice a week in my cushioned running shoes, and once a week in Vibrams, I switched to exclusively to running in Vibrams. Before the switch, my knees hurt when I ran faster than 6 minutes per kilometer, and my typical cruising speed was 6:30min/km. Now my cruising speed is between 5:30min/km and 5:00min/km. I cut off around 25 minutes of my half-marathon time. My current goal is to run 10 km in 45 minutes - 4:30min/km on average, and I can now run 3 km at that speed. So my speed has increased. It didn't come with the shoes, it came from slowly adapting to a different running style. But most importantly, barefoot running is fun - I look forward to every training pass, and that's really important if you want to exercise several times a week. Note that this is my personal experience - Barefoot running might not work for you at all, so remember to listen to your body. Just because it was the right thing for me, it's not necessarily the right thing for you. Good luck! 

Apart from the obvious fact of lessened degree of training intensity, do seniors bodies respond differently to training stimuli? Besides increased risk of injury, is there a reason for a senior couch potato not to take up some kind of sports? I suggested to my grandmother to start power walking, but don't want to let her get her hopes up if her body won't be able to build the necessary muscles. On the other hand, I lately read an article of a Grandpa who started running at 72, and finished his last 10k run at the age of 101 (even marathons in ~5h30). 

I swim for endurance as part of triathlon training, but have never looked at it from a fat-burn perspective. My swim sessions are 1-2h long, 1-2x per week. From running though, I really noticed the difference in fat burn once I started my long(>20km, >2h), low intensity runs(70%-75% MHR), as opposed to short(<5km, intervals, sprints) high intensity(85%-99% MaxHeartRate). I went from 85kg to 80kg over 3 months, once I added long runs regularly. I read the medical explanation for it: that endurance work-out gets a higher percentage of energy from fat, whereas power-training (intervals, sprints) gets most of it's energy from somewhere else (carbohydrates? sugars?). So I would suggest longer trainings. I read a study that endurance running burns more fat than endurance swimming though, so I'm not sure by how much you would see the results in swim training. 

In my staircase, I can definitely feel a temperature difference between bottom and top (5 laughable stories : P), but its definitely there (especially in summer), and as far as I know, its not good to train in strongly different temperatures. Perhaps hanging jacket/sweatshirt at floor 13 for when you go down, and leave it there when you go up. Curious if you feel this difference as well : ) 

Why most trainers recommend you to train your abs every day? Why are they not respecting the 24-48 hour training window? 

My problem is with my forearms ,they hurt badly when I start doing barbell curls but not while I am training but when I am done with each set of 15. Is this a problem with how I am holding my arms?Am I using the wrong barbell maybe?Or my forearms just cant handle this much weight? EDIT: I realized I have this type of pain :$URL$ Do you consider his tips viable to help with my problem? 

My question is,is this something true?And if not what training should I do to get defined and what training to get bulked? 

What each of them is? What each of them is good at?(muscle building ,strength building,resistance building,etc.) Why should we include them in our training program? What are the downsides of each of them?What about upsides? Give a real life example on how to do each of them reported to ones 1RM at an exercise on choice(bench-press for example). How to correctly execute each of them. 

Lower weights,more reps(like 15-20 reps) and slower+controlled movement to get defined High weights,lesser reps(like 5-6 reps) and controlling only when you are under tension(the lift can be helped by another friend) to get bulked 

I just found about isometric training and wanted to try it out but from what I see you have to do bench presses,squats and deadlifts. My question is: Is isometric training made for any exercise or muscle group or only for those above? And how does isometric training help us? 

The 5 weeks have passed, so you probably already have completed your half marathon :-), but here goes: There are a lot of things you're not telling, so my answer is based on what info you do provide. As a rule of thumb, you can (within reasonable limit, of course) run twice the distance you think you can run, and since you know you can run 12 km, a half marathon should be doable. If you apply general running wisdom (economize and don't run too fast, eat and drink something on the way, stop if it hurts in a bad way, etc), you should be good to go. In the comments you say you plan on going on a 15 km run before the actual half marathon. I think that's an excellent idea, and if you manage to get the feeling that you could go the extra 6 km after 15, you'll be more than ready. Remember to listen to your body, and try not to run too fast. Your achilles tendons and calf muscles take the highest strain when running minimalist, so those are the ones to focus on; if they start to ache too much as you step up your training, you should probably wait. Personally I have been running minimalist shoes for around 18 months now, the last 8 months exclusively minimalist. I have run a number of half marathons and one single marathon in traditional running shoes. I have run 15 km in minimalist shoes as a max (since I'm focusing on the 10 km distance).