"Inner Mongolia," part of what was later called "Manchuria," in China, had been absorbed by the Manchus in the 1630s, even before they conquered China in the 1640s. So it became part of "greater China." (Outer) Mongolia became a tributary state of the Qing dynasty in the 1690s, but retained its "integrity" as a geographical unit. After the Chinese Revolution of 1911, and the Russian Revolution of 1917, there was a power vacuum in Mongolia. Chinese forces briefly occupied Outer Mongolia in 1920, but was then driven out by Mongolians allied with nearby Russians. But "Inner" Mongolia had been part of "Manchuria" for so long that it stayed with China when Manchuria proper did. Even as late as World War II, "outer Mongolia" was effectively a protectorate of the Soviet Union, while most of "inner Mongolia" was part of Japan's "Manchukuo." After the war, the Soviet Union ceded the former Manchukuo and adjacent territories to the west to its Communist allies but retained its sphere of influence over "outer Mongolia." 

In the U.S. army, something like 75%-80% of newly-commissioned Second Lieutenants are promoted to First Lieutenant (around age 25), perhaps 75%-80% of First Lieutenants are promoted to Captain (ages 28-29), and 75%-80% of Captains are promoted to Major (around ages 31-33). About half (or slightly less) of Second Lieutenants make it this far. Call it 48% to make the numbers round. Only one out of four Majors (12% of the original group) are promoted to Lieutenant Colonel by age 40. Half of the Majors retire around that time at half pay. The remaining one quarter serve out their careers as Majors, and are promoted to Lieutenant Colonel around age 50, shortly before retirement, for purposes of calculating their pensions. This is a form of "social promotion." Half of the Lieutenant Colonels (6% of the total) are promoted "naturally" to Colonel by age 45; the remainder, at the end of their careers. Half of the Age-45 Colonels are promoted to General (3% of the Second Lieutenants). The remainder retire as Colonels (and do NOT receive a "final" promotion). Of course we know that there is a pyramid. But why is it so much less steep up to the level of Major than thereafter? 

Kiev was a far older, more "traditional" and established city, having been around for about 1000 years, versus less than 300 for Kharkov (in 1934). Kiev is closer to the center of the Ukraine, a better vantage point from which to govern the whole province. Kharkov is closer to the (north) eastern edge. More to the point, Kiev is the spiritual "heart" of the Ukraine for reason 1 above. There was (in 1934) no immediate fear of a German attack on Kiev (or the former St. Petersburg, then Leningrad) as there was in 1918. There was a period of "amity" between Germany and the Soviet Union that started with the Treaty of Rapallo, and continued under Hitler (to the 1939 Pact). Certainly, the situation was much more stable in 1934 than in 1918, and Stalin hoped to deflect Germany "elsewhere." 

It was a former Prime Minister, William Pitt the Elder, who understood the cost and warned in Parliament: 

The Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth started as a "personal union" of the King of Lithuanian in 1386, when Jagiello married the Polish queen Jadwiga (who died in childbirth). That is, the same "king," ruled both countries, separately, not as a unified country. Under those circumstances, Poland and Lithuania became "fellow travelers." Matters came to a head in 1569 for two reasons. First, the king of Lithuania threatened to die childless, ending the personal union. Second, Lithuania was threatened by Russia of Ivan the Terrible. So they sought a permanent union with Poland. Poland wanted something in return, the de facto takeover of Lithuania. They didn't get quite this much, but the Lithuanians agreed to let the Polish gentry "settle" their holdings in the current western Ukraine, while preserving the core of Lithuania for themselves. This lead to the Union of Lublin in 1569 that formally merged the two nations, and created the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. After the Lithuanian (now Polish) king died in 1572 without heirs, the Commonwealth elected as its new king, a foreign prince, Stephen Batory, the first of many such foreign born kings. Polish history twists and turns and is a bit "different" from the history of most other countries, which is why it's confusing. 

Thinking as he did, Hitler probably believed that pornography was an instrument for leading German people, particularly women, "astray" (verfuhren). 

The striking thing was that France and Austria had been political rivals going back to the time of Francis I (France) and Charles V (Austria). Until the mid 18th century. After winning the 100 Years' War, France became the strongest power in western Europe. Spain and Austria (counting the Holy Roman Empire) were two and three, and when Princess Juana of Spain married Prince Philip of Austria to produce (Holy Roman) Emperor Charles V, the combination of the "next two" became stronger than number one. Fast forward to the 18th century. After two centuries of mutual antagonism, France and Austria were pushed into an uneasy alliance against a combination of two new "upstart" powers. England had about one-third the population of France, and Prussia about one third of the population of Austria-Hungary, but both of them "punched above their weight," to the point of "stalemating" France and Austria-Hungary (Russia switched from the Franco-Austrian to Anglo-Prussian side at the end of the Seven Years' War.) The marriage of Austria's Marie Antoinette and France's Louis XVI cemented the alliance of two "legitimate" great powers against the two "upstarts." It's also noteworthy that Maria Theresa herself was married to Francis, Duke of Lorraine (then a part of France). If the Austrian Court was willing to marry the heiress to the throne to a French duke, it certainly wouldn't object to a non-heiress princess marrying a Dauphin. 

The 17th century English civil wars fostered a spirit of rebellion in the American colonies. Which led to independence. Prior to the Civil War, Parliament tried to impose a check on the king through its taxing powers. Charles I demurred. Parliament fought and won a civil war against the king, and chopped off Charles I's head. The winners, Oliver Cromwell's Puritans, had "Puritan" counterparts in the U.S. who had earlier felt oppressed by Charles I, and had left England for "New England." After the Restoration (of Charles II, the son of Charles I) led to the succession of Charles II's Catholic brother James II, there was a Glorious Revolution to overthrow him, and replace him with his daughter Mary, and son-in-law, William of Orange. Vis-a-vis a woman and a foreigner, Parliament enjoyed more power than usual. This English war had a counterpart in the "America," where the locals overthrew two Catholic governors appointed by James II, Edmund Andros of the Dominion of New England (which then included New York and New Jersey as well), and Colonel Henry Darnell of Maryland. And, by implication, England's internal troubles led to a loosening of her hold on the colonies. But in any event, "Americans" learned to look to the legislative branch of government as a check on the executive branch: "No taxation without representation." The most famous lines of the Declaration of Independence, "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness..." are followed by: "That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government..." This was a lesson that the "Americans" had learned from the English civil wars. In England, "instituting new government" meant getting a new Englishman. In America, it meant replacing an Englishman with an American, often one born in the Thirteen Colonies, and hence, independence. 

Criticism of government was widespread in the 1780s. That's because there was a precarious balance of power between the central and state governments under the Articles of Confederation. The central government was weak, and therefore subject to heavy criticism by leading men of the various states, and the states had little power to suppress criticism on their own. The First Amendment to the Constitution, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances." ensured that when power was concentrated in a Federal government, that government would not use that power to suppress rights of religion, speech, press, or assembly. 

An approximation of the eastern boundary of ethnic Poland was drawn by the Curzon Line put forth by Britain's foreign secretary, George Nathaniel Curzon. Coincidentally, or otherwise, it was actually very similar to the dividing line of the Hitler-Stalin Pact of 1939. Either of these two lines were ones that Polish nationalists could legitimately claim. In the west, Polish boundaries were indicated in Wilson's 14 points as "territories inhabited by indisputably Polish populations, with free and secure access to the sea." The Western boundary that was drawn after the end of World War I basically satisfied these criteria. A Polish nationalist of 1914 who wanted to stay on the right side of Britain and the United States might take comfort in the views of Curzon and Wilson. Poland got more or less what was right in the west, but ended up with "too much" in the east after she captured Bylorussian and Ukrainian lands in a war with Russia. 

By intervening in the internal affairs of other large empires (China, Persia, Kievan Rus) etc., and winning. China, for instance, was split between the Jin and Song dynasties. So the Mongols allied with the Song against the Jin, and after defeating the Jin, gathered up Chinese "not Songs" against the Song. In Persia, the Mongols benefited from the fact that the Sultan of Kwarazem was at odds with his "boss," the Caliph of Bagdad. Each of them had to worry about the other, as well as the Mongols, so the Mongols beat both. In Russia, it was the "other way." They had beaten a Turkish people called the Cumans around the Caspian Sea. The King of the Cumans was the father in law of the King of the Galicians, (which later became part of the Ukraine), and he dragged his son in law into a war with the Mongols, and both lost.