If they don't state the amount of experience, you should apply anyway. You've done an internship and have a full-time job as a programmer. The low salary at this point in your career would be considered as a valid reason to leave that job. Make sure you have strong recommendations from your internship. While you are looking at other jobs and hopefully landing interviews, keep track of the skills they want. You maybe able to do some new project at work where they can implemented. I can't imagine a years worth of experience, wouldn't get you past the lack of degree for a junior position. There may be some companies that just prefer college graduates, so there's no getting around this bias in their mind. 

Everybody will want one (Multiply your little perk by 1000). Someone has to order this stuff and go pick it up or pay for shipping. The company has to borrow money, so consider interest. Venture capital wants a software company to hire more programmers as a sign of growth and not fancier keyboards when it comes time to flip this thing. Someone has to put those little ID stickers and document each device. The other ones were free because they came with the computer. 

Whatever your concerns are, a company can try to compensate you in other areas or get a little creative. It doesn't have to be a fix for that specific problem. Examples: They can't pay you more money, but they could offer flex-time or a deferred compensation plan. If you have a lengthy commute, they could allow you to come into the office later when traffic isn't as heavy. You have to judge your company/supervisor on their ability to accept feedback. Since they're asking you, I'd say you should tell them everything, but some people will think you're just a complainer. If you don't tell them, there's nothing they can do about it unless they read minds. It is possible they could over-compensate in areas that don't appeal to you. Tell them what you want or you risk not getting it and end up with a company stapler with your name on it. 

Be nicer to candidates that get rejected. Don't just ignore them. In some way, your company should be hiring people faster because they're filling jobs in parallel. Someone should call qualified candidates who don't get the current job and ask to keep them on a short list because new jobs are opening all the time. They contact the person and hopefully they didn't find another job. This isn't ideal, but it's better than nothing. Your company doesn't see any need to address why people are leaving. Programmers are just a part in a machine that just gets replaced by one just like it. They've created a one-way relationship and are relying on contracts and oppressive hiring practices to give them an unfair advantage. It is catching up to them and they don't even know it. You could suggest it's 2015 and not 1915. 

These tasks are not to see if you are "good enough" but more about fitting your personality. I don't think a lot of programmers are as cut-out for this as they may think. You don't want to jeapardize your current job, but if you are reluctant to do any of them or they make you extremely uncomfortable, you should stick with a job. You fight through an inteview for a fiew hours and then you don't have to go through this until the annual evaluation or your next job. 

You completed a one year contract, so you couldn't have done too bad (This depends on the terms of your contract.) You were in over your head and that took up more of your supervisor's time than he would have liked, but that's his problem. If a company hires a first year employee and expects them to deliver a project without any supervision, they either don't know what they're doing or just don't have the budget to hire more experienced employees and just have to take a risk and suffer the consequences. Demonstrate in your next job interview how you learned much more than a typical first year person. You were given meaningful work and plenty of time to be mentored by your boss. Make sure you ask your boss about being a reference. Hopefully he can say good things about your potential and amount of effort you put on this project. 

If a position doesn't require a degree, you can leave it out. Make sure you have enough experience to cover the requirements. For those who put a high-premium on the college you attended, you can always mention rankings or whatever rewards/recognitions your school/degree program may have achieved in your cover letter. 

As Dizzy Dean said, "It's not bragging if you've done it." Everyone asks for references and want to know you work history so why not? Large clients take a lot of hand-holding. They have the resources to be very demanding on their business partners. Many people perceive large companies as knowing what they're doing (that's how they got so big) and if you're good enough for them, you're good enough for smaller clients who aspire to be big one day. 

Sounds like you are someone who worked hard enough to save a year's wages. However, if you collected unemployement when you could be working, that's a tough sell. Demonstrate what you've learned from the open source project. Hopefully, you've learned some strategies to not get burned-out in your next job or maybe focus on project work with limited time-frames. 

When you're given something to do, ask when it needs to be completed. Make your boss aware that you know the due date/time. Keep your boss informed on what you're doing. This could be a quick stand up meeting, an email, Kanban board or whatever your boss prefers. 

Hopefully, this one incidence is not the only slice of time you're boss is evaluating your ability to get things done. You build trust over longer periods of time by repeatedly proving you can be relied on. No body is perfect, but don't try to proclaim too strongly how important it is to have enough time when you're caught wasting it. Make sure you are completing the tasks your boss gives the highest priority. Next time you're asked to work a little longer, agree without hesitation. Get some feedback on how frequently he wants an update. He may prefer you summarize at the end of the week/month instead of more frequent updates. Sorry to say it, but years of building trust can be ruined with on mistake depending on how big of one it is. Browsing a non-work related website will have no impact if your boss recognizes you as a valuable employee. 

These two complement one another. Of course you can meet MBA-types at professional social events, but not do any real work. In the other programs, you can engage in real-work activities and debates, but the quality of individuals may not be there. Who has the people you would partner with in a start up. want on your team? Again, not all programs are the same, so you have to do a little research to see which ones are a best fit for you and can help you with your career the most. 

I don't know who started this, but asking for more money is not taboo. Salaries early on in your career grow exponentially. Don't cheat yourself. Negotiating and asking for more salary are just part of being in the workplace. Get use to it and don't be ashamed. It's not like these people are going to work somewhere else 5 years from now and if you apply for a job say, "Isn't this the guy that wanted 8% more?" You and most of the other job applicants. You can indicate that they went as high as they could, but if they offered more, you'd take the job. You could also ask them to consider renegotiating after 3 months. Ask for more vacation time. There has to be something you want. If this place is really worth working for, they want this information to improve their hiring practices. You'd be doing them a favor. 

This is why it is important to separate personal and professional email accounts. Of course you can change signatures and do what you want, but replying to a friend with a bunch of letters after your name and some lengthy disclaimer at the bottom about the confidentiality of your message, isn't appropriate. 

Contact the recruiter and tell him you are not going to lie. it is not in your best interest to go into any interview with this sort of worry-they're hard enough as it is. I don't think you can trust this person to give you a legitimate reason. Maybe he doesn't want to burn any bridges at the old firm, but there could be contract issues as well. Chances are his name won't come up. it's a stretch, but this could be some sort of ethics test by the recruiter. Either way, don't play this game. 

I think you should take the second interview so you can learn how to tactfully address some of your concerns and give them a chance to address them. Cubicles was an example in the question you referenced. You never know what the future holds. This company may be considering new office space with private offices. Maybe they didn't think programmers would want the isolation and somehow hinder collaboration. I would rather work for a company that may not be able to offer everything I want, but will at least listen to me and give some consideration. It's possible you cold work remotely a few days a week. Use the time in the office for meetings and other tasks that do not require complete isolation for perfect consentration. Things change. You may get that private office (just as an example) only to find you basically work for very unreasonable people who will all of the sudden turn that 40 hrs/week into 80. Enjoy the office, you're going to be needing it on weekends. Personally, I find good bosses/managers can make up for a lot of short-comings. I had a job where 3 people shared a storage room for an office. I looked forward to working with those people and couldn't care less about the conditions we worked under. 

What this higher offer has done is show you what you are worth. That is a key piece of information in any negotiation. The threat of you leaving isn't something you want to get into. Talk to your current supervisor and ask what the potential raise could be after your next evaluation. Are you up for a promotion? Do they have a cap on how much of an increase they will give anyone? Your current company may want to pay you more, but they just don't have it in their budget. Don't just look at the 50K in isolation-consider how it will compound over time. Every job you get will base their salary offer on your last job. Bonuses and raises are usually a percentage of current. There will always be something you will prefer to do than your job. Boredom can be an occupational hazzard. Either you think you're breaking rocks or building cathedrals, it's up to you. 

Why do they need to grow so fast? You didn't ask this question. Most of the answers operate under the assumption that they expect to add 35 individuals and have everything work smoothly. What if the answer to the question is, "We want to have a large staff to attract investors."? I heard a story where programmers used two and three computers because the company used Number of Desktop Installations to indicate the size of the company. You can't make this stuff up. Things to address/mention if they are still convinced they want to do it: Leader or "Yes Man" - They want to see how you push-back on management requests. Can you confidently show them the error of their ways without offending them? Offer valid alternatives. Existing Staff Retention - Make sure your existing staff is going to be comfortable working with a larger team. You may have people who chose this company because of the small size. Nobody's Perfect - be prepared to hire more than 35 new people. It could get closer to 40 with loses and those that aren't going to cut it. Yes, you have hired and will continue to hire people that don't fit, but show you can identify poor choices early and make corrections. Referrals - Everyone you hire needs to bring in two other people. It works for multi-level marketing. Wouldn't it be great if you could hire 5 people, who bring in 10 people, who bring in 20? Boom - 35 more people. Now, back to reality. Better Jobs - Will the company be able to offer: flex-time, remote workers, competitive salaries, meaningful work, and all that other fun stuff you'll learn from existing and future candidates? "Poaching" - there's only so much talent to go around and many qualified candidates will already have a job. This company is going to develop a reputation of going after other people's employees; they may not want that stigma. Feeder System - Having a relationship with local universities with CS programs can help in the short-term if you can develop an internship program and some part-time positions. A 6 month time-frame makes it difficult to only go after graduates. Cash - This is not a bootstrap situation. This demand can be met, but the costs need to be realistic. You want a lot of resources in a short amount of time means you'll spend a lot of money. Much of the money will be wasted. You may be hiring temp staff to go through all the resumes, schedule interviews and manage the line of candidates going out the door. You're company is going to look like the hottest day-time geek club on the planet. Current Projects on Hold - The current programmers may be spending all of their time building a website to manage hiring. The rest of their time is going to involve interviewing and evaluating new candidates. We look at this hypothetical task and immediately identify how obsurd and impractical it is, but we should always focus more on what the customer's definition of "working" is. Look past that. Maybe money is no object. 

Henry Ford once said, "You can have a car of any color, as long as, it's black." To an engineer such as yourself, this is utter-nonsense, but to your boss and probably the client, what you're saying is gibberish regardless of the technology behind it. Of course there will be constraints. They assume and ignore those more than you do. We all know that you ultimately can't because you're the person who actually has to make it work. You're going to have to learn how to play the game. Your answer should always be as quick "Yes" unless you're being asked to do something illegal. As you start to get into the details (You know, where the devil hides.), the client has the right to object to the price, timeline, or suggested technology recommendations. Don't always take these kinds of questions literally especially when you know you're talking to someone who isn't technical. If you ask Elon Musk if he could move a mountain, he'd say 'yes' because he's going to ignore the reality of an astronomical cost (which no one will pay) and the chance it will take so long that no one living today will still be alive when it is finished. 

I'm not sure if it Bob, you, the team's or management's fault, but it won't get better if someone doesn't address the problem. 

At your age, having any work experience puts you much further ahead than most. I don't think the job gap is a red flag. You've been studying and working on other projects. Now you're ready to look for a job. A lot of this can be explained further in a good cover letter. Look into joining some local meetup groups (In person, not just online.). If there are tons of jobs in your field, there shouldn't be too much trouble finding one that suits you. This will give you an opportunity to get out, interact with others, make connections to help you network for a job and provide a bit of a buffer before full-time employment. You may gain some insight to see if you are ready. 

Get an understanding what is available in your market. Determine if you have the necessary skills. Feel much more confident when asking for a raise. 

Consider staying on as a part-time contract worker if you feel your leaving will hurt them. The worse thing that can happen is they say no. At least you tried. No reason to burn a bridge here. The extra income could be redirected into your next venture. Maybe you could hire someone to do the marketing and allow you to concentrate on programming. 

It's possible the company could be acting ethically, but performers could be suffering from outside influences like boyfriends/pimps. Even in places where prostitution in the US is legal, this is still a problem and some brothels have been known to call the boyfriend if they felt one of the girls was out of line/didn't want to work. Unless you have some direct contact and over-site, all you can do is keep your ears and eyes open.