The answer depends on the situation and several factors, such as how important is the reply to you, is a delay in a reply beneficial to you etc. So in your instance where your expecting an important email you've been told to expect and haven't received, there could be a myriad of reasons as to why they haven't been able to send it to you on time. It's polite to give them an extra day and if you still haven't heard anything just send them a gentle reminder once it's 2 days late. They will then pick it up in the morning the following day and will hopefully be able to make it their priority. At the very least most people will go through their emails and send replies to those jobs they can't get round to that day. If the delay is advantageous for you then it's pretty straight forward, enjoy the delay. This could be if your waiting for a response to continue a piece of work and have more work than you can do that day, that's one less job off your list for today. The onus is on them to send a reply to you. It may get to the point where a late reply is becoming detrimental, in which case send a reminder requesting the email they are supposed to send you, or an explanation for the delay. 

I have been working on Upwork as a Software Engineer for 3 years and had a very successful career until my profile got suspended few days ago. I worked in a company for 1 year but after that i just did fulltime freelancing. I had mentioned the projects which i did on Upwork, on my resume and all other job related sites like indeed.com I had also mentioned link to my Upwork profile as well. But as i said that my profile is suspended permanently, i am not able to work, not even my work history is visible, they completely deleted my profile. So how do i mention my projects in my resume? How do i tell in interviews that i worked on Upwork, obviously telling them i got suspended is not good idea. P.S: The projects i did have no online link to see them in action, those are Data Mining projects which help clients to scrape data from different sources. 

It was fixed-price contract to develop Python scraper to scrape 2 websites. I always charge ~$200 per website. We agreed $200 per website. I agreed $200 blindly without analyzing those websites because I was busy in other things. Usually it takes a full day or upto 3 days to write and test code to entirely scrape a website. Today, I studied those 2 websites in question and found a trick to scrape entire website using a single link, in short it will take me max 30 minutes to write scraper for both websites. Should I still charge my client $400 in total? Or tell him that I figured a loop-hole that make it easy for me. 

What do you think appraisals are for? To praise a good job? Or to get you to look at yourself, identify areas that need working on, or that have improved over the project and set goals for your next appraisal? You say your manager is asking questions that seek confessions of mistakes. I say you're looking at appraisals in the wrong way. Your manager is in fact asking you to look at yourself honestly, to identify what you did well, but also identify any areas that you need to improve on. Nobody is perfect, everyone makes mistakes, that's part of life. Your manager isn't expecting you to get everything 100% right, but when you do make a mistake you're expected to analyse it and learn from it. If you can show that by explaining what you did wrong, why it was wrong, what you learnt from the mistake and what you are going to do in the future to stop yourself from making that mistake again then your manager should be happy with your progress. In answer to your question, you shouldn't try to avoid ratting yourself out as you put it. If your manager is paying enough attention it's likely they already know about your mistake. If a member of my staff skirted round an issue, or didn't admit to an error I knew about in an appraisal meeting with me then that would raise trust issues. I would start to doubt their word and their ability to be honest with me, and that's a much bigger issue than them making a mistake. 

I am seeking advice on how to deal with workload changes. In the past year there have been various changes in the office I work in resulting in the office to be understaffed and with no manager. Since then, there have been a lot of changes in my workload. I was given the responsibility to perform the work of three different positions in the office and that includes work that should be performed by office management. I agreed to the increased workload because I wanted the office to succeed during these difficult times and because I was promised a change in position by senior administration in the company. However, it has been months since these changes took place and no such position change has occurred. Moreover, the excess workload has resulted in lots stress to the point that it is affecting my overall health. As a result, I am burned out from the excess workload and I am struggling to communicate my problems with the senior administration in the company as there has been limited to no support from administration these past few months. I would really appreciate any advice to continue facing this situation. Thanks! 

If you're moving because you're unhappy in your current position, exactly why you're unhappy should have been discussed between you and your manager before leaving and this is the last resort so there's little left to be said about it: 

I'd make it polite and to the point, thanking them for the opportunities that they have offered you. Make sure to leave professionally. I find this a helpful template: 

The first thing I can say to you is be open and honest with all parties, it will make the whole process that much easier for everyone involved. It doesn't mean you have to tell them absolutely everything, for example I wouldn't tell company A that you would prefer to work for company B, but I would tell company B you have an offer on the table from company A who are expecting an answer the following day. If company B can give you an answer by Friday then great, you have the ideal situation. As @GarrisonNeely commented use the offer from company A at your interview to try and get the process speeded up. Assuming they also give you an offer you can then pick and choose at your leisure. But they may not be able to give you an offer in such a short time frame. They may have other candidates to interview at a later time or meetings to be held to consider candidates. In that case at best you may get an indication of when to expect an answer. If that is the situation come Friday you're in a difficult situation. If you ask for more time from company A you're pretty much telling them you're holding out for another job. It's at that point you would need to make a decision and either hold out for company B, in which case you can ask for more time from company A (just don't expect a favourable response) and then if it goes south put your hopes in company B. Or you can accept the job with company A and not let the hope of company B lead you on. You have a firm offer and that's better than a possible offer from a company you'd prefer to work for. 

I have just moved to USA from Pakistan. I have BsCS(hons.) degree from Pakistan. I also have verified/stamped my degree from HEC and MOFA I want to get equivalency of my degree here. What is the process? Do I need to validate my stamp from Pakistan Consulate? If yes, how they do? and what documents I need for that? I don't see any useful information on their site And after doing that, I have to visit any university to get me equivalence? EDIT: I actually have 2 years of professional experience in Software development. I think that is enough to showcase my skills, I can provide employers links to my projects I have done, I also work at UpWork (freelancing platform) and have done over 50 projects with 5/5 feedback. 

this is your false assumption. I am a software developer in Pakistan for the past 2 years. I am still a developer though. But I have seen my project managers that they have been in development role for 3-6 years and then they become Project Managers. I had my CEO in my first company, I once asked him and he told that he was a developer for 4 years, then he became PM and then he started his own setup, he is the CEO now. So you can be a developer to have extensive experience in pro industry and go into management level, and then you can build your own setup to start a company 

As with most things in the professional world, honestly and politely. It seems you feel bad for the other firm for all the work they've put in trying to get you. My advise to you is stay detached in these situations; don't feel guilty about having to turn down the job no matter what they've done for you. You have to do what is right for you, just as the company will do what is right for it. You don't have to tell them you have another offer that is better if you don't want to. You can simply tell them that you no longer wish to pursue their offer. You can of course tell them you need more time to consider and put them off a little to make sure you definitely get the local job, and if that falls through go with the foreign one. But once you have the local job secured, just be straight up with the foreign company. Thank them for the offer but tell them after all considerations you've decided not to take their offer. They'll probably ask why and it's at that point you can either say "I'd prefer not to answer that." or "I've taken a different job more local to me.". Whichever you choose, remember not answering them is more preferable to lying to them. Just stay honest with them and you should be fine. 

I am someone who likes to believe that it is important for all members in a team to give and receive credit where credit is due, but recently these ideas have been put to challenge in my office. You see, a few months ago, my coworker and I were left responsible for the department we work in while it underwent a few management changes. The idea was that we would work together to keep the work going. However, working with my colleague has been a struggle because no matter how much I contribute, he gets all the credit. It is very frustrating not only because of the fact that I typically contribute more to the work that he receives credit for, but also because he never corrects people when they give him credit. In addition, he is not only taking credit for the work being done, he is also taking credit for my own thoughts and opinions; there have been several times where my coworker has come to me asking for help and because I want to be a good colleague, I help him. But then I hear him walk around claiming what I told him as his own thoughts and he never once acknowledges that I helped him our nor does he even thank me for helping him. Right now, I am currently working on a big assignment on my own and my colleague has recently expressed his interest in being part of this assignment. Moreover, he has been walking around saying that we are working on this assignment when he has not really contributed to any of the work. At this point I am reluctant to fully let him take part in this work because I do not want him to take credit. How do I talk to my colleague about this? I don’t want to start conflict in the work place, but I know that if I do not talk to him about this now, this will get worse and worse. 

Welcome to workplace. Wow, what a hard choice to make. All I can offer you is advice based on my experience. I switched career paths a couple of years ago from I.T. support to Programming. I trained in support and went down that path throughout my schooling, always thinking it was what I wanted until I got in the job and realised it was nothing like I thought it would be. But I taught myself how to program and used to do it as a hobby. I really enjoyed it. I have absolutely no qualifications in programming. What I do have is a job I really enjoy, 2 years commercial experience and more years when it was just a hobby. For me, the lesson I learnt from all of that was having an education is good; having real world working experience is so much more valuable. I see so many job adverts saying you must have x, y and z qualifications that I could happily apply for without them because I know my experience would back me up. I know I have the examples I can show them of what I have done and what I currently do that will blow anyone with just those qualifications away. So whilst this answer is entirely based around my own experience, when I see your choice I know exactly what I would do in your situation; in fact it's an easy choice for me. I'd take the job. Several years experience at a Silicon Valley company will do more for your career than any degree. And the fact that you walked into that job without a degree will speak volumes to potential future employers.