[1]   I first found out about the utility monster a few months ago, and pondered on it for a while, before filing it away. Today, I formalised a system for reasoning about utility that would not only defeat the utility monster, but make utilitarianism more egalitarian. I shall state my system, and then explain each of the points in more detail below.   Dragon’s System: > 1. All individuals have the same utility system. 2. $U: -1 <= U <= 1$. 3. The sum of the utility of an event and its negation is $0$. 4. Specifically, the sum total of all positive utilities an individual can derive (for unique events without double counting) is $1$. 5. Specifically, the sum total of all negative utilities an individual can derive (for unique events without double counting) is $-1$. 6. At any given time, the sum total of an individual's potential utility space is $0$. 7. To increase the utility of an event, you have to decrease the utility of its negation. 8. To decrease the utility of an event you have to increase the utility of its negation. 9. An event and its negation cannot have the same utility unless both are $0$. 10. If two events are independent then the utility of both events occurring is the sum of their individual utilities. Explanation: 

Maybe what we need in this case is what I call internal opposites. That the opposite of the thing is contained within the thing itself. Such as temperature hot and cold. Electricity negative and positive. Magnetism. Centrifugal force. In this case, if you eliminated one opponent you could not have the other. 

Nothing can't happen but always will. Because even if nothing happened well that's everything that's happened. And if everything was nothing it's still everything. 

In order to believe to be without doubt. Is impossible nearly. If I tell you-you're going to get $1000000 in an hour you won't believe me. But then if I show you a picture of the million dollars you still don't believe me but I have eliminated some of your doubt. Only when I hand you the million dollars and you experience it, in reality, can you ever believe without doubt. Now to remove belief and only leave doubt would seem rather simple. You must make him believe he is in doubt. 

It's a fair question. However, you are stating the answer to the question. You're saying the same thing in different ways. You couldn't have Consciousness without senses nor vice versa. It's like trying to separate water from water. 

All individuals have the same utility system. $U: -1 <= U <= 1$. The sum of the utility of an event and its negation is $0$. At any given time, the sum total of an individual's potential utility space is $0$. If two events are independent then the utility of both events occurring is the sum of their individual utilities. 

Is the Halting Oracle inconsistent? Basically, the axiom of consistency says that paradoxes can never emerge in any universe. The laws governing all universes are such that no paradox can occur. Axiom of Inclusivity (Axiom 2 of the Multiverse Axioms): 

  Glossary Individual: This refers to any sapient entity; generally, this is restricted to humans, but if another conscious life-form (being aware of their own awareness, and capable of conceiving “dubito, ergo cogito, ergo sum—res cogitans”) decided to adopt this system, then it applies to them as well. Event: Any well-defined outcome from which an individual can derive utility—positive or negative. Negation: The negation of an event refers to the event not occurring. If event $A$ is the event that I die, then $\neg A$ is the event that I don’t die (i.e. live). If $B$ is the event that I win the lottery, then $\neg B$ is the event that I don’t win the lottery. Utility Space: The set containing all events from which an individual can possibly derive utility from. This set is finite. Utility Preferences: The mapping of each event in an individual’s utility space to the fractional utility they derive from the event, and the implicit ordering of events according to it.   Assumptions: Each individual’s utility preferences are unique. No two individuals have the same utility space with the same values for all events therein.   We deal only with the utility space of an individual at a given point in time. For example, an immortal who values their continued existence does not value their existence for eternity with ~1.0 utility, but their existence for the next time period, and as such the immortal and mortal may derive same utility from their continued existence. Once an individual receives units of a resource, their utility space is re-evaluated in light of that. After each event, the utility space is re-evaluated.   The capacity to derive utility (CDU) of any individual is finite. No one is allowed to have infinite CDU. (It may be possible that an individual’s capacity to derive utility is vastly greater than several other individuals (utility monster) but the utility is normalised to deal specifically with such existences). No one has the right to have a greater capacity to derive utility than other individuals. We normalise the utility of every individuals, such that the maximum utility any individual can derive is 1. This makes the system egalitarian as every individual is given equal maximum (and minimum) utility regardless of their CDU.   The Utility space of an individual is finite. There are only so many events that you can possibly derive utility from. The death of an individual you do not know about is not an event you can derive utility from (assuming you don’t also find out about their death). Individuals can only be affected (positively or negatively) by a finite number of events.   Some Inferences: A change in an individual’s CDU does not produce a change in normalised utility, unless there’s also a change in their utility preferences. A change in an individual’s utility preferences is necessary and sufficient to produce a change in their normalised utility.   Conclusion Any Utility system that conforms to these 5 axioms destroys the utility monster. I think the main problems of traditional utility systems, was unbounded utility, and as such they were indeed not egalitarian. My system destroys the concept of unbounded utility by considering the utility of an event to an individual as the fraction of their total utility from their utility space. This means no individual can have their total (positive or negative) utility space sum to more than any other. The sum total of the utility space for all individuals is equal. I believe this makes a utility system in which every individual is equally represented and is truly egalitarian. This is a concept still in its infancy, so do critique, comment and make suggestions. I will listen to all feedback and use it to develop the system. This only intends to provide a different paradigm for reasoning about utility, especially in the context of egalitarianism. I did not attempt to formalise a mathematical system for calculating utility, and did not accept to do so due to lacking the mathematical acumen to do. I would especially welcome suggestions for calculating utility of dependent events, and other scenarios. This is not a system of utilitarianism and does not pretend to be such; this is only a paradigm for reasoning about utility. This system can however be applied to existing utilitarian systems.   References [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

Well, I can't believe nobody did anything with what I gave you. You make me sad. So I take answer away. you should have tried the solution to the universe was right there in front of your eyes. But it always has been and you never saw it then either. You will see I'm not kidding what I handed you was the absolute mathematical proof that it is all one thing we all come from central black hole all the galaxies are stacked like pancakes on top of one another. I wasn't trying to be a smart ass I really thought you would enjoy solving the universe. But you all have been filled with so much bad science that you did not believe you could do it even when the answer was laid in front of you. I was even going to let the person who did it publish it under their own name. You could have done it any one of you it is so simple. When you see it you will kick yourself. If you get anything from this understand that you can understand the universe. It simple and beautiful a child could have seen what I gave you. But you cant see it. Ask your self why you could not see what I will publish tomorrow when it was right in front of you. Then ask what else you cant see. I need you to be able to see and learn the real universe this is the first step. Im not giving up must be away to clear all this crap out of your head so you can think again. 

From Axiom 2, every entity whose existence is not paradoxical exists, and every event whose existence is not paradoxical occurs.   Is the Halting Oracle paradoxical? Does its existence violate the principles of formal logic? I get that the halting problem cannot be solved in any Turing Machine, but is the existence any other computational paradigm (Halting Oracle) inconsistent?   In case you're wondering, the multiverse axioms (3 in total) are a set of axioms I came up with to answer the question: 

NOTE: This post contains LaTeX; it is recommended that you install “TeX the World” (for chromium users), “TeX All the Things” or other TeX/LaTeX extensions to view the post properly.   Destroying the Utility Monster—An Alternative Formation of Utility I am a rational egoist, but that is only because there is no existing political system/social construct I identify with. If there was one I identified with, I would be strongly utilitarian. In all moral thought experiments, I err on the side of utilitarianism, and I’m faithful in my devotion to its tenets. There are some criticisms against utilitarianism, and one of the most common—and most powerful—is the utility monster which allegedly proves “utilitarianism is not egalitarian’’. [1]   For those who may not understand the terms, I shall define them below: 

War is a political concept. War is something that a country does when its constitution says "this is the set of conditions under which a war happens." There might be things that don't fit that technical definition, but are practically similar to wars. You might call those wars, or "armed conflicts," or whatever... But the basic idea of war is just that it's a construct of how countries interact with one another. You might say that, for some countries, one individual leader has the authority to declare war, but that would only be as a function of the country's processes. You can ask whether it's my brain or heart that thinks (obviously, my brain), but if you're asking whether I'm thinking, yes, I am. So if a subset of the country is given authority to declare war on the country's behalf, the country has declared war. To be clear, in the United States, no one person can ever declare war. Only congress can declare war, and that involves many people. You might also ask whether I, as an ordinary citizen and civilian, am a party to that war, or am morally responsible for the war. But the country definitely declared the war, and went to war. 

That is a really good question best one I've heard in a long time. You had me for a minute, but the clear answer is reality is reality based. It's subjective to The Observer. So you define what is real. A cup may exist. But unless you decide it's a cup it is just something sitting on the counter but it still exists. So it's not really a cup until you decide it's a cup. 

I like your question it was written very eloquently. It shows that you have an actual desire to truly find this answer. I am pleased to have the opportunity to provide one. After 20 years of research just today I confirmed what you asked. Is it possible to know reality through philosophy? Yes, It is possible to know through philosophy that is the only way to know how reality was created. But to confirm and to believe, is another matter entirely. To confirm and to believe does take empirical data and does take another science. But none of those would exist without the first thought about why we exist. It is called a perfect thought. Which is very difficult to have as an imperfect. Einstein called it the God thought. It means you literally are able to think a thought that could create a universe. If you were a god. You don't have to be a God to think the thought. That thought is the correct start of reality. The realization of everything and nothing. I know it sounds silly, it's not. When you can understand that. Then you can understand the universe it's that simple.