Trying to think of what's on my bookshelf... this is an incomplete list, but it should get you started. The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission Report is the authoritative overview of the housing crisis and its role in the financial crisis. It's unique in that the staff of the FCIC was able to interview essentially all the major players and had access to documents that were (and many of which still are) unavailable to the public. It's also free. The American Mortgage System: Crisis and Reform by Susan Wachter (editor) is a collection of essays that provide a good overview of many of the main issues. For a lighter read, All the Devils Are Here: The Hidden History of the Financial Crisis by Bethany McLean and Joe Nocera is good, but flawed. On Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, I'd recommend Guaranteed to Fail: Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Debacle of Mortgage Finance by Acharya, et. al. House of Debt (Mian and Sufi) isn't bad on some of the causality, but I find that it goes a bit off the rails when it comes to policy prescriptions. 

There have been several changes to the way the CPI is calculated over the years. A significant change occurred with respect to weights and hedonic adjustments in 1998 (I believe the pre-1998 series is what ShadowStats, without having any of the underlying data, attempts to replicate), and one in 1983 that, among other things, changed the way that housing services were calculated from an "asset price" approach to a "rental equivalence" approach. The 1983 change was made to more accurately reflect changes in consumer prices, rather than reflecting changes in asset prices, which is not the point of the CPI. The 1998 change was made in part to more accurately reflect changes in the quality of goods produced, because it had been apparent for some time, particularly in the tech sector, that a computer sold one year for $500 was much more "computer" than the one sold a year or so earlier for the same price, and was therefore actually cheaper in real terms once you accounted for the change in the quality of the goods. None of the old measures are still tracked, for two reasons: 

First, think about the elasticity of supply as being the additional amount that suppliers are willing to produce for a given change in price. Elasticity is high when suppliers are willing to produce a lot more for a small change in price, and it's low when suppliers produce only a little more even when prices increase by a lot. We can, of course, invert this, and say that elasticity is high when the price has to increase only a little to convince suppliers to make an additional unit, and low when the price has to increase a lot to convince suppliers to make an additional unit. The question is about a good that is produced using inputs for which there are no substitutes. So in this question, there are firms that are suppliers of a good, and those firms are also demanders of a substitute-less input that is used to make that good. So for each additional unit of the good that is produced, the supplier must buy some additional amount of inputs. Now let's think about those inputs. Consider two cases, one in which a good has substitutes, and one in which it does not. Comparing those two cases: when demand increases, does the price of the input rise more or less when there are substitutes for that good, as compared to when there are no substitutes? Now, take your answer from that and ask yourself— what impact would this have on a supplier's willingness to produce an additional unit of a good, given that this means increasing one's demand for the input? What does this say about the elasticity of supply? 

Question B in the link answers your question: most participants believe that taxable income would not rise enough to offset the tax cut, indicating that they do not believe we are on the wrong side of the Laffer Curve. 

Implicit government guarantees did not drive the housing bubble. No investors lost principal on GSE or Ginnie Mae debt or mortgage-backed securities. Put differently, nothing that was viewed as having a government guarantee lost a dime. 

It sounds like you want the Trade-Weighted Dollar Index, which is available from 1973 on for major currencies. It's the value of the dollar against a basket of other currencies, weighted by their share of US trade. 

I don't think anyone knows how to "make" an economy grow, but there's a simple channel through which economic growth can occur under fixed non-renewable inputs: innovation. Economic growth does not require increasing use of inputs; if there's profit to be gained through more efficient use of fixed quantities of inputs, or by increasing output of renewable resources, people will have an incentive to figure out how to do so. Regarding whether fixing a minimum price of a nonrenewable resource is a good idea: possibly, but likely no. Typically, the most efficient ways to reduce the use of a particular input are to either charge the marginal social cost of the use of that input as a tax (allowing quantities to vary freely, which you disallow in your scenario), which incidentally has the effect of setting a minimum price but which requires that you know the marginal social cost of the use of that resource, or to do cap-and-trade, where you fix the quantity available and let market prices determine the most efficient allocation. Setting a minimum price in a cap-and-trade scenario can result in inefficient underuse of the resource. If you're interested in the theory of the price of nonrenewable resources, you might want to start with Hotelling's Rule. 

From a practical standpoint, bidding wars are effectively informal auctions. What is usually done is that the buyers inform their agents of their maximum price, and the buyers' agents tell the seller's agent "This is my client's bid, but please let us know if we're outbid." Sometimes this is formalized through what is known as an escalation clause, which is essentially an offer to bid some increment more than any other highest bid, up to some reservation price. Some sellers accept escalation clauses, some don't, and this decision appears to be influenced partially through strategy and partially through custom in the area. Not accepting an escalation clause can force buyers into what is effectively a first-price sealed-bid auction, while accepting them turns it into more of a traditional (English) auction. As an additional note, the point that @desnep makes is true— while proof of other bids is required, it's not always possible to determine that those bids in fact represent genuine offers to buy. My understanding is that for this reason, when bids are expected to be few, buyers are encouraged to submit fixed bids and be prepared to walk away if they lose out, as there's a stronger incentive for sellers to fabricate bids (i.e., market manipulation is more effective in less-liquid markets). 

The high-cost area conforming loan limits within the contiguous United States were created by HERA (the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008) and therefore do not exist prior to 2008. For periods prior to the enactment of HERA, just use the historical nationwide conforming limits. There was also a temporary bump to the conforming limits enacted a few months before the passage of HERA, in the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008. The high-cost areas that you identify (Alaska, Hawaii, Virgin Islands since 1992, and Guam since 2001) had, by statute, high-cost area loan limits that were capped at, and as a result effectively always, 1.5 times the conforming loan limits for the contiguous US states. Somewhat amusingly, the legal text responsible for the cap at 1.5x is actually still in the law; the authority granted to the Director of the FHFA to modify conforming loan limits was just tacked on to the end. You can find this text at 12 USC § 1717(b)(2)(C). 

No, for three reasons. First, FDIC bailouts are funded via the guarantee fund, which is a pre-funded insurance fund that has never required an injection of cash. Second, if such an injection were to occur, it would happen through an appropriation from Congress, which would be implemented via a debt issuance from the Treasury— the Fed has zero authority to bail out the FDIC guarantee fund. Third, bank failures actually tend to involve a net contraction of the money supply, as distressed banks are less able to engage in new credit extension. 

Due to the payment of interest on excess reserves (IOER) and the creation of the Reverse Repurchase Program (RRP), the existence of excess reserves does not prevent the Fed from raising real interest rates. As noted above, IOER effectively provides a reason for banks to continue to borrow funds from money markets by subsidizing them at a fixed rate, while RRP provides a floor under risk-free rates (by providing a place to park excess collateral at a positive rate, independently of the supply of collateral at dealers banks) that is under the control of the Fed. Real interest rates are low because the FOMC has decided not to raise them yet for policy reasons. 

The old measures were targeted for these changes because they were not believed to accurately reflect economic realities. Economic statistics agencies like the BLS have limited budgets, and calculating multiple versions of a series is more costly than calculating one version. 

If, as you say, 15% of student loan borrowers were to default and the government were to forgive their loans, that would simply be a transfer of wealth from the government to those borrowers (on the order of about 15% of \$1.3 trillion, or about \$200 billion). What happened from there would depend first on whether the government funded that transfer by cutting other spending or by issuing debt. Inflation is a basically unrelated issue— the monetary authority (the Federal Reserve) is independent of the fiscal authority (Congress and the Treasury), and as they say, the monetary authority acts last. Student loan payments are generally not due until some time after a student leaves school, so as a practical matter, forgiveness on defaulted loans would not generally affect whether students remained in school versus being in the workforce, unless you assumed that students started borrowing more with the intent of defaulting (a "moral hazard" scenario). I'll ignore this possibility just to keep things simple and to keep the focus on the fiscal and monetary impact. In all scenarios, borrowers who received loan forgiveness would be better off, as their wealth would increase by the amount of the forgiven debt. They would, as noted, likely already be working or seeking work. Because they had already stopped paying their debt, we would not assume that they would experience improved cash flows. Work on structuring modifications to defaulted mortgages suggests that households are more sensitive to changes in cash flows than changes in net wealth, so we would only expect these individuals to increase their consumption modestly, but we would in fact expect this side of the ledger to result in increased consumption and economic growth. However, if the government financed this debt forgiveness by reducing its consumption, it would probably be a net negative to GDP in the short run, as it would remove \$200 billion in government spending, which would not be made up by the slight increase in consumption by borrowers. Government consumption expenditures are currently equal to about \$3.2 trillion annually, which equaled about 18% of GDP in the most recent quarter, so... the direct impact would be a reduction of about 1% of GDP. You can make assumptions about consumption multipliers for government consumption and come up with different results, but this is the direct impact in that scenario. If the government financed the debt forgiveness by issuing its own debt, it would increase the stock of outstanding US government debt by \$200 billion, or about %1. This would have little impact on debt markets, so there would be no concern about "crowding out" private borrowing, and because it was debt-financed, there would be no reduction of government consumption. As a result, the only real effect on GDP would be the small net positive contribution from increased private consumption. With respect to inflation, even if the monetary authority bought all the additional debt issuance, it'd only increase the amount of money in the financial system by a negligible amount. For comparison, the Federal Reserve's aggregate increase in holdings of Treasury securities in response to the financial crisis and through its quantitative easing program was close to about \$2 trillion, or ten times the size of this hypothetical debt issuance. Inflation during that period has generally remained below the Fed's 2% target. So currently, the effect on inflation would likely be negligible. 

Restoring Financial Stability, a series of essays focusing on policies to address the issues that led to the most recent crisis, edited by Viral Acharya and Matthew Richardson, is good and accessible. 

No, the deficit is not getting larger due to QE. Certainly not directly, because that's impossible, and also not indirectly, either. Quantitative easing is a policy of purchasing government bonds with the intent of decreasing yields while injecting cash into the economy. It affects only the demand for government bonds, not the supply of bonds created by government borrowing. This shouldn't be a surprise, as the monetary authority (the central bank) and the fiscal authority (Congress) are independent of one another. Congress cannot (without rewriting the Federal Reserve Act) directly control monetary policy, nor can the Fed force the government to borrow more. Indirectly, Congress could choose to borrow more as a result of QE, due to lower yields on government debt, as the lower debt payments make it cheaper to do so. However, there's not much evidence that this is the case. The deficit has fallen since 2009 (when it significantly increased due to passage of a large-scale stimulus program consisting primarily of tax cuts but also including direct federal spending, in response to the financial crisis and recession), both in nominal terms and as a percent of GDP. As a percentage of GDP (which is the appropriate long-term comparison, as taxable income is the best indication of a nation's ability to repay a debt), the deficit returned to a normal historical range by 2014. So it's difficult to conclude even that QE encouraged spending, thereby increasing the deficit indirectly. Given two facts— that the Federal Reserve's QE programs started in earnest in 2009 and continued until late 2014, and that the federal deficit steadily fell during this time— it would be very strange indeed to conclude that QE had increased the deficit. 

Thus potential owner-occupiers and landlords compete for units for sale, while renters and potential owner-occupiers compete for rental units. In this case, the choice of landlords to exit due to taxes will not pass through perfectly to the rental market due to the fact that while potential owner-occupiers who are currently renting can escape the tax by switching to ownership, there are some renters who are renting whose demand for renting is pretty inelastic— these people will bear the incidence of the tax. Interestingly, in the US there is such a tax on rental income, though it's implicit. We have a bunch of incentives for home ownership, notably the exemption from capital gains for owner-occupied homes, but most importantly the fact that income on rental properties is taxed like any other business income, while owner-occupiers effectively rent their homes to themselves without paying tax on the implied rental income. (As an aside, people often point to the income tax deduction for mortgage interest payments, but this actually just creates tax equivalence between homeowners and landlords, who can deduct interest as a business expense.) 

Microplane graters grew out of a company that was manufacturing dot-matrix printer parts, using a process that created extremely sharp metal bands— which was, at the time, more of a liability than a strength. As dot-matrix printers fell into obsolescence, the company decided to find a use for its unnaturally sharp strips of metal, and "pivoted" toward making woodworking tools, specifically rasps. Chefs then discovered that these rasps made excellent graters, and in response to growing demand from the culinary world, the company eventually began focusing on producing culinary tools. 

No, regular people can't borrow against unrealized capital gains, because by definition, regular people don't own large amounts of capital. Federal income taxes don't apply to a swap of similar assets (i.e., real estate for real estate). You're probably thinking about "barter clubs," which do trigger tax consequences, but those aren't like-kind exchanges, they're barter exchanges (they're not similar assets). These aren't "fake" charities that are being described, they're real charities (if I recall correctly, they're required to spend 1% of their endowment annually on charitable purposes, which is more than offset by gains on capital income in most years). This is in fact a real and common tax-avoidance strategy that is entirely legal. No, a regular person could not legally do this— there has to be a business justification for something to count as a business expense, and while a taxi home from work when working late counts as a business expense, personal autos don't meet the test. If a tax strategy hasn't been determined to be illegal before it's tried, only civil penalties (i.e., no jail time) apply if it's ruled to be invalid. The tax benefits they describe in #8 accrue to corporations, which are disproportionately owned by wealthy individuals. (See page 156 of this FRB chart deck on the results of the most recent Survey of Consumer Finances for a quick overview of who owns financial assets in the US.) You're right that IRA plans benefit all very-high-income individuals equally, but they do provide greater benefits to high-income individuals than middle-income individuals (who are less likely to be able to contribute the maximum).