Bergsons la duree is by definition intuitive, by intellectual grasping we spatialise it, and viewing it as sequence. If it is in la duree that we are free, then it is outside of la duree, that is when we grasp intellectually that we are not. 

The parallels with the actual extract from Kant should be clear. It's worth noting here the parallel denial of neccessity by Gauss in a letter written to Olbers in 1816, and referenced by Bardi: 

Kant argued that existence isn't a predicate; and presumably a similar argument would show that it is neither a property. But if ontologically we believe all that there is are bundles of properties; it seems we must accept that then existence must be a property - otherwise it is the sole exception. What general problematics assert themselves in ontological theories that ground themselves in such bundle theories (that is where existence is taken to be a property)? One possibility suggests itself, which is a possibility that can't be found in substance based ontologies; this is are there entities that lack the property of existence, but have other properties? This is paradoxical, when one translates the word 'there' as a word of existential import; but it is notably I suppose the position of Meinongonism. 

There's no mention of Mind, though; perhaps you've confused Newton with Hume, or perhaps Saussure; or both. 

Consider Anaximanders apeiron, the indeterminate in the context of Platos theory of Forms; a form, an idea makes the indeterminate determinate in some particular way (In Anaximanders system - rotation ie generalised motion; in his system there is no linear motion - any motion being extended to infinity closes up or turns back) In Kants system, identifying the noumena as apeiron; we have the Forms, time and space; they are pure intuitions being inseperable from us. Is this then hylomorphic in Aristotles sense, as it appears inseperable from the apeiron (or noumena)? Does this explain noumena as the ding-an-sich - the thing-in-itself, as it is the thing without the form and therefore indeterminate? Does this solve the location of Forms? In Plato, a form exists in some intelligible realm; here we have a second hylomorphism where the pure intuitions of Time and Space are intrinsic to mind. But then how does Kant solve the problem of universals for Time and Space? Finally, is this consonance with Platos theory of Forms, and Anaximaders apeiron a figment of my imagination; or is there some corroborating literature that validates this view, implicitly or explicitly? note apeiron is etymologically limitless (from peirar - limit) or indefinite here and in Patricia Curds book on the Pre-Socratics. It's also attested as arche (first principle) in Simplicius's commentary to Aristotles Physics. 

He was referring to the period from the presocratics Parmenides to Aristotle; a great deal of this was metaphysics - but not all; and it's worth pondering on the physics part of metaphysics... 

In physics, infinity is usually a sign that our modelling of the physical situation has broken down; generally, the only kind of infinity that is allowed is the potentially infinite; this means that at any time a certain quantity is finite, but it may grow in size later. There is a proviso: Infinite space, however seems a possibility on the face of it, as does infinite time: the antimony that you've pointed out is a classic one as also pointed out by Kant. But if we instead pursue the notion that potential infinity in physics is the only possibility as axiomatic we can see that elapsed time must be finite; we can also say that physically, an infinite elapsed time is not credible, for how would we have reached the present moment? The error lies in viewing the past as like future, in being potentially infinite; however, the past is the past because that moment was lived through, and for that reason is finite. The future does not have that character, it is yet to be lived though, and so can remain potentially infinite. Now, this means that the universe began somehow, and in some place with some extent; it being the universe, it must all of the place and to the extent of that place. Further, we can ask the question, did it begin all at once in a particular finitely bounded place, or over an infinitely bounded region? The former seems the more likely, for if it were to begin over a whole infinite region this seems unreasonable as we know that cause and effect in the universe is local in character - there are no effects at a distance - creation must have been coordinated somehow; so we take it as reasonable that the universe began, and when it began it was finite in extent. When we further suppose change, be it growth or diminution, is continuous, then the universe can only change continuously in the finitely elapsed time since it's 'creation'; and finite change from a finite beginning means finiteness at present, and hence a finite universe at present. Thus, from a reasonable set of physical assumptions we have shown that the universe ought to be finite in scale, temporally & extensively - and this is also consonant with currently well established scientific consensus (excluded speculative notions of multiverses and their like). 

A good way to look at this is through the concepts that Frege introduced - sense (sinn) and reference (bedeutung). The question becomes whether the proposition 

It's appears to be related to the notion of self-knowledge; this is difficult if not impossible to capture scientifically; but this isn't what the quote (if it is one ) is suggesting; it appears to suggest either the scientific and objective spirit attracts those who lack self-knowledge, or it positively hides that knowledge; or even removes it. In the preface of the Tractatus wrote that Wittgenstein had solved the problems that he had set out to solve but that 'the questions of life' remain; it gives the impression that the philosophy or rather logicism he expounded in it didn't touch these problems. The notion of self-knowledge is important in philosophy. For example, jihad, in Islamic Philosophy means struggle towards self-understanding; which emphasises that it isn't a simple matter of introspection; in the sense that what can be nearer the self than the self. In European Philosophy; after Sartre - there is the notion of Becoming; and Unger talks about different kinds of Over-coming. 

Husserl affirmed intentionality as characteristic of consciousness. If matter can be conscious, as in Lucretious atoms of anima, and in Tegmarks baroque but physicalist constructions; must matter, to some extent, displat intentionality? What does this mean for Darwins theory of evolution, in its usual form, seen as entirely unintentional? 

Mathematics is fetished as the epitome of clarity, yet there are many mathematicians who are bad writers. Others are good writers but their system of thought is so self-inter-related and complex that it can be hard to establish the truth and validity of it. For example, the verification of the proof of the abc conjecture by Mochizuki has been going on for three years and counting now. Nevertheless people are prepared to work on his system as the conjecture is important. Similarly, philosophers are engaged in complex dialectics and dialogue with other philosophers. To understand them one has to be prepared to work at them. For philosophers who have written some time ago, like your example Hegel, historical circumstance has to be taken into account. Hegel by the way can write clearly, try his Philosophy of Right which I found particularly clear. Whether or not you agree with it is another matter. 

Is a statement about the intelligibility of the World; only the empirical World is under investigation: it is the case that a stone is but a stone; and it is the case that when one lets it go, it falls; though towards the end of the Tractatus he indicates that there is more: the empirical world is the first rung of the ladder; being the element all agree on. 

This already implies science is the only possible item of interest in this world, that it is the sole arbiter of value. If philosophers have contributed nothing towards science, then they can't be doing anything of interest; lets put this another way to show just how bizarre this statement is - this century you musicians have contributed nothing to the understanding of science. Certainly nothing that is of slightest relevance to practising scientists such as myself. Philosophers are interested in philosophy, and not doing science - there are scientists to do science. The same goes for artists, musicians, poets etc. 

Nietzsche here isn't sceptical about cause and effect, but is simply pointing out the naïveté of the mechanistic philosophy which supposes that this is all there is. Today, we would say he is against reductionism; when we reduce all phenomena to purely mechanical phenomena. Instead, sometimes - yes and sometimes - no: When I pick a stone and throw it low across the surface of a lake and so skimming it; it is right to model it using mechanical notions - as a particle of matter - so here, yes; but when I speak to a man and then send him on his way, it is generally wrong to think him modelled purely as a particle of matter ignoring all that is animate in him - so here, no; now, this might seem obvious in this description - but it isn't so easily obvious when one looks at the contemporary situation when physicalism reinterprets, refashions and blows new wind and motion into the old mechanistic philosophy. In this polemical quote, he is against reducing free-will by the 'enlightened' thought which reduces phenomena to a mere mechanics of thought; or in the field of human endeavour or history to see a mere mechanics of historical or social forces - a useful comparison here is the scientific materialism of Marx or the postivist sociology of Comte. In this way, he is against a reductive enlightment that turns thinking into mere formulae and cant. His polemics is against importing the deterministic notions of cause and effect from Newtonian (or earlier, Epicurean) Physics which apply to inanimate matter in the small (atoms) and in the large (cosmological - stars and galaxies) to matter animated by mind - ie us. In his final paragraph, when he mentions the 'in-itself'; I assume this is the thing-in-itself, the ding-an-sich; and here is merely repeating what Kant supposed of it, or demonstrated: that nothing specific can be said of it, and in particular we cannot talk about it causality there. 

These properties define the Peano axioms; which is the formalised concept of the positive integers; arguably it is this context that we mostly think of when we think of the number one. None of these properties are contained in the concept of the bare one. Hence, they are definitely not identical. The standard symbol for 'there exists' is a reversed E; it may it may not exist uniquely - if it in fact does exists uniquely, then sometimes an exclamation mark follows the reversed E. 

Since Robinson didn't know the physical sciences - its worth pointing out that the Newtonian conception of space as homogenous, absolute and everywhere the same, sounds quite close to the adoption of a Parmenidian monism in this physical context; and the historical development of atoms (adopted by Newton for his corpuscular theory of light) by Democritus was forced by the challenge that Parmendian monism had on the conventional understanding of change in the world. Its worth also pointing out that religions, music and the arts are not falsifiable and encode metaphysics; they are meaningful, though not universally so. The correct scientific disposition towards them, is rather than dismissing them out of hand as not encoding verifiable principles; it is to understand their importance - that is anthropology in its widest sense - phenomenological rather than structural. 

This is actually in rough the argument that Hegel uses to start his Phenomology of Spirit. He uses a dialectic. The thesis is that there no-Being, that is nothing. The anti-thesis is that there is Being. The synthesis of the two is Becoming. 

Although you ruled out thinking of life instead of existence; I think that this is misleading. Heidegger thought of existence as Being, that is being-in-the-world, which means living in the world. Our Being is different from the being of a rock. So - No, I don't have to think that my existence is perfect. And neither does someone during hard labour in Stalins gulag, or some-one whos just survived a tsunami; or some-one doing a tedious job in a factory. 

In this mythological picture, Ra sails through the sky from the West to the East on the morning boat and then through the underworld, that is under-the-world on the evening boat from the East to reappear in the West. Although it is not described as a circle it is at least a continuous circuit so is topologically a circle. Ra himself is preserved through the circuit. He goes above & under the world. The parallel with the first statement that the IEP makes and finds so daring I find quite startling. Given the possibility of one parallel, are there not likely to be more? Are there standard works that explore connections between Babylonian & Egyptian cultures and the Presocratic tradition? Notably there aren't myths of either Helios or Apollo that can have the same parallel that Ra does here. (Helios crosses the sky in a Chariot but sails back on the oceanus back to the East). 

Colonialism; plus the dominance of the Western paradigm - in the same way, for example, that Greek culture was transmitted in the Hellenic World after Alexanders campaign - consider the Greco-Buddhist art in Gandara; or Buddhist Dharma after Ashoka. 

Again Kant provided an answer to this in his first critique by making the subject central - his famous copernican revolution. 

In the main line of the Western tradition of logic (which follows the Aristotle) contradictions are emphasised by being the limit of what can be said. They are not the centre of a logic or given attention for themselves. Having said that Chrysippus, the Stoic logician wrote 23 books (chapters) on the liars paradox, and in fact it was this paradox that inspired Godel and his theorems and hence played a large part in reinvigorating the moribund field of logic. The Catuskoti in the Eastern tradition shows that contradictions were more central to their thought. 

This might be debatable; Aristotle for example said that change was an aspect of time; and then suggested that change was motion. Following on from this, Mach suggested that time was exactly motion; and specifically the motion of all the background stars - the stars in the far distance; essentially everything else except us. Einstein tried to incorporate this into his theory of time (ie Relativity) but failed; however Julian Barbour recently found a way of making this quantitively explicit. 

This is exactly what is proposed by what in physics are called effective theories - they specify a range of experience (energies) at which their description is expected to be effective - that is give good predictions. To quote from the paper Introduction to the Effective Field Theory description of Gravity by Donaghue:, 

Can one say that this is a 'negative' form of justice? the form of justice that saves from injustice; and the 'positive' form is to promote the Good? Here it seems, that Holderlin is complaining that reason is mostly pressed into service for the first, and for the most part. I'm aware that Hegel, on whom Holderlin had an impact, uses the term 'negative' and its derivations in any number of ways; I'm not using nagation in any technical manner, but to simply distinguish the smaller from the larger, the minor from the greater. It seems also, from our post-modern perspective, to me, that Holderlin is warning against a fetishisation of the intellect as the sole court of arbitration; surprising, as this is before the enlightment thoroughly got going, but perhaps not so suprising from a romantic poet; but this, I think, is a mis-reading, being anachronistic - Holderlin is being simply matter-of-fact.