EDIT: Okay, since there are apparently a number of vocal people insisting that Science can prove things, I figured I should expand this answer to provide some quotes and citations: "Perhaps most importantly, because new evidence and perspectives can lead us to revise them, scientific ideas can never be absolutely proved." -- $URL$ - talking about the similarities and differences between Math and Science. "Well, let me tell you a secret about science; scientists don’t prove anything. What we do is collect evidence that supports or does not support our predictions. Sometimes we do things over and over again, in meaningfully different ways, and we get the same results, and then we call these findings facts. And, when we have lots and lots of replications and variations that all say the same thing, then we talk about theories or laws. Like evolution. Or gravity. But at no point have we proved anything." -- $URL$ "One of the most common misconceptions concerns the so-called “scientific proofs.” Contrary to popular belief, there is no such thing as a scientific proof. Proofs exist only in mathematics and logic, not in science. Mathematics and logic are both closed, self-contained systems of propositions, whereas science is empirical and deals with nature as it exists." -- $URL$ "While the phrase "scientific proof" is often used in the popular media,[13] many scientists have argued that there is really no such thing." -- $URL$ - which goes on to quote Karl Popper and Albert Einstein on the topic. "However, the concept of proof has no place in science. Many people who do not actively practice science do not understand that science is structured so that scientists can never prove anything." -- $URL$ - talking about why it's impossible to prove that biotech crops are safe: because science can't prove it (they can only disprove it by finding a way it's unsafe.) "Another word that is commonly misused (sadly, sometimes even by scientists, who should know better) is "proof". ... Scientists should be wary of using the term "proof". Science does not "prove" things. Science can and does provide evidence in favor of, or against, a particular idea. In science, proofs are possible only in the highly abstract world of mathematics." -- $URL$ Hopefully this helps get the point across, and I tried to stick to purely scientific sources (plus wikipedia, since it has citations to Popper and Einstein). Science comes up with a guess as to how something works, devises a test to determine whether the guess is correct, and then performs the test. If the test falsifies the guess, then the guess isn't correct and was disproven. If the test comes back and matches what the theory would predict, then the test does not prove the theory - it simply is evidence that it might be true. 

When something (in this case maths) becomes part of our daily lives in terms of how easy it is to use in our day to day lives and how "obvious" it seems, along with the fact that we are able to describe many phenomena around us using maths (Example: physics), we tend to start believing that "whatever" created this world must be based on the same math that we are used to. IMHO this is just a cognitive bias of humans. The universe is not based on math, instead we developed a tool/language called math which fits our cognitive abilities and its limitations and allow us to understand and explore the world around us. 

For me, the term free is not some absolute on/off value, it is not either you have it or you don't. Freedom is about the number of choices you have at a point in time, you may have few choices so less freedom or more choices hence more freedom comparatively. Now let's say you have 3 choices at a point in time and you have choose one of them to move forward, then what should be procedure to determine what choice to make? There could be many ways to do that, for example: A lazy person may choose the one which would need less effort to carry out, a greedy person may choose the one which has most benefits in terms monitory gains and so on. Once you have made a choice and move forward you are presented again with a set of choices depending on what you choose at earlier point. This new set of choices may be large or small as compared to the previous one. The equation in the question says that the procedure that so called intelligent agent will use to decide the choice will be based on which choice right now will allow me with larger number of choices in future set of choices. Obviously the future should be some sensible threshold otherwise the agent will never be able to make the current choice. So, yes, you can be free and intelligent at the same time. 

If some random guy on the street sees a person wearing an "I Love Jesus" shirt and mocks them, the person thinks, "Geez, that guy was a jerk." If a biochemist sees someone wearing an "I Love Jesus" shirt and mocks them, the person thinks, "Geez, scientists can be jerks." (semi-related $URL$ So, right off the bat, be careful you don't equate "What Person X Does" with "What People In Group Y That Include Person X Do". Now that that's said, I think half the problem is the large constructs we've put around the concept of science, or of scientists. Science is simply: 

I think it was Richard Feynman that said the final arbiter of science is observation - aka, it's nothing magical or mystical. Honestly, I do the same thing when I cook dinner ("Hmmm. This didn't turn out very well - it might have been because I cooked the chicken on too high of a temperature. If that's the case, cooking on Medium-Low would solve the problem. I'll try that next time, and see if it comes out better - if not, the problem must be something else.") And once you think about it that way, that it's simply a methodology for figuring out how the world works, it's pretty clear that Science has nothing to do with Religion. (The idea that it does is relatively modern; like another answer said, many famous scientists of the past viewed their works as a way of examining the beauty of creation.) 

I think part of the problem is: Science doesn't prove anything. Science, at its core, is simply a method of generating testable hypothesis that explain events, which are valued because of their use in predicting future results. Let me give an example. Based on observations, science came up with a theory for an orbital period, correlating orbital speed and distance. But it didn't prove this - it's simply the best mechanism for predicting an orbit that science knew at the time. Science could compile evidence that would lend credence to the theory - the more observations that matched the theory, the more likely the theory was sound. But science could never say, "We know this for a fact." Sure enough, we observed small perturbations in Mercury's orbit around the sun - deviations that the orbital theory couldn't explain. Then we came up with Relativity, which neatly patched those holes. So now we have a predictive theory for an orbit that's better - but we still can't prove that it's absolutely 100% correct. There could by any number of phenomenon that we haven't run into that would tear holes in the theory. Science never proves anything - the best it can do is say, "Well, this theory is our best explanation for prior events and is the best predictor for future events." So, let's say there's a God - and not only that, he's completely 100% interactive. Dude just pops in every saturday at NIST headquarters via shining beam of light - even buys coffee for the front desk clerk each week. Science still can't prove him. Because there could always be some unexplained phenomenon that's contributing or even causing our observations. 

The explanation of something should have one important property - inference i.e given some facts what other facts I can infer about the thing using the explanation. That's the sole reason for the explanation/theory to exist. The thing itself that we are trying to explain is a bunch of facts that we can observe or observed but facts themselves are doesn't have inference ability until used along with some explanation. Now, what if the explanation is complex? What can we say about the inference ability of a complex explanation? The complexity will lead to the increase in the number of inferences the explanation could potentially produce BUT what if the explanation is more complex then the thing (or the collections of facts) themselves? In this case the explanation will infer facts that you can't even observe in the thing itself and that obviously is very weird. 

Something can exist but never be created, until we know what lead to its creation. We humans have this notion that if there exist something than someone or some phenomena must have created that thing. When you see something you will always wonder what created this thing? In that case you can choose any of the below path: 

It has taken so many years for humans to develop math and it is still going on and will keep going on. It may feel very easy now to use math in our daily lives but we have reached that stage of easiness over a very long period of time due to some very deep thoughts of many people over this long period of time. So to answer your question, you should interpret the easiness as a result of enormous amount of effort over a long period of time. This reminds me of a quote - "Standing on the shoulders of giants".