The novel The Trial by Franz Kafka contains many deliberate omissions of information: for example, the main character's surname and the names of several other characters, the nature of his crime, and the location of the unspecified city and country in which the story takes place. Countries mentioned in the text include Italy (the Italian "business contact" in chapter 9) and Germany (Miss Montag is described as German in chapter 4). There doesn't seem to much to go on, with very few explicit mentions of real-world countries. Is it possible to identify the setting of this book? 

What was this "unspeakable conclusion"? It can't be to marry her off to some prince, as he'd already said this was impossible for political reasons - nor can it be to put her on the glass hill, since that was her proposal to forestall him. 

In the real world, toads most definitely don't have hair. So this passage suggests that the author might possibly have imagined Toad as more of a toad-like man than an actual toad on two legs. What further evidence is there in the text (or in quotes from the author, if any exist) for the level of 'anatomical anthropomorphisation' in the animals of The Wind in the Willows? 

Topological algebra is a real thing: it's the study of mathematical objects which have both topological and algebraic properties that mesh nicely with each other, such as topological groups, topological rings, and topological algebras. (Yes, a topological algebra is an object studied in the field of topological algebra. Deal with it.) The algebra of groups is also a real thing - it just means group theory, the study of groups, which is a subfield of algebra. 

The fantasy author James Oliver Rigney Jr. chose the nom de plume Robert Jordan for many of his works of literature, including the magnificent Wheel of Time series. I recently read up on Ernest Hemingway's novel For Whom the Bell Tolls and discovered that its hero, a fictional US soldier fighting in the Spanish Civil War, is named Robert Jordan. Instantly I wondered if there was any connection. The Wikipedia page for the author has a footnote mentioning the character, but gives no citation (in fact, doesn't even state explicitly) that the two are linked. Did the fantasy author choose his pen name after the Hemingway character? 

That's not what I call a detailed description. The monster is hardly described at all in any specific way, except that it has scaly arms. We don't know its shape, its exact size, what sounds it made, really anything about what it looked like. Even the carved creatures described earlier aren't described properly, and the very clear implication is that to do so would cause us to never sleep soundly again. By leaving out all these details, of course, Lovecraft is disturbing our sleep far more than he would have by leaving them in. Our imaginations can create monsters far more grotesque and awful than a writer's pen could possibly achieve. That, in a nutshell, is the key to Lovecraftian writing, and to a lot of really successful and memorable horror. 

TL;DR: his change of mindset is slower than you've made it sound, but the biggest turning-point is when he learns the world is ending sooner than he'd expected, Ruin is already working actively to destroy it, and Vin may have need of him. 

Warning: answer contains MASSIVE unmarked spoilers! Lack of surprise fits with the process he's going through. After Shadow dies on the tree, his entire experience in the succeeding chapters is a surreal journey of enlightenment and oblivion. He forgets real-world things like his name, and learns so much more (which he soon forgets after coming back to life). 

It should be noted, however, that the authenticity of "The Philosophy of Composition" has been called into question, with one biographer describing it as "a rather highly ingenious exercise in the art of rationalization than literary criticism." (Hat-tip to BESW for informing me of this.) So, although other critics do believe "The Philosophy of Composition" is what it pretends to be, we must acknowledge that it's not necessarily reliable as a source, and look additionally to the poem itself. 

Wilfred Owen's poem "The Unreturning" (full text here) seems remarkably free of context - it never says explicitly what it's about, what's happening, which "dead" are being talked about, who or what are "unreturning", or what the point of the poem is. Therefore I'm hoping that this is a poem which will lend itself well to close reading, and that our understanding of it will be greatly increased by doing so. One of the first questions this poem made me ask is: who is the narrator? The poem is written in the first person in at least a couple of places: 

Alternatively, going with the lateral-thinking theme of this riddle, it never says they were all his wives. Perhaps he was walking together with seven wives, his own and those of six other men! 

Putting this together with the preceding sentences, it looks like the fundamental mathematical nature of the "letter" is more like an object of natural symmetry, as found in geometry and biology, than an intelligently designed and meaningful message. This kind of discovery can be very significant in science: the revelation that something once thought to be close in nature to X actually behaves more like Y. Such breakthroughs have caused the remodelling of particle physics, the reorganisation of biological taxonomy, and new connections between parts of maths once thought to be very different. The discovery of an identical pattern cropping up in two apparently unrelated branches of mathematics was what ultimately led to not only the proof of Fermat's last theorem, one of the most famous mathematical problems in the wider world, but also, as a step along the way, and more importantly within mathematics, the proof of the Taniyama-Shimura conjecture which links those two branches together. 

But since the riddle as originally written was intended to have no answer, the solution provided by Carroll in later years is no more canonical than any other. So an answer to your question would be incomplete without mentioning some of the many other solutions which have been proposed over the years, several of which are (IMHO) better than Carroll's: 

This article about The Art of War gives a brief summary of its history of adoption in various countries: 

(This is entirely based on my own reading of the poem, and I'm no expert in scansion. I have heard recitations of the poem from several more experienced readers, but I don't remember how much their scansion differed from mine.) Bold syllables are definitely stressed; italic ones are weakly stressed and perhaps it's arguable that they're stressed at all. If we count both bold and italic syllables as stressed, then every line contains eight trochaic feet, when "many a" and "curious" each count as two syllables. That would make it trochaic octameter, an analysis with which Wikipedia - citing Kopley and Hayes, "Two verse masterworks: 'The Raven' and 'Ulalume'" - agrees. Wikipedia also says - citing Sova, Edgar Allan Poe: A to Z - that Poe himself said it's a mixture of octameter acatalectic, heptameter catalectic, and tetrameter catalectic. But the distinction is academic when it comes to the particular line you're talking about. Either way, that line has seven or eight feet, and the rhythm is every other syllable being stressed. That requires "man / ya / quaint / and / cur / ious / vol / ume" rather than "man / y / a / quaint / and / cur / i / ous / vol / ume". In short, the answer to your final sentence is yes, it's correct to do so. 

So they won't be releasing any more information about the reasoning for their decision until around 2028 - still another ten years to go! Anything else we can say now would be informed speculation. 

It's Hastings. First I looked up the author, Mary Gentle, who was born in Eastbourne on the south coast of England. Eastbourne itself was then my first guess, but it didn't seem to fit: there's no castle in the town (the closest one being Pevensey a few miles away), and to the west of the town lies the massive Beachy Head, rather than a "West Hill" which divides the "Old Town" from the modern portion. Not to be put off, however, I started widening my net. Assuming that the towns Mary Gentle is most familiar with would be somewhere reasonably close to Eastbourne, I checked a list of towns in East Sussex. Since we want a town that's fairly large but also fairly isolated, not surrounded by suburbs and smaller towns like Brighton, my next guess was Hastings. The Wikipedia article for this town (emphasis mine) was already enough to make me strongly suspect it's the one we're looking for: 

(This was part of what made me condemn Wolf Hall, despite its Man Booker Prize, as simply a poorly written book: if the reader keeps stumbling and having to go back and reread sentences because their intended meaning is different from their most natural meaning, that's usually a hallmark of bad writing.) It struck me that this excessive use of pronouns would have made much more sense if the book was written with first-person narration. If Cromwell had been a first-person protagonist, there would never have been any confusion about whether the pronoun referred to him or someone else - it would have been "I"/"me" and not "he"/"him". Thus, I came to the conclusion that the book was originally written in the first person and then hastily and somewhat shoddily edited into third-person narration, changing too many of the "I"s into "he"s instead of "Cromwell"s. Is there any more evidence to support this conclusion? Acceptable evidence might be either more textual clues suggesting that early drafts of the book were written in the first person, or possibly a statement from the author (if the author says it wasn't originally first-person narration, I'd take that with a pinch of salt, but if she says it was, I'd be inclined to believe her). 

Your question is, perhaps, a tribute to Poe's brilliance. His stories are so well-written that you wonder if they're based on his own fears, if they have that almost inimitable sign of a deep personal connection from the writer, rather than just being a great portrayal of phobia which evokes that fear in the reader. 

Another reviewer has similar thoughts about this line, as well as interpreting Thomas as one so undecided that he has no interest in picking a side (which would fit with the first interpretation mentioned above of the lines about the cauldrons): 

So the author imagined it as being 20-30 years on from when she wrote them (the late 90s to early 2000s), but she didn't want readers to think of it that way, but rather as a vague 'future time'. 

French as frogs Calling the French frogs is actually a long-running thing, at least in Britain. I've always assumed this is due to the French practice of eating frogs (many derogatory nationalist terms are based on cultural delicacies: the French are frogs, the Germans are krauts, the British are roast-beefs, and so on.) According to the Racial Slur Database (TIL this is a thing): 

The story of the Blind Men and the Elephant is well-known in the West. Perhaps mostly due to the version of the tale written by John Godfrey Saxe, a 19th-century US poet who retold the story as a poem, attributing it to "a Hindoo fable"; you can read his version here. It's also been told as a song in a 21st-century album by a US singer. Wikipedia also mentions other retellings and references to this story throughout western culture, in everything from scientific literature to children's stories (all with citations): 

We don't know. The text suggests that he was originally a well-known figure (known for something other than being a villainous pirate), probably from the English aristocracy: 

Did Julia really betray Winston almost immediately? I think that what you call a revelation was, more likely, nothing more than a torturer's ploy. 

In Chapter 2 of I Am a Cat (full text of this and preceding chapters available here), the cat makes reference to a particular "western novel" in order to draw an analogy with his master: 

This again is a concept I'm very familiar with: that of an existence proof, one which is not constructive. In maths, you can often prove the existence of an object satisfying certain properties, even if you can't actually find an explicit example. For instance, any result which uses the Axiom of Choice is likely to involve knowing something exists without being able to find it. Clearly, the fact that the letter is "closed" (whatever that means - he hasn't given us a rigorous mathematical definition or anything approaching one) is somehow significant. It proves the existence of something, even without giving a way to construct it.