Of course lying is sometimes called for. Morality is not about mindlessly following rules, but in seeing beyond our egoic concerns and doing what the situation calls for (Skillful Means). Mindlessly following rules is how cults and death camps get started. Moral guidelines have a place, and more often than not, they should be followed. However, there is no replacement for using our brains to study the situation and decide if these rules are applicable there. Buddhism is about overcoming suffering, with a special focus on the self as the axis upon which suffering revolves. So look at all Buddhist teachings through that lens. Don't ask what the Buddhist teachings tell you to do; rather, ask what lies behind that teaching. What is it about the self that lying perpetuates? Is it really lies per se, or is it that... 

Physical laws govern relatively simple systems. A human being is a vastly more complex system, with a huge number of physical laws coming into play with even the simplest of interactions. Thus, you shouldn't try to apply action/reaction in this area. If I bump into something, my mental reaction is the result of a huge number of factors, including how I perceive the event, my state of mind and my history with regards to those events. Each of those in turn is hideously complex, and if you do arrive at basic physical laws, it will be at a much lower level than what presents itself to me (and you'd end up with a huge amount of them). This fallacy is all too common. Many people try to apply scientific concepts to Buddhist ones, and it's a mistake. Newton's laws don't give you ready predictions for human behavior, conservation of energy does not support rebirth, etc... If you are really interested in studying this, I recommend studying scientific laws on their own, then moving up to complex systems, and emergence. If nothing else, it will give you an idea of what a gross oversimplification people make when they make this mistake. 

The second link of paṭiccasamuppāda is “saṅkhārā paccayā viññāṇaṃ” (conditioned by formations, consciousness arise). Analyzing this from the perspective of the Abhidhamma: 

The commentary is full of stories of enemies meeting each other in repeated rebirths (though I am not aware of any stories from the Suttas like this... there may well be). My conclusion is that there is a kammic affinity that extends beyond lifetimes that causes people who were connected in one lifetime (either as friends, enemies or family) to be connected in future lifetimes. If interacting only bring out the worst in you, is it wise to figure out approximately how much interaction is useful? Imagine that there is a person with an angry character, a latent tendency toward anger, an “ill-tempered person”. This person is driving and encounters a red light, a traffic jam and a jerk who cuts them off. On all three occasions, anger arises in this person. If you ask this person, they will tell you that the cause of their anger was the external factors (red light, traffic jam, jerk who cut them off). Actually, the root cause is their character; there will always be external triggers. Do what you can to reduce the frequency of the triggers, but you can’t eliminate them. The good news is that you can work on your character. It is a three step process of Sīla, Samadhi, Paññā. Sīla means discipline. Regularly commit oneself to controlling wrong actions (for example, commit to non-violence, if violence is a weakness that you have). Regularly commit oneself to controlling wrong speech (for example, commit to avoiding harsh speech or slandering, if these are weaknesses that you have). Since actions and speech originate in the mind, calming the mind (Samadhi) can prevent wrong actions and wrong speech. Regularly use Mettā to steady, still, unify and compose the mind. If you are lost in thought (spinning emotions out of control), then come back to your senses; be aware of what your senses are experiencing by observing a neutral object such as your breath. A calm mind is needed to tackle the underlying tendencies using understanding / wisdom (Paññā). With a calm mind, observe the way that the mind is reacting to the triggers, observe how the reaction arises naturally and observe how the mind keeps changing. Just as Māra disappears once he is recognized, defilements are weakened when exposed to the spotlight of understanding / wisdom. Those defilements took a long time to accumulate and won’t disappear quickly, but repeated Paññā weakens them over time. It is natural that interacting with certain family members may bring out the worst in you. If you live with them there will be frequent interactions. They may also be intentionally “pushing your buttons”. Cutting off all interaction with them may not be practical (for logistical reasons, such as you live under the same roof). My advice to you is to reserve some personal time each day and regularly focus on developing Sīla, Samadhi and Paññā. I would not worry too much about meeting the same individuals in the next life. If you don’t meet these people again, there will be other people who act as triggers. Do what you can about the triggers in this life and put lots of focus on training the mind. I hope that your suffering reduces. Here is the definition of a fool / wise person from AN 3.2: 

Yes. Emptiness characterizes everything, including Nirvana and even emptiness itself. Have you read the Heart Sutra? I highly recommend that for an example of the all-permeating nature of emptiness. 

So how can you approach compliments in a way that takes the above into account? Well, you could thank the person while remembering that you are thanking them out of compassion and consideration for their feelings and not because they gave you some validation you needed. Ultimately, it's about skillful means. Don't seek every possible situation in Buddhist texts; rather, make sure you understand the principles and use that understanding to guide your actions. 

Incorporate some meditative movement (walking meditation, Yoga, Tai Chi) as a "bridge" between your meditative practice and "active" life. Prior to engaging in your affairs, take a moment to remind yourself that your "goal" is to be mindful. When being mindful, simple may be best. Perhaps restrict your practice to bare, non-judgmental awareness to anything that arises in your experience. Try a timer or mindfulness reminder app that will chime at regular intervals to "bring you back" and remind you of your mindfulness goals. 

In the Suttas, the brain is usually omitted when the parts of the body are listed (See DN 22, DN 28 and MN 119). The brain is added to the list in the commentaries (See Visuddhimagga VIII.44) and the description of the brain in Visuddhimagga VIII.126 makes no reference to consciousness... it likens the brain to bone marrow (where the bone itself would be the skull). Mental States start to arise in the new existence immediately after conception. At that time, there is no brain (and no heart) to support these Mental States. This is why the Abhidhamma does not specify any specific organ as the base for the mind but rather uses the description, “that rūpa upon which the mind depends”. According to the Abhidhamma, eye-consciousness arises dependent on eye-sensitivity, which is the sensitive part of the eye-organ (in modern parlance, the rods and cones of the retina). Similarly, ear-consciousness arises dependent on ear-sensitivity, and so on. The term “Heart-base” is from the Commentary. The Dhammasaṅgaṇi omits “Heart-base” from the list of rūpa and the reference to “that rūpa upon which the mind depends” is from the Paṭṭhāna. At the time of the Buddha, people recognized that sense data arose at different locations and needed to be combined. The only thing that they saw moving in the body was blood and the heart obviously plays an important role in moving the blood and this led to a cardio-centric view of the base of consciousness. 

Identity views cause pain since this self is something that can come under attack and hence becomes a source of worry and regret (see #3) and conflict (see #2). Further, suffering continues because experience becomes filtered and emotionally laden because of how it's seen to relate to this "self" (see #3). Then there's the fact that desires are in reference to a "self" -- when you seek desires, you seek to feed this "self". So the goal is to suspend belief in a self. This doesn't mean claiming it doesn't exist -- but rather, letting all beliefs about it go. That's the only way the apparently contradictory claims of the Sutras (and the various view fetters) make sense to me. You suspend these beliefs by inquiring into the nature of this self. Be mindful and present to your experience, especially when confronted with 1-4, and inquire deeply into this "self" that seems to present itself. During meditation (or in quieter times) try to focus on this sense of "I" and go through the Skhandas to see if you can find any self there. You can even look at it logically; if the self is "you", the thing behind your consciousness (not that I'm claiming it is), then how can you be aware of it, as to be aware of anything means its an object of consciousness and not the subject? As for Western approaches to the self, I think the most systematic treatment is Derek Parfitt. After that, there's David Hume. Here's a PDF outlining his identity views. And here's a passage from Hume (from here) about his views on a self. This may make a good object for meditation, and the relationship to Skhandas is clear: 

Follow on Answer What causes rebirth with three wholesome roots? Superior three-rooted wholesome kamma (See page 214 of Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma). Three-rooted wholesome kamma arises when a wholesome intention arises together with understanding. Superior means supported before and after by other wholesome kamma. If I offer food to a monk, that is wholesome. If I offer food with an understanding that this is a meritorious deed, then this is three-rooted. If I offer food reluctantly, or regret later, then this is inferior (not qualifying as superior). If I rejoice before and after the offering and the offering is done with understanding then superior three-rooted wholesome kamma is created. If this superior three-rooted wholesome kamma plays the role of rebirth-linking at the end of my existence, then the next life will have a life-continuum citta containing three wholesome roots (maybe human, perhaps even deva). A being whose life-continuum citta has three roots has the potential to attain jhāna and sainthood. A being whose life-continuum citta does lacks three roots cannot attain jhāna or sainthood in that lifetime. Having a life-continuum with three roots is a minimum requirement for jhāna and sainthood. Actually attaining jhāna requires developing the accumulations to temporarily supress the five hindrances. Actually attaining sainthood requires developing the accumulations of the pārami. In my opinion, a being whose life-continuum citta has three roots is likely to be “spiritually inclined”. In other words, they want to develop the accumulations. In my opinion, a being whose life-continuum citta does lacks three roots is unlikely to be “spiritually inclined”, more likely to be hedonistic, so they don’t have the motivation to develop accumulations. I believe that there are many, many humans whose life-continuum citta has three roots. Based on the fact that you are asking these questions, I suspect that your life-continuum citta has three roots. But having a life-continuum citta with three roots is only the starting point. Spiritual development is necessary to build accumulations for jhāna or sainthood (and this takes a lot of training). 

First, does Buddhism teach free will? If not (and I've seen enough to suggest that this is a tenable interpretation), then there's no problem. However, if Buddhism teaches free will, then what does it mean by anatta? If by anatta it means to let go of the self (with no ontological commitments made to it one way or another), then there is no problem. However, if by anatta it means no self, then what is it denying? The existence of a permanent, independent self. Denying a permanent self has no implications on free will. Denying an independent self has implications on free will, but no more than the implications we accept when we acknowledge that external circumstances can influence our decisions. Hope this helps :) 

I've seen many interpretations, so I'll just give you the one I find most tenable/helpful. Sunyata is the denial of any independent essence of a thing. Therefore, anatta is a type of sunyata, in which that independent essence is me. Another way of looking at sunyata (a consequence) is that everything is interdependent (hence the lack of independence). This focuses on the independence aspect of the self that's denied. 

I am going to give you an answer from an Abhidhamma perspective. What happens to us arises because of kamma and many other conditions. There is no “decider” to determine the reaction (wholesome or unwholesome) to what happens, but a decision is made naturally (without a “decider”). The decision is a natural result of defilements / accumulations / habits / pārami / vows / tendencies / the environment / your mood / recent events. The mechanism by which the decision is made is called “natural decisive support condition” (pakatūpanissayapaccaya). The intensity of the volition associated with the reaction (and therefore the weightiness of the kamma produced) and the intensity of the other mental factors (how strong the attachment, the amount of compassion, etc.) is also determined by “natural decisive support condition”. I know that “natural decisive support condition” sounds like a healthcare product :-), but it is a very important concept at the heart of the strategy to spiritual development. The cause (conditioning state) of “natural decisive support condition” is something “strong” that happened in the past (mental state, sensed object or idea). The result (conditioned state) of “natural decisive support condition” is the current mental state (all mental states). So when good things are done repeatedly, this creates a “strong” past conditioning state (strong because of repetition) that will naturally influence future decisions and the weightiness of the future kamma produced. This is why we undertake “rules of training” (precepts). This is why the Buddha talked of “training” monks (see MN 107). The mind cannot be controlled, but it can be trained. One should approach spiritual development with a training paradigm, not a control paradigm. Training the mind is like any type of training. It is not a “control" paradigm, it is a “working with" approach. The mind is like a little puppy dog, it cannot be controlled but it can be trained. It requires patience, repetition, patience, energy, patience, commitment, patience and consistency. It also takes a lot of patience! So to answer your specific question... wholesome deeds performed in the past condition present wholesome deeds through “natural decisive support condition”. Unwholesome deeds performed in the past condition present unwholesome deeds through “natural decisive support condition”. 

Previous posters have provided some solid recommendations. To them, I'd add the role of philosophy. Our mind wanders to things to which we are attached; concepts, ideas, worries and so on. This means if we work on adopting a philosophy of life designed to reduce these attachments, we should reduce the mind's tendency to wander. You've heard of the saying "All Roads Lead to Rome"? Well, we can paraphrase that to "All Attachments Lead to Self". So work on the Self, and you work on the key player in your attachments. This is where the path comes in. Things like unconditional compassion, right speech and renunciation can help free the mind from the various scenarios that play out. For instance, daydreaming about getting even or telling someone off is often done as a dry run for possible courses of action should those situations arise. Yet if (a priori) I have discounted those possibilities by truly committing to right speech, how likely are they to arise, or to persist should they arise? 

The first link of paṭiccasamuppāda is “avijjā paccayā saṅkhārā” (conditioned by ignorance, formations arise). Analyzing this from the perspective of the Abhidhamma: 

In other words, spiritual progress depends on the Noble Eightfold Path, not on the kinds of superficial things that you mentioned. Excommunication / Status In the Theravāda tradition, "excommunication" only happens in the case of the four defeaters (pārājika): incelibacy, theft, killing, false claim of attainments. The next most serious offenses are the twelve offenses requiring a formal meeting (saṅghādisesa). Once a monk confesses to one of these offenses during the uposatha ceremony, the monk is "put under probation" (some reduced freedoms) until the probation is lifted at a subsequent uposatha ceremony (in other words, the probation can be two weeks, four weeks, six weeks, etc.). A monk's "status" is based on the number of vassa that they have completed (date that they were ordained). Though the behaviours that you describe would certainly be strange for a monk, they do not seem to contravene either the pārājika or saṅghādisesa so they would not legally impact the monk. When Faxian visited Sri Lanka around 400AD, he reported seeing Bodhisatta worship happening alongside traditional Theravāda practices within the same temple. It is not difference in practice that splits the Sangha, it is difference in Vinaya.