What you most likely want is an Ellis wormhole. The picture in A. Forty's answer most likely shows exactly that; and as others have mentioned, Interstellar is about as good a visualization a wormhole as you're going to get from Hollywood. However, I don't think Interstellar got all the details right. From the outside, the wormhole would look very much like A. Forty's image. Moving through the wormhole, the image of the other side of the hole would appear to expand around you, swallowing you up, and then you're on the other side. If you were to look left or right (or up or down, for that matter) while in the middle of the wormhole, you would see the back of your own head. The hole has no walls; each side just wraps around to the opposite side. I believe Interstellar goofed on this one. Shown here is what an Ellis wormhole in a 2-dimensional universe might look like from the outside: 

Well, any element (or, indeed, any molecule) will emit a characteristic pattern of spectral lines when heated, so colored flames are pretty easy to do. Sodium, for instance, gives a bright orange flame, as seen on the left side of this page. Colored smoke is more difficult, since the same reactions responsible for combustion also tend to destroy organic pigments. However, this Wikipedia page lists several pigments that are heat-stable enough to work. Most of them are at least somewhat toxic, but Disperse Red 9, Disperse Red 11, Solvent Red 27, Solvent Yellow 16, Solvent Yellow 56, Solvent Blue 35, Solvent Blue 36, Solvent Blue 5, and Solvent Violet 13 are not (or, at least, their Wikipedia pages say nothing about toxicity). So if you want to have a plant that burns with colored smoke, those are probably your best bets. Also note that compounds that are already fully oxidized can't be oxidized further. Most metal oxides, however, have fairly dull colors. Iron (III) oxide, for instance, is kind of a reddish brown (rust-colored... because it's rust). However, in order for a material to have visibly rust-colored smoke, whatever's burning must have quite a lot of iron in it, which isn't likely to happen in an organic plant. In any case, here's Wikipedia's list of inorganic pigments, if you need more inspiration. Just stay away from the ones with toxic heavy metals. 

A large group of people has been banished from Earth and punished to scrape out a perilous existence on a strange planet. The planet has breathable atmosphere, and consists of an immense ocean teeming with wondrous marine species (some of which are catchable and edible), and small islands far apart from each other that are mostly barren and with very little flora and fauna. Partly because they need a sufficient source of nourishment, and partly because of their large numbers and need for living space, people are compelled to live near the shore. They have a problem, however: The planet has incredibly high tides. Accordingly, the shoreline moves many kilometres back and forth with the tide while the sea level rises and falls hundreds of metres. At low tide, there is a considerably larger area to live in but food is far away. As their dwellings need to be on dry land and they have no resources or tools with which to build floating vessels, at high tide, the living and breathing space becomes so cramped that people start suffering from phobias and can barely stand each other’s presence. In order to survive and not lose their sanity, people will have to adapt. There is a plethora of unexplored questions concerning the society that will emerge as well as the abilities these humans will develop. The first question, however, has to be: What kind of planet could have such extremely high tides? What unique features do its geosphere and hydrosphere and/or planetary system need to have? Thank you for your help! Note: If you find the living area constraint unrealistic, please consider for instance an island that consists of a high plateau rendered unreachable by fabulously tall vertical cliffs. (I am not sure how geologically possible this is, but I guess this can be dealt with in another question :). The humans live at the foot of these cliffs and during high tide there remains only a narrow strip of dry land. In any case, while researching, I found a nice simulator of what it would look like to have a higher sea level on Earth. 

The simplest way to prevent leaks of sensitive information if an enemy captures a camera is to make sure that there's no sensitive information on the camera. The cameras would only be turned on when the officers are on a mission, and the memory cards would be copied to a computer somewhere and wiped after every mission. That way, enemies would only be able to capture footage recorded of things they could've seen with their own eyes that very same day. Of course there would be rules as to when the cameras would be running and when they must be turned off. There's no sense in getting anything the least bit sensitive on tape, even if you don't anticipate that footage getting stolen. As for whether to record or transmit: Depends on whether or not camera capture is more likely than transmission interception, and on how reliable the radio link is. If you can't get any signal, no sense in trying to transmit; but if you're worried about cameras with valuable footage being stolen, you don't strictly need to store anything on them at all. 

This depends somewhat on how the chunks of Earth are being taken away and where they are going. If they just get dropped back down onto Earth at a different location, then there will be no overall effect and the Earth and the Moon will continue their orbits unaffected. If the chunks of Earth are thrown out into space and do not return to Earth, each one will take with it a bit of Earth's momentum, and due to the conservation of momentum, this will give the rest of Earth a small push in the opposite direction. If many chunks are propelled away from Earth in the same direction, these pushes will eventually add up to something noticeable. If each chunk is propelled in the same direction that Earth orbits the Sun, then each push will rob Earth of a little orbital speed, causing it to spiral in toward the Sun as long as pieces keep being removed. Conversely, if the pieces are propelled the other way (if they're being sent to Venus or Mercury, perhaps), Earth will be nudged into a larger orbit, farther from the Sun. If the chunks are always sent away in the same direction relative to the Moon, rather than the Sun, the recoil pushes will have an effect on the Moon's orbit. Keep in mind that the Earth and the Moon technically orbit around their shared center of mass (which is somewhere inside the Earth, but not at the center of the Earth). If the recoil pushes the Earth in the same direction that it orbits that center of mass, it'll add kinetic energy to the Earth-Moon system and effectively put the Moon into a slightly larger orbit. If the fragments of Earth are ejected in all different directions, so there is no net effect from the recoil, the Earth-Moon system's orbit around the Sun will not be affected at all. The only effect will be on the Earth-Moon system as the center of mass shifts toward the Moon. The distance between the Moon and what's left of the Earth will not change; however, as mass is removed from the system, the orbital period- that is, the time required for one to orbit the other- will increase. When Earth is reduced to an insignificant asteroid orbiting the Moon, it will make one orbit every 0.661 years. This means that the lunar "month" will actually last almost two full years, since the Earth and Moon orbit in the same direction that they orbit the Sun. 

When reading fantasy novels, I have as a rule been left with the impression that exact timekeeping is either avoided as a topic, or referred to only vaguely and obliquely. In many cases, the author would freely use "hours" as a metonymy for a part of the day spent doing something, however never actually imply that these hours can be counted and consist of minutes and seconds, or let his elven queen invite the orc delegates to convene in her throne room at precisely 10.30 in the morning for trade negotiations. It is true that for most intents and purposes in a medieval fantasy world, the protagonists can safely and realistically use dawn, morning, noon, etc. when referring to the time of day, just as our ancestors in the real world didn’t need to worry that they will oversleep for the autumn harvest or be late for an evening round of beers at the local inn. Still, I believe that a developed fantasy society does need to keep track of time and that there are situations when coordination of efforts between numerous persons is essential and can only be achieved if people have a way of keeping exact time. In my opinion, simply transferring our timekeeping system into a fantasy world seems lazy and, most of all, robs this world of its rugged romanticism and faux historic flair. Yet in order to be believable and feel natural when referred to in prose, this system needs to convey the sense that it has developed organically in the course of the world’s history. Therefore I ask you: What is a realistic way of creating a unique timekeeping system for a fantasy society that is mainly high to late medieval in its phase of development? (The planet of this world is identical to Earth from an astronomical perspective, so there’s no need to account for anything strange and exotic in the day/night cycle. There is also no magic whatsoever.) Thank you in advance for your thoughts. 

You've asked three very distinct questions here. I'll try to answer them all. Could this scenario even happen with Earth's gravity and atmosphere? I doubt it. For one thing, most of the ring material would burn up in the atmosphere, much as meteors and deorbiting satellites do, never reaching the ground. Second, even if you manage to handwave the atmosphere problem, there's a reason why there are no mountains on Earth bigger than the Himalayas. If Earth did somehow have a mountain range twice as tall as Everest, the weight of the mountains would overcome the shear strength of the rock they're made of, and they'd pretty quickly (in geologic terms) slump down to something closer in size to the Himalayas. I don't know how long this would take, but the slumping would probably go faster than the mountains would build up, so the ridge would never get much taller than the Himalayas are now. How long could this ridge last in Earth-like conditions before the forces of wind and erosion eat it away? Probably about as long as any other mountain range... however long that is. Quick Internet suggests somewhere in the neighborhood of several hundred million years after the ring system stops building the ridge up. Maybe. This could be a question for another StackExchange. Are there any unique changes that would occur to Earth because of having essentially a huge mountain range circling the Equator? For one thing, the ocean currents would be severely disrupted. You wouldn't get seawater circulating around all the world, simply because there's a huge mountain range around the equator that water cannot flow through. I have no idea what impact this would have on the global climate, although it's possible that one hemisphere could be warmer or cooler than the other to an extent that is not possible without an equatorial ridge. This could make the entire Earth more prone to having ice ages. If the Earth's axial tilt and orbital eccentricity line up such that the Northern hemisphere has harsher winters than it does now, snow and ice will build up in Europe, Asia, and North America, reflecting sunlight back out into space and cooling the planet further. This leads to more snow ice in the Northern winters, creating a positive feedback loop that culminates in an ice age. When the Earth's axial tilt and orbital eccentricity lining up to give the landmasses of the Northern hemisphere more severe winters (and summers), they also line up to give the oceans of the Southern hemisphere a more temperate climate. The oceans may be able to moderate this effect by exchanging water between the hemispheres; but if there's a tall equatorial ridge, that could not happen. Also, it would become much more difficult for air to pass from one hemisphere to the other, but I don't think this would have as great an effect on the global climate as disrupting the ocean currents would, simply because not a whole lot of air crosses the equator anyway. All of the major convection cells lie in one hemisphere or the other. The ridge would also have a major impact on life on Earth during the (relatively short) time that it would exist. Very little in the way of plants or animals would be able to cross the ridge, so life in each hemisphere would almost certainly follow very different paths. 100 million years ago, dinosaurs roamed the Earth. 200 million years ago, the Triassic gave way to the Jurassic. 400 million years ago, the earliest ancestors of all modern land vertebrates (amphibians, reptiles, mammals, birds, etc.) hadn't even come out of the oceans. However, do keep in mind that if you want to keep the two hemispheres completely separate, so they can follow utterly different evolutionary paths, you'll have to make sure the ridge doesn't get broken up as the tectonic plates beneath it move around. I don't know how you might go about ensuring that. If you just drop more material on the equator continuously, then you'll have less of a clean ridge and more of a messy system of massive ridges and plateaus. Plate tectonics will carry what exists of the ridge away from the equator much more quickly than it will erode away. Also, you'll get gaps where plates are moving apart, such as in the middle of the Atlantic, where living things will be able to pass through.