I'm switching from MTB full-suspension down-hill riding to something more flat - at the moment I'm looking at a CX for 80% road, 20% offroad usage. Unfortunately, I've never, except for short test rides, used a road bike for any amount of time. So I know somewhat how to sit on it, but I don't have much experience with how it should "feel". So I'm quite at the mercy of salesmen right now. Sure, I will assume that they have the best intentions, but the problem is that I find it hard to judge whether a specific bike geometry is as it should be. It could well be that there is the perfect bike out there for me, but as I'm not used to the lower riding position I may only notice that after a few weeks of riding, after my body adapts and all such. Is this the case, in your experience, or should the "correct" position just feel great right off the bat? I am not talking Tour de France performance level here, just standard hobby riding (I am reasonably fit and agile). Are there particular "body signs" I should be looking for, which tell me that the bike is a good fit; in addition to the expert at the store measuring my limbs and all that good stuff? 

Is this also true in France? I asked a french man (the father of a competitive cyclist) who replied something which implied, "no": that cyclists should keep right at all times, and that although groups ride two-abreast, they return to single-file if a car approaches from behind. I would like to double-check: is it legal, and is it at all customary or is it likely to annoy or cause aggressive driving? Examples of when I might want to use it include: 

The canonical recommendation is for "a complete and balanced diet". Whatever 'supplements' you might need depend on what your current diet is. The recommendations I've been given (I'm 50 and commute 24 miles/day) from a dietitian are vitamin D (because I live in Canada - I suspect that recommendation is obsolete currently while I'm commuting 2 hours/day in summer) and (based on blood test results) perhaps a bit more iron (I'm vegetarian). Some of the important components to consider, IMO, include water, salt, carbohydrates, and, rest/sleep. In summary, perhaps you should talk with a doctor or dietitian. If you want to discover what your current diet is (which is presumably one important question before deciding how to supplement it - an alternative might be physical exam, blood tests), I quite recommend DietOrganizer. 

Chain wear is objectively measured. Ask the shop to show you the chain wear measurement. It's a simple device that shows how much the chain has stretched. But if the chain is really worn with such small mileage, then something else may be wrong. Even if it has never been cleaned or lubed, I doubt that it could be worn out already. 

Ride like that video, and you won't make it to sophomore year. As for protecting the bike, you might consider a fixie - most people wouldn't be able to ride it away. 

It seems to me that such an extreme position indicates a fit problem with the bike. Maybe that's what you should attack first. 

I put 40,000 miles on my Ksyium Elite wheels without ever even needing to true them, much less suffer a broken spoke. OTOH, my second pair of these cracked the rim on the rear wheel around the valve hole with about 7,000 miles. Fortunately this happened two weeks before the warranty expired. 

See also (or see especially) other answers about using the front brake, tires, road, body position. This answer is in addition: I guess you won't want to do this since it may involve a new bike, but for next time, my understanding is that disk brakes work better than rim brakes. In a comment, you wrote, 

When it goes below zero then you don't need to worry about rain anymore (even if snow accumulates on a jacket, it can brush off). I forget (I'll be reminded soon enough), but I think that winter riding is a matter of adjusting the venting in your dry clothes in order to stay dry and warm but not hot. I also use my Gore-Tex in the -3C to +3C range, because it's wind- and weather-proof, and vary the insulation inside depending on my exertion. For colder (i.e. sub-zero) I have a quilted jacket. I own a down-filled winter coat too: but that's probably too warm for cycling at any speed except slowly; and I don't have ice tires. 

two other things to consider. While braking in a turn is always dicey, counter steering may give you more control. Second, consider whether running off the road may give you a softer landing if you have to crash. 

But most riders would probably think 110 pounds as excessive unless they are very heavy. The ride will be more comfortable and maybe more efficient five or ten pounds lower. 

Another possibility: if the chain is very worn, you might get erratic shifting. Use a chain checker if the chain has more than a few thousand miles on it. 

In a heavy rain, I just take my glasses off. Hats or similar don't really protect the glasses enough to be worth the trouble. 

Are you sure that such leakage is normal? While I don't know the component you cite, I've never had leakage from components in the over 45 years I've been riding regularly. 

A cobbler (i.e. a shoe repairman) can glue a new layer of sole (e.g a non-slip rubber sole that's suitable for winter) onto a pair of shoes' existing soles: so perhaps ask a cobbler. 

How would you do it differently if you want to become a competitive cyclist? I don't mean "elite", just competitive. 

Is it because I'm new to cycling, and my age? Yes it's obviously because you're new to cycling, but maybe something else as well: a medical condition, maybe what you're drinking, or how you using your bike. I'm about your age and so are others, so it can't be just your age. Maybe I'm doing too much? Yes. I became fitter with an 18 km commute: 18 km each way (36 km total), 5 days a week. 36 km is about 22 miles. When I started it wasn't just an effort but an unaccustomed strain, and I couldn't or wouldn't do it every day. One day of work and one day of rest (or one day of work and two days of rest) might be a good beginning. Even then I had hours of rest including lunch in the office, between each half of my daily journey. It took me several months before I could do that every day. The point of rest (including whole days of rest) is that apparently the work wrecks your body, and the rest (and nutrition) rebuilds the body stronger than it was before. Now I can run longer and more often, but "24 miles, rest, 17 miles" is a significant run for a beginner. I don't think your thighs should be burning though: I don't think I remember my thighs doing that. 

I use a Garmin Edge500. I upload to the Garmin website, and the site shows a gradient map of the ride, among other things. The grade and altitude measures do have some error. But I can also monitor this during the ride and get a better idea of what various grades feel like. As an example of inaccuracy, a bunch of us who did the Santa Fe century on Sunday reported total climbing figures between 4700 and 5700 feet but clustering around 5300. Maximum measured grade was 16% on the agonizing Heartbreak Hill, which seemed endless. Your gearing will probably make more of a difference than your slope measures. If in doubt, get the biggest freewheel cluster your derailleur will handle. 

I believe Sheldon passed away some years ago, so I don't know whether anyone is updating that site anymore,but if it's Sheldon, it would be divine inspiration. 

No it depends on which gear your fixed gear is. Big wheels with a (fixed) low gear is similar to small wheels with a (fixed) high gear. The (fixed) "gear" is the ratio of the number of cogs on the front to the number of cogs on the back (which, I guess, may vary from bike to bike). Also I'd expect big wheels make it harder, not easier. Wheels an inch high are easy to turn (but don't go very far or very fast). Conversely, wheels a mile high would require a lot of effort to turn. 

"He abused me, he struck me, he overpowered me, he robbed me." Those who harbor such thoughts do not still their hatred. "He abused me, he struck me, he overpowered me, he robbed me." Those who do not harbor such thoughts still their hatred. Hatred is never appeased by hatred in this world. By non-hatred alone is hatred appeased. This is a law eternal. There are those who do not realize that one day we all must die. But those who do realize this settle their quarrels. 

Unprofessional answer: wow. Yes, this was expensive. I cannot say whether you spent "too much" as I don't know the average prices where you live. But the items you listed are very easy to do yourself. Some of these would be, in my book, essential to know how to do on a day in the wilderness. Bicycles are remarkably easy to get into maintaining yourself. Go buy a nice thick book about bicycle maintenance, buy tools as you go (you do not need that many - basically a good multitool, which you should have with you on rides anyway) and a few very cheap other items. My tools live in my bicycle backpack all year long. Except for a few things which are non-obvious (especially/mainly the area that connects the handle bar with the front wheel) everything else should be quite easy, painless and sometimes even fun to get into. Some things can be a bit fiddly, but for everything there is good literature, forums etc. The point is not only for you to save money for the mechanic, but to get a feeling about which parts actually need regular maintenance (like, after every drive), and which are OK to let sit for a while (e.g., monthly, quarterly, yearly). After a while, it's all just a breeze. 

What if cyclists are behind me; what if there aren't? On a ski slope it's the job of people up-hill to stay out of the way of people down-hill. I reckon the rule's similar for cycling in traffic, not to mention driving, i.e. do what you need to and count on cyclists behind you (if there are any) to not run into you (I don't know, maybe that depends on where you are and how fast you're going). But use hand signals when you change lane, and ideally also when you slow i.e. when you're about the brake, that's what you can do for them. 

It's worth getting tires like Marathon Plus which I hope won't flat, but run well. It's important to keep tires inflated: a good pump at home. 

Practice an emergency stop: use the front brake, but stick your bum out the back and lower your body, so as not to go over the handle bars, and the back wheel may fish-tail. Assuming you know how to drive, you know that your "stopping distance" determines how much safety space you need to allow ... so you need to know what your stopping distance is. Dress for the occasion: including helmet and cycling gloves for safety. Use your gears: a hill should be no more difficult than the flat, it should just take longer (more slowly in a lower gear). There's an amount of effort (power or energy per second) which you're able to expend sustainably, so use your gears to keep your energy output constant/sustainable/optimal. Try to keep better than 60 rpm: if your pedalling cadence is less than one per second you're probably in too high a gear. Avoid 'beginner' mistakes in traffic: for example read something like Car Bike Collisions -- Understanding Types of Collisions and/or take a bicycle safety course. If you can keep it up for a year, I predict that you could be an in-shape 61-year-old. So do it sustainably: stay safe! It'll get easier (become routine) with practice. Nice accessories for commuting include lights and a bell; mud-guards (in rain); a pannier (instead of a backback); a bike lock (IMO a U-lock); and puncture-resistant (but never knobbly) tires. I hope the bike is properly adjusted for you (e.g. the right seat height etc.). I did my first commute as a trial-run on a Sunday, to check the route etc. 

There are some rear lights that have really cool flashing patterns with very tiny but bright LEDs. I have a pair (front and rear) of Knog's each of which has four LEDs but are only about 1.5 inches square. I'm all too far away from my teen years, but my cycling group thinks these are cool :-) 

The Look Keo's are very popular, but until recently they had a problem in gritty areas, because the contact edge would erode quite quickly. Newer versions have a metal strip added there, so look for that if this is an issue. I'm currently riding Mavic pedals very similar to the Looks, but I wouldn't recommend them. The cleats wear twice as fast as my old, pre-Keo Looks, and they seem to be harder to clip into than others I have used. 

I have 10000 miles on my Di2's. Never threw a chain, which used to happen on my DuraAce occasionally (through several generations). Shifting very crisp. Do you need them? No, but they work very well and impress your friends.