Depending on the geometry of your frame, the noise could very well be caused by cross chaining, especially if you have very short chain stays. If you've ruled out rubbing, and this is in fact the problem, you don't have many options unfortunately. You can pick a cassette/crank combination that ensures you spend most of your time riding in the middle of your gear range with the chain line is as straight as possible. For most road riders this means picking up a compact crankset and pairing it with a comfortable cassette. 

I recently found a product that is a redesign of the common wheel. It's branded as the 'shark wheel'. It's basically a wheel where the rim is circular but bends like a sine wave. Simple idea but very interesting. Currently, the company only has skateboard wheels in production. However, I recently saw the owners give a presentation where they demoed larger wheels for strollers, wagons, etc. I can't help but wonder how long until someone rigs something like this onto a bicycle hub and rides it. The stated benefits are that the wheel has, or can have, a thin tire with low rolling resistance but it grips like a fatter tire because of the way in which it travels over the ground, constantly changing velocity. Below is a picture of one of the wheels. My question is can this design be applied to a bicycle wheel, and, if so, would it be more performant is certain cases, e.g. off road? 

Been running a set of quite nice slicks at 120-140 PSI for a couple of months. Might have done 400-600 km on the bike in that time. Tonight the rear tire exploded while the bike was sitting in my entryway. It's split right along the seam, with a roughly 2 inch long gap. Very loud bang etc. Before I go out and buy another $70 tire, I want to get an idea of what caused this. Some possibilities that I've thought of include: 

Just got a fixed gear bike, which I plan to practice riding in a park for a while before using it as a commuter. I usually ride with clipless pedals, and I gather from questions on SE as well as other sources, that foot retention is quite important on a fixed gear as well. Thus, eventually, I would want to ride that way. 

I recently switched the pedals on my road bike over to the SPD clipless system. The pedals I got have an adjustable spring. Tightening the spring increases the force required to twist one's foot out, while loosening it does the opposite. Initially, I set the tightness as low as it would go. I have ridden the bike every day in the last week without issue, and without even the prophesied falling (though I'm sure my time will come!). Today, while biking uphill against a strong headwind, my foot detached from the pedal, and I nearly lost control of the bike. It seems to me that this is the result of pedaling vigorously while also swaying a bit to keep my balance. This also seems like exactly the wrong time to have one's feet come loose. This event makes me think I should tighten up the spring. At the same time, I have had several near falls where I forget to unclip at a light, but was able to quickly unclip after stopping and catch myself. I have two questions: 1: Is it more dangerous to set the tension too high or too low? 2: What sorts of schedules might be optimal for gradually tightening up the tension while learning to use the clipless pedals? 

I don't have a kickstand on my "light" bike because I only ride it on roads (as opposed to trails) and I don't stop often, so it would be unnecessary. I don't have one on one other bike I own because it refuses to cooperate with a cheap kickstand I have laying around-- it's just my "beater" bike, so I never bothered to get a properly-fitted one. My third bike does have a kickstand, but I don't use it a whole lot for locking up. Usually if I'm using the kind of rack with vertical slots, as you described, the kickstand won't touch the ground anyway, so it's kind of pointless there. (If I swing the frame sideways a bit, the kickstand will touch the ground, but that blocks half the rack.) At other racks, I usually use the kickstand, but I don't think it's always necessary. I have on many an occasion done without the kickstand due to crowded racks, tight spots, etc., and never come back to a tipped bike. Whether the bike will stay upright depends on what kind of lock you use, how you use it, and what kind of rack(s) you have access to. If you only lock the frame, as moz mentioned, you might come back to find it tipped over, especially if you use a cable lock with a lot of slack. I would have to imagine a u-lock through the rear wheel and frame and around a solid object would be hard to tip over either accidentally by passerby or by forces of nature. A cable lock through both wheels and the frame will be reasonably tip-proof if there's not much slack left in the cable (which is already the point anyway if you use a cable lock). 

Sprinter A sprinter is a type of rider who is known for explosive power and acceleration. They often have a large build, usually with massive quads and strong upper bodies. Since they are relatively heavier than other riders their speed advantage is often limited to flatter sections and they can and are often dropped in hilly terrain. Sprinters are know for drafting in the slipstream of teammates (usually the domestiques) who are sheltering them, before launching into a sprint in the final meters of a race. Some sprinters are stronger in hillier terrain and cobblestones, and are sometimes categorized to be Puncheurs. They often excel in the classics races. Mark Cavendish 

The conclusion one can draw from this is that all things being equal, following these stats (and other sources below) one should always ride head on, because statistically, one has the least chance of collision, even if the closing speed is the greatest, which itself, would then seem not to have any correlation with risk of collision, or possibly an inverse relationship if assumption 3 is held. Head on collisions may have a higher incidence of fatality than others, I don't know. If someone finds data on that please share. In summary, riding at a lower relative speed (to other vehicles) alongside traffic is more dangerous but probably less fatal, whereas riding at a higher relative speed against traffic is statistically less dangerous but may prove to be more fatal in the event of an accident. Other relevant sources: $URL$ 

Waterloo, Ontario, Canada All the main routes have front mounted bike racks. The secondary routes have them on most (but not all) buses. 

Brake pads for a rim brake are usually treated with Carbon Black (powered carbon) to make them last longer. This is what makes them black. When I ride a road bike in hilly areas, the carbon black accumulates on the rim and on areas surrounding the brake pads. Later, if I ride the bike in the rain (without fenders), this powder mixes with dirty water kicked up by the wheels, and spreads around on the frame of the bike, and into gaps on the headset and bottom bracket. If allowed to dry, it becomes extremely difficult to remove. Right now I remove as much as I can with elbow grease, and then make an abrasive paste out of water and baking soda. The paste works pretty well, but leaves a residue. Further, on some of the really bad stains, it seems to spread out the carbon as much as clean it off. It still needs a lot of rubbing. Is there a standard cleaner in which carbon black is soluble? Is there a better way to remove it? 

I plan to completely strip and repaint the frame. However, I'm wondering what to do about the cable housing guides. I don't know if the original cable housing guides are worth saving (I'm not sure it's even possible to save them), but I don't have the tools or experience necessary to braze a new set onto the frame. I would like to avoid having a shop braze on a new set for me, unless it costs me less than, say, $50. (Aside: I don't even know if any of the bike shops in my area still do braze-ons.) Aesthetically and functionally, I think braze-ons are the best choice, but I'm open to other solutions. I have found some clip-on, clamp-on, and stick-on housing guides. I've dealt with the plastic clamp-on variety on another bike, and I found them to be absolutely worthless (they readily move around and rotate, so the cable never stays put). I've never tried clip-on or stick-on guides, but I'm wary of what could be a similar lack of permanence-- I don't want to have to repeatedly reposition my cables because the housing guides are wiggly. In summary, I see these possible ways to approach this (I would welcome any additional suggestions): 

They are probably going to feel the same, as it's the same bike. Depending on how hilly you're ride is the only real difference you might feel in comfort is that in your hands and forearms. The disc equipped version will have better power and modulation at the levers and depending on how much and how heavily you are braking this will lead to less fatigue in your gripping muscles. 

Has anyone ever ridden a bike equipped with some type of fenders in a Grand Tour, for even a short part of the race? Are they UCI race legal? If so, who was it, what was the race, and when did it happen? 

I'm looking at options for new winter footwear and am split between buying new boots (must be look/3 bolt, which seems to constrain options somewhat) or buying covers, specifically the neoprene style which zips up the back and exposed ones' cleats through the bottom. I'm weighing pros and cons and would like to get others' thoughts as to their own experience with boots vs. covers. Also, I have wide feet and would need boots that fit accordingly (like a Lake wide or Sidi Mega) - not asking for a product recommendation but this constrains options and is an important consideration for me. Covers Pros: 

I'll second Eric's answer, but with a little more detail. There is no way to exercise that will produce "spot removal" of fat. The only way to do that is via liposuction. Each person's body will deposit fat differently. For instance, my body starts with deposits on my lower back, then on my belly, and then my upper arms and face. Other people start on their belly or upper arms. If you reduce or increase your body fat percentage slowly over time, you can easily observe the pattern your body uses. You can also see it in videos of the morbidly obese, who have massive variety in how their fat gets stored. If you want to lose tummy fat, the best bike ride is the one that burns the most calories, since (provided you don't eat to make up for the lost energy) this will cause the burning of fat. Energy expenditure is just time * intensity, and there are lots of good calculators for this floating around online. For the untrained cyclist, I think they're pretty accurate (trained cyclists can be more efficient). Short, hard rides are probably a good choice if you want to lose weight, because they take less time per calorie spent. 60 minutes as fast as you can maintain it is a good choice, because it's a nice length of time where you shouldn't need a snack, even at maximum effort. At first you may not be able to go fast if you lack cardiovascular strength, but even at a walking-level effort you should be able to cover about 12-15km in that time, about twice the distance you're doing now. For a typical person, this would burn maybe 500 kcals. Then just work on going faster (and therefore further) each time you go. Doing that level of exercise daily should result in the loss of a 1lb of fat/week, provided you don't eat more to make up for it. 

Hub spacing - This is the distance from the inside of one dropout to the other. You can measure this by removing the wheels from the frame and sticking a ruler in the dropouts. To replace the axles, you will need to find QR axles and skewers to match your hub spacing. Otherwise, the QR may be too short or too long for the hub. With non-QR axles, an axle that is too long is not a problem (the nuts will still go on fine, and if you need to, you can cut the excess axle), but with a QR axle, you can't really trim the axle, because the QR skewer can't be trimmed. Typically, hub spacing on modern bikes is 100 mm (front) and between 120 and 130 mm (rear). Again, you should measure this yourself-- I'm just giving you an idea of what these numbers should be. Axle diameter - The QR axles you get should match the diameter of the existing axles so you can re-use the existing cups and locknuts (unless you were planning on replacing those, too). Common axle diameters are between 8 to 10 mm, or 5/16", or 3/8". Thread pitch - This is basically the angle of the threads on the axle. Like the diameter, this will need to match the existing axle if you want to re-use the cups. According to The Sheldon, thread pitch is measured in either threads per inch or millimeters per thread, with a 1 mm/thread pitch being equivalent to 25.4 TPI. Common thread pitches include 1 mm/thread, 26 TPI, and (rarely) 24 TPI. 

You cannot use a GXP bottom bracket to "fit it all together". BB30 cranks do not fit in a GXP bottom bracket. A GXP crank can be made to fit a BB30 bottom bracket with an adapter, like one from Praxis. If your Orbea is a GXP standard (24mm) the cranks are no good to you as they will not fit. If it's a BB30 they will work without the need for any type of GXP bottom bracket. 

I've torn a bunch of Castelli stuff over the years. I just started using this ShoeGoo product and it's working well so far. 

I have a wheel set with bladed spokes and they regularly become twisted such that the spokes are no longer lined up with their thin side to the wind, as indented. They twist so that the broad side of the spoke is breaking the wind instead. This has to be a pretty common problem and I was wondering if there is a good way to straighten the blades so that they are aligned properly? I usually go at it in a pretty crude manner, taking a leatherman or some other multitool and carefully grabbing and turning them straight. The problem is that the tool is usually too big to fit properly in between the spokes and there isn't enough room to twist the spoke back completely straight. It's especially difficult when there is a lot of tension on the spoke. Are there any methods or makeshift tools that one can use to straighten bladed spokes without the risk of damaging them? 

Flat pedals at first, clipless after you're comfortable with being unable to coast. Learning to ride clipless from the start, probably with the tension turned way down. 

I'll add a dissenting opinion. A single strap bag is fine, and the second strap is not required. I've used several, and simply tightening the strap has always been enough to stop it moving around, even at 35 or 40km/h. Naturally, the weather resistance, size, and comfort concerns that the other answers mention are worth considering, but something important and not yet mentioned is to look very carefully at the quality of the stitching on the bag, especially the seems where the strap meets the bag. For instance, many laptop style shoulder bags are not well put together here, and will begin to fray or rip pretty readily, especially if you pack it too full or put too much weight in it. Look for something with quality construction, and pay more if you need to! Having your strap fail (or even just start to fail) is no fun.