I suggest you have a better understanding of the role the CTO plays within the company along with why this person was hired in the first place. If you have any technical recommendations, you should have already presented them to the company (and consider yourself to blame as well if you haven't.), but leave your evaluation of the CTO out of it. A good CTO has to have a balance of: technical, business and persuasive/communication skills. Having someone excel technically is good, but not at the expense of the other skills. Maybe this person lacks technical expertise, but what good is having a better understanding if you can't get those in charge to follow your suggestions? Why focus on the latest and greatest technology when the company has bigger problems? Companies need technical people in charge to improve the business and not spend all their money on the latest and greatest toys. If your criteria for this position isn't in line with the company, you're going to be viewed as someone who doesn't know what they're talking about and not the CTO. I'm a programmer and try very hard to make sure I don't misjudge others just because they're not very technical. Can't say I'm always successful. 

I wouldn't mention it if they don't ask. If you don't have a job, they should assume you have other possibilities. The key is to not sound like you're trying to use this as leverage. Make sure you understand the time-line for filling the position. If it is too far out or they can't give you an answer, you may want to mention the other offer. I don't see a right or wrong answer since each company and hiring manager is different. You'll have to go with your gut. 

Stop doing "his" work and stop fixing "his" bugs. Now, if they're not actually his and your boss expects work to be completed at the team level, your team needs to address this. Give him a choice: either he can get his work done, or as a team, you're forced to report this to management, so they can get someone to pull their weight. If the team does not want to do this, then I would tell the team I'm not doing his work and let them see how it feels. This is the draw-back of just letting everyone do what they want. Some things either don't get done, or someone else gets all the dirty work. 

Management's goal is probably getting software released that generates sales and customer satisfaction. There are parts of this process that are entirely controlled by your group. All of you should be evaluated and hopefully rewarded for getting them done. You've identified processes that involve your group and others. All parties involved in that piece should be evaluated and hopefully rewarded for the completion of that process. There should be no incentive for either side to do anything or fail to do what is necessary for getting this part done without there being consequences. As professional adults, I think a manager needs to put it on all parties to come up with mutually agreeable strategies. Either some of the parties are not making the connection to the level of input required from them to get things done or they don't have the resources. Who knows, a quick meeting may discover that there is just one little thing your group could do to make this much easier for others to comply. You'll never know until you get the people together who know what's going on and management to make getting this done important. Things rarely get fixed any other way. 

Most of the question creates a situation where it answers itself: Do I need more social skills than the ones I already have for my current position when I'm never going to take another position that requires more? I guess not. 

Give something back. They create/contribute to Open Source Software, post blogs that help others in their field, etc. Giving an inexperienced person some experience is a good thing. Also, the founders may recall their internship at a larger company where they were not allowed to do any significant work. Screen Potential Candidates You're right. They do lack resources. An internship can be a less expensive resource, but can also limit the risk of hiring the wrong person. That can be very risky to anyone with limited funds. Different Perspective If the company has a lot of experienced members, getting someone still in college can offer different perspectives if they're willing to listen. Side Projects Many companies have those side projects that just never get done because everyone is working on the big stuff. Sometimes this could be for internal use (e.g. Automate the build even more). 

Don't be too stressed about getting to your email regardless of whatever else you could be doing. It's not healthy. As a bit of a compromise, stop and say hello to everyone. Pick a few days where you excuse yourself because you want to check your email. Ask if there is another time to chat. Make lunch plans. Plan on taking a quick break. Discuss this with your immediate supervisor and find out how are these interactions perceived. Some people may abuse the time away from work. I would voice my opinion on the benefits of mingling with your fellow workers. I think it builds bonds and relationships. I don't want to be a: job title, role, or some kind of void. I'm a person. Not a cog in the machine. Being perceived as a human is very important when there's trouble. People need to know that there is a person on the other end of the phone/email with feelings and really wants to do a good job. I want the benefit of the doubt. Take is slow. Don't go cold-turkey on the email. 

Hold off on asking until you learn more about the position and possibly progress further into the interview process. Mention working from home in response to, "What do you want in a career?" type of question. If they don't respond to this, either the answer is no or they're not paying attention. Make this one of your direct questions when they ask do you have any other questions. 

Don't damange any equipment. If excessive preparation is required, do it at a break. Don't disturb those around you with noise or smell (not limited to food). 

Include any job relevant coursework you completed (they may ask for school records) along with any other self-driven studies (e.g. Standford University has an open Objective-C course.). Why you chose not to continue your eduction and how you were able to make yourself a qualified candidate should be explained in your cover letter. 

The fact you're being "rushed" is not a problem you'll get much sympathy from anyone. You need to get your boss to commit to a due date/time when if you do not get what you need by this time, it does not get done on time. The bad part about your company is when different teams/divisions are evaluated in isolation. Programmers get away with not helping with documentation. In fairness to them, if they only are accountable for their code, that will always get priority over everything else. If documentation is important (i.e. your company makes money off of it directly or indirectly.), everyone responsible all along the chain of events getting this done should share the responsibility and the rewards. You and the developers should in a sense be on the same team when it comes to documentation. If the developers get information to you on time and you do not deliver, that's on your compensation and visa versa. There can be no scenario when one side inhibits the other without suffering the consequences. Whatever value it is determined documentation brings to the company, everyone should reap the rewards when it is done and those suffer who do not do their part. Unfortunately, companies don't do this. Figuring out such a structure should be what managers are for. Otherwise, what are they doing that makes any money for he company?