He wouldn't overtake a car as it was turning left, so he shouldn't overtake a cyclist; 2ft is not an adequate safe margin. 

As someone who rides their bike everywhere I have experienced a great many types of bike rack. In my opinion the best choice is a Sheffield Stand. 

If you are riding during the day time then black is fine. If you are riding during dawn/dusk a bright orange jacket makes you much more visible. If you are riding in the dark then you need lights and reflectives. Colour (black/white/orange) doesn't matter. In my opinion brightly coloured orange clothing does nothing to improve your visibility in daylight or in the dark, but is really, really good in low light. Since most winter commuting is at dusk/dawn then a bright orange jacket is very useful. I ride with an orange Altura Night Vision windproof and would recommend it. It also has a lot of reflective areas which are good for night riding. 

In traffic you need to look far ahead, and also look back over your shoulder pretty often. Drop bars make this harder. Also your hand should always be ready on the brake just in case. So, I prefer straight bars. 

You'll need 3 days of rest to get on the bike again! At which point you will realize all the equipment you never truly tested will begin to break (like cheap saddlebags, cheap gloves, etc). Also, if the bike breaks down, you'll have no experience to fix it... Also, on your first day, you will stop a hundred times to adjust your saddle, tune your bike, adjust the damn helmet strap that doesn't fit, realize your shoes give you blisters, and all sorts of tiny pet peeves that don't happen anymore when you got a bike and equipment setup that Just Works. So... start from the beginning LOL 

Kevlar puncture guard tyres like the Marathon Plus are a bit slower and heavier than non-protected tyres. However, since you will get a flat tyre every year instead of every 2 weeks, you will no longer need to time your trip to arrive 10 minutes early just in case you get a flat. So in the end, it makes the trip faster if you need to arrive at a specific time. And the Marathons plusses last forever. 

I call BS on this. 25km/h is not a high speed, nor is the extra weight significant compared to the weight of the rider. Compare this to touring bikes. A touring bike will generally be expected to ride at this speed (less than 16mph) and the luggage will exceed the weight of a motor and battery - but nobody makes touring bike tyres that are made due to the expected "high speed". 

Almost all lights nowadays are USB rechargeable and as such need to be easily fitted and removed. As such they come with rubber straps for ease and convenience. The ease of removal is better theft prevention than making them hard to remove. Lights do exist that cannot be removed and these are usually built into the bike frame. For practical reasons these are best powered by a dynamo hub and not batteries; you can't recharge something that you can't take off the bike. Examples are Boris Bikes and Vanmoof. In summary your design doesn't really solve any problems or add anything new, in fact retrofitting an existing bike with a non-removable light will probably cause convenience problems. 

In this case, you will need to look over your shoulder to check for cars coming from the left, while also dodging the bollards. Also, a dog will run into you from the right. If you're a beginner, dismount and cross as a pedestrian. Note the bollards are dark grey, not reflective, and thus rather difficult to see at night... 

If it rains, yeah. From the last time I visited Toronto, definitely. Rack and pannier at the rear ; no backpack (makes you sweat). Lights (very important). For commuting what determines the average speed is : 1- choice of route (safe and slow or fast and dangerous, your choice, you must explore around to find a fast and safe route) 2- traffic lights In a typical city 20kph average is already very fast, you can't go much faster unless you burn all red lights and generally behave like a suicidal maniac. That's much faster than a car at rush hour, or a bus, though... 

It also sounds like you need to learn a bit about maintenance and put the effort in. The grind and scrape is probably because your chain is filthy. With that mileage you need to clean and oil the chain every week (I do mine on Friday evening so I can enjoy it at its best on the weekend rides). A chain/cassette should last you 10,000 miles if it is looked after. Buy a Park Tools chain cleaner from wiggle, its less than £20 and means you can clean your chain in 5 mins. Every couple of months you should also give your front and rear mechs a thorough clean and lube, this includes taking the jockey wheels off. Learn to set them up so that you can shift cleanly. Lastly it sounds like in your mind you've already made the decision to buy a high end bike and are just trying to justify it to yourself. Fair enough, I'd love a bike like that, but you really don't need it. Background: I commute about 100 miles/week on an alu framed Bianchi with Veloce groupset. A new chain and cassette costs about £50 and will last me two years. 

Notice the beam's sharp cutoff, very little light is sent upwards, to the eyes of incoming people. This is what you need. Now, you should find a light of this type, small and light enough to mount on your helmet. 

Anyway, your best bet may be a recumbent bike. I have one, the big drawback is that it climbs hills like a brick, but comfort is perfect. 

Everyone has a maximum "enjoyable" power (in watts) that they can output for an certain time, more time means less power of course. A cycling champion might do 400W for 1 hour, a newbie perhaps 80W... Problem is the newbie doesn't know how to listen to his untrained body, so he will cross the red line, especially if well motivated, and will get out of resources (glycogen) or get cramps, acid overdose, or get out of breath, etc. So you need to micromanage the newbies the same way do with your own body when cycling, except you have much less feedback. So you need to chat with them, and very often tell them to go slower. You need to know what is possible for your friends. No matter the motivation, you can not ask the impossible. 

They are cheap, simple and readily available to purchase. When installing them make sure they are far enough apart so that riders have enough room to comfortably part and lock their bike. 

I can understand wanting disc brakes for commuting but the only justification I can see is that they work better in the wet. I can't see any justification for a high end bike, especially as you're going to put panniers and mud guards on; that's going to negate any performance increase the more expensive bike has. All-weather commuting destroys bikes. Sounds like you've already figured this out. An expensive bike will still suffer, but will cost a great deal more in maintenance. With the amount of commuting you do you need a work horse, not a performance bike. It sounds like you've wrecked the groupset on your current bike. If you do that on Di2 it will cost you a grand to replace it. Are you willing to spend £1000 a year to keep a commuting bike on the road? 

...and when you swerve to avoid them, your wheel will hit the curb thoughtfully placed there by the designers, and you will crash. In this case, ride on the sidewalk on the left of the bike lane and give a wide berth to the bus stop. Yes it's illegal. Who cares. Always look out for the tiny stupid bits of curb that seem to grow out of the tarmac everywhere, if you take them at the wrong angle you will fly. Another reason why fat slick tyres are a nice thing for city riding. This is an example of a crossing where drivers crossing your path won't see you because of a brick wall. Thus you must think for them. 

...also if you follow the arrow, you will end up into a curb. Bummer. Picture this with pedestrians and other cyclists hiding the bollards. I would just ride on the road: 

Here in France a bicycle is required to be sold with lights. The result is that all bicycles are sold with the cheapest possible lights, which are utterly useless. The usual model is a xenon light, which eats batteries like crazy and illuminates a tiny pixel on the road. It is understood that the buyer will throw away the useless light and install another one (or not). More waste ! Mandatory reflectors make sense : since a decent reflector costs only a few cents, all bikes are sold with reflectors that work. Mandatory lights at point of sale do not make any sense. To ride in the day, and perhaps in the evening or in the city where public lighting is available, you don't need a light, you need a 3€ white blinkie on the front, and a 3€ red blinkie on the rear. Any dirt cheap LED blinkie provides much more safety than a crap xenon headlight because : 1- The batteries in a blinkie last forever (several months). So when needed, the batteries will be good, and it will work. On a cheap xenon headlight, the batteries last 1 hour, so when you need it, they will be discharged. Safety : zero. 2- All the 3€ blinkies I've, allow the cyclist to be seen much better than any cheapo xenon head light. Because they have non-dead battery, they blink, and LEDs focus the light pretty well. Of course, a blinkie doesn't light the road. But a cheapo light doesn't either. If you want to light the road, you need a 50-80€ LED headlight with stVZO compliant beam. Obviously, with this kind of price, you'd only buy one if you intend to actually ride at night, out of public lights...