Defenders Assuming the planet is inhabitable to begin with (siege of an airless body of the Moon would be totally different), the defenders have many advantages. Advantages In a planetary siege the defenders have many advantages: 

I think the other answers give you a good idea of some of the problems with this approach but I wanted to provide a different perspective. We already do this. Game Theory There is a branch of mathematics called Game Theory. In Game Theory, the goal is to figure out the best strategy/tactics to apply in a given circumstance. 

Hypervelocity (energy dominated damage) Rounds When defending against hyper-velocity rounds the energy involved is usually sufficient to completely vaporize both projectile and armor. This robs the weapon of penetration ability but also robs the defender of many mechanisms of defending themselves. The best armoring system currently devised for these types of weapons is called a Whipple Shield. 

You can manipulate these Universal constants to develop fundamental, Natural Units based upon the physics of our Universe and not based upon any reference object. Planck Length $$ L_{Planck} = \sqrt{\frac{G * ℏ}{c^3}} $$ Planck Time $$ T_{Planck} = \sqrt{\frac{G * ℏ}{c^5}} $$ Planck mass $$ m_{Planck} = \sqrt{\frac{ℏ * c}{G}} $$ 

Put your pilots in a g-suit or its analog. These squeeze the extremities to keep blood flowing to the internal organs and brains of the pilot. Using these pilots can tolerate 5-6 g's for seconds to minutes (the g-suit typically adds around 1 g to a persons tolerance). Put your pilots in the recumbant/prone position. The human body tolerates g's better in some orientations than others. Combined with a g-suit, most trained pilots can remain conscious through 9 g maneuvers for short periods of time (typically less than 1 minute). In centrifuge tests, some subjects remained conscious at 15 g's for about a minute. This is the duration of the maneuver I don't know the physiological limitations of it. Train your pilots in how to tolerate high g's with the g-straining maneuver. 

Software and even areas of study like symbolic logic, rely upon created "languages". The reason is that natural languages are too imprecise and inefficient for writing expressions in. Following in that vein, you could force: spell magic to rely upon natural languages only This would make the development of magical expressions very much more difficult than getting to use a more precise invented language. How you would explain this limitation in a believable way is up to you :) It's imprecision and "clunkiness" would limit what could be done with it pretty effectively. It also might mean that every person had the ability to "cast" a certain amount of magic. But only those that have studied for a long time would be capable of mastering the art. IMO, this would make magical spells come to resemble legal documents (and wizards the equivalent of lawyers, lol!). Pages and pages of statements which few realize all the ramifications of. 

Sensation - it can feel it's own body; corollary, it can feel pain if it's body is harmed; additionally, it can detect the presence of any interloper, though it has no mechanism for identifying them specifically, it can gauge an entity's general level of magicallity. Sentience - it can think, furthermore, it has had a great deal of time to do so. Communication - it can relate to other minds by projection of thoughts via the medium of images and sensations. 

Closing note. This question largely has to do with cultural perceptions. It's therefore hard to say how we might feel about Necromancy if it were, you know, actually a thing that could and did happen. Portrayals of Necromancy haven't helped at all, really. You've already touched on this by pointing out that usually Necromancers are mad, evil, or both. Generally they're egomaniacal, murderous, and usually they're interested in conquering the world - typical comic-book villains for typical comic-book villainy. It won't be hard to bring a more nuanced angle to this aspect of fiction. What if, and I know I'm being speculative here, but what if there was a necromancer (or even more than one!?) who didn't want to conquer the world, slay all the living, and reanimate their corpses to go to his insane tea party? What if he had good hygiene and expected the same from his unliving tools? And what if he knew how to give a skeleton a spade or hammer instead of a sword and shield? Some more good questions to ask going into your world-building: How long has Necromancy been a thing? Is there other magic, and how are other magicians regarded? Is there cosmic good and evil in your setting (our world is mostly grey and grey, but in The Lord of Rings there are obvious good guys and obvious bad guys, who go along with the associated gods - the same goes for most other epic fantasy settings)? If Necromancy is generally tolerated, are there some who rail against it? Is there a god who condones or even sponsors necromancy, what about one who opposes it? Is Necromancy accepted everywhere, or just in one region or country? 

Therefore, each colony will be seeded by 2 or more colony ships. The Setting Colony ship 1 successfully completes its voyage and despite extreme hardship and difficulties succeeds in establishing a self-sustaining colony and its infrastructure. Decades later, colony ship $n$ arrives. The Conflict The crew and colonists of the first ship (rightfully) feel that they did the most difficult and risky part of the colonization. They risked extinction and might feel that they deserve more rights or benefits within that colony's society. When colony ship $n$ arrives, I'm sure the original colonists won't want to share all of the benefits of their labor equally. The Question Does this also encourage the development of a caste system (or even outright slavery) of the newcomers? Bonus points: 

Large defense corporations would definitely replicate their IT infrastructure and provide for fail-over in the event of catastrophe. Even the very small startups would ensure their data was archived and stored remotely (you can purchase off-site storage services from a third party company - they come and get your archive data and store it in a secure location). So I think the main loss to the country would have been the bright minds. We would likely seen some divergence from how our IT developed over the years, but it would not have been huge. So instead of "Facebook", we might now have: "PryIntoYourPrivateLifeAndStoreItForever". Instead of "Google", we might now have: "SpyOnEverythingYouDoOnTheInternetAndSellItToTheHighestBidder". 

Cost How much might it cost to redirect comets to strike Mars and increase its volatiles inventory? Hundreds of billions or trillions of dollars? Even the "richest" entity capable of running a project like this on Earth (the US Government) would find it difficult to finance such a goal. Give the time horizon mentioned below, it would be exceedingly difficult for other organizations to justify the risk. The current cost combine with the risk would not be worth the distant reward. Even when you ask questions like "how much might a fully terraformed Mars be worth" are actually not important when the payout goes to the great x50 grandchildren of the person making the investment. Project Time Terraforming even the most Earth-like planet (e.g. Mars) might take a thousand years or more. For even the most optimistic humans, this is well beyond our normal capacity to operate. We just don't think in terms of projects lasting that long. Large corporations are arguably the best at long-term planning and execution and they aren't really capable of managing projects beyond a time-horizon of 10-20 years. By comparison, elected governments may plan for 10-20 year time frames by have problems with execution follow-through when elections replace the original planners. After all the people reaping the rewards won't be born for more 50 generations. I suspect we won't see serious discussion of massive/costly Terraforming efforts until human life-expectancy gets to be close the length of time such an endeavor might take. Mass Passive environmental systems require much more "stuff" than the active ones. It won't make sense to use passive systems on anything intended to move around (e.g. most spacecraft) unless the mission requirements require it (e.g. a generation ship). Carrying the extra mass of the passive system would simply cost too much reaction mass to move. Of course planets & moons will be likely targets for Terraforming. However, we might see Terraforming and development of passive systems for giant space habitats (e.g. O'Neill Cylinder habitats). Interior of O'Neill Cylinder: 

Your library has rather limited options for self defense. It cannot cast spells, as it has no mechanism to learn them (the last man on earth has all the time in the world to read, but broke his glasses?). It cannot manipulate its own structure (thereby trapping, discombobulating, or otherwise interfering with an interloper). It cannot even properly track cause-and-effect, as it has no mechanism for linking any sort of pain it feels to the presence of a particular outsider. In your example, say there are 10 people in a room, and the library experiences the pain of a bookshelf being broken. Did one of the interlopers cause this pain? If so, which one? How would it discover this? It couldn't even ask, because its telepathy only allows the projection (and not the receiving) of thoughts. Your library needs guardians. Of course, according to your proposed caveats, the library has no means of creating these guardians itself; the most likely explanation to my thinking is that the library has requested such patronage from among its visitors. Perhaps an order of magical monks or bookish scholars now maintains permanent residence therein, or perhaps a single powerful magician calls the library home. Another possibility is that a number of individuals maintain regular custodianship of the library. A select number of wizards, for instance, might take shifts dropping in to place and restore wards, maintenance automagical guardians and servitors, mend books, clean, etc. Such guardianship would not be hard to establish, the library would simply need to communicate to a trusted visitor (perhaps recognized by his magical signature) that it required such guardianship. A final possibility - the library is telepathic - is telepathy common in your world? Can the magically skilled learn it easily, or at all? If not, it could be extremely disconcerting to even powerful magicians to have their minds invaded, and they would likely have little defense against it. If the library could overwhelm a person's mind with sufficiently strong and malicious communication, it could - perhaps - render them catatonic, overwhelm them with intense fear or anxiety, induce any number of debilitating conditions of the psyche, or even lead them astray and into dangerous encounters.