What is the best way to cross tracks. It is commonly known that perpendicular is best, but sometimes that is difficult to do given traffic and road circumstances. Also, should one "hop" to reduce impact on tires, or is their some other better technique? It can feel quite jarring to fly over tracks - is there a risk of damaging a bike? Assuming that some kind of altered riding pattern is preferred, what is the best way to do so without impeding traffic or upsetting drivers. Some of the tracks I cross have no shoulder but they do have anxious cars speeding up to get on the freeway. A dismount would be very unpopular in those settings. 

Although I'm unfamiliar with Tektro Lyra's, I have been bedding in a new Shimano SLX disc brake on my commuter so have a little recent experience on this. Given you are only 20 miles in I'd give it a little more time as this 'grinding' noise may just be the very top layer of the new pad wearing in. If it's still 'grinding' after 100 or so miles I'd take it back to the bike shop and ask them to check it over. Brake shudder may indicate the pads or calipers are every so slightly mis-aligned. There are loads of tutorials online about how to align them: $URL$ My SLX has taken about 120-130 miles (or 2-3 weeks' daily use) to bed in properly. Hope that helps! 

Here is an example of how it works. The below route is between two points in Palos Verde, CA - a notoriously hilly (fun) area. Min Elevation OFF: 

Min Elevation ON: Here's the route with the same end points and the feature turned on -- a savings of 348 feet of elevation gain, but an extra 2.5 miles of riding. 

Strava has this feature in the route planning tool. In the header, you can see it has toggle switches for popularity (pretty nifty if the area is new to you), min-elevation (what you're looking for), and manual. 

I apparently loosened the "end cap" from the threading on the axle. Here's another pic of the whole assembly: 

I got a flat yesterday morning after a normal ride, walked my bike inside the house and propped it upside-down (like this) overnight. This morning, I changed the flat and put on some brand new tires I bought last week. When I take it out for a ride, I find that the freewheel is nearly locked up! I can forcibly move it by dragging on the pedals and bunching-up the chain, but it's not easy. I've tried adjusting the tension on my quick-release, but that doesn't seem to make a difference. The freewheel on my SRAM S27 has always been tight (to the point of putting some slack in the chain when back-pedaling), but now I can't even coast! How did this happen, and what should I do about it? Edit - the next day: I made my adjustments on Tuesday morning as I said in the comments, but after only a 15 mile ride the freehub was completely tightened back up again! After looking into it a bit more carefully, I found a service manual for my wheels with some nice pictures. Here's what I adjusted on Tuesday morning: 

You can ride any bike in a race, provided it's in good enough working order to get you over the line. Regarding gears, it looks like the cost to add derailleur style gears may be prohibitive, as I assume this bike's rear wheel is single-speed specific and the dropouts aren't vertical (which isn't the end of the world but not ideal). I'd probably either look at a geared road bike, or rebuild your rear wheel around an Alfine/Nexus internally geared hub. If this is your first race I'd probably just ride what you have to see if you like riding competitively before spending money on upgrades or on a new bike. edit: This 'race' appears to be a 200km audax - I'd be incredibly reluctant to do that kind of distance as your first race. Have you ridden over 150km in one hit? If you're super fit, or not bothered about your time you could do it on your existing bike, but a specific road/audax bike would do it quicker and more comfortably. Maybe build up slowly to that kind of distance - that's a very long day in the saddle. 

I was reading this article on the most commonly stolen cars, and having my bike stolen recently, I got to thinking: do certain makes/models/types of bikes get stolen more than others? My bike was a 15 year-old GT Aggressor 2.0 (Mountain bike) and it was stolen out of my back yard. I just have a hard time thinking that someone was seeking out that year/model. It would seem that most bike thefts are crimes of opportunity, opposed to targeted attacks, but I don't see any data to back that up. Also, it seems like for cars, the cars that are stolen the most, just so happen to be the same cars most commonly driven. I assume the same would go for bicycles? Any bike thieves want to chime in? 

I decided to put up another answer because while Daniel's hunch and Billy's excellent answer get at the gist of the solution, I did find some specifics that might help someone else (though perhaps only a SRAM S27 owner). First of all, the service manual is pretty helpful. In my case, the "end cap" was tighening on its own during rides. Normally, this little set screw is supposed to keep the end cap from threading or un-threading (ie. you get the adjustment just right, apply the set screw, and it should all just stay put). 

Yes, add the brake - as others have said, it might not be 'cool' but you'll end up being much more confident on it knowing you can stop it quickly. I also can't work out if you have foot retention or not from the picture, but even with a brake I'd highly recommend some kind of foot retention, and if you ride brakeless you are pretty much unable to stop at all without it. If you like it and it fits, keep it. If you don't really like it, or it doesn't fit then it doesn't sound like you'll lose too much by selling it. 

The set screw actually applies pressure to a rubber o-ring, which in turn presses against the threads on the axle to keep the end cap from turning. On my wheel, that o-ring had actually partially disintegrated where the set screw contacted it. So instead of pressing a healthy o-ring against the threads, it just sort of mashed some rubber particulate in there. The right solution to this problem is probably to get a new o-ring. The route I took, however, was to rotate the o-ring about 90° so the set screw was once again above a healthy bit of rubber. I then re-adjusted the end cap tension and re-applied the set screw. Hopefully that keeps me going for a while without tightening up again. Thanks for all the help, everyone! 

I'm sure greater knowledge will make itself known here, but for me it's more about the quality of the hub rather than the noise which draws many bikers (roadies included) and 'quality' hubs tend to be louder when freewheeling. I'm thinking specifically of Hope and Chris King hubs here, I think the noise is a side effect of the components, but I have no idea why they are louder! 

Lots of answers already here, but a quick one to remind you of the tools you'll need to build your own fixed gear. It may be cheaper to source the parts but you have to have specific tools to properly assemble it. You may have them already, in which case I defer the the above answers, but if not a lockring removal tool and chain whip from a reputable maker like Park Tool will set you back $30ish each and you'll want things like a pedal spanner and a good 15mm to adjust your rear wheel to keep chain tension. This can get pricey so while you may want these later down the line anyway for maintenance I'd go pre-made, or even better, go to your LBS and ask what they can do. As an aside, I'm pretty biased as I own one, but I'm a big fan of the Surly Steamroller for a no-nonsense fixed gear for regular riding.