Depending on the company, the contracted hourly rate might be negotiated at a higher level than the department that the position is in. The budget for the position may have been reduced. The recruiter may have made a mistake or gotten confused between positions because I'm sure s/he is working to fill several of them. There are a number of reasonable explanations for the salary change. If a potential contractor reached out to me about salary for a position, I would view that person as not following the common procedure. If it appears that you can't follow common procedure before you have the job - what would happen if you were hired? Would I have to worry about you going around me? Do I have time to deal with someone like that? You have the option to interview about the position and then if it's offered and the salary doesn't meet your expectations - then you will need to decide to either accept it or not. This is where being a contractor has its pluses and minuses. 

You could talk with your boss and ask what him what the expectations are going to be around future business trips as far as after work activities. You could also let him know that you thought the karaoke bar was a bit unexpected and guage his reaction. For some businesses, it's common practice to take visiting guests out for some kind of entertainment. A friend of mine would be taken to strip clubs and the like because it was the 'cat's away' mentality. "You're away from your boring wife and now you can look at naked young women without her knowing." In the best case your boss says you can skip those activities, in the worst case you only have to travel there infrequently. But as a woman, I appreciate your question regarding this. 

TL/DR: Send an email with your technical concerns to both your direct manager and the Executive-General-Manager. Slightly longer : Short and simple: Write an email with all the issues you've found, which were not handled. Put your manager in the "To" field, put the Executive-General-Manager in the "CC" field. It's very important to have a written trail of your technical concerns. From what you describe, it appears the General-Manager really trusts your expertise and advice. If the project gets delivered as-is, the General-Manager will be under the impression that you put your "technically-approved" stamp on it, since from his point of view you didn't report any problems. When those issues come up (when, not if), you'll be one of the people who are going to be held accountable. At that point, saying won't help you at all, since it will only appear that you're trying to avoid responsibility (besides, it can't be factually verified). Now, there is a chance that your direct manager will see that email as a way of bypassing him and his authority. That's why it's important to keep a very very calm and professional tone in both your email message and yourself if you'll be directly confronted about this by your direct manager. It will go a long way to minimize any damage to your professional relationship with your direct manager. 

If I were you, I would sit down and talk with him. It sounds like the expectations around your working relationship weren't defined. He appears to be under the impression that you work for him and are to "follow his orders" and your impression is that you're working together. You could also talk with your COO and ask him what his expectations were of you two working together. That might be good information to have in your back pocket with when you do talk with the PM. More often than not these types of misunderstandings are due to a lack of clear expectations and communication. Sometimes it is someone being an asshole but more often than not it's just as simple as a misunderstanding. 

You could joke back with, "you must not have enough work to do if you're keeping tabs on me" or something like that. You can try that approach and see if he backs off. I would feel okay responding that way in front of others. If his comments are that blatant then other people won't think less of you for responding in a lighthearted way. This person is clearly being a bully. It's possible that your manager won't let him work from home because he's not productive and is jealous of the trust that your manager has in you. Regardless - I would mention this to your manager. If you don't have regularly scheduled one on ones meetings with him then I'd set one up. If you don't get any traction with your manager then I would talk with HR. If you do reach out to HR then definitely let your manager know so he's not surprised when he hears from them. There's absolutely no reason for anyone to work in a hostile work environment. This includes you as well. 

Porn websites generate a lot of traffic, which means you need some pretty solid technical skills and good decision making abilities in order to get something like that up and running and keeping it that way. On top of this, such sites tend to scale relatively fast, you have to be ready for it. Also, most of the good techniques used to monetize a website also apply to such a site, and this is not as easy as it sounds. 

Maybe 26K was before taxes and 20.34K is after taxes. So there's a reasonable chance that they didn't lie to you. I recommend proceeding with caution: don't go in there with accusations and finger pointing. Instead, state your concern about this in a polite and calm manner. 

Even if people on this site tell you the way they do it or the way it's usually done, such things can easily be completely different based on company culture. Therefore, in my opinion, the best solution is to just ask one of your coworkers about the way it's done in your company. They will probably be glad to help you. By-the-way: the more formal your company is (especially larger ones), the more likely it is that the answer to your main question is No. 

Before you do, however, note that you have a chance to influence your outcome. For example, if there are some technologies you'd like to learn more about, you can go to your manager and say 

In these situations it can be helpful to use a collective salutation that is specific to the company, something like 

From a personal standpoint I have been extremely happy with my move. I now get to focus on the big picture (but still go down to the nitty gritty), talk to a wide variety of customers, and have a direct impact on the company's bottom line day-to-day. 

Awhile back I made this exact transition myself. I had been in a series of systems engineer and systems architect roles for the prior five years or so, and made the transition to sales engineering. The people that thrive in technical sales tend to be folks that enjoy discussion directly with customers, can speak off-the-cuff about technical matters, and can look at a problem both from a big-picture standpoint and with a detail-oriented eye. You need to be prepared to socialize, to work with salespeople and their attendant quota pressure, and to help close deals while not violating your technical integrity. I actually think the Wikipedia article on Sales Engineering gives a nice description of the role. Mike gave a great answer, but I thought it might be helpful to give you my own sort of "Joel Test". One thing I want to be clear about is that unlike the Joel Test, some of these bullet points don't have an inherently positive or negative answer. You may find yourself thriving in work environments of either style. 

While sexual harrasment is definitely not OK, there's something you need to keep in mind: if you decide to take the legal route suggested by @apaul34208, you will have a very very hard time maintaining a good working relationship after all this, even if you win. What your boss did is probably insufficient for her to be dismissed, which means, after all the legal "battle" is over, she will still be your boss. And your working relationship with her will be very difficult or awkward. Quitting or transfering to another team or department is probably going to be the next step. So, my advice is: if you try to involve lawyers and everything that comes with it, expect the complications mentioned above to occur. 

I'm referring to multiple and diverse types of information, all of which are clearly visible on my resume. There was almost no interview in which I didn't experience this. So, my question is: why does this happen ? Reviewing a resume for 5 - 10 minutes for each candidate you're going to interview shouldn't be that big of a time consumer and it actually gets you more prepared for the actual discussion. EDIT. A little clarification: It's not like I expect them to memorize it or anything. Just skim through it for 5 minutes so that you won't look so surprised if I tell you that I write in a technical blog or that I actively participate on StackExchange or that I actually did work with your technologies in the past. It leaves me a really bad impression of you as a company and/or as an interviewer. Companies keep saying that they need applicants who impress them. Well maybe they should take their own advice once in a while... 

This personalizes it a bit while keeping it professional and sufficiently generalized. I also like that it sounds collaborative, implying that you know they are working together to make good hiring decisions. The exact content will depend on how much you know about who will be reading the info (e.g. if you are working with recruiters vs. hiring managers at first, or if you don't know and thus keep it more generic). If you don't like this there are classics like 

I recently moved my seat to an area of raised flooring and experienced similar problems. I politely informed my co-worker of the leg bouncing and he tries to keep it under control. That's definitely the first step to take. However, the bouncing is likely somewhat habitual/involuntary. What I ended up doing is buying a Mario-themed bobble-head doll and putting it up between our desks. I explained to him that "I have a tendency to tap my foot to music I listen to, and this will hopefully help me notice and keep from bothering you." That way I was calling attention to it while putting the onus on me rather than him. Now we both use it to inform us when the bouncing is out of control, and it is a bit of an inside joke:) 

Yes, if an interviewer will ask you about it, it's best to admit that you got fired and also provide some details if they ask for them. However, I would like to point out that most interviewers will probably not believe that the tiny typo got you fired, simply because it's a little ridiculous. I know I wouldn't believe it. They will most likely imagine that you were a poor performer and the email typo was the excuse the company needed to let you go. Now, I doubt the interviewers will explicitly say this to you but, in order to crush those suspicions as best as possible, be extra prepared to prove that you will be a valueable employee. References from people currently working at your last company have the highest chance of accomplishing this. 

Now, on to how this might be corrected: First of all, unlike many other situations, don't be afraid to correct someone in public regarding this issue. In general, people should not feel embarrassed about something like this. Second, do it as often as you can. People will get a little annoyed by it. So, to counteract the balance back in your favour, iterate how important it is to use the term correctly. Pick a few short and relevant examples on what might go wrong in such a situation. In extreme cases, VERY bad things can happen with such miscommunication; like the example mentioned here: