While I am not brave enough to call John Dunne fat, Climbing Magazine did. So there is at least one objectively fat climber that could send 5.14. That man can float up some seriously hard stuff: $URL$ 

While children can be proficient mountaineers and well trained, there are things they likely cannot do and some additional risks they face. For example, children are more susceptible to hypothermia. Most children are not capable of performing first aid and lack the physical strength to dig out someone trapped in an avalanche. If a single adult is climbing with a child, they should consider themselves as essentially climbing alone. A child climbing alone with a single adult also faces a unique risk in that if the adult falls into a crevasse, the odds of an unanchored child catching such a fall are pretty low (the exact odds depend on how the adult falls, the steepness of the slope and how icy things are). The adult and child will both likely end up wedged at the bottom of the crevasse. This must be prevented at all costs. Basically this means that whenever there is a chance the adult could fall (i.e., always on the glacier), there needs to be adequate protection. You might be able to get by with a 4th class running belay placing pickets, screws or deadman as you go, but you would probably want to go very slow and just set 5th class belays and go a rope length at a time. With a solid anchor a child can catch basically any fall. It is worth noting that if the child some how manages to catch the fall such they both do not end up in the crevasse, then things are not too bad as long as the child is capable of setting an anchor while holding the fall and knows how to build a hauling system and appropriately protect the lip (etc). If the child knows the skills, their size should not prevent them from getting the adult out. There of course is the issue of first aid and hypothermia once the child gets the adult out. If the child is not highly skilled and trained, then one adult and one child over any technical terrain is ridiculously unsafe. Two adults and one untrained child has a lot of similar risks are two adults, but if one adult falls, they will likely pull the child off leaving the remaining adult having to catch an adult and a child (good luck with that). 

The only retail folding skis are from Mountain Approach, and they are touring skis with skins permanently attached, so are more of a snowshoe than a ski, and only really for going uphill in the back country (you fold them up when you summit and then snowboard down). As for short cross-country skis, there was a fad in the mid-late 90s when 145cm skis became popular for a bit, but I haven't seen anything like that in ages. 

Lard/fat can last a long time without going bad if stored in a cool dry place, but it can still go rancid. The smell test is usually the easiest way of knowing if things have gone bad. 

The rule of thumb in Banff National Park is to keep three bus lengths away from elk. Having said that it's easy to accidentally be within a few feet an an elk. Don't panic if it happens, it's very unlikely the elk will charge you (in Banff we see elk every day but there hasn't been a contact incident in 3 years). Elk are easily startled but most of the time they are ambivalent, and more rarely either walking away or flee outright. The rare time when an elk might charge unprovoked is if you are between a cow and its calves (spring time) or near bulls or their harem during rutting season (fall). 

They sell small electric coolers (e.g., this one by Coleman) that run off of battery power (you can swap out your car battery with a marine battery or get a second battery/solar setup). As you are driving most days, you shouldn't have to worry about the battery running down. Then get yourself a nice two/three burner propane stove (e.g., this one by Coleman), an external propane tank, a wash basin, and a 5 gallon jug of water and you have a pretty nice kitchen (you of course can add an oven). Now you can cook almost anything (keeping ice cream and other frozen foods is more difficult). On all but the hottest weeks you can batch cook and store a couple of days of leftovers in the cooler. I would suggest you never cook at your campsite apart from maybe a small stove to boil water for coffee/tea in the morning and night. Rather, I suggest swinging by the grocery store on the way home, buy what you want and cook it in the store parking lot, eat, and then drive the rest of the way home. 

But it doesn't happen every year, and it takes just one snowfall to ruin it. Larger lakes take longer to freeze, and some get enough wind that it clears off through December. 

A filter like that will will be good for 50 gallons even if it's used over two years. You'll want to make sure you dry it properly between uses, and some filters have boiling instructions (esp. those with clay ceramics) when they haven't be used for an extended period of time. 

In the Canadian prairies saskatoon and choke cherry trees were used to make bows by the first nations. 

In April, whitewater canoeing in the spring thaw is a popular option (wear a dry suit!) while hiking can be done on southern aspects. In Banff you can downhill ski until the end of May, while people continue to ski tour until the end of June. 

June would be my second choice for shoulder-season backcountry camping, but it has several additional disadvantages: 

I use a heavier black plastic bag to hold the used diaper chains. It keeps smell down to a minimum, avoids mess and stops leaks, the only real disadvantage is weight. You could let the diapers air dry, as the weight is mostly water, but with bears and flies that's a poor idea and it'll probably take longer due to the absorbent nature of the diapers. 

This should not be a problem. There are tons of them and they all snow making capabilities so will have plenty of terrain. New England is small enough that you can hit a number of these resorts. 

I take public transportation to my work and the climbing gym. This means my climbing gear stays in my office all day with me. My climbing shoes stink and are really offensive to have in my office. When at home I tend to store them in the garage. What is the best way to contain the stench so that my office does not smell like rotting feet? The solution needs to be suitable for being carried on public transportation. In an attempt to mitigate the XY debate, lets assume that I am either unable, unwilling, or unsuccessful at cleaning rock climbing shoes. 

The law of conservation of mass, tells us that the total mass/weight of a solution is equal to the sum of the masses of the solute and solvent. So if you add 100 g of sugar (the solute) to 1000 g of water (the solvent), which is roughly the ratio of sugar to water in soda, the sugar water solution would weight 1100 g. There is no such law for conservation of volume. Sugar has a density of about 1.59 g/ml and water has a density of 1 g/ml. When you add 62.90 ml of sugar (which will weigh 100 g) to 1000 ml of water (which will weigh 1000 g) the sugar will dissolve into the water and the total volume will change. I am not sure how to calculate the exact volume (or density) of the solution but it will be more than 100 ml and less than 162.9 ml. What this means is that there is no weight benefit of premixing the sugar and the water, but there is a volume benefit and possibly a taste benefit. Since sugar has a relatively low caloric density (2.4 cal/g) compared to fat (9 cal/g) you would be better off carrying fatty foods to eat with pure water. 

When I try the shoes on at the store I wear thick wool socks (if you wear a sock liner then bring that too). I usually go something with a leather upper so that snow doesn't stick to the material. This criteria allow me to wear shoes that wouldn't normally be considered "winter" shoes. It doesn't replace mukluks or what you should wear if you're working outdoors all winter long, but for commutes, hikes, snowshoeing and winter camping it's usually enough. With that in mind I'm usually good to go. Wearing gaiters will solve most other problems, as will wearing grips when needed. If I'll be snowshoeing in an area where I could go through the ice I'll often wear goretex socks as well so that even if my shoe gets wet on the inside I don't mind (until it freezes, ugh). 

I live in Banff National Park and go backcountry camping on a regular basis. Peak season for Banff, Kootenay, Jasper, Glacier, Yoho, and Revelstoke (and really, pretty much any Canadian National Park) are July and August. That said, it's also usually the best time to camp, as the weather is mild, the trails are at their best, and there is less chance of rain. Before I answer your question, It's worth pointing out that of the 3 million that visit Banff, 80% don't leave the town. Most of the rest camp at the major campgrounds and visit the major sites. Not a lot of people do any backcountry camping and you can usually book your site without any problem 48 hrs in advance, usually on a first come, first serve basis. To answer your question, the best quiet time is shoulder-season, especially after Labour Day (first Monday in September). Tourists will all be back at work/school with the exception of seniors and families with small children, neither of which are prime backcountry campers. The advantages of September: 

The Skytop area at the Gunks has a number of stellar climbs including Foops (5.11) and Super Crack (5.12+). From what I can piece together, climbing there requires a guide and buying a meal/pass at the resort. Despite the ridiculousness of paying over $500 to be escorted by a guide, is it possible to hire a guide who will sit back and just let my partner and I climb the routes we want? As I was not strong enough to climb Super Crack back in the days before requiring a guide, if we are in over our heads are the guides strong enough to retrieve our gear? 

From a technical standpoint, it depends. For example, for the Petzl Falcon line of rescue harness, only the Mountain is rated fo operations involving technical climbing. The Ascent is not suitable for progression using rock climbing techniques. You will need to carefully read the instructions for your rescue harness to determine its suitability for rock climbing. Sport climbing harnesses lack many of the features (e.g., good padding and compatibility with a chest harness) and durability of rescue harnesses. From a practical vantage, many SAR teams require dedicated equipment and using your rescue equipment for personal use would be a violation of their policies. 

The army solution is to have two pairs of boots so that one pair dries while the other is worn (yes, even in the field). Another solution is to use goretex socks so that it doesn't matter what state you boots are in. I find wool socks keep warmth even when wet, and don't chafe or cause blisters the way cotton socks can when wet. You can air dry goretex (it's synthetic so dries faster than say cotton) and you can dry them near the fire, just don't get them too close. I usually take off my boots at camp and put on a pair of slippers/flip flops, as it's good to let your feet breath after being in boots all day, especially if you'll be doing the same thing the next day. I keep my boots in the vestibule of my tent. NEVER put your wet boots (even if they don't feel wet) in your sleeping bag, as the moisture will stay in your bag and can have significant negative effects in cold weather. 

I am looking for an article that was published in either Rock and Ice or Climbing Magazine around 1999. I know the area and route the article is about as well as the author's name. I may even have a copy of the cover image and/or and image used in the article. Are there digital back issues of the magazine? Is there a search function? Are there libraries that would have back issues in print (or microfilm)? 

The MSR Pocket Rocket is a classic and minimalist canister stove. I would like to compare the efficiency/total weight of these two stoves for the use case of boiling 2 cups of water once a day. To make the systems comparable the MSR stove needs a pot (lets assume something like the Evernew Ti Ultralight Pot 600ml) and a pot cozy. The Jetboil setup is listed as weighing 415 g while the MSR stove, pot, and cozy would be about 240 g. I would assume if you are out for a single day the MSR setup wins since you need to carry a single canister in both cases. Is there a break point where the Jetboil fuel savings offsets the heavier weight? 

Mt. Whymper in Kootenay National Park, British Columbia, was first ascended by a party led by Edward Whymper in 1901. He also got first ascent at the beautiful Stanley Peak, which is named after the same Stanley as the Stanley Cup, and located just across the highway from Mt. Whymper. 

Skiing is a sport where taking lessons pays off very quickly. Skiing is not an inexpensive sport: a lift ticket, lessons and rentals will cost you several hundred, but if you set aside about 3-5 days, with half day lessons for at least 3 days you should be pretty satisfied that you've cover all of the basics and evolved beyond the basic snow-plow. If you can afford the luxury of having a private instructor I'd recommend it, but you're just as well off with small groups of 2-3, and it gives you a chance to rest a bit more and compare your progress to others. Buy a pair of goggles. If you wear glasses then get a pair that work with glasses. Wear proper snow pants/ski pants, anything else and you'll suffer for no good reason. You want pants with a bib (e.g. goes above your waist and uses shoulder straps) or else you'll get snow up your shirt and down your pants. Bring something to cover your face, preferable not a scarf. A turtleneck or mock turtleneck works in a pinch, but a neoprene face mask is considered the gold standard. If you wear a scarf be sure to tuck in the ends so they don't get caught in the chair lift. If it's going to be sunny put on some sunscreen, especially on your nose, cheeks and lips. Avoid skiing if it's below -20c, snow starts to feel like styrofoam and loses it's glide, and you're more likely to catch frostbite or just be darn uncomfortable. Understand that the first time you go skiing they will take you on the "bunny slope" a run mostly for 2-6 year olds. Don't be embarrassed, and don't be afraid. You won't get hurt and the instructor will teach you basic techniques like edging up ( a way to move uphill to retrieve your lost poles) and snow-plowing (a way to turn by applying friction to the edge of one ski, causing the other ski to advance and forcing the body to turn), how to stop, how to fall, how to get up, and how to get in and out of your skis. Then you'll practice the same on longer and eventually steeper runs, and become familiar with the chair-lift/gondola, and eventually learn how to keep your skis parallel and learn how to turn by shifting your weight from the inside ski to the outside ski.