Blood oxygen saturation will go down slowly as exercise intensity goes up, then probably drop quickly to around or below 90% when you exceed maximum O2 intake (i.e. you can't breath any harder). At low spO2 values you will rapidly reach exhaustion. You can find articles on the subject on Livestrong or 3fatchicks. The problem with LED-based oximeters is that they tend to not deal very well with motion artefacts. So during exercise you may end up with bad readings, held-up values or no value at all. Heart rate tends to be easier to use as a physiological parameter when monitoring effort level. 

A stationary bike can only give you an rough estimate of how far you might have gone on a real bike for a similar effort. This includes assumptions regarding your weight, gear length, wheel size, how aerodynamic you might be, etc ... It also can't account for wind resistance (which increases as the square of your speed when you actually move), road gradient, drive train efficiency. A standard road bike using 700c wheels, 25c tyres, and a compact crankset (50:34 chain rings, 11:28 sprockets) has a development range of between 2.6m and 9.6m per crank revolution. You can calculate those using bike calculator. So your 2m are actually at the low end of a road bike range. A better indication of your effort, which stay more consistent between real bikes and stationary trainer is power. Most modern stationary bike can provide reasonably accurate power number based on how fast you are spinning their resistance unit. This blog give you an indication of how you can convert average power into calorie expenditure using a simple formulae . 

For either of the two to deliver the weight loss you want, a fair amount of discipline is required. Assuming the same level of discipline with either, I think buying a bike would deliver the best result. This is not so much a cardio vs weights thing, as you can clearly do some cardio in the gym, but it is much easier to make cycling regularly part of your daily routine and has a few extra positives. 

I would recommend you gradually build up the length of your ride to a minimum of 50km before attempting your 90km. It's not like you won't manage it at all if you try, it's just that you are not likely to enjoy much due to the above issues. Try to follow a training plan if you are unsure how to structure your training. Good luck. 

I agree with @tridip1931 with regards to training to failure. Your rest time should probably be somewhere between 1 and 2 minutes (but no more than that). If you are not sure how long to wait, use your heart rate as a guide. Once it is back down to something sensible (say 70% of your max HR), you are ready to go again. The number of reps before failure you manage on the following set is also a good guide. If it doesn't fall, you have waited too long. If falls too fast, give yourself more time. After a while you should get a good 'feel' for it. Note that reducing the rest time to 30secs or 40secs is a good way stress you muscle a little more and also increases the cardio aspect. In my experience, most people rest too long between sets in the gym. 

cold air is denser than warm air ... increasing aerodynamic resistance your tire pressure will be lower if not adjusted ... increasing your rolling resistance your tire rubber compound will be harder ... decreasing your grip you'll likely be wearing more clothing ... increasing your weight and impeding your motion but mostly there is a physiological response to breathing in cold air, like constriction of airways and potential asthma symptoms. See this article for details. 

The short version: Broadly, I think your program is fine in terms of composition. To get the result you want: 

While cycling you need to overcome inertia, wind resistance and gravity. Inertia is related to moving weight, wind resistance to your speed and gravity come into play when you climb uphill. Various things will influence the amount of work produced on your bike, and calories burnt as a result 

Your question is way too generic, the answer to your problem is in lifestyle advice, not really an exercise plan ... try doing two things to start Stop eating and drinking rubbish Do some body weight exercise Stick with it for at least 2 month without cheating or slacking and come back to ask more specific questions if that did not help you lose some belly fat and build strength. Good luck. 

Body fat scales estimate your body composition using a lookup table. It measures your body electrical impedance, and uses a statistically generated lookup table of the general population in order to produce a fat % number. As such it will never be good for measuring extreme cases (super fat, or super skinny). The impedance measurement itself is affected by hydration level and by recent physical activity as explained in this article. These devices are best use to get a trend over time rather than an absolute fat %. You might expect higher price devices to last longer and/or give more repeatable results. As far as their accuracy is concerned, they are all based on the same lookup principle and so work best (least badly?) on people with average body composition. 

The energy you burn exercising is not directly connected to the ambient temperature. In fact you body is very efficient at regulating its temperature (within reasonable limits). So the only thing that changes as temperature go up is that you are going to sweat more to maintain normal body temperature, hence you will need to drink more to stay hydrated (See how dehydration affects performance). 

Cycling 5 miles per day at 12-15mph equate to only 20 minutes of cardio per day. It's good but not great and unless you're always climbing hills it is unlikely to be very high intensity at that speed. Mind you speed numbers are not all that useful for your fat burning goal because they depend so much on road elevation profile and wind conditions. You could invest in a heart rate monitor and target zone 3 for your cardio instead of the 'fat-burning' Zone 2 (read up on HR zones and fat burning). 

There are many potential causes for involuntary muscle twitching (see here). My guess is that you might just be dehydrated. I get involuntary twitch in my calf if I do not hydrate well during long cycling rides. Note: that I'm not advocating your purchase any of the remedies in the link provided. It just contains a handy list of potential causes. 

I'm going to disagree with the answer provided even though it is mostly factually correct. I think you should try and maintain as high a pace as you can during your commute, while staying in you aerobic range. The easiest way to find the correct pace is to wear a heart rate monitor while riding and target a particular HR Zone (read-up on heart rate training zones first here or there). Make allowance for the availability of showers at work, otherwise your co-workers will not like your sweaty arrivals much. The thing is your legs might hurt on Fridays right now, but give it a few weeks or months, and you'll be able to do this really easily with no residual soreness. As you get faster on your bike with repetition, you should start taking little detours in order to keep you commute above 20 or 25 minutes duration. If you can fit 40 to 60 minutes of medium to high intensity cardio in you daily schedule that way, I believe you will see significant results. 

You can find a lot of useful information regarding power calculation for cycling in this wikipedia article on cycling performance 

so if it was me, i would limit my intake to half the recommendation, and only right after workouts. But that's just me. 

The long version: Your program is light on arm work so it's not very surprising they lag behind. Also, as you said yourself, you are doing low-rep strength training type sets which won't help you with bulking up. Try introducing longer rep (10 to 12) sets involving your arms in each of your workouts. Do some push-ups during your warmup, then fit some curls or pulls in each of your workout. With regards to posture, the program you describe contains very little core. I would recommend incorporating 10 to 15 minutes core work and stretches as part of your pre-lifting warmup. Looking at the overall work, I tried to estimate how long your workouts are ... and assuming 30 secs per set (you do low reps) plus 90 secs rest between sets, giving roughly 2 minutes per set: 

If I understand correctly you are currently doing 15+4+2 = 21 press-ups every other day, which equates to less than 80/week and probably around 10 minutes of exercise. This is probably simply not enough to progress past the very begginer gain and you'll have to just do more. Like all other contributors suggested, maybe not going to failure will allow you to increase you overall volume. Dedicating more than 10 minutes a week is likely required. 

Course elevation profile Wind conditions The bike you ride (road, hybrid, MTB?) Effort distribution (are you going at a steady pace or doing intervals?) 

So you are probably right that the weight you can squat on a cable machine is likely to be more than on a Smith machine. 

The manufacturer will always tell you to take too much of it (and sell more of it that way) Supplement taking does not gain muscle, hard work in the gym does Extra protein intake can help maximize result of the hard work, and help with recovery, and is usually consumed right after exercise. Too much protein can be bad for your kidneys especially for people with pre-existing conditions 

That is only 1:30 hour per week which might yield slow progress. Also, considering your BMI of 30+, you should increase your cardio. The great stuff about cardio is you don't have to be in the gym to get it done. Start walking, running or cycling around whenever you can. My guess is that you don't store much fat around your arms, hence they look skinny compare to the rest of your body. If you up your cardio, you'll lose fat elsewhere and the proportion you seek will come that way. 

Some things to think about, assuming you "gainer" product is one of the many whey protein (+ creatine?) powder: 

Assuming you are attempting to gain lean muscle weight, supplementing your protein intake outside of your workout days is probably a waste. You should research clean and dirty bulking to get a better understanding of the influence of diet on weight gain. Note that doing only 2 sessions a week is probably going to mean slow progress after the initial easy gains. 

If you never cycle more than 10km in one ride, I would guess you are not ready for a 90km ride. A fast cyclist averaging 30kph will take three hour to complete such a ride, a slower one might have to stay on the saddle 5 hours or more. The following problems will surface for casual cyclists: