Your current approach -- breathing between repetitions of hanging leg-raises -- is acceptable. Breathing during the repetition is unnecessary. 

Please consider squatting only to the depth at which each of your acetabula is lower than the top of its respective patella. For safety's sake, you must keep your feet entirely on the floor while squatting, especially with a load in addition to your bodyweight. 

Power can help you avoid hurting yourself: the ability to produce more force might help you avoid a fall, and help you manage your bodyweight during a fall. Also, larger muscles absorb direct impact better than smaller muscles do. Regarding bodyweight and strength: A muscle becomes stronger if and only if its cross-sectional area increases. You must get bigger in order to get stronger. So, you need to gain muscular bodyweight, which more than compensates for its own weight. Consider the following excerpt from "Neuromuscular Efficiency for the Strength-Lifter": 

I am a 42 yr old male. About a month ago I finished a running program that has me now well adapted to running 3 times a week for half an hour (the famous C25K, non-commercial and freely available at www.nhs.uk). I have done no other exercise in the last year. My body seems to be craving more physical exercise and I have started mixing different activities that (hopefully) don't overlap: swimming (above 700 m in each session) and callisthenics (twice a week, a simple pull/push routine called "New Blood"). I am afraid of injuring my heart or something. Is it bad to exercise almost everyday at my age? This has been my last week: Day 1: I swam 750 metres Day 2: Calisthenics (Push) Day 3: Again 750 metres Day 4: Rest Day 5 30 minutes run Day 6: Calisthenics (Pull) Day 7: Swimming 750 m again The sudden increase in exercise has me sleeping well, with good appetite and very good humor (yep, endorphins release or something). But I don't know if I am risking a heart attack or something. Note: I had a cardiologist check about a year ago and everything was fine. 

"Ass-to-grass" (ATG) squats are unnecessary except perhaps for Olympic weightlifters. Moreover, for the vast majority of lifters, ATG squats decrease stability and force-production by slackening the hamstrings. Consider the following excerpt from "Analyzing the Squat": 

If your back hurts after performing movements (such as a standing bicep curl) in which your spine is (or should be) vertical and rigid, then you probably are not actually keeping your spine vertical and rigid. Consider doing the following: 

Please consider quitting seated leg presses and other machine-based movements. These can bias your exertion toward quad-dominance, which may exacerbate imbalances in forces in your knees. Instead, do low-bar back squats to proper depth (which is not maximum/"ass-to-grass" depth). Squats will strengthen both your posterior chain (hamstrings, glutes) and your quads in a way that minimizes the net anterior-posterior stress on your knees (and their cartilage). Consider these threads: 

Please consider the Starting Strength Program, which aligns well with your goals of strengthening your posterior chain and maximizing training-time efficiency: 

Rotator cuff weaknesses do not translate into fatigue and low reaction speed. You might be confusing terms. If you feel your arms react slowly and your shoulders feel fatigued too early, you are talking about the big muscles that raise and move your arms: rear, lateral and front deltoid in your shoulders, lats and other back muscles and so on. Those big muscles pull the humerus so that it changes its angle in space. The head of the humerus is not perfectly spherical, but it is a complex surface with areas of different curvature radii. For the arm movement to take place correctly, simultaneously to the pull exerted by the big muscles there is a fine mechanism in action that puts the humeral head in exactly the right position, so that the pull from the big muscles does not result in a displacement of the bone or an impingement of soft tissues, but rather a smooth turn around a curvature center. That group of small muscles deep inside your shoulders and back, not noticeables from the outside, are the rotator cuff. You never feel them (fatigued or whatever) unless they are injured. The less undesirable symptom you feel is usually that your shoulders make popping noises, but usually the result of weak or injured cuff is soft tissues impingement that causes pain and tendon injuries in the upper part of the shoulder. The picture is simplified (the cuff muscles are known to assist in part of the range of motion when you move your arms in certain directions) but I think it is enough to give an idea. You are probably looking for shoulder strengthening exercises. Dumbbell shoulder press with natural grip (palms facing each other) and elbows pointing slightly bent forwards (the so-called scapular plane) are quite safe as long as you start with very light weights and build up slowly. Avoid behind-the-neck presses at all cost. If you are young and your shoulders don't hurt and you haven't noticed strange popping noises when you move them, you probably don't need any additional work for the rotator cuff. But if you insist on looking for rotator cuff exercises around the internet, please be careful. Those internal and external rotations with 90 deg elbows that you will find everywhere are meant to powerfully isolate the small muscles of the cuff in an artificial way, and it is extremely easy that you do a lot of damage to your shoulders if you don't do them properly. The right way to do that internal and external rotations (provided that you insist in giving a separate workout to your rotator cuff) is using very light resistance and high rep sets. 

Having someone watch your exercises, especially for any spinal flexion. Strengthening your back with properly-programmed and meticulously-executed low-bar back squats and deadlifts. 

For all but perhaps a few elite professional athletes, multiple heavy (intense) workouts per day are not good/useful, because they almost certainly cause more fatigue than that from which the body can recover within one day (or possibly multiple successive days). Note that insufficient recovery usually prohibits the desired adaptation (for example, increased strength), so exercising more (that is, incurring more fatigue) does not necessarily increase strength -- it actually may decrease strength. 

The initial Starting Strength Novice Program alternates the two following schemes across workout sessions separated by 48 to 72 hours: 

A proper back squat uses a (roughly) shoulder-width stance with toes angled slightly out, which facilitates abduction ("angling out") of the femurs during the movement. Yes, this does use the hips/glutes; this is desirable (not "cheating"!) because it allows us to train more muscle mass. It also prevents impingement of tissues between the femur and the anterior iliac spines, and allows your abdomen to go between your thighs, enabling you to attain proper depth more easily. Please consider reading more about The Squat.