I think it would be dishonest to not mention it before signing the offer letter. I certainly wouldn't mention it before an offer was given though. After they offer, just explain the situation, that you can't get out of the trip, and see what they say. It would be considered a normal part of pre-signing negotiations in my opinion. I was in this situation before and was forced to make up the time beforehand on weekends. Other options are obviously unpaid vacation, delaying your start date, or an advance on your vacation with the understanding that they'd withhold pay if you suddenly quit for whatever reason. 

You have two approaches (three if you decide to accept without countering): 1) You can play hard to get. Provide some variation of the following: "Hey this job offer is great and all, but I really need to consider it. If you can move the numbers up on X (base, signing bonus, stock, whatever lever you want to pull) this decision would become a lot easier for me." I've found this is incredibly effective and is pretty simple. There's no need to even pretend you'll walk away if you'd still happily accept the job at the initial offer. If they can't move at all on compensation, then let them tell you that, and you can take it or leave it. 2) You can explain that the job they are offering is not the one you thought you were applying for, and that you would expect compensation for the actual job to be a little higher than what they're offering. I would not recommend getting too specific because you can give the wrong impression (i.e. that you think the hours are too long, or the work might be too hard). Personally I think this tactic is a little more difficult and harder to pull off successfully. It's also the only one liable to backfire. In my opinion, your best bet is to start with #1, and if they don't seem willing to budge, move on to #2 with the understanding that it's more of a desperation move. My advice is almost always to counter (unless you provide a number and they've already beat it), so go for it. Typically there's very little to lose by doing so, and it will pay off tremendously in the long run. Try and project confidence and be ready to demonstrate that you're worth what you're asking for. 

I suggest that you focus on what you are trying to achieve here: your goal presumably is not simply to tactfully express concern, but you are trying to express concern for a wider purpose. What is that purpose? Are you trying to get better training/mentoring for this person? Are you trying to get them to not do certain things that they keep doing? Are you trying to improve communication? If you focus on what you are trying to achieve, and try and be constructive about it (i.e. don't just bring your boss a problem, try and bring suggestions too), this is probably a good way to approach your boss. In summary, I would avoid saying things that summarise as "I am concerned"; I would avoid talking about characteristics of the person; instead focus on specific technical/communication problems that need to be solved. 

There are workplaces where it is normal for email to be used a lot (including mine). Whether your workplace is making over- or under-use of email depends on what it is used for. Here are some normal uses for email where people are working on the same site: 

I was a little surprised to receive a confusing e-mail from someone relatively high up in our organization who I hadn't had any contact with before. The e-mail was part of a long chain of forwards and replies detailing various surveying information for the plat of land my company owns, along with plans for current and future improvements on that land. The e-mails were all clearly marked as confidential. It didn't make any sense to me at first, until looking down the email thread I realized that the e-mail was actually intended for someone with my exact name at an outside company. Normally, I'd just ignore said e-mail and probably respond to the sender letting them know they sent it to the wrong address. However, while perusing the documents that were sent to me (in the course of figuring out what they were) I noticed a member of my company make a statement that the city's information for the purpose of tax assessment was incorrect (I think they had not updated the improved land acreage or something similar), and detailing ways to continue to make sure that the city doesn't find out in the hopes of saving the company $80k a year (the estimated tax difference). This doesn't seem like illegal behavior, but it does seem a little unethical, and I'm not sure what I should do. Presumably I would just pretend I never saw anything and privately e-mail the original sender. Unfortunately the conversation has quickly continued on, and I'm now "on the list" so to speak, and receiving further updates about this situation, from both internal and external people, including a few who I think are legal counsel. I also feel a little odd essentially drawing attention to myself, when I know this is information I'm not supposed to have. How should I handle this? NOTE: I realize there are a few other mistaken e-mail questions on the site, but I believe this to be different given the nature of the information I was sent. 

[Context: I used to be an instructor, in a different but related field.] It's not that there's anything wrong with what you've said, but it really doesn't address the question. Put yourself in the position of people hiring for instructors. They are thinking (or should be thinking!) along the lines of "We have a very varied bunch of students here: different backgrounds, different ethnicities and cultures, different language skills, some students with impairments (physical, learning), some students who are poor, some who study part-time, some who have carer responsibilities, etc. We have a (legal and) moral duty to make sure all of these students can learn in a supportive environment and have an enjoyable learning experience, and we want to hire instructors who have experience with such diversity and can facilitate that." In summary, your statement says "Mathematics is diverse" and you've given a laundry list of different types of people who have been in your classes. If I was such a person doing some hiring, that statement would not reassure me. Instead - think! How did you deal with such diversity? What specific measures have you taken in the past to help students who are atypical? Some good examples would really help here, and give the people doing the hiring an impression that you don't just say that you support diversity, but that you actually do support diversity. If you truly do support diversity and do carry this support into your teaching, then you should have examples you could talk about, in proportion to how much experience you've had. Personally, I have a whole bunch of examples from my teaching experience, e.g. what specific steps I took for that deaf student and how that improved my teaching subsequently; the particular disability accommodations I made for that test and how I knew they were working ok; what measures I took for people for whom English was not their first language; how I chose illustrative examples bearing in mind cultural sensitivities; accessibility guidelines I used for instructional materials; etc etc etc. If you don't have such examples, then I suggest that you improve your teaching style to better take into accounts the diverse needs of the student body. You could also start thinking about the issue and thinking about what sorts of approaches you should be taking, even if you haven't in the past. 

I don't think it's unethical to re-apply for the position, but depending on what the company's original perception of you as a candidate was it could potentially make you look bad. Basically you're counting on the fact that the recruiter screwed up the presentation of you as a candidate. What you absolutely CANNOT do is attempt to hide in anyway that you were already put forward for the position. It should be front and center in your cover letter. State what happened, and exactly why you think you might not have gotten fair consideration and that you're very interested in a job there. If, despite the recruiters worst efforts, the company still gave you full consideration and ultimately passed, you've probably sunk any chance of ever getting hired there, but that's probably a risk worth taking. If the company hires you they are probably also legally obligated to pay the finders fee to the recruiting firm, but that would be a question of ethics for the company and not you. 

My advice is to be up front about it. If the vacation is truly more important to you than the internship, then notify them immediately that there's a scheduling conflict. Tell them how much you want the internship, but that you have a scheduled conflict you can't get around. Be prepared to not get selected for the internship though. 

If you can, I suggest you take up some exercise activity to do for the first part of your lunchtime. For example, going out for a run. You can have your lunch afterwards when you get back. Your co-workers are likely to be respectful of this fitness/self-care choice and to see it as a much gentler let-down than simply saying you don't want to play cards, which would look like you had something against them personally, which you do: you don't like the arguing and picking on each other. So hopefully you will remain on good terms with them. 

Obviously there are also other situations where non-email communication methods are more appropriate, but this should at least help you evaluate whether your workplace is making appropriate use of email or not. 

I have sympathies for your co-worker (I can't work with clutter looking at me either), but I wouldn't consider it your problem, but mine to deal with, in the same way that I use headphones for screening out audio clutter. Having said that, if the area can be good for both you & your worker, then that's the best option, practically speaking. Possibilities other than clearing up your cubicle include: