I have a ProForce All Weather Shelter, which is listed as being "210T rip-stop nylon". On a recent outing, we had four hours of rain overnight and it leaked on me the entire time. Upon closer inspection, there are areas where the fabric appears to have either worn thin or has lost some sort of coating (see light splotches in the fabric below): 

About three years ago, I picked up a used "MSR Wisperlite" for a great price. At the time, I was not aware of the difference between the classic and the International versions of the stove. Since purchase, I have only used white gas as a fuel. As far as I can tell, these two stoves are nearly identical. Current diagrams available on the manufacturer site show slightly different designs of the stand, but this may have been changed over time. My stand is wire, as opposed to what appears to be stamped aluminum on the current version of the International. The one notable difference between the two models appears to be the presence of a metallic wick in the priming pan on the International version. Given that my stove has this wick, I suspect that I have an International model. Is there any way I can confirm this? 

I've been hammock camping for about four years, and there are a few issues you should be aware of. First, as already noted in the comments under your original question, insulation is critically important. I know that below about 65 F (18 C), I sleep uncomfortably cold. This is because your insulation (sleeping bag) beneath you is compressed by your body weight and the air under your hammock is free to circulate. Combined, this will quickly sap your body heat. The Hennessy Hammock I use has an insulation package available as an option. This consists of an open-cell foam pad and an "all season" outer liner. If this isn't warm enough, you can add a Mylar emergency blanket between the foam pad and the liner. Most importantly, this system installs on the OUTSIDE of your hammock. Using this setup, I have camped comfortably at temperatures below freezing. Videos of this system and how it is installed are available through their web site at $URL$ . Other options include using a foam pad or a Therm-a-rest style inflatable inside the hammock. Some hammocks have an option to install these trapped between two layers of fabric. Second consideration is the way you pitch your tarp. In general, it should be perpendicular to the wind (lest it act as a funnel). If possible, the ridge line should run above the tarp (rather than under) since this configuration will not allow water to run beneath the tarp if it rains. In addition to staking the corners of your tarp, make sure you keep the edges taut as well. If the wind picks up, the edges can start whipping around, creating a lot of noise at night. I run lines from the center of each edge to the tie-downs in each corner (which results in something of an 'W' shape) and pull these tight with a taut line hitch. Finally, make sure you know your knots. If they slip during the night, you will find yourself dragging on the ground or with a tarp flapping in the wind. If the knots supporting your hammock slip, the dip in the hammock may lead to your head and/or feet being uncomfortably elevated. Personally, I have taken to using hammock straps (such as the ENO Atlas) and carabiners with my Henessy. Once these are set and stretched, there is no noticeable sag during the night. 

Others have covered the basic knots here already. Rather than post more, I want to point out that you should know one or more knots for each basic use: 

I would strongly caution against anything which might affect the ability of the sleeping bag to breathe. You sweat while you sleep, and I don't think most of us realize how much. Sleeping bags are designed to be porous, and anything which might alter this could be dangerous. I had a friend who decided to use a mylar emergency blanket on top of his sleeping bag one night (it was colder than he was prepared for). When he woke up in the morning, his sleeping bag was soaked. Other than being disgusting, he also found that he was more than a bit wet himself. And did I mention it was cold outside? ;) This is the same reason that wisdom suggests sleeping with as few clothes as possible. If you sleep in your clothing, they will be damp in the morning when you climb out of your sleeping bag. The thought of waking up damp on a cold morning is not an enticing one. 

I will agree that there is not much need for a large fixed blade knife during backpacking activities. However, I just completed an advanced bushcraft course two weeks ago and we used large knives (4 to 5 inch blades) extensively. Simply put, bushcraft is the art of creating what you need from what you have in the backcountry. If used correctly, these knives can be used for serious woodworking (shelter, furniture, etc) or firecraft (crating a bow drill, splitting wood) projects. Even when I have my large fixed blade knife, I tend to carry my small folding knife to handle the fine/delicate tasks that a large knife cannot do easily (or safely). On a typical backpacking (or wild camping) trip, I would consider a medium sized (2.5 to 3.5 inch) locking blade knife an indispensable item. In fact, a knife is listed as one of the "10 essential items" on both the classic and contemporary lists (see $URL$ for any backcountry trip. 

I just returned from a five day trip during which we used a friend's Solo Stove (wood burner). My pots are now covered with a thick, sticky, black layer of creosote. I've tried steel wool and soap, but this is a HUGE amount of work (20+ minutes per pot). What is the easiest way to remove this gummy mess? 

In the southern part of the state, a section of the Florida Trail passes through Big Cypress. From what I remember, it's about a 20 mile stretch of trail where you won't see many others. Though it has been a while since I've been (12 years?), it was very remote (as FL goes) and I cannot imagine that it has changed much. Camping in this area is seasonal, with much of it being flooded during parts of the year. During other parts of the year, it can be difficult to find water. There is a ranger station on the trail at the Oasis Visitor Center (on US41) at south end of the preserve which can provide detailed information on trail conditions and hazards: Address: 52105 Tamiami Trail, East Ochopee, Florida 34141 Phone: 239-695-120 Map: $URL$ If you've not done much camping, you should consider sticking to established campgrounds. Otherwise, you can easily get yourself into trouble and find that you do not have cell phone coverage. There are numerous campgrounds (some primitive, but still car accessible) in the area: $URL$ Since you also mention star-gazing, this area gets bonus points since the north end of Big Cypress is frequented by both the Palm Beach and Broward County astronomy groups as a "dark sky" site: $URL$ 

I've had this tarp just under a year, and it's probably been used a total of 20 nights. For what I paid, I don't want to replace it so I am looking for a way to restore the water resistant qualities. I am aware of the spray-on type of waterproofing typically available at stores such as Walmart, but am not convinced this is the best option. Are there other alternatives? 

As you continue to learn knots, be sure to understand what makes them different from others of the same type. Some knots are more suitable for natural fiber cord rather than synthetic cord, some jam easily where others are easier to untie, and some have unique properties (adjustable, decorative, strength, etc). Once you've learned the basics, you will begin to develop preferences which work for you. Perhaps more important, you will begin to recognize how each knot should be applied correctly or used in more complex applications with other knots. If you want a great way to test your basic outdoor knot skills, attempt to hang a tarp using nothing but cord. Personally, I find that I use half hitches (sometimes slipped), alpine butterflies, trucker's hitch, and tautline hitches among others. 

I tie two half hitches, with the second one being slipped. I don't have any trouble with tension, and it's easy to remove later. 

As mentioned in an earlier post, there are three critical components: fuel, air, and heat. Understanding how these interact is critical to successfully creating a fire, though. The air is the easy part given that we're surrounded by it. Still, you must keep circulation in mind. Fire consumes air, and if its supply cannot be refreshed, the fire will die. Heat can come from many sources: a match, lighter, or ember. While the first two are obvious, there are many ways of producing an ember: friction (a hand or bow drill), a compression piston, a magnifying glass, or a chemical reaction. When a substance such as wood is burned, there are two general stages of combustion: 

From my experience (across multiple vendors!), the glass globes on propane lanterns are fairly standard sizes. It seems like there are two or three which are very common. Unless you have a real odd-ball size/style (and lacking a photo or more detailed description of what you have), you should be able to pick up a replacement off the shelf at your local Walmart or Target. Many other outdoor retailers (Academy Sports, Bass Pro Shops, Gander Mountain, etc) also carry replacements. Take your dimensions with you to the store. My bet is that you'll find one which is compatible. 

400m is a bit extreme. I would estimate that I can reliably get well under 100m depending on the quality and scale of my map. As you indicate, there are many contributing factors to the absolute error: the resolution (and error) in your compass, your ability to use the compass, and the distance. You can adjust for these by using more than two intersecting lines (3 is standard), and keep them more than about 60 degrees apart. What you will end up as your "area of uncertainty" is a small triangle. All things equal, estimate your position as being in the center of the triangle. If you are outdoors, you can use a creek, a trail, or a ridge line as your third reference. In this case, you should adjust your approximation appropriately since you are certain about the location of this "line". 

The topics of navigation and cartography are two sides of the same coin, and there are entire books written about each. It is interesting to study the history of cartography because it very graphically shows the corresponding improvements in navigation over time. In order to make an accurate map, you need to know first where you are making your observations from. Making the observations from a previously known position will result in much greater accuracy. This position may have been established by an earlier survey (eg, working from a known point on an existing map) or by being able to independently figure out your position with good certainty on the position of the globe. Prior to the mid-1700's, the primary means of navigation was dead reckoning (DR). This requires that you iteratively advance your position on the map from your last known position using direction and time/distance. Of course, over time, errors will compound resulting in reduced accuracy. You must have a way of measuring your direction of travel and a (somewhat) accurate value for your speed. Later in the 1700's, it was possible to navigate more accurately using celestial navigation. This allowed a skilled navigator to determine his position rather accurately (typically within a few miles) at any point on the globe. The position was typically found once each day and advanced using DR as necessary. Today, we have GPS. Measuring distance north and south is considerably more easy than measuring distance east and west. Lines of latitude are evenly spaced, where lines of longitude are not. In the northern hemisphere, latitude can be measured by finding the elevation of Polaris above the horizon. Conversely, lines of longitude converge at the poles resulting in variable distance. Measuring longitude is very tricky, though there is a great book called "Longitude" (Dava Sobel) which covers the topic (and its solution) exceptionally well. You will note in many older maps, distances north and south are quite accurate where distances east and west are often distorted. To your immediate concern - mapping a shoreline - I would recommend using a GPS receiver (modern equivalent of celestial navigation) to record your position at the moment you are making your observations. In making your observations, use a cruiser compass, which allows you to shoot relatively accurate bearings from your position. Record the bearings to several reference points over a couple of observations, and you will be able to triangulate them accurately on paper. From these triangulated points, you will have to interpolate the coastline between the points. I did a lot of navigation in the Navy, and this technique is the converse of what is known as "piloting". With piloting, you are determining your location using bearings from reference points on accurate maps. Here, we are using the bearing to objects to determine position of points along the coastline. Still, it works much the same way. Maps - especially of shorelines - were almost certainly made from observations taken from boats. Naval navigation is much more accurate than navigation on land (especially without good maps!). You give a nod to the problem of dead reckoning in your question regarding the determination of speed. I don't kayak, but I do hike, and I have found that over time, things average out. I can't say what my hiking speed is at any instant, but I can say that I average about 2.8 miles per hour over the course of several hours. If you are interested in this topic, I'd recommend you pick up a copy of Dutton's Navigation and Piloting. This is a text book used to teach navigators, and is perhaps the authority on the topic. The older versions (older than mid-1980s) are especially interesting since they still include some information on celestial navigation. My copy is from 1969. I'd also recommend Barefoot Navigator (Jack Lagan) which covers the navigation skills of the "ancient" cultures. "Finding Your Way Without Map and Compass" (Harold Gatty) is another fine book. The author was a navigator (both naval and aviator), so he has some interesting takes on navigation. Finally, "Longitude" (Dava Sobel) is a fantastic read about solving the problem of longitude. 

When most of us think about "fuel" for a fire, we think immediately of wood. Before something as dense as wood can be ignited, we will need something more flammable than wood: tinder. Tinder is usually very light material, and can be natural or man made. Natural tinder may include grasses, cat tails, tree barks, or fungus. Man made tinders include a broad array of "fire starters", many of which are chemical. When starting the fire (applying heat to tinder), you are actually getting the tinder to give off gasses. These gasses ignite, providing additional energy (heat). Provided enough gas is available and your fuel (wood) can be heated to the requisite temperature, the carbon will eventually begin to burn. It seems obvious, but a small piece of wood or tinder can be heated to ignition with a small source of heat. Consider that a match would do little to heat a quart of water, but that same match might warm a thimble full of water. Your tinder must be appropriate for your source of heat. For these reasons, your choice of tinder and the structure of your fire lay are critical. You must have a light enough tinder that your heat source can cause it to ignite. Then, you must have enough tinder to heat your smallest pieces of primary fuel (kindling) to the point that it will ignite. As we progress, you must have enough small pieces of wood that they are able to heat the larger pieces, and so on. Put your tinder to the inside of your fire lay, making sure you are able to EASILY access it with your ignition source. Surround this by your smallest pieces of fuel (kindling). Your initial layers of kindling might be the size of match sticks, with the next layer the size of pencils. Build outward to larger pieces of fuel. The type of wood used is important. Very dense wood will burn more slowly, where lighter wood (which contains tiny pockets of air) will burn more quickly. Pines contain "turpines", which is a flammable chemical which burns fast and hot, but produces a lot of soot. Dry wood will burn more quickly than wet wood, where much of the fire's energy is required to heat the water as well. Let's not forget about air -- if the fuel is stacked too densely, air cannot reach the wood inside the arrangement. You may wish to control (limit or accelerate) the flow of air to your fire. Limiting the flow will reduce the rate of combustion, causing your fire to burn cooler and consume fuel at a lower rate. Increasing the flow of air will consume fuel more quickly and increase heat. Once the fire is going, there are practical matters to consider as well. Does your fire lay support itself or does it fall apart? As the fuel burns, how is new fuel added? There are dozens of techniques easily found by searching on the web. In the end, it returns to maintaining the balance between fuel, air, and heat.