The best/only way to convince management that you're both understaffed and that they need to do something about it is to stop enabling them to get away with overworking the staff they have. Really, what you need to do is stop killing yourself to get the job done, because you're only hurting yourself by doing so. You've found a way to get the job done with a third the staff that you "should" have, and because of that, management sees no need to add extra staff. You say that you guys , so of course management isn't going to feel the need to add extra staff. The staff they have is getting it done. And by powering through and over-working yourself, you are enabling management to save money and not hire extra staff. That changes really fast when things stop getting done, because that creates a cost for management. Right now, it's all upside for them - they're saving a lot of money, but the work that needs to be done is still getting done somehow. If you stop artificially insulating management from the costs of being understaffed, there is a chance they'll do something about it. If not, they won't, because they really have no reason to. For what it's worth, this situation is not sustainable, and will come to a head one way or another. There are three basic ways this happens. 

A previous employer of mine had a bit of trouble when they hired me. I was the first new hire in that particular employee class in five years. I got hired at market-rate, as did my new coworkers. Only, my market-rate reflected five years of pay improvements and theirs only reflected standard increments given to all salaried employees. This got resolved a couple years later when our entire class was increased above what I was being paid. But the fact remains, the only market-rate setting we got was at-hire. Why did we stay as long as we did? 

It's a bad idea, that's for sure. But how to handle it involves the above. In all likelihood, a strict reading of the contract bans such usage. However, some companies like to apply "common sense" to the application of contract language, so may actually permit certain banned usages so long as it doesn't impact anything. Don't do anything precipitous until after you've learned a few things. In this case, since you're new to the company you're not really in a position to understand how corporate culture modifies contract language application. Secondly, you don't know who allies are, so embrace that role and go to the manager of those systems (someone, er, like me). Declare ignorance of how things work (which is true), explain what you found, and ask how this works. You're seeking education, not tattling on a co-worker. At that point, you've done what you could. You've reported a questionable behavior, and probably now have a much better grasp for the edge-cases around your employment contract. If it turns out that such usage actually is banned, you'll have earned an ally in that manager. If it turns out that it's allowed, you'll likely get some of the background for this specific case, which will help your understanding of how the company works. 

For the first option: do you really want to stay in a company, where you feel you've been cheated? And forcing your way to stay is probably not going to improve your image within the company. Plus they will probably use any opportunity to make you leave. The second, might feel tempting. But that's called burning bridges. It means that any further professional relationship with anyone involved (company, people), would be awkward at best. Plus you should also consider that these people know other people. You might get some satisfaction, but you certainly won't save your professional image. The third option is probably the most accepted one. You take the loss gracefully. And accept that you misunderstood something. In the future you'll make sure to always know where you stand. If, as you say, it's due to a personality difference with a single person, acting in a professional manner, would open various possibilities. One of them, being the reference provided by your boss. As for the question whether it is legal, do check with a lawyer. 

3 of your candidates demonstrated an ability to locate a website (StackOverflow). 1 demonstrated an ability to actually write code. What more do you really need to know? Whether it's "wrong" or whatever else is completely beside the point - they were all given an opportunity to demonstrate their coding abilities, and three of them failed for that particular case. I would argue that there's nothing wrong with using internet resources for an interview or application, as we all use web resources for our actual jobs. In fact, I personally favor giving candidates a laptop and a set of tasks to perform as a final technical interview (for systems jobs) - however they get it done doesn't much matter to me; the point is for them to demonstrate that they can do what is typically required for them to do the job. That same argument could be made in this case (they all came up with code that would work), but it seems to me that only one of them demonstrated what you were looking for (the ability to write code), so there's your candidate that moves on to the next round. On a related note, perhaps your coding test needs to be reworked, if the answer is freely available on the world's most trafficked developer website. It doesn't sound like you're getting much value out of it. At present, it sounds like you could probably probably save everyone a lot of time by replacing the coding test by asking candidates if they know about StackOverflow. 

Effective communication in a sysadmin context is about the usual things, but some areas are more important: 

There is also more to compensation than mere salary. There are a lot of books out there on non-monetary compensation. For an example of how under-paid techies can stay in one spot despite known pay disparity vs. market-rate, take a look at the previous job I listed above. That job was sticky for a variety of reasons. There is another value that employers know about called the total cost of compensation for a worker. This value includes things that don't show up in the pay-stub, or if they do they're in the negatives column: 

As with any big life change, there is a threshold of benefit that needs to be gotten over before the pain of the change starts to look good. This is why people stay in a broken house instead of moving to a less broken one, why companies resist changing out major systems for more supportable ones, and why people stay in jobs they're unhappy with. In a perfectly mobile workforce, companies have all the incentive in the world to stay with market-rate raises. Only, there is no such thing as a perfectly mobile workforce. Vendor lock-in applies to paychecks as much as it does to supply contracts. This is how employers can 'get away' with not supplying market-rate raises. 

And that really depends on the audience you want to reach. People who would be familiar with the kind of work you've done would expect to see a certain amount of details. For those who aren't (HR?) would not appreciate, might misunderstand, and would essentially frown on that amount of information. So you should keep the name of the places, dates, research centres, etc. But try to see how that experience is relevant to finance. Why does that experience make you desirable in finance, compared to someone who did not have that experience? And, the best would be to get to layman's language... but financial language would be very good as well. It shows you are already projecting yourself on the job. Avoid: 

Generally, the most suggested approach is not to recommend anyone when you're fresh into a company. There are different reasons for that but you can consider at least that 

The HR department of the employer I spoke about above passed out a break-down of each employee's TCC. In my case, the bit that didn't show up in my pay-check came to +35% of my salary. When factoring that against the TCC of my market-rate peers I was actually pretty close to market-rate. Salary isn't everything. And then there are the other 'intangibles', which are very hard to quantify, but employers try (hard) to foster. These are value adds to the "benefits of working here" column that don't show up on the pay-check. Employers try to exploit this because most people are not solely in it for the money, and is why most job postings have "and we're a great place to work" somewhere in there. This is where ping-pong tables and beer in the fridge come from, but it is also how well the office works together. An office that works really well together is one that is retentive. Your hypothetical female programmer may have found herself a workplace free of the microaggressions that so plagued her previous workplaces (internships, OSS work, pickup work during college, etc), which means she'll happily take a 20% pay cut just so she doesn't have to put up with all of that crap. This is a good example of non-monetary compensation, If employees aren't asking for raises, or new-hires aren't regularly forcing the organization to up their rates of pay, pay can slip below market-rate due to simple inattention. That's a market force too, it's call inertia.