How do you determine the mass? It could be a giant balloon filled with helium or hydrogen. Negligible mass but huge volume. Perhaps it filters pollutants or bugs out of the air. An incredible feat of genetic engineering. If it is a whale and not just something that looks like a whale, have you considered the possibility that the world is underwater? I don't see a water/air divide, but perhaps someone could work around that. If not underwater, consider the possibility that the atmosphere is simply very dense. Note: these are possible explanations. I don't recall there being an actual story behind the art, at least not one that the artist shared. If you're looking for a canonical answer, you might be better off asking on meta. If nothing else, we could make up one. 

What's daylight/nighttime? Some large fraction of the time, the moon will be on the dark side of the planet. Most of the rest of the time, one side will face towards the planet but away from the sun. There will be a relatively brief period where the planet and the sun are both in the sky. Absent cloud cover, the planet will almost certainly be visible even in sunlight. There will be phases, as the time when both the planet and sun are visible is when the moon is to the side of the planet. Note that the phases will change based on where on the moon someone is. Looking from the point of the moon that is closest to the planet, the planet will never be full while the sun is in the sky. It will be about half full. From a point where the moon is farthest from the planet, the planet will never be visible and the sun will produce a relatively normal day/night cycle. From a point mid-way between, the planet will be visible low on the horizon and have full phases. There will be a normal day/night cycle from the sun (albeit with short days, as part of the day will be blocked by the planet). At that distance, the sun will be less bright than it is on the Earth. Note that when the moon is on the far side of the planet, that side of the planet doesn't get light from the sun. So there wouldn't be light coming from the planet to the moon. So the moon will have a real nighttime then. Neither the sun nor the planet will be visible. This is screaming out for a good image. Hopefully someone will produce one or more. 

We don't know It's entirely possible that our pattern of advancements would be typical. It's also entirely possible that it's not. We have no basis for comparison. We're the only species that we know. It is worth noting that comparing isolated societies to the more interconnected societies, the more interconnected societies are much more advanced. Part of the reason for this seems to be competitive. Two (or more) countries at war tend to push for advances to defeat each other. Part seems to be cooperative. An advance in one country spreads to another, giving that country to make dependent advances. It's even possible that your society won't advance at all. Perhaps evolution/genetic drift are part of what drives advancement. Or there may simply not be enough pressure to advance. Without predators perhaps the society would be stable. Look at the Native Americans of the plains for an example. They settled into a stable society for millennia. It wasn't disrupted until outside pressures forced it to be. Maybe advancement would be faster. Instead of wasting time on fighting off predators and developing agricultural flora, that's already done. Maybe advancement would be slower. Without the pressure of fighting off predators and developing agricultural flora, they wouldn't need to advance. Society could be stable at a relatively low level of technology. Note that on Earth, we spent tens of thousands of years developing written language. The earliest known written works are less than five thousand years old. Subsequent advances seem to have been faster but occur in fits and starts. European technology declined after the fall of the Roman empire. It didn't really get back to where it had been until the Renaissance. Then Newton and Leibniz invented calculus simultaneously -- more than a thousand years after Archimedes' method of exhaustion. The simultaneity of Newton and Leibniz's work suggests that development might have been the same. The gap between Archimedes and Newton/Leibniz suggests that it could be very different. We simply don't know. Anything that we say is going to be entirely speculative, as we have no real basis for comparison. Presumably that's the reason for this experiment. To find out who's right. 

Sure. There were a number of Native American tribes in the plains area that made stealing a rite of passage. This included kidnapping their wives from other tribes, which helped avoid inbreeding. Stealing was considered both more honorable and more impressive than killing their enemies. This helped avoid retribution turning into extinction. These societies were stable until outsiders (Europeans) disrupted them. Example source: $URL$ 

Gold is money. Money is fungible. Resources other than gold can be exchanged for gold (or vice versa). So you don't actually need gold. You need: 

Mirror market crash The market for small to medium-sized mirrors would take a swandive. Yes, there's this brand new use, but this rather ruins the original use. And do you really want what is essentially a window in your bathroom or bedroom? Existing mirrors would be removed and sold. The market for large mirrors might see a rush, but it's unclear how long that would last. Laws would equalize There would be pressure on both sides for laws to either become laxer or tighter to match the other side. Drugs, guns, porn, etc. would all be easy to smuggle in this system. There's also a problem with crimes committed across mirrors. How do you prosecute someone who commits a crime from the other side of a mirror? It seems likely that the two sides will agree to prosecute such crimes for each other. Otherwise it would encourage criminals to switch to cross-mirror crimes. 

It's the Greens. Not all of them, but a lunatic offshoot. Think Ted Kaczynski with a genetic engineering degree. In order to get humans to abandon the technology that is destroying the planet (this Ted's words, not mine), he reverts everyone to a more primitive version. Australopithecus were apparently about as intelligent as a chimpanzee. While they might be able to operate some technology, they would not be able to maintain it. Over time, the power plants would stop producing electricity and virtually all technology would cease to function. It is of course up to you how successful he is. Perhaps the retrovirus is eradicated before it does much damage. Perhaps it reverts everyone. 

This is inconsistent with an estrous cycle, which is normally what being "in heat" means. In an estrous cycle, sexual desire is limited to times of fertility. What you are describing is just a menstrual cycle with a different cycle. Instead of a monthly cycle, you're suggesting more of an annual cycle. This is much more like the current situation than anything we'd describe as "in-heat". If you want this, then you should stop using the term "in-heat". If you want to use the term "in-heat", you should understand what it means. And what it means is no sex outside of heat, whether natural or artificially induced. Consequences Birth control If women could only get pregnant at one time of year, then birth control would be unnecessary for most of the year. Just don't have sex in June or whenever. Fooling the cycle How does the cycle know that it's time? Day/night cycle? Temperature? What? Whatever it may be, they'd explore ways to change the cycle. Much of the effort that we put into birth control might find its way into birth promotion instead. In-heat I actually think that it would be more interesting to have a true in-heat scenario. People would only have sex when the female was in-heat. To have intercourse outside the normal cycle, the female would need to be artificially stimulated. Males would respond to the female arousal. In-heat females would take time off from work and seclude themselves until normal pheromones resumed. Romantic getaways would involve really getting away. Only out-of-heat females would be able to make contact with the couple. The concept of rape would change. They'd really blame the female, since it would be the female desire that drove sexual encounters. Perhaps they'd have laws against in-heat females exposing males to their pheromones during their in-heat period.