Here's an article on that subject: With muscles, 'use it or lose it' rings true It's good and bad news: 

Sometimes, too, I seem to have more or less weight: depending on whether I'm sitting back or forward on the saddle, and how hard I'm pedalling (as an extreme example, weight on the hand is negative, i.e. I'm holding/pulling on the bars, when I'm first accelerating from a stop). Also, if I recall correctly, someone commented to me earlier on this board that your weight should be partly supported by your trunk/core/back. 

I generally get off the bike: if I want to walk on the side-walk, or if I want to use a pedestrian cross-walk to cross an intersection. Four reasons: 

Beakfast! Beakfast Beakfast Beakfast! Water! Lunch! I'm vegetarian. I want water, bread (or toast), fruit, salt, something on the bread, soup or stew, a muffin or two, a burrito for lunch, snack in the afternoon, chocolate soy milk in my coffee, and dinner, plus a 'recovery day' of rest and unlimited eating. Carbs like bread and rice and pasta (not just sugar) are what I mostly need for energy. Oil is very calorie-dense (more than sugar), so add olive oil etc. When I'm "working out" I want to eat 50% more (daily calories) than usual. The fat I put on in winter (for the cold rides), I have since sweated off again in summer. 

I suggest there may be quite a difference between roads and rocky trails. I bought a bike recently for commuting, that I love: 

Keep your mouth closed when you breathe. Holding the tongue against the roof of the mouth can make it easier to keep those passages warm and humid while you breathe through your nose. 

It might matter where your cleats are: whether they're more forward under the ball of your foot, or more rearward under the arch of your foot. 

I found a long list here (I don't know how good or recent it is, but it is quite long, and pan-national): Where to Find A Four-Wheeled Bike or Tricycle. The various sellers might tell you whether/how it's possible to transport them by car. There are also second-level links, for example one of the links is to $URL$ which then links to $URL$ 

It has fenders and a rack, and bright blinking lights; and I have a pannier, and gloves and a jacket and waistcoat-shaped fleecy, and a hat or helmet. The LBS I bought it from offers free servicing twice a year for the first two years. A mountain bike: might you also need to winterize the suspension somehow? 

In contrast to Criggie's answer I use Marathon Plus (size 700x32) and don't get punctures. I started using them because I used to get occasional punctures and didn't like that. I even found they're faster, too, if only because I'm more confident, that potholes and whatnot have no effect on them. You say you had 3 flats in 1 week (where "1 week" is presumably 160 miles). I have no flats in 1000s and 1000s of km. I found they have to be newish, after 5 years the tires lost their magic i.e. became vulnerable to slow leaks, partly from wear but maybe because the rubber dries out or something even if they're not too worn (I replaced them, and the new tires are magic again). 

I might suggest you look for a "touring" tire, which I expect is made for reliable long distances on roads including rough roads. For example I have tires, and I like them (e.g. for 30 km/day): they are much stronger than my previous tires, and they resist getting flats. 

I expect that manufacturers would want and have this information. These articles (here and here) suggest to me that you can tell things about the world-wide bike market by looking at Shimano. 

I expect you should have ice tires. Your brakes aren't user-serviceable, are they: so I'd ask whoever maintains them, about e.g. whether you have the right, sufficiently new and well installed brake pads. I bought a similar bike (i.e. alu and disc brakes) in Toronto in February for commuting, with the LBS assuring me it would be road-worthy. You have front suspension though as well, which I don't. Apparently hydraulic brake fluid should be OK to at least -30C. Beware of having to try to change a tire in that cold. At -20 at riding on hills it might be difficult to choose the right clothing. 

The following aren't official or best practice, necessarily, but my experience is that drivers seem to behave as if they understand them. I like a sweeping gesture with the whole arm, as if opening a door; or a beckoning. Big gestures, like these, except that mine are meant to be seen as a motion (by one car) instead of static (by several cars). To wave someone past me at a 4-way stop I use a hand gesture like shooing a fly away from in front of my face (the 'Australian salute') ... with a limp wrist, so it ends with my forearm vertical and my hand pointing in the direction of travel. Wearing gloves might add to the effect/visibility/authority of the gesture. To be explicit that I'm not going anywhere until after they do, e.g. for a bus or a dump truck, I sit up, hands off the handle-bars; and put one hand or two on my hips; and wait. I also do this when I'm stopped in a bike lane and looking behind me (so that everyone knows that I'm stopped), waiting to cross through lanes of traffic. 

In the city (in parks and on cycle trails) when off-leash dogs approach me, I slow down to avoid any risk of hitting them (as with children). Dogs run and bark. That's what they do. Enjoy them. 

Apart from comfort/suspension, another consideration for dirt (unpaved) roads is getting flat tires (I road recently with someone who will only ride his road bike on paved roads, to avoid flats). But I note that, for example, Marathon Plus are available starting at size 25. I have a "hybrid" bike with 32mm wheels (and disc brakes). A road biker once pointed out my wheels and commented that they look robust, unlike his, and that I wouldn't have trouble with them: from which I inferred that road bikers find their wheels fragile! It's true that I am care-free about the ability of my wheels and tires to survive pot-holes at speed (which matches the footnote of Batman's answer). In summary there may be a difference of more than only the wheel width: a bike with narrow wheels might be optimized for weight and wind resistance, at the cost of being relatively fragile; a bike with wider wheels might be optimized more for robustness/endurance. Road racers might notice whether their bikes weigh slightly more, recreational cyclists might be happier with something slightly sturdier. The "adventure" bike you linked to is made of "lightweight and durable aluminum", whereas the road bike (from the same manufacturer) includes "composite" (I presume that means carbon) components. You don't intend to fall over but you presumably will a few times (e.g. apparently everyone does, when they first learn to clip their shoes to the pedals). I think I read that an accident involving carbon components is cause for concern: they might need replacing? Whereas less concern with aluminium. 

For a speed difference of 1 metre per second, the time is 100 seconds. For a speed difference of 2 metres per second, the time is 50 seconds. For a speed difference of 0.5 metres per second, the time is 200 seconds. Generally, for a speed difference of "" metres per second, the time is "" seconds. 

I guess (I never ride on the sidewalk) that, if your tires aren't properly inflated then you may be more likely to get a "pinch flat": because you'll be hitting and climbing kerbs more often. Also, when I got bored of getting flats during commuting, I changed my tires to (puncture resistant) 'Marathon Plus' touring tires.