I'll say it as bluntly as possible. The style of handlebars on a bicycle has absolutely no bearing on its suitability for winter conditions. 

Besides the information others have replied with, the numbers provided show a sustained 0.4% growth rate over 109 years. Over the last ten years, we should expect a 5% expected growth in output. 5% isn't actually that large a jump; especially when you consider the variability of the data. It's not out of the realm of possibility that unrelated external factors have kept speeds from increasing. In fact, you'll notice on that graph that from the mid 1950s to the early 1980s (around a 25 year span) growth was flat as well. One of those external factors is likely stricter controls on doping. Given that there's been a significant crackdown in the past decade, it's actually quite astonishing that we've managed to break even. A simplistic way of looking at it is that availing yourself of the last decade's worth of advances in technology and nutrition confers upon you the same advantages that (some significant amount of) doping would have given you ten years ago. 

It's really easy to do but it's not very reliable either. Since you got some good old 550 chrome wheels and it's french maybe they come from Rigida. Thing is, Rigida wheels where, at the time, stamped with their fabrication year which you will find inside a little losange. Other way is to go for the hub. Some manufacturers like Normandy also dated their production by engraving the year (you got two numbers and have to look at the second one which is the two last digits of the year). So assuming that the wheels are the original ones, that's your best bet to date your bike. From instinct I would say that it's a late 70's bike and from the tubing it could be italian more than french but here I can be wrong. 

Your freewheel seems busted from what you say, it happens when the cogs are worn, nothing much to do there. Everything is reparable but it sometimes takes a lot of time for not a lot of gain. Question is what is the value of your wheelcircle and from picture i'd say that's and old aluminium one. I don't know how that is where you live but in my neighborhood you can get a "brand new" used one for under 5 bucks. If the freewheel is busted you have to replace the entire bearing, meaning you have to take the entire wheel apart and then do the spoking from scratch. If you have a bit of experience and tools that is a good 1-2 hours of work, if it's your fist time count merely your sunday afternoon on it. So my conclusion is : get a new wheel and recycle this one into an artistic project of some sort :) 

If you've just started cycling again, I think it's exceedingly probable that you've simply neglected to inflate your tires to their recommended pressure. Standard road tires should be inflated to pressures of 100PSI and beyond. Mountain bike tires (which are awful for road use, but I digress...) require much less. It's easy to grossly underestimate how much to inflate a bike tire, and a standard hand pump will likely only get you to 30-60 PSI before you give up. Take your bicycle to your nearest bike shop and have them examine the situation. Flat tires should not be a common occurrence. 

We have no way to know what may or may not have been damaged in the accident, especially without knowing details about the accident and the types of components on the bike. Some parts you likely won't be able to determine if they're still functional until you put them on a different bike and ride on them. That said, you're not going to get much by selling a lot of those components piecemeal, especially with a disclaimer that it's been in an accident. My recommendation? Scrap the bike for parts, and keep them around as spares for your next bike. Having a good supply of used parts on hand can be incredibly useful. 

The typical touring bike with drop bars and bar end shifters shoots the shift cable out the bar tape, right under the curve like so: 

Raise handlebars and/or shorter stem Padded gloves Double layer of handlebar tape or gel pads under the tape Move hand location frequently between cross bar, hoods, corners and drops (for me at least, when my handlebars are higher I tend to spend more time in the drops) 

Practice riding with both hands lightly touching the handlebar. In a sense you're learning to ride by controlling the bike with your seat/legs but you don't have to completely remove your hands from the bar, just try to transfer more and more control away from your hands (this is just an exercise, not for general riding). You should get to the point where you have very good control with your seat/legs (going straight) and your hands are just lightly touching the bars. At this point you can try releasing your left hand (with right hand firm on the bars but not clamped tight). Find a place to do these exercises away from others (cars, bikes and pedestrians) and only do it on a smooth surface until you master it. When you can right with just your right hand on the bars (I'm assuming you're in a drive on the right country) and can use your left hand to signal turns and braking, you'll be a much safer rider. 

The ideal for everyday washing is jetwash, it's relatively cheap (in France there are spots where you can do that for 50cts), it's ecological, it's quick and there is no problem for the machine. For more drastic washing what I do is I go straight for acetone. You don't need much of it but it's great for the grease/brake dust deposits, even for wheels (you maybe want to remove the tires before doing the wheels but except for that no problem). It's less costly than wipes, less complicated (because wipes tend to shred on some parts which is tricky) and you don't need much of it so it's not that bad for the planet (since it's for yearly/bi-yearly cleaning) 

I depends on quite a lot of little things. First there is the weight repartition of your bike, think of it as a hammer : if the hammerhead is up high it will be difficult for you to vertically put it on a table in terme of stability but if the hammer upside is down it's not a problem. This is due to some lever phenomenon occuring and there is the same thing when you're on your bike. It's mainly because even if you're light you're still the heavier part of it. Now the thing with weight repartition is that's it's linked to efficiency because of the fact that it's your speed that makes the balance, the harder the balance to find the more energy you need. This applies to every bike but the lighter you are the easier it is to have good weight repartition. (because 10kg+50kg is very not the same as 10kg + 80kg since you can't transfer your own weight) So then again it's marginal but if your bike has good vertical weight repartition this should work for you and not against you and it's more easy to find. Secondly there is the momentum issue, the higher you weight the less equilibrium you have but you get more momentum, that means that to a attain a good regime in some circumstances you will have to burn more energy under a certain weight. There also is an equilibrium to find because if you are too heavy it's the same thing, the momentum is harder to find. So i'd say the lighter is not necessarily the absolute best, it depends on your general condition and gaining or losing weight depends on that. For the rest there still is some technical aerodynamics to do on you machine but I dout this alone would make you gain 10mph. 

I currently have traditional drop bars and cross (interrupter) brake levers. I like the interrupters and use them a lot. But I'm going to get a compact drop bar (FSA Omega Compact bar on order), and in trying to envision this new setup, it seems the interrupters might be less useful with compact bars because my hands, even on the cross bar, will be closer to the (regular) brakes. Plus the "cockpit" area, being more compact with compact bars, might be overly cluttered with interrupters in there. Plus with a compact bar I suspect I'll have my hands on the cross bar less of the time. All in all it seems interrupter brakes are less desirable on a compact drop bar than they are on a traditional drop bar. Does anyone use interrupter brake levers on a compact bar? 

I'm going to be re-taping my bars for the first time soon, and I was thinking about a putting an extra layer of tape for just slightly increased diameter and padding. I have big hands, but I don't want the padding kits that are available, as I think that might be too much. Is this under-taping at all common? I was thinking about using cloth medical-style tape. Would this be a good choice? (I don't race, just exercise/commute/day-trip, will be getting compact drop-bars) 

Upgrade from say a 7-speed to a 10-speed (because you have 3 discs in front) without changing anything is a double question : 1. Does your rear derailleur is compatible ? Meaning : is the cage length long enough and does it have sufficient amplitude. 2. 10-speed chainings are thiner than 7-speed in order to avoid friction on the front discs. You have an example with the Shimano 640x group (great stuff btw), the rear derailleur is the quasi exact same design but when the 6400 one is a 6-speed, the 6401 can handle 7 to 8 speeds just as easily provided you mount a thiner chain. This is a technical spec problem from the time, if the 10-speed chaining was very rare (or inexistent) at the time, you would have to calculate derailleur amplitude from a 6-speed point of vue. So now that 10-speed chainings are available, if your discs are thin enough (usually they are) you can pass the 8 speeds on the bike just by changing the chain. It's theoretical from a MTB point of vue but it's a Roadbike reality. The morale is here that it's not because it's old that it's obsolete, sometimes au contraire. I upgraded a 70's roadbike with a 90's group, my main problem was that some setting screws were not designed for ulterior frame modifications which impose a workaround (basically a longer screw and adaptation of the stop). The thing is, what is your desired upgrade ? 1. If it's "the same thing but younger" it should be fairly easy because things have not changed dramatically between the 90's and today (less than between the 70's and the 90's) 2. If it's "more performance at all costs" it could be tricky because it means changing at least the chain, cassette and shifters but also eventually the rear-derailleur and front discs (if they are too thick you will have some nasty friction). Concerning the shifters, unless you have good old fashioned friction ones (this kind : $URL$ it could be tricky too because if it's an indexed system, provided that you stay in the brand and that you keep the same number of speeds you can certainly be lucky (because it's more of a cassette issue in reason of the system, indexed shifters provide differential tension which is calculated from the inter-speed space which is proprietary). You don't have this problem with friction shifters because it's an analogic device that does not care at all how many speeds you have (because if you tend the cable all the way you will span all your cassette anyway). Same thing for the front. This is why (I'm sort of lazy this way) I systematically use friction shifters, it's bit tricky to use at first when not accustomed but you get the coup de main pretty fast. But if you have now a 7-speed indexed shimano transmission, upgrading the shifters with newer 7-speed ones should not pose problems. 

I like drop compact drop bars but I think I'd like them better if they were angled in like Salsa Woodchipper bars. I adjust my brake levers to angle in on regular drop bars and compact drops because like my hand to grip something at an inward angle, not a straight ahead parallel. I want to try those Salsa Woodchipper bars, but I'd prefer to first try something less extreme, like a cross between the Salsa Woodchipper and the compact drop bars I use now. Anyone know of such an animal? (I ride more or less upright, saddle about the same height as the top of the bars. Slow, steady, but sensual. And classy.) 

My bike is like this. It would be cleaner to run those cables all the way along the bars under the tape and have them come out alongside the brake cables. What's the problem with doing it like that? Too many curves in the cable makes too much cable drag? At some point I'll re-cable everything - what would be the downside of running the shifter cables all the way to the middle of the bars under the tape to where STI shifter cables emerge? (FWIW the way the cables come out as it is now, dealing with those cables when riding is a minor issue. But it's still an issue - there are times when you must open your hand to move it from here to there on the handlebars. Possibly the bigger issue to me is handling the bike when not riding, locking it up, etc.) 

Powerlinks are a liability, best thing to do to do without it (get a regular link and replace on your chain) and then invest in a small and light chain tool (under 10 bucks but it's a tool you have it for all your life). With a little practice you can open and close your chain as quickly as with your powerlink but you don't have to worry about that kind of problem. 

In France, we have Bicycode ($URL$ What they do is that they engrave your frame with some sort a serial number. It's considered irreversible because attempt at erasing it would likely damage the frame. There is a contre-indication for carbon or titanium frames (but if it's a alu or steel composite you can certainly engrave on the metal part). Then once it's tagged, the bike is entered into a national database along with your infos (so basically you enter a VIN registry but for bikes). If you want to sell you bike, you will then just need to transfer the ownership and if it's stolen you can report to the authorities in order to put you bike on some blacklist which should render it "more difficult" to sell (it's juste like cars, you'll always find shady people). But the good thing is that if your bike is found you should normally be contacted. So it's like with your antitheft, it's not perfect but that could incite the thief to go for the next bike rather than yours. Maybe there is some sort of equivalent in your neighborhood, it's worth a search (in my town it cost 2euros). 

At the beginning of this video: $URL$ it looks like this bike messenger has an extra strap for his bag that comes up under his left arm to stabilize his load. Looks pretty neat, like it can be easily unsnapped to get the normal messenger bag access, and possibly be DIY-able. 

If you had 35mm tires (Schwalbe marathon supremes to be specific) would you get innertubes speced as 28-35mm or 35-42mm? Or whichever is cheaper? 

I'm 53 and for the past year have been pushing it slightly. Have always been careful to not push it too hard, but yesterday I got a mild pull in my right hamstring. Just a slight soreness right behind the knee. Can I keep riding, 5-10 miles a day, at an easier pace without worsening it, or should I stop riding until I can't feel it? 

I just measured the inner width of my rim with a ruler and it seemed to be a hair over 14mm. Looking at the tire sizing chart on Sheldon Brown's site it doesn't have an entry for 14mm inner width rims. My wheels are Vuelta Corsa HDs (nashbar special), and that rim is probably used on other Vuelta wheels, so I'm thinking it's not an unusual size. Might they be considered 15mm? Anyone know the official spec for those rims?