The opposite of the above. Safeguard your social relationships in the 'six directions' (DN 31). Practise friendliness, compassion, appreciation for goodness & equanimity. Engage in wholesome pleasures, such as exercise, sports, outdoors nature, arts, contemplative music, charity work, generosity, meditation. etc. 

True. Individualism, self-achievement & success are strong features of Buddhism. The Maha-mangala Sutta & Sigalovada Sutta are excellent examples. What mitigates blind & excessive material pursuit in Buddhism is the emphasis upon duty ('dhamma') towards the well-being of one-self & others and thus not pursuing what is excessive, harmful &/or unnecessary. The scriptures always praise materially successful people who earn their wealth blamelessly (eg. Anana Sutta) and share their wealth with others, without being attached to it (eg. 41.1.12.). My impression is Thai Buddhists have been particularly shrewd & successful as a nation, at least historically (rather than currently). The following link, whilst listing teachings from the ancient Pali scriptures, has a particularly Thai bent in its explanations. The focus on 'success' is very apparent. A Constitution for Living: Buddhist Principles for a Fruitful and Harmonious Life 

Therefore, liberation (from suffering) must be unconditioned, just as Nirvana is unconditioned. In summary, the eightfold path does not create or condition Nirvana. Instead, the eightfold only removes the obscurations to Nirvana (which was always there but unknown due to obscurations). 

In the Indian suttas (attributed to the Buddha), monks generally prepared their minds to accept death by violence, as described in SN 35.88 & MN 21. In the Indian suttas & commentaries, there are also stories of the Buddha & his disciples using love & psychic powers to avoid death, such as Angulimala Sutta, the assassination attempts by Devadatta and Maha Moggallana using his psychic powers to escape assassination. 

The word 'mindfulness' means 'to remember' or 'keep in mind'. In the context of Buddhism, it means 'to remember' to practise the factors of the eightfold path. For example, if you are speaking/talking, you remember to speak in a manner that is honest, pleasant/gentle, cordial & beneficial. This is practising mindfulness meditation when meditating upon speech. If practising formal sitting meditation, mindfulness is to remember to keep the mind in state that does not have desire for or get distressed about anything in the world. Therefore, in formal sitting meditation, how to practise mindfulness meditation is to sit without desire or worry & just sit with natural quiet. When this is done properly, awareness of breathing will arise naturally as a sign of right mindfulness & later pleasant feelings will arise as a sign of right mindfulness. 

I have come to the conclusion the term 'paññāpanāya' in SN 22.82 and MN 109 is idiosyncratic to the questioner rather than a term the Buddha would ideally use because the term is not used in SN 22.56, which is an unprompted discourse. Also, at the end of SN 22.82, the Buddha did not say in the closing verse that the bhikkhu came to ask to about 'paññāpanāya'. Instead, the Buddha remarked the bhikkhu came to ask about 'the cause' (hetunā). It seems the questioner asked about the cause of 'paññāpanāya' & the Buddha has given a slightly different answer about the mere cause (hetu) of the mere aggregates. In conclusion, SN 22.82 is only about what causes the aggregates existentially. It is not about how the aggregates are affected by the Dependent Origination of ignorance. 

Yes. It can seem to be like a 'contradiction'. But when the mind is free from greed, hatred & delusion, what seems to be 'contradictory' to an ignorant unenlightened mind will vanish. The Buddha was never under the illusion that all individuals could comprehend his Dhamma. 

'Mindfulness' ('sati') means to 'remember' rather than to 'observe' ('anupassi'). In the context of basic meditation, 'sati' remembers to observe rather than forgets to observe. 'Mindfulness' & 'observing' are two distinctly separate functions & activities of mind, even though they function together in mediation. 

In the Khajjaniya Sutta, it is unambiguous that what is recollected in pubbe+nivāsa+anussati+ñāṇa is not a 'self' but merely the five aggregates formerly mistaken to be 'myself'. 

The many different Pali words translated as 're-birth' essentially refer to the re-arising or re-formation of the self-view of 'a being' due to kamma (action). For example, under the influence of self-view, a person undertakes a financial scam & celebrates when they become or are 're-born' financially wealthy. Then, when they are imprisoned for fraud, the same person is re-born as a prisoner in a jail & are unhappy. In summary, despite the different interpretations, 'rebirth' is always a doctrine of 'moral efficacy'. Where as 'reincarnation' is always a metaphysical doctrine of the soul or some other mental substance entering a new physical body. A Buddhist can believe in moral 'rebirth' but not believe in 'reincarnation' (life after death). 

The real purpose of life is to end suffering. Love is merely one method for preventing & ending certain types of suffering. Non-attachment is another method for preventing & ending other types of suffering. For example, when a child is born, it is hungry & alone. This suffering of hunger & aloneness is to be ended by parents feeding & comforting the child. When the child gets older, it suffers from boredom & restlessness, so it plays with toys & games to end the suffering of boredom & restlessness. When the child becomes a teenager, it has the suffering of sexual urges & engages in sexual activity or gets married to end the suffering of sexual urges. As an adult, this person has children & suffers when it sees the suffering of its children so the adult practises love & care towards its children to end its suffering & the children's suffering. Later, the adult experiences the suffering of loss; such as loss of wealth, loss of status, loss of friends, loss of children, loss of spouse, loss of health, loss of life, etc. To end the suffering of loss, the adult can seek more wealth, more children, more status, another spouse, have plastic surgery or believe in reincarnation or going to heaven with Jesus or God. Otherwise, to end the suffering of loss or change, like the Buddha, the person can practise non-attachment & not-self, understanding all of the things that change & are lost never actually ever belonged to oneself or were 'oneself' in the 1st place. 

For me, this is a very questionable interpretation of the teachings. Suttas such as SN 13.1 say a stream-enterer has around 1/100,000th of the ordinary suffering of an ordinary person. It seems ridiculous that a stream-enterer could extinguished 99,999/100,000 of suffering in one lifetime but required six more lifetimes (at most) to extinguish the other 1/100,000th of suffering. 

Kamma works in visible ways. If you steal money, the results (vipaka) of that kamma (action) can include worrying you will get caught & getting punished if you get caught. People will not trust you. Your reputation will be bad. The Pali suttas (AN 6.63) state kamma ends when the eightfold path is practised. If you stop stealing & know with clear wisdom why should never steal again, the old kamma ends. If you stole money from someone you know, you can repay it if you can, to make it all better. If you cannot repay it, no problem. There is nothing that will guarantee the same theft will happen to you in return. 

Therefore for example, inanimate objects, such as rocks, trees or stars in the sky, are 'unsatisfactory'; they cannot bring or be relied on for true pleasure; but they are not 'suffering'. To avoid doubt, Dhammapada 278 explains the experience of "sabbe saṅkhārā dukkhā" results in liberation rather than suffering: 

Reflecting properly, they make use of almsfood:‘Not for fun, indulgence, adornment, or decoration, but only to continue and sustain this body, avoid harm, and support spiritual practice. So that I will put an end to old discomfort and not give rise to new discomfort, and so that I will keep on living blamelessly and at ease.’ AN 6.58 

In other words, 'kamma' is not a teaching that is unique & special to the Buddha. Therefore, kamma is not an essential teaching, as shown in the first two sermons of the Buddha, where the method to liberation was explained as ending craving. When a person lives without craving, they automatically do not engage in any harmful behaviours & are also free from suffering. The Buddha often explained what he taught & never included 'kamma' as his special & unique teaching, as follows: 

Discern clearly with wisdom the other person is a 'false-friend'. Ensure this clear discernment is free from hatred & established in equanimity & concern (compassion). 

There does not appear to be a correlation with Newton's third law of motion because much (but not all) of what is described as wholesome acts is related to non-doing, such as non-killing; non-stealing; no-lying, etc. Thus, these kinds of wholesome acts maintain the natural balance of the mind rather than create a dualistic reaction. Also, the kammic law you have described is not an absolute "truth" but a mere generalization. For example, if you are a perfect parent, it can be generally (but not always) expected that you will have good children. However, if your children die, the love of your perfecting parenting will generate suffering. This shows the wholesome act of perfectly loving your children can bring a negative result. However, if it is (erroneously) assumed good kamma always brings a good result, this would seem to contradict Newton's Law because there would be no opposite reaction. Where as with the reality of kamma, yes, something similar (but not exacting) to Newton's law would occur in relation to kammic acts of doing (as opposed to non-doing) because the elasticity of the brain results in excitement or hope over good results, which will eventually lead to an opposite reaction when those hopes fade (such as with the absence or loss of children who are loved). 

Because not everyone wants to abandon self, completely, 100%. Most Buddhists cannot even reach Nirvana so how do you expect the non-Buddhists to do so? The Buddha did not teach his dhamma was for all people. 

Conclusion: In the Pali, the word ‘sankhara’ is used in many different contexts. For a clear & practical comprehension of the Pali teachings, the suitable context is best discerned. Below is an example of an internet translation & the alternate translation of this webpage. 

'Self' is a subjective ever-changing 'idea' or 'thought' created by the ignorant mind. For example, the 'self' the mind believed it was at 4 years old is different to the 'self' the mind believes it is at 35 years old. If the mind stops thinking, it can see the body & mind do not have any real self. For example, if an axe is used to cut off a finger, is there any 'self' in that detached finger? Is there any 'self' in an ear lobe or eye-ball or liver or kidney? Is there any 'self' in a feeling of pain, perception of 'green' or sight of object or hearing of a sound? 'Self' is only an idea, such as when a mind believes: "John is a nice person" but another mind believes: "John is a bad person". 

'Sampajañña' means to be clearly cognizant in the application & use of various kinds of 'pañña' (wisdom; discernment) that relate to giving up craving & the cessation & suffering. The scriptures state: 

4. ‘Sankhara’ as the ‘mental formations aggregate’. There are five aggregates (khandha) of life (body, feeling, perception, mental formations & consciousness), of which ‘sankhara khandha’ (mental formations/forming) is the 4th. The ‘sankhara khandha’ operates in all people, including Buddhas. For example, about the end of the life of a fully enlightened being, the scriptures state: 

The mind travels the path, therefore there is a traveller, which is the mind (but not a self). The Dhammapada states: 

Therefore, vihiṃ­sā appears to be about inflicting harm & injury upon another person while byāpā­da­ appears to refer to mental thoughts of ill-will (but not necessarily the additional step of inflicting harm upon the object of ill-will). 

As for the term 'emptiness', it means 'empty of self', such as found in the term 'kenosis' in Philippians 2:7: 

I have lived in a remote monastery before with forest monks. All of the alms food, including the fruit & curries, were emptied into a bowl, mixed up, and then spooned out individually. A real monks does not pick & choose alms food. That is a disgrace. You can find an answer from a Theravada monk, here: 

In the Buddha's time families lived in clans or extended families. The Buddha's family was very wealthy and Yashodhara was fully provided for. Also, it is highly probable Gotama rarely (if ever) had sex with Yashodhara because the suttas seem to depict Gotama as childless & having lost interest in sensuality (AN 3.39; MN 75) while he lived in his three palaces. While rarely hypothesized in Buddhism, it is highly likely, after 12 years of childless marriage, Gotama had sex with Yashodhara to have a son at the request of his father. This is because as soon as Gotama had a son, he left home. Contrary to the legends that say Gotama left home secretly, the suttas (e.g. MN 26) state Gotama left home seeing the tears of his parents stream down their face. Therefore, it seems Gotama possibly made a deal with his family, if he bore an heir to the throne, he could leave home. 

This is wrong. When then the mind remains unmoving on the breathing, the breathing calms & the mind feels peaceful. The wisdom that arises from this is the mind knows when it is free from craving & attachment (by being unmoving), the mind becomes peaceful. Therefore, the mind realises the four noble truths, namely, the giving up of craving & attachment by making the mind unmoving or empty leads to peace & the end of suffering. In addition, when the mind remains unmoving on the breathing, it discerns the breathing is coming, going & changing; the mind discerns the body breathes rather than the 'self' breathes. Therefore, by remaining unmoving on the breathing, the mind gains the wisdom that the breathing is impermanent & not-self (anatta). 

The Pali scriptures are mostly consistent; without contradiction. The primary themes are non-harming (morality), non-sensual happiness (concentration) & non-attachment (wisdom). However, there are certainly some notable contradictions in them (for example, the Maha-Nidana Sutta), which I speculate were later attempts to introduce ideas about 'reincarnation' into the scriptures so a 'social religion' attracting a broader audience could be developed. I would speculate this ultimately lead to the demise of Buddhism in India, making Buddhism indifferentiatible from Hinduism. The foundation for a proper understanding of the Pali teachings is to embrace the principle that is chanted everyday in Theravada Buddhist countries about the Dhamma or Teachings, namely: 

The ideas of 'svabhāva' in Nagarjuna's Madhyamaka are merely that, namely, "ideas" or intellectual thoughts rather any direct insight from meditation. For example, based in meditation & insight, consciousness is mere awareness or consciousness and meditation & insight cannot reduce it to any smaller parts or particles (although meditation can discern the impermanence, selfless & how consciousness is dependent on sense organs to arise). The following Pali teaching is an example of what 'sabhava' is meant to mean, namely, natural things have their own nature that is not a 'self' or 'mine': 

This is not completely correct. While jhanas are certainly necessary for 100% enlightenment, believing you must attain jhana before any enlightenment can occur is wrong understanding & a hindrance. A Stream-Enterer is 25% enlightened but has not yet reached jhana. 

People create all kinds of ideas about 'God', to the point where people murder in the name of 'God' or people develop ideas 'God' will give them immortality simply for taking a personal allegiance. There were always 'gods' among the ancient peoples but the Jewish idea of 'God' (which was transmitted to Christianity & Islam also) was originally about 'Law' ('Torah'). 'God' and 'Law' were originally essentially the same thing. Many religious Jews do not personify 'G-d'. Even Muslims openly discuss/debate the issue of anthropomorphism. Buddhism has 'Law' ('Niyama') thus has something similar to 'God', albeit, strictly impersonal. Just like many Buddhists wrongly take the Buddha to be a 'person', so do many people take 'God' to be a 'person', particularly Christians.