I am trying to convert my flat bar bike to drop bar. I have bought STI's but I also want to use additional brake levers(like cyclocross bikes, flat bar levers) as well. I may be wrong but cable pull ratio of caliper brakes(which I am going to install on my bike) must be different so I think I can't use my old levers with caliper brakes. This is my first question, V brake levers can be used with calipers?(I think no) Now I am looking for a suitable brake lever. But how can I understand if I can combine them with STI's and caliper brake? Do they have a name like "Flat bar road brake system"? I have taken a look to some bike stores on web, they only tag "v brakes" and "road brake shifters". 

Some people are using non compatible components on their bikes. For example, using Tiagra's old 3x9 speed FD (4503?) with a 10 speed RD. And it works. So what is the point of saying "Dear customer, this Tiagra FD will only work with 9 speed RD's, never combine with a 10 speed one!". 

(1) Go Slow and Go Easy On Yourself. Climbing hills is supposed to be hard! You are carrying 250 lbs (you, bike, your stuff) 264 feet straight up over that mile. I was riding once with a guy who has a PowerTap hub (a $500 toy for bike nerds and pro athletes that reports energy expenditure on your bike computer), and he said the main thing he had learned from it is how much your energy expenditure spikes when going uphill. His main takeaway from that, rather than trying to maintain anything like a constant speed when going up a grade, is to try to maintain a constant energy expenditure, which means slow up the hills, usually much slower than most riders choose without any energy expenditure information. My pet theory is that lot of riders operate on a bit of a mental analogy to cars, which typically go the same speed regardless of incline, and feel they should aspire to the same. You are not a car. Shift to first. Don't rush. I would disagree with the "try shifting up" advice -- that works in some situations, but usually only for stronger riders, so I'd save it until after you can finish the hill on your lowest gear. For a novice rider, one of your concerns should be keeping undue pressure off your knees, which means lower gears and high cadence. (2) Keep riding. The best way to get better at bike riding is . . . bike riding. Doing a daily commute like you're doing is one of the best ways to get to be a stronger rider. Go easy on yourself -- if you have to walk part of the way, that's fine, walk part of the way -- but don't stop commuting by bike. (3) Consider clipping in. The downside is that you have to buy new pedals and shoes, and you may well fall over once or twice getting used to them (start using clipped-in pedals in a low-traffic area; get really familiar with how to get out of them before you even start riding). The upside is they keep your feet well positioned and allow power transfer on the upstroke. I've found that Time ATAC pedals are easier to get in and out of than the more ubiquitous Shimanos, for about the same price. 

I have an old bike that needs a lot of TLC for it to be useable again. Whilst I am sorting it out, a half hour here and there, I thought I might sort out a few bits that I'd like to improve. Its got a pair of straight leg forks and, on this particular old friend (Since 1992)I want crown headed forks with curved legs. The problem is that the steerer tube needs a 1" fork tube and it needs to be around 16" long! I'd appreciate any ideas where to look for these things. I'm in Englandsville but would be okay to pay shipping for the right parts. Any ideas? 

I'd go with upgrading the Hybrid you have,or get a 29er and use slightly less knobbly tyres, Schwalbe "Big Apples" are a great tyre for that sort of riding and they can be a good suspension, or at least lower the rumbling in your wrists. 

I suffer from diabetes insipidus, body fluids and inability to keep them inside. I'm not a fan of using a rucksack on a ride, prefer the bike to carry the weight, but am wondering if a small hydration pack would be good for riding and walking when off the bike? Ideally I'd use some hydration mix, rather than just plain water. A good idea or would I be better with the bigger, 660 ml, water bottle and carry that in a handlebar bag over my shoulder when off the bike? 

I use one of these from Decathlon. Not sure if they ship to the US, but it works great (although from the one review looks like the quality has dropped). 

I want to get into this hub to lubricate the bushing. Every instruction I see on the Internet says to use a 5 mm Allen and a 17 mm wrench. But there is nothing to put a 17 mm wrench on. There is the internal nut, but I can't get a wrench on that; it is behind the hub shell. Do I have a different version of the wheel? Or am I missing something? 

I rode 2200km this summer using a Revelate Designs Tangle Bag with a Camelbak water bladder (mine was 3L, but the Tangle Bag could hold at least another liter if you could find a larger bladder). Worked great. No switching bottles, just one thing to fill up, less distance to reach to get water, and water stays cooler longer. If you were riding across a desert or something you could carry water bottles in cages below it. With the other Revelate bag in front (the "Gas Tank"), there is a spot between the front bag and the stem to stick the end of the Camelbak hose; the stem has a notch, between the steerer-clamp bolts, that helps hold it in place. The one minor downer to the Revelate bags is that, while they are mostly water-resistant, they aren't water-proof like an Ortlieb pannier would be. The Tangle Bag in particular got significant water into it when riding in the rain for a while, I think because of the longer zipper and its orientation. Otherwise, amazing product. Fork-mounted bottle cages might be an option, but I haven't used them myself. 

I have a Merida Speeder 200 (2015). I am going to install a drop bar handlebar. I've bought sora 3503 brifters and a new front derailleur(sora 3503 too). My problem is, I didn't know anything about FD's pull directions. My bike already has Shimano M371 front derailleur. Checked on internet $URL$ it says "The Altus FD-M371 front derailleur offers the Dual-Pull technology, so the the shifting cable can be pulled from the top or from the bottom." Checked my new FD too $URL$ it is "Cable Pull: Bottom". I don't know my bike frame's pulling style(down or top). Wish I had some experience so I'd check and understand it. Old FD M371 is dual pull, I can't say if it is used top or down on my bike. So help me please, will the new FD suit to my Merida? If it does not, is there a solution for that? 

I have a Speeder 200. (2015). I want to upgrade it's rear derailleur, my problem is I am unsatisfied with its performance. (it is a Tiagra with 9 speed at the moment). If i replace it with a 105 (9 speed) should I replace the other components(cassette, chain, front derailleur etc.) as well? Or can i replace with a ultegra?(does a 9 speed exists) Should I buy a groupset? haven't tried an upgrade before. edit: I have been using it for around 400 kilometers, components are still fine, but I was never happy with that Tiagra. I have some problems with shifting, if speed is >20km/h it does not shift properly. I have taken my bike to Merida service twice, I don't think there is a cabling or another problem. It seems OK, but on road i dont like its poor shifting. For example I change it 6th to 7th, after a few cycles I hear a mechanical sound and it decides to change, not on time. I had another bike with Deore rear derailleur before, never had an issue like this. 

The main concern with thinner tires and carrying a load is getting pinch flats when you hit a bump. I ran 27 mm tires (Schwalbe Marathon Pluses, nice tires) touring around Europe this summer with about 30lbs of stuff, for about 2200km. Generally they were good, but I had to keep the tire pressure high (100 PSI or 7 bar) or else the tire would compress on bumps or rocks and I'd get a pinch flat. Either get wider tires and/or bring a high-pressure pump is the solution, and using a standing floor pump (most bike shops will let you use theirs for free) whenever you have a chance after getting a flat. 

I use Ortlieb's bike packer plus. A bit pricey, but I can fit a fair load of groceries in them, they are waterproof, and good for touring as well. I haven't done research to verify, but they are the largest Ortlieb panniers I've seen. In addition to the Wald 157 that DC_CARR mentions, there is also the Wald 135, which is less gigantic but still holds a USA-standard paper bag of groceries, and the Wald 582 rear folding baskets that each will also hold a US-standard paper grocery bag. For a while I had a pair of 582's and a 135 on one bike, and three bags of groceries is a decent haul. Added bonus for Wald is that are crazy cheap (at least in the USA).