I used the Romisen light on my helmet two weeks ago combined with a 350 lumen flood light on my handle bars (Cygolite MityCross -- $175) for the 24 Hours of Great Glen mountain bike race. The combination of a spot-light on the helmet and a flood on the handlebars allowed my to ride single-track downhill at the same race-speed that I did during the day. The flood-light on the bars serves to cast shadows behind rocks and drops, giving good terrain definition for single-track racing that would be lost with just a helmet light. For dirt roads though, the Romisen spot-light on the helmet is way more than enough, throwing a large pool of light 50 yards or more ahead. I have used the MityCross flood light alone for commuting, but it only casts a defined beam about 15 yards ahead which isn't quite enough for me to feel comfortable at road speeds. These new LED flashlights from China (like the Romisen) are giving fabulous amounts of light and are mostly are standardized on the 18650 LiIon batteries. They provide a great value and can also be used around the house and anywhere you might want a flashlight. The big thing that bike-specific lights provide is sturdy handlebar mounts (which are harder to find for flashlights) though at a large price premium. For your specified dirt-road use I'd suggest that a 300 lumen LED flashlight on your helmet would be more than sufficient. 

For what it's worth, I used to ride a half-link on a BMX bike, and it did not make much of a difference even when I was beating on it. I also put in many miles on it (it was my only ride at the time) and never had a problem or noticed a difference. The only advantage was that it allow me to run pretty much any gearing I wanted with smaller dropouts. I eventually replaced it with a KMC Kool Chain and noticed no difference. Now I ride a Black Market Mob with some generic KMC single-speed chain, and I also beat on this chain. I also commuted 10 miles round trip with hills on this bike for a long time. Never had any problems. Maybe I'm just lucky. I did have the problem that Jackon had with the creaking, but giving it a spritz of Superlube once in while did the trick every time. I've never heard of anyone comparing half-links to normal chains on a bike with an internally gearing hub. If you're willing to drop the coin, I say find out what happens. 

This light is the brightest I could find commercially available and seems to be visible from more than 1/2 mile away in bright sunshine (and much further at night). I ride with it on at all times of day while commuting year round. In my side-by side tests the 400R was significantly brighter than my car's break-lights. In the past 8 months I've had about 10 comments from drivers and as many from other cyclists about how bright the light was. 

In addition to lots of reflective material and a good headlight, I recommend the super-bright Dynotte 400R tail-light. 

I recommend the Romisen "RC-2R4 II R5" LED flashlight (available from ShiningBeam.com). Its $26 + shipping and you can get two 18650 Lithium Ion batteries and a charger for another $30 + shipping from BatteryJunction.com. All told you are looking at less than $70 for 300 lumens of spot-light in a very small (think AA Mag-light size) flashlight. Each 18650 battery will last over two hours in this flashlight. I made a little block of foam and used a small velcro strap to mount the flashlight on my helmet (seen below with a similar-sized Jet III M flashlight): 

The crank arm should definitely be lubed before installing into a bottom bracket. This is because of the long term rotations that are going to occur, and you want cranks to spin as freely in the BB as they can. As for other things like BB into the frame and headset, the reading I have done doesn't indicate that the BB needs to be greased prior to installation like you would a threaded BB; nor do headset cups into a headset. Park Tool have a couple of good tutorials for these two items ($URL$ & $URL$ Ultimately the reason you don't need to grease/lubricate those items at installation is because they don't move within the frame. The bearings will move inside each of the items. I.e. BB bearings rotate inside the BB shell and you will install headset bearings inside the cups. So it is the rotating parts that you would grease. The reason threaded BBs should be greased is to assist in the installation of them as the rotate into position (i.e. thread onto the frame). So ultimately there is no need to, however it shouldn't cause any harm if you do grease them before installation. 

Properly adjusting and lubing your brakes is the key to keeping good brakes. You want your brakes to have a snap to them and to feel them make contact with the rim. Squishy brakes are generally a bad thing. You want to make sure that both pads are laying flat against the rim. To properly do this not only must the position of the pads be adjusted but the wheel must also be trued. Also, it helps if the rim has a machined or anodized sidewall (as opposed to a painted one). You've already go this covered. Wipe the rims with degreaser. As far as brake composition, nice rubber pads work fine to my experience and always be careful not to contaminate the pads with degreaser or lube. Make sure the pads are an even distance from the rim. If you have newer caliper brakes, there is probably a set screw on the side that allows you to adjust the brakes from side to side and maybe one for the distance between the brakes. The old caliper brakes require you to change the alignment by adjusting the bolt attaching them to the frame. If your brakes squeal, it can help to have this alignment a hair off. Make sure the cable housing is lubed properly and that the cable is not fraying anywhere (this is also a safety thing). The cable likes to fray down at the pinch bolt on the brakes that holds it in place. When I've installed a new cable, I like give a nice hard pull on the brakes. This helps to ensure that the cable is stretched. Some cables claim to be prestretched, but I do this anyway just in case. Also, it helps to lube any pivot points in the brake itself. I don't go wild here, just a few drops of lube in each pivot point. Make sure the all bolts and screws are sufficiently tighted. That's all I can think of right now. EDIT: To answer some more questions, dual pivot is generally more effective. However, like everything else it depends on the quality of the brakes and how well the brakes are adjusted. Cheap single-pivot brakes scare me, though. Brakes flex when you hit them, and cheap single-pivots flex a lot when you hit your brakes hard. 

Without knowing more details about the fork (coil spring vs air spring) it is hard to recommend anything other than getting it serviced at your LBS. With that said I know on my MTB with fox float forks, that if I leave it upside down for a while it won't lockout properly. Usually because the oil has displaced within the chamber. Maybe try flipping it upside down overnight and then seeing if that helps. 

As @Batman says, 2mm is VERY little clearance on a bike. It is more likely to be the frame flexing (more so the chain and seat stays) causing the tyre to move around a bit. I would see if there is a way to mount the stand a little further forward on its bracket. You want to create as much distance as you can between your stand and the tyre as possible. Video example of a frame flexing to show what is meant by flex 

What you have to remember is that there isn't a huge difference between a cyclocross bikes and standard road bikes. Generally speaking, cyclocross bikes generally have slightly different geometry, usually burlier parts, and will always have knobby tires. It's a road bike you ride offroad. Switch to road tires and you've got a road bike. These differences amount to cyclocross bikes being heavier than road bikes. Since you're going on century rides, weight will be a big factor. Carbon fiber is always great in this department, but an aluminum frame and fork is looking more realistic on your budget. Don't buy a bike like the Surly Crosscheck, for example, as that steel frame will drag you down on those long rides. If you're looking in the 1k-2k range I would recommend that you buy a stock bike. The shop I worked at used to stock Norco, and they make some nice, reasonably-priced cross bikes. 

Rolling resistance (more pressure == rolls easier) Pinch flat resistance (more pressure == less chance for the tube to tear when a rock squashes the tire toward the rim) Grip (with less pressure, the tire can conform better to rocks, roots, and other terrain giving a larger contact surface) 

If you are riding terrain where grip isn't too much of an issue (flat or low-angle dirt and dry rocks for example), then higher pressure will keep you going fast without pinch flatting. If you are riding steep downhills and/or on slippery open rock outcroppings, grip will be more important than rolling resistance, so use as little pressure as won't pinch-flat quickly. There is a 4th trade-off as well: weight. You can buy double-sidewall downhill tires that allow you to run very low pressures (such as 25psi) without any danger of pinch-flatting, but these can weigh almost double what normal cross-country tires do. As mentioned in other answers, your tires don't have to be the same pressure. Usually grip is more important on the front tire since most of your weight is on it while descending difficult downhill sections. Similarly, when riding on flat or climbing, most of your weight is over the back tire, so rolling resistance and pinch-flat resistance are more important for the back. I personally ride with a low-pressure (30psi in a tire rated 35-65psi) double-sidewall downhill tire on the front and with a higher pressure (50psi in a tire rated 45-65psi) cross-country tire on the rear. I sacrifice some weight, but otherwise get the best of both worlds: fabulous grip going down and easy rolling on the flats and climbs. Use your best judgment in going below the rated pressure of the tire, as pinch flats become more likely. If you go below the rated pressure, be sure to test it out on hard impacts (such as a rock-corner) on easy terrain before throwing yourself at high speed down a mountain where a blow-out would be catastrophic. 

I recommend keeping a commuter bike for road use and a mountain bike for offroad use. You can always ride a mountain bike on the road if you need to (albeit less efficiently than your commuter bike). A nice, durable steel-framed hybrid is what I use for commuting, though that's really just a matter of prefence. I bought a $350 mountain bike several years ago, and I learned the hard way why cable locks suck. If you're going to lock your bike up in a public place invest in a good u-lock or something better than a cable lock. Also, replace quick-releases with bolt-ons as those same douchebags also like to steal wheels and seats.