I have long liked $URL$ but in the last time he does not write too often, so I'm not really "up-to-date" with it.. 

I like the story, where the Buddha explains how different people get a different perception of the world because of their individual access (sensual/mind-structure/etc) of the "things". He took the example of an elephant where a group of blind people touch the elephant and shall describe the elephant by what they are sensing (and then extrapolating). I think that would be a fun for the children - to get the eyes covered and then try to recognize some toy-animal by touching only a part. And then let the children compare what they found out... One need not reduce this to the question of form; the teacher/constructor of that animal (or whatever) can put different material to different places (feather, leather,...) and so on. Possibly one can construct analogies to perception of interaction of the people in one family or school: there will be some short scene be played by the teacher (and helpers) and the children can observe the same scene from different locations and/or different filters (no sound, only a keyhole to look at). The scene might be something from the view of the kids: papa gives a bit money to one child and not to another one. Some kinds can see the face of the papa (and the grief on it, because there is not enough money for all) and some cannot see the face of the papa but something else...(room for your phantasy). Then let the kids re-tell what they have seen and how they felt, and let them compare... Just a spontaneous idea, for what it's worth... 

When I go to get advice from someone, even if they can't fully relate to my situation, it's still possible they can assist. Even if they just listen, really listen and perhaps give a gentle nudge or kind remark, the interaction may well provide unexpected insight. If I already have the tools to address my own problems, it's not a matter of being given the solution, but rather given guidance in how to find it. It's tempting to say that the lay life is more complicated or problematic, but from where do these complications and problems originate? Getting to the root of this is, in reality, what the monk also faces, so although the apparent face of our problems may differ, the fundamental issue is the same. 

I like the book of Sister Chan Kong, "Learning true love" (I've only the german version "Aus Liebe zu allen Wesen"). It is a biographical report about her time in Vietnam and the war-time, when she got in contact with the buddhistic dhamma and buddhistic practice (in contact with the vietnamese monk, the venerable Thich Nhat Hanh). It is, I think, a most impressing example how one can be mindful and still in action for peace, compassion, mutual understanding, de-escalation and social work. 

2) I copy&paste some excerpt from the Mahayana-Mahaparinirvana-Sutra (taken from links found at Dr. Tony Page's site). The following are the last couple of paragraphs from the third chapter. I find it a bit strange to say the least, for instance that a man like we know it as the Buddha from the palicanon comes to be a doctor to "subdue the tirthikas" ... If I understand that excerpt correctly, then it is suggested, that the concept of no-self, of "an-atman" is only teached in the framework of concurrence of the "doctors" and "... because of this,(...)" and it is continued, that it had also been said, that there is a self, namely "... it is not that they [the dharma/the phenomena] are completely devoid of a self". The text is suggesting, that the Buddha did not teach the non-existence of the self simply because of the non-existence (what would be the natural assumption) but because of didactical reasons (and actually means something else)! Below now the excerpt, emphasis added by me: source 

A slightly cheeky thought: it's not about fulfilling conditions, but rather removing conditions. In practice, cultivating good conditions yields good results (and thus this is prescribed as part of the path), but ultimately the unconditioned needs no conditions. When a fire burns out because its fuel is exhausted, it vanishes. All that remains is the vanishing. 

The subtlety here is that understanding of this truth is not realization of this truth. I might have an experience of ego-shattering transcendence and yet, the very (next) moment, act selfishly out of long-worn old habits. The practice of realization is one of purification and ceasing to establish new roots for future suffering. In the Zen tradition we often chant/study the Heart sutra, which sums up the fruition of practice as "gate gate paragate parasamgate, bodhi svaha". Loosely, "gone, gone, gone beyond, gone completely beyond, awake, so be it." It's not enough to understand anatta, I must go beyond even understanding not-I and find myself realized in living my life. I have to go beyond going and find a way to be present by ceasing to imagine that I am (not). Which is all just a fancy way of saying this is a real practice to be lived and not merely a philosophy to be understood. 

There is a strong aspect in the training by the Buddha to achieve some self-analysis, some self-liberation. But there is also another one, not often discussed but it occurs in some suttas (don't have the actual reference at the moment). This might be called a social one which introduces something like "reciprocity" or "echo": If you've taken the vow that you won't kill - and the people around you can trust you, then the people around you need not fear getting killed, they can themselves feel more free and secure, and this is not only a good athmosphere for them but shall echo back to yourself and your freedom to move between them - and in general for the common social environment. If you've taken the vow that you won't take what is not given - then the people around you need not fear that their things shall be taken away. When they know you are of that type you might walk through the fields (if it is a rural area) with much less things to be taken care of - so this again shall echo back to you - and in general for the common social environment (I really loved such a free- and trusting feeling when I wandered through the south of France, it was really new to me grown up in urban Germany...) Think about the other vows - it should not be too difficult to image analoguous examples. So, your keeping-the-silas and generating-trust-in-this improves an environment of freedom and - one shall even find out- of generosity and other good mental states and routines, thus reducing dukkha on both sides in such reciprocal process. 

Buddhist practice doesn't start from the premise that the world is a just and fair place; rather, it aims to reveal that all conditioned existence is marked by suffering. Suffering is the real problem and assigning blame doesn't help to alleviate it. It's also not particularly helpful to consider what-if scenarios like "would I still be to blame if I had a tumor and couldn't control my actions?" I have enough real problems without imagining new ones See, reality doesn't happen to someone else and it doesn't happen somewhere else or at some other time. Reality happens right here, right now. This is not a hypothetical practice, this is a real practice and it deals with a real problem, the suffering that marks every passing moment, the clinging that creates it and the out-of-control mind that is churning away with these thoughts. Not, "who's to blame for that?", but "who's to blame for this?" Maybe drop the blame and just look for the cause. Maybe drop the cause, too. Just look. Ultimately, Buddhist practice urges us to investigate this matter thoroughly, to find the root of suffering. And then, remove it. Perhaps this whole sordid affair is predicated on a misunderstanding, a subtle delusion that got out of control. The Buddha suggests that there is such a cause to suffering and that it is possible to remove it. The path of practice is prescribed as a way to purify this mind and reveal, with full clarity, the reality of this situation. 

In the Palicanon I know two stories concerning this. The Buddha talks about when he himself (not yet judged by others) knew he's got the full awakening, the full wisdom - that was part of the story of his awakening process, and even a couple of self-assuring details are given. And there are a lot of stories where people admit about themselves, that they are not yet fully awaken, one of the most prominent in the Parinibbans sutta, where Ananda, after 20 or more years of personal attendence with his master, says: my master goes away and I've not yet met my goal... When it comes to the other problem, that others should recognize/accept etc that one has reached the full enlightenment, then the medium of communication is the "lion's roar" (not specific to the Buddha-dharma, but as well as to the Samana/ascetics movement) I think DN 8 or DN 12 contains the Buddha's "lions-roar" and there is also one about Sariputta's "lions roar". That means, there is no licensing authority but the recognizing depends on whether the "lions-roar" is convincing. Devadatta is an example, where high achievements also can -later in the course of life- revert and a formerly really high ranked samana/bhikkhu can get horribly compromized. There is no enlightenment-"license" and the above means also that such a "license" given by others cannot be perfect/permanent. If you ever vet yourself the experience of "whoa, now I know it really" - be it learning piano until mastership, ice-dancing or whatever then you likely shall understand that problem of "knowing-only-yourself" and the problem (is it one?) that to prove this to others is only by doing things masterly and convincingly. 

I find it helps to try to relate things back to the core teachings: suffering, the cause of suffering, the extinction of suffering and the way to achieve that. So the relevant teaching here as I understand it is not "there is no self" but rather "clinging to a false sense of self causes suffering." On its face, "there is no self" is patently false, much like the claim that there is no computer program. There's room here to quibble about language, allowing you to see it one way or the other, but that distracts from the real matter at hand. Suffering is a visceral thing and getting to its root requires delving into the nitty-gritty viscera of this self-delusion. Otherwise "there is no self" is just a word game.