will give you a scatter plot with Lat being the x, Lon being the y, and rain being the z. Also note that because your vectors are different legnths, you cannot plot them. You must have vectors of the same lenght to plot (each point must correspond to another point on the axis). Other types of plots will require you to interpolate between the data points. If you want to plot it like in the comment below: pcolor is your best choice. Say your Lat/Lon vectors have n points. Then to make an nxn grid, you can use the command 

This is a very good question. There a few main heat sources: Heat(and work) left over from the formation of the earth, work (potential energy) generated by dense iron sinking into the center of the earth and forming a core, and radioactive energy. Since the Thermal diffusivity of the materials that make up the earth is low, heat transport is very slow and thus the planet retains a significant amount of its heat. Another reason why the earth is so hot, is that mantle convection is a very inefficient way to transport said heat, and thus the earth loses energy very slowly. We know how hot the interior of the earth might be because of laboratory experiments, and also volcanic eruptions. How much energy(temperature) does it take to melt gabbro (mantle rock)? Interestingly enough, the earth is cooling. And the inner core / outer core boundary is a freezing front (meaning turning from a liquid outer core to a solid inner core). Though, it is a very hot freezing front. 

Mount Chimborazo, which is 6,268 meters above sea level and within 1.5 degrees of the equator. More specifically, according to Dr. Milbert, Chief Geodesist, NOAA, National Geodetic Survey and Dr. Shum, Geodetic Science & Surveying, Ohio State Univ.: distance from Earth's center of mass, with an uncertainty of only +/- 2 meters: Mt. Chimborazo - 6384.459 kilometers Mt. Huascaran - 6384.372 kilometers Mt. Cotopaxi - 6384.062 kilometers Mt. Kilimanjaro - 6383.955 kilometers 

Taken as whole, the Earth is estimated to be 730 parts per million carbon by mass. So $4.4 \times 10^{21} kg$ $URL$ 

There is no inconsistency between the 2012 paper and the older reference(s). Fig. 2 arbitrarily sets all the components (x,y,z) of all the displacement vectors of all the centers to zero at the beginning of the time period (about 123,000 years ago). Furthermore the 2012 article states: 

There are several journal articles on this topic, for example Optimal Sunshade Configurations for Space-Based Geoengineering near the Sun-Earth L1 Point. Being truly at the L1 point is unsuitable because the radiation pressure of the photons acting on the shade (like solar sail) would disrupt the equilibrium, so the equilibrium point is shifted toward the sun from the L1 point and depends on the degree to which the shade reflects versus absorbs. The shade should be made of black material to minimize the effect of radiation pressure on the equilibrium point, thereby permitting it to be as close as possible to the L1 point, and closer to the Earth, where it can more effectively shade. The size required is roughly a 1,500 kilometer diameter structure. All parts of the Earth would be shaded to some degree. From Earth, the sun would appear as it does during a transit of Venus or Mercury, but the position on the sun's disc would vary more with ones location on Earth since the shade would be much closer to Earth than Venus is. 

If you are looking for a dataset going back a bit further, but still sticking to satellite and radar data, GPCP (Global Precipitation Climatology Project) goes back to 1979. The limitation of certain TRMM datasets, in addition to the relatively short length of the project, is that they only cover the tropics and so you lack data in the mid-latitudes and higher for a proper global analysis. Some TRMM datasets extend up to 60 degrees latitude by incorporating radar and other sources into the final product. If you want to go back even further (to 1901 globally) the GPCC (Global Precipitation Climatology Centre) is a good place to start. Anything before the launch of TRMM in 1997 will likely be a collation of various data sets, so the comparability between regions is occasionally questionable, although there are robust ways of correcting for this applied to the datasets. This is a truly global data set, according to their spatial coverage description (90.0N - 90.0S, 0.0E - 360.0E) Beyond that, the datasets are patchy between different countries. You would have to collate your own global dataset from the various national meteorological archives. The UK precipitation archives (Armagh Observatory), for example, go back to about 1795, but I'm not aware of them being included in many (any?) global collations. N.B. Almost all of this data will be in some form of Cartesian or geographic co-ordinate format, so you probably won't be able to look up individual places or countries, but will need to extract latitude and longitude bounded regions from the data. Link to the GPCC download site: GPCC gridded data download 

This is a good question, and the basic answer is earthquake seismology. To answer this question, lets accept a fact: Waves propagate through the least time pathway, and not the least distance path. This property of physics is known as Fermat's principle. When an Earthquake occurs, energy propagates similar to a ripple of water, and spreads. Each point on this ripple can be modeled as a ray, each following its least time path through the Earth. As these rays propagate, they reflect and refract off heterogeneities inside the earth. These reflections are important: we can detect these reflections using surface seismometers. Using multiple seismometers, and the location of the source (earthquake), we can calculate the "lag" between when the closest seismometer detects the earthquake and the others(further from the source). This lag time can be used as a proxy for the depth of the reflected wave's heterogeneity. Using how deep this reflection originates, we can then figure out the least time path of the wave in terms of actual distance. Velocity is just distance over time, even for seismic waves. So since we have the distance traveled by the wave, and the time the wave took to get to the receiver, we can complete the equation (distance/time). In actual practice, this process is far more complex, as you have to look for many different waveforms: The picture above illustrates an earthquake sending waveforms through the earth. The SKS wave is a shear wave that refracts into the liquid outer core, turns into a compressional wave (since shear waves cannot propagate through liquid), and then is converted again to a shear wave as it enters the mantle and goes to the surface. A trained seismologist looks at the readings from seismometers to tease out specific waves, which we know the properties of, to determine properties of the planet's interior. The speeds of these waves are highly dependent on the assumed densities and other rock properties of the crust, mantle, and core. 

Supposing you know the mole fraction, if you literally wanted to calculate the parts per million by volume, first you need to define what that would mean. Are you interested in the ratio of the volume of CO2 separately isolated relative to the whole volume? Or are you interested in the volume of CO2 separately isolated, relative to the sum of all the gases separately isolate? For either of these methods, you would need to choose a temperature and pressure, such as the actual temperature and pressure of a sample, or standard temperature and pressure. Then you need an equation of state at least for the CO2, that is more real than the ideal gas law, such as van der Waals. 

In coastal New Jersey, relative humidity is maximal in the early fall when the ocean temperature is warmest, and minimal in early spring when the ocean is coldest. However, the monthly variation is rather small: Atlantic City, New Jersey: 70 January 69 February 67 March 66 April 71 May 73 June 74 July 76 August 76 September 75 October 73 November 71 December 72 Annual Newark, New Jersey 65 January 63 February 60 March 58 April 62 May 63 June 63 July 66 August 68 September 66 October 67 November 67 December 64 Annual source: $URL$ 

The symmetry is caused by the the spherical nature of the Earth, the typical weather features that form at certain latitudes, the formation of circulation cells at specific latitude zones, and the effect of the Coriolis force on the weather systems and cloud bands within them. The latitude (and hence temperature from insolation) controls to a certain extent the broad scale atmospheric circulations. In the zone just North and South of the Equator, you find the trade winds converging towards the Equator from an easterly direction. Their direction is broadly determined by the Coriolis effect. (I think you can just make them out in the photo). In the mid-latitudes (30-60 degrees) you frequently find extratropical cyclones in both hemispheres. Their formation is beyond the scope of this brief answer (see Cyclogenesis), but they are effectively a result of consistent suitable conditions to at those specific latitudes for cyclones to form. They are noticeable in the image as being quite spiral shaped. The symmetry of cyclonic features is perhaps most enhanced by the Coriolis effect, caused by the rotation of the Earth deflecting moving objects (the weather systems including the clouds) in the atmosphere. This (in combination with the pressure gradient force) causes the spiral-shaped features at the mid-latitudes that you can see in the image. The effect works in opposite directions in respective hemispheres, so in the North, the cloudy bands appear to be turned anticlockwise, and in the South they appear clockwise, enhancing the overall symmetries present. This is one of my favourite widgets for seeing this: $URL$ 

According to the recent paper in Nature Geoscience: Nitrogen speciation in upper mantle fluids and the origin of Earth's nitrogen-rich atmosphere, $N_2$ originates from regions of the Earth where plates are converging. Venus and Mars lack plate tectonics and therefore lack $N_2$ in their atmospheres. In other regions of Earth upper mantle, and in Venus and Mars, nitrogen is expected to exist as aqueous ammonium and not enter the atmosphere. 

From How Old is Our Ganga, the Ganges "formed as a consequence of the India-Asia collision around 55 million years ago resulting in the formation of the Himalaya. This provided a large continental mass which together with large rainfall in the catchment area and long term erosion generated /enlarged the river valleys". 

April and later ice cover is primarily on Lake Superior, since this lake is in the coldest region and also because it is the largest lake. Raymond Assel analyzed the Great Lakes ice coverage for the winters of 1897-1982 in AN ICE-COVER CLIMATOLOGY FOR LAKE ERIE AND LAKE SUPERIOR FOR THE WINTER SEASONS 1897-1898 to 1982-1983 INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CLIMATOLOGY, VOL. 10,731-748 (1990). According to table IV of Assel, in the winter of 1911-12 Lake Superior had an ice cover of 80% or greater for 74 days. No other winter had more than 52 such days. According to this NOAA file in the winter of 2013-14 Lake Superior has an ice cover of 80% or greater on 68 days. Assel also studied Lake Erie, and finds that 1911-12 had 72 days with 80% or greater ice cover. This compares to 70 such days in 2013-14. Based on the above, it is very likely that 1911-12 was the most recent winter with similar April ice cover to 2013-14.