So I am wondering about a question many others probably have. We all know that the mechanics of pull ups and chin ups are somewhat, but not very, similar, and we know chin ups activate biceps more, but in the end, for back, bicep, abdominal, and forearm development, which one is more beneficial? 

Let me give you an easy solution to your problem. Stop working out your shoulders. If you have an imbalance relating to your deltoid muscles, which many men can naturally genetically suffer from, or "broad shoulders," as referred to in some cases, then your shoulders shall always be buff and there is nothing you can do to change it. I suspect you do have this because of your statement about how you've always struggled to fit into shirts. However, what you can do is to bulk up the rest of your body consistently in order to make the other muscles the equivalent size. Unfortunately in your case, it is extremely difficult to work your chest muscles without assistance from your shoulder muscles. However, if you don't directly work your shoulders, a difference in their size will be minimal, as for most other muscles, too. But I would take your shoulders as a gift and keep working them anyway, unless they look too distinct on your body compared to the other muscle groups. :) 

There is a machine at my gym that uses push on one arm and pull on the other. My concern is that one arm will have a bigger tricep than the other one and the other arm will have a bigger bicep than the other one, because of the different mechanisms being used at the same time. Is this going to cause imbalance? 

So we already know that barbell squats pack on more mass than air squats; no mystery there. But I am wondering about the role that calves play in both of these. I have heard air squats involve minimal calf use, while barbell squats stress them out a lot. Is this true; and why would this be? Is it simply because of the extra weight? 

You are probably suffering from dehydration. Four miles is a lot to run, and 15 miles is a lot(for most people) to bike. You can start to sweat after even just a half mile in hot weather or in other heated environments. If you have loss of balance or/and fuzzed vision, that raises the chances of the sole cause being dehydration, too. DRINK PLENTY OF WATER!!! 

Your hamstrings should ache a little bit, but I would say your lower back should probably ache more. Also, deadlifts are a very dangerous exercise if not performed properly so I would highly suggest checking your form to prevent serious injury; sometimes aching can be normal but other times it may be a sign you're doing something wrong. 

In madcow 5x5, it states you can substitute incline press for overhead press, which focuses on the shoulders. Does this mean incline press works shoulders primarily, too? I am confused here, I thought incline press built your chest. Help? 

It is more of balance I'd say over anything otherwise. You have to take total control of your body, by stretching, meditating, practicing exercises involving balance, and etc. You might also need to build your entire upper body for the strength part. However, even after doing all these, some people may still find it challenging(too heavy, too old, etc.) and may not be able to do them. Handstand push ups could really screw you over if you can't do them right, or if you can't lift your weight, so I'd say don't do them unless you are positive you can lift your weight and lift it properly. Head injuries, neck injuries, and shoulder injuries could result otherwise. 

To build muscle mass and to increase strength, lower repetitions(try to shoot for about 2 to 6), are more effective. So yes, do low reps to gain mass. The squat is especially important, and work at least half of the major muscle groups on the body(legs, abdominals, back), but still primarily lower body muscles. I hope this helps and good luck with increasing your leg growth. 

You probably stretched your hamstring out of normal proportion because you locked your glutes too tight, would be the best answer. 

I am a user on this website who may not be familiar to you nowadays; but I am wondering about if someone could provide a safe, detailed exercise plan that creates decent muscular and cardiovascular strength at the same time that only requires a few hours a week. -No specific diet, please, I can handle that; just exercises. -No specific exercises, please, just more broad terms like "Chest," "Cardio of choice," "Biceps," "Weightlifting," etc. Thank you. Update: 6 ft tall, 18 yr old male; 165-170 Ibs, about 15% body fat percentage, former bodybuilder(2 years ago) Update: It's okay to be kind of specific; certain exercises however that others tend to like such as running and dead lifts I do not fancy. Please allow me to have freedom to choose the kind of exercises performed if possible, not exact, but for example, "curls," and "bench press," if possible. 

I hate to be the one who has to tell you this, but I have to agree with John P, at least to a degree. Football players have to be packed with a lot of muscles, which is easier attainable with weights. Some exercises that would enhance arm and hand strength probably include bicep curls, bench press, shoulder press, and dumbbell rows. I would honestly be more worried about your shoulders than your arms in order to be a good quarterback, however, because they are the primary muscles used when throwing a football. To enhance shoulder strength, you could do decline flyes, side lateral raises, front raises, and shoulder press. And if you really don't want to lift for whatever reason, push ups, chin ups, pull ups, arm circles, and dips could all be options in order to enhance arm, hand, and shoulder muscles. Also, consider increasing your calories, because it will also make you bigger. I hope this helps you and good luck with your games. 

It is possible to get a low body fat percentage without cardio, just harder. In the case without cardio, diet is the number one factor for fat loss(or actually, with cardio, too). In order to get low body fat % with no cardio, you must make sure to increase your protein intake and make sure your fat intake is about 40% less than your protein intake. So if you're eating 100 g of protein, eat 60 g fat. You should also restrict calories but not so far as to where you lose muscles. Weight training, calisthenics, or team sports may be goods ideas for you to approach if you don't want to do cardio, but since you're already doing martial arts, diet is still going to be the most important factor here. 

Long answer short: Always. Deadlifts are very hard on the body, not to mention exhausting. I'd say only to deadlift once or at most twice a week, with 1X5. The bright side of this is that you can usually deadlift a whole lot of weight, a person who never lifted might be able to even start with 135, which isn't exactly advanced but far beyond a true beginner's level for other lifts. Intermediates(for deadlifts, of course) should be in the 185-225 range and if you're doing 250 or over you can qualify as advanced. 

I am signed up for a triathlon in June 2016, It goes from 9 AM-9 PM, we must run 30 miles, bike 60 miles, and swim 3. I believe I am fit for it because I can bike 15 mph forever on, but I swam a half mile in 20 minutes, and I can run for 2.5 miles easily. I am biking 10 miles a day, swimming 1, and running 2 miles total. This is combined with weights and calisthenics. Is this enough? 

Let me set a fine line: It isn't really THAT useful at all to drink a sports drink AFTER you go for a run. That sports drink stuff is supposed to give you energy to go running, not to recover. Besides, it is probably loaded with artificial sugars, anyway. I would suggest drinking water, milk, and protein shakes after a run, not a sports drink. 

So I went to the gym today, I got on the bench and did 10 sets of 10 reps, using medium weight, took about 30 minutes to complete, only thing I did other than biking and a few chin ups, and now my shoulder feels a little sore? Does anyone know why? 

In order to perform a large amount of push ups, you would have to possess some strength to do so, but it is made up more of endurance than strength when it comes to high reps of anything. For example, people will say you need high endurance to run great distances, so why wouldn't it be the same for a great number of push ups, too. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying push ups are cardio but if you are doing over 20 reps of them(or anything, for that matter) then they/it are/is not building your strength, you are doing endurance training, unless, as I stated before(in the comments), you have an insane workout like doing thousands a day it might build you a little bit of strength. But I wouldn't suggest it. You would hurt yourself(most likely). 

Fact is, if you want to notice some serious differences you have to make the exercise last more than 10 or 15 minutes. In real life, that just won't cut it. I would say in general, your workout should last between 45-90 minutes. The lower the reps, the less time for the workout. The higher the reps, the more time for the workout. The reason I state this is because the fewer reps you are doing, the more energy you are putting forth and the more testosterone you are releasing from your body. So it would take a higher amount of repetitions to benefit you and tire you out as much, if possible, to the same degree as a few low repetitions. And the reason I suggest shooting for somewhere in this time frame is because it is just enough to build stronger muscles, it is not overtraining(2 hrs.+), and it is not training too little(30 min. or less), either. 

No, this is false. Let me provide an example. You can't eat 100 Oreos before your workout and expect no weight gain or negative side effects. Regardless of whether you are working out or not, if you eat a lot of junk, you will get fat unless you are genetically gifted of one of our unnatural friends. 

No, not unless you are doing under 20 reps, which you are not. Otherwise, or in your case, you have to do barbell squats. End of discussion. 

Yes, of course it would. They all are great sources of protein and are healthy. However, you should include some variety in your diet, too, not solely these three foods. 

I would highly suggest running for 20-30 minutes, 5 times a week, is better than only once a week for an hour. Swimming and biking can also be substituted and are easier on the joints. You also must cut calories, and eat healthier to lose weight, and make sure not to oversleep, either. 

I would say that doing rowing without weights, canoeing, kayaking, and throwing punches(wear gloves) at a bag are all forms of good upper body cardio. 

Yes, protein supplements are taken outside of bodybuilding, in fact, I argue that there are more people who don't lift using them than people who do lift using them. This is mainly because everyone wants to be strong, and marketers have made protein supplements look like they will get you strong just by drinking them alone without exercising. This is not true, and people who are lazy(67%, in America, at least) will want to bulk up without exercising so they will buy protein shakes well the managers of the companies of the shakes sit in their brand new hot tub in their mansion and make millions, knowing they are so clever. However, us actual weightlifter usually know protein shakes are a scam and that we can get big by eating natural sources of protein, not that artificial crap. So to answer your question, yes, protein shakes are used out of bodybuilding. 

So I have goals involving bulking and getting stronger(increasing my bench, squat, curl, etc.), but recently I have put into action a goal to do 100 push ups in a row. Will lifting lighter weights help me get to this goal faster? And if won't interfere with my bulking in the process? 

No. Protein shakes will not make you gain weight alone. In order to gain weight, you have to consume more calories, protein by itself does nothing for weight gain. If you want to gain weight from muscle, you have to lift weights while eating enough calories and protein. It's as simple as that. 

My bench max is 225, and I am seriously considering benching my 150 Ib friend at the gym. He says I can do it if I want. Is this safe, and what is the worst outcome. What is the likely outcome? 

So I am a 16 yr old young male nearing 17, about 160 Ibs, about 6'0, and in the 13-15% body fat range. I'd like to get down to 8-12% instead. Currently, I train my chest, traps, triceps, and legs together 2-3 times a week along with my lats, biceps, and shoulders together 2-3 times a week. Each weightlifting session tolls to about 45 minutes. I don't have a designated cardio workout, but I frequently walk, bike, and swim quite often. I average 8 hours of sleep a night. I believe I have a mesomorphic body type. I eat healthy and only treat myself every 7-15 days. I eat about 2500 calories a day, 100 g of protein a day, 30 g fiber, 50-60 g healthy fat(oils, nuts, etc.), and I avoid those sugary and artificial foods. My arms, shoulders, back, and chest are all defined, it is my abs and legs that are the problem. May I ask for advice? 

I used to be able to do 100+ crunches, but now I can only do 40 and my abs feel like they're burning so badly(after). I don't do crunches often anymore. I lost weight(about 5 pounds) before this started happening. I don't have a six pack. Why are my abs burning so bad? Help? 

So when you squat you are carrying a large amount of weight on your back as we know and I'm trying to figure out if that holding that weight on your back and shoulders would build them, too? 

Supermans, crunches, bodyweight squats, and even planks all strengthen lower back muscles. I hope that helps. 

Yes, you should eat after working out, especially protein. Protein is what helps muscles recover after a workout, and eating after working out helps nutrients flow to your muscles quicker. 

Your stomach muscles are literally being stretched out(not in the good, growing way) because of all the food they are digesting. Seriously, it's not worth the hours of stomach pains and vomiting. This is coming from someone who experimented from eating 4000 calories all at once at a Chinese Buffet(on my cheat day, too, I learned my lesson) Even on Cheat days, you shouldn't eat that much. 

Yes, you are working way too hard. I have injured myself before doing a similar routine(believe me, it takes a while to heal). My body did not give me any hints at first when I hurt myself doing this, so watch out. Anyway, you should get a real routine together. I would suggest going to your school's fitness center, and doing a routine such as chest, shoulders, and legs for an hour on Monday and Thursday and doing back and biceps on Tuesday and Friday; that would give you plenty time to recover and it probably would be more effective for muscle gains than your current workout, anyway. Overtraining is not something you want to get involved with, change your routine before you get hurt.