When I think of real people with long hair under water, I think of a large cloud of hair. That kind of obfuscation could be quite an advantage against any predator that likes to strike quickly and forcefully. For bonus points, the more mermaids there are, the bigger the cloud of hair. At this point, I'm thinking of zebras and the striped blur the herd appears as. Another alternative to this is something land animals do; raise their hackles to appear larger and more threatening. 

I'm not sure about joining the UK, but it might be possible to secede a state. The supreme court did rule that secession is not unilaterally possible for a state. However, it may be possible to make a constitutional argument to have this overturned. In particular, the constitution goes into some detail on how to create a state either from territories or existing states (Article IV, section 3). Notably, no mention is made of a state leaving the Union. Further, the tenth amendment reads 

The goal is 100 people. Based on your statistics, there would be 10 queens born (but not necessarily living to maturity), 70 worker females, and 20 males. As a result, after hitting this population level each queen would need to produce 10 children. Call it 15 for proof against statistical anomalies, power struggles, and bad luck. 15 kids has been achieved in the real world, although not (to my knowledge) as part of a sustained society. Also, that's boring. Ideas 

No I think the core issue from the start would be trust and identity. It turns out that this "Joel Harmon" account I use is a clever misdirection on my part. I'm secretly Joel Spolsky, founder of Stack Overflow. As such, I am the God-Emperor of Stacklandia¹. The first order of business is for me to figure out who among this crowd of thousands (millions?) is an administrator on one of the sites, and who is lying to gain authority. I need to get this figured out as quickly and painlessly as possible (so they can begin organizing construction on my statue²). How many users of SO can you pick out of a police lineup, much less a crowd? My number is 3. If I can trust avatars, that number goes up to maybe 6 or 8. Even then, though, the original question posits the wholesale destruction of all major nations. At a guess, that means half the community members are dead to start with anyway, including the moderator population. The question also posits the cryptolock of all computers, meaning there's no way to, say, post a picture of yourself to verify your identity. Taken all together, I think there would be enough holes in this new hierarchy that they'd be filled in the traditional way. That is, the most forceful personalities would more or less end up in charge. ¹ I'm sorry, Mr. Spolsky. Please don't ban me. ² Too much? 

Just have the missiles be local. My (admittedly vague) understanding of this kind of thing is it requires several kinds of authentication and multiple people. The whole classic "turn two keys at the same time" thing. So just have the base they're at also house the missile(s). They all agree to launch them, and they have the keys. Problem is, they're missing the Grand Poobah's electronic authentication. Insert cheesy, hand wavy, I-can't-believe-I'm-helping-you-write-this hacking montage here. 

Recreational Sports It turns out that moderately competitive exercise with friends and peers can be fun. There may be a revival of recreational or social sports. Interesting mashups, such as Calvinball, might also make a reappearance. However, I expect you mean professional sports; I assume that from here on out. A Limiting Factor These athletes would still feel pain. Thus more dangerous/lethal sports may become acceptable, but not as common as you may think. I imagine dying is unpleasant, even if you know you have another backup consciousness. Training With consciousness backups, it would be possible to train extensively across dozens or hundreds of years and remain at your physical peak. Bodies may even become disposable. Why bother making a body that can digest solid food when the game is only going to last a few hours? Stock We currently have things like stock car racing, limited materials for golf clubs/balls, and acceptable ranges for inflation pressures on footballs. The future you describe would likely have 'stock body' competitions, wherein every athlete is genetically and morphologically identical. Expanding on that theme, you may have more freedom to play, genetically speaking. I'd imagine any team sports with varying positions would end up with 2-3 local maxima optimizations. Depending on your definition of the backup process, it may be possible to have a clone team that also shares copies of the same consciousness. Not quite reading teammate's minds, but surely the next best thing. I think the results here would be uncanny. For that matter, if a player becomes injured, it may be possible to send out an exact clone with mostly the same memories as a replacement. Retro Another field of opportunity here is 'retro' sports, where everyone is an unmodified human. While less extreme than the clone sports, there may be an appeal similar to college/university sports vs. professional. Totally Not Super-soldiers Some sports, like MMA and boxing, might naturally be misconstrued as combat training. Other sports like trail running and marathon running also have obvious military application. Sports like the biathalon (skiing and target shooting) and the Tough Mudder events (obstacle courses and running) would round out training pretty nicely, I should think. Cross-training in these might become popular. 

Your scenario has two types of colony: growing and established. Growing Colonies A growing colony has, roughly, three generations. By the time the first generation (2Million) is 60, their kids are 40 (4m) and grand-kids are 20 (8m). In 200 years from the start, the active generation has doubled 10 times, giving a population of 2048M (plus 1024M 40 year olds and 512M 60 year olds). So a colony switches from growing to established around 185 years after being established. I'll call it 200 years given some internal wars, disasters, and resource constraints. Established Colonies Assuming the colony (or Earth itself) can sustain a rate of production on colony ships, and it sends one out every time the population hits 2002M, it would send out 1024 every 20 years. Net Result With no travel time, you've got ~520 years of Earth at full production, giving 26624 colonies. The original five colonies, with 220 production years, make a total of 81920 colonies. Every 20 years, the number of established colonies increases by 1024 for the first 200 years, then a self-compounding number after that. Suffice to say a million colonies pretty easily. 

I'd start with one basic assumption: the maze only needs to change when someone is actually moving around in it. Admittedly, this loses some of the wow factor of something more autonomous like Maze Runner, but I think this is the only way that could reliably work. My main suggestion is balance. Take a look at the Falkirk Wheel. The wheel is perfectly balanced, which allows 500 tonnes to be moved with only 30 horsepower. Using this principle, consider a long hallway constructed so the floor is a large, balanced lever. One person walking across a long enough lever could provide quite a bit of torque. A clear usage here is using that lever to push up a lever-wall, resulting in a new wall somewhere in the maze, and another one removed. Another one in an apparently different part of the maze could reset it. This approach also allows for some interesting one-way features. Imagine a hallway overweight by about half a person's weight. As you start walking down the hallway, the floor begins to sink. As soon as you step off, it begins to ascend again. You're now on a lower level with no way back up to where you started. Such a system could even be triggered by more weight; sending one person at a time will get you through the hallway, but taking a group of people would trigger the sinking action. Lastly, I'd just like to mention an awesome fact. You can use just levers to build a mechanical computer. Doing this may make the maze more deterministic than you'd like, but it's still cool. 

There's a couple of different questions in there, and I'm going to take a stab at some of them. First, you seem to be generally familiar with aperture synthesis, as you imply it in one of your questions. That basically means if you have a bunch of comparatively small data sources (telescopes) you can merge them into one image as if you had on telescope the diameter of the distance between any two of them. This gives you a much better angular resolution than you might expect. Unfortunately, you seem to be correct about the diminishing returns aspect. Take a look at this, which graphs total diameter of a telescope against its angular resolution for given wavelengths of light. It's on a log scale, and only goes up to 10,000 km. On an astronomic scale, that's roughly the size of the earth. This introduces quite a problem. Humans already do something like this by taking advantage of the Earth's annual trip around the sun. By taking measurements six months apart (from anywhere on Earth), you get an effective dish size of around 300 million kilometers. And as it turns out, with a dish that large the closest star is still only 0.772 arc-seconds across. Fortunately, that seems to be within a reasonable range (that is, appears on) at least one axis of the chart I linked earlier. My conclusion is either I'm really misunderstanding something here1, or you should be able to get a reasonable picture (in some wavelength of light) by creating a satellite cloud between Earth and Mars. If you have to build it bigger, that should actually help. As a side note, when I started researching this question, I expected to need a telescope the size of the solar system or larger, implying the limit to the size of the telescope is actually how long you can keep the satellite powered (shout out to the Voyagers!) before they stop giving you data back. I was pleasantly disappointed on that. 1Some math would really help here for verification. 

The basic argument then becomes leaving the Union isn't explicitly provided for, thus it's the right of individual states. Humorously, one might expand this interpretation to mean any individual citizen could boot out any state just because it's not prohibited. 

There are a number of different ways to view this problem. Theory is not Practice Take a hint from mathematics and science. There is a huge body of knowledge out there with very little practical application. For about 100 years, we have known that if a hypothetical space ship travels fast enough compared to a slower observer (say, on Earth), they will experience time differently. This is a very far cry from actually doing it. Thus, it may simply be possible to know or reason out behaviors of Magic without actually being able or willing to do it. Natural Ability Not everyone can achieve the mental state required to do magic, no matter how much they study it. Thus, only a small percentage of the population can do magic, and presumably a small percentage of them would be willing to study it methodically. Magic Is Science Consider tying magic more tightly to science. For example, a wand made of iron is better than copper, but steel beats both. Alternately, the internal structure of the veins of impurities in the material could impact effectiveness. You may end up needing modern materials technology to get the complex 3d internals of a wand right on the millimeter scale. This also ties in with your statements about perception limiting ability. Humans didn't know lighting was electricity for most of human history; thus, shooting lightning wouldn't be possible until the 1800s or so. Fundamental Changes Consider the possibility that some things are fundamentally different. You can walk to the next hill. You can get there faster by walking on a road, or inventing automobiles. However, you can't use those methods to get anywhere you couldn't walk to, such as the moon. This could tie in nicely with the sympathetic changes you mention. Perhaps you only change if you exert yourself too much, or in the wrong ways. The Actual Question All of that is just observations on the universe. To answer your questions: you can always stop this kind of thing by saying "Because". You both need not and should not stop the people that live in this world from properly exploring it. Lastly, you can absolutely build a world or a story on the kind of tensions between magic and science, tradition and innovation, that you describe here.