Let's start with another question: Who are you, and who are we? In order to answer whether your needs or our needs have changed, you need an answer to this question. It soon becomes obvious that it's a very tricky one. If you assume that you are your (=a) body, you would consequently conclude that the needs of your (=that) body are your needs. If you assume you are your brain and your thoughts, you would consequently assume that the needs of that brain and those thoughts are your needs. If you assume you are you as part of a family or a country or a religious group, you'd assume that their needs are yours. And so on. While these assumptions are valid in that they can't be disproven, it should be noted that they collide with a common feeling or inner certainty of many people that there is something about them that doesn't die when the body dies or their family or their country. They feel there's something eternal or at least transcendental. To cut a long story short: Unless you have a real experience of "you" in its truest form, all concepts of "you" are just a more or less arbitrary identification with something. This should be logical. And the weirdest thing is: There is not even a guarantee that the thing you're identified with exists at all. Asking whether needs have changed in this context is asking if our bodies are changing, our brains are changing, our thoughts are changing, our psychology is changing, our emotions are changing, our hearts are changing. While this is certainly the case to some degree, those changes are minute in the light of the huge amount of time humanity has existed so far. The only thing that is really changing and often evolving is our consciousness. For example today many of us appreciate the emotions and rights of animals and the need for protecting nature where our forefathers would just have laughed, or we move towards seeing other countries as neighbors and friends rather than enemies and competitors. It's a slow development, but it's happening steadily. This is an evolution in consciousness. It does not change our needs, but it changes the way we deal with them. Consciousness is the source and the distillate of all identification or lack thereof. So does consciousness have any needs? I would say if you reach the point where that question does not make any sense to you, you've gotten an idea of what I'm trying to say. PS: I'm aware I'm answering the question on a level that you did not have in mind at all. Sorry for that. It's just the only answer I have right now. 

Your question is too general. None of us knows you, so how are we supposed to give specific advice here? I think I might be able to give you some insights instead: The right profession for you is one that gives you joy doing it. It's the job that you don't need reasons to do because you just enjoy doing it. This joy can be derived from many things. It can be because it's your nature, or it's even already your hobby, it can be because it gives you a feeling of meaning and sense. If humanism is an important concern in your life, of course it may influence the question which jobs give you joy and which don't, and as such it will influence your choices. However, ... even the most successful entrepreneurship in a humanistic field can be wrong for you if it's only a mental choice which doesn't give you immediate joy in your heart. If it doesn't give you joy, most of all you're unlikely to excel, thus making little impact in the first place. You should consider this: As a truly happy person you contribute more to the well-being of the world than any unhappy humanistic person. Don't try to make anyone happy if you aren't happy. It's like trying to make a gift that you don't have, it will never work. You can only give what you have, and if your humanism is rooted in unhappiness, what you'll spread is unhappiness. Hence the prime concern should be your own happiness first. Don't confuse this with just satisfaction or egocentrism. Happiness is far beyond that. Then from that point you will create a certain type of wealth naturally, most likely also by doing the profession that you are doing with heart and soul. It may be as an entrepreneur, but it doesn't have to be. That wealth that you create then you can spend on humanistic purposes, or you can invest the time that you have from having created this wealth for pursuing a humanistic project. 

Change, the flow of time, is obviously real. An objective universal "now", stretching across the universe, is obviously at odds with relativity. So I vote for "process eternalism": all times are equally real, and "coexist" (in some sense of the word "exist"), but they all exist in the mode of becoming, not in the mode of "timeless being". The individual experience of time is not an experience of the whole of space at once, and not even an experience of a whole life at once: it is of a narrow individual state, that becomes another such state, that becomes another state, and so on until the end of life. Presumably this has to do with persistence-through-change in whatever part of the brain is the physical locus of consciousness. You are something, you came into existence, your existence is a series of changes in state, and eventually you will cease to exist. For purposes of visualization and calculation, we can spatialize time, and think of your history as a "line" in space-time. We can even think of the histories of all the matter there ever was in space-time, as a "bundle" of such timelike lines. But we know from personal experience that the mode of being of our personal world-line is the mode of "becoming"; the world-line of a material object is made of the changes that happen to it ("made of time", one could say, though time itself is then "made of" change), and this applies to us too. There are considerable difficulties in subsuming all the actual details of contemporary physical theory into this ontology. If we could canonically decompose the space-time history of the universe into a number of bounded "world-volumes" of narrow spatial width and finite duration, we could then say that each world-volume represents an elementary process, the persistence through time of a fundamental entity. For example, in a process-eternalist account of a cellular-automaton ontology, you could say that each cell has its own history and thus its own "local time". But it's hard to say what the "persistent fundamental entities" in the real world might be (D0-branes?). By way of concluding, I would emphasize a few things. First, there is a limit to what physics can tell you about ontology and this is an example. Modern physics has been ontologically cut loose from phenomenological space and time; one is free to posit any sort of ontology, or no ontology at all, so long as you can start with empirical data, place it into the theoretical framework, and eventually get quantitative predictions which can be translated back into empirical consequences. This has given people the conceptual flexibility to dream up relativity and quantum mechanics, but it has also cut the ties between space and time as they are known in experience, and space and time as they are represented in mathematical physics. When physicists are asked to talk about the nature of time, they tend either 1) to use a fuzzy version of the intuitive concept of time, but with some alterations to acknowledge physics 2) to reify however they personally think about the mathematics, and say that space-time "is" an unmoving four-dimensional block, or (more rarely) that reality "is" an operator algebra, etc 3) say that reality is beyond time, or even beyond space and time, and that the nature of time is something for cognitive scientists and neuroscientists to figure out. However, I think one must respect the subjective appearance of the world, if one wishes to do ontology. It is the one thing we do know to exist. For this discussion, this means that if we are going to talk about time, we have to respect the nature of time as revealed in experience, and that means the reality of change - of "becoming". Any ontology which denies that becoming is real, can be instantly falsified. Instead, one should use the reality of becoming (and the reality of the rest of phenomenology) as a clue to the nature of the reality that is described formally in our physical theories. Our experience is showing us part of the "true nature" of a very small part of the physical world (i.e. the little portion of brain in which consciousness resides). In the present instance, it is telling us that time is real. But as I remarked at the beginning, presentism (as well as the "growing block universe") is a problem from the perspective of relativity. Thus I opt for the peculiar compromise of process eternalism. 

I'd encourage you to watch these Numberphile videos where various charismatic mathematicians talk about infinity. They're delightful and will provide you with all sorts of insight into how important and practical infinity is. Also how bad most people's understand of infinity is. In particular... 

Let's put these two together. The first seems assert that every concept which cannot be physically represented is false. The second builds on that by saying if you don't actually count to infinity, infinity is false. Ok, let's imagine a world without infinity. That means there has to be a biggest number. What's the biggest number? Here, I'll pick one. 1,000,000,000,000. There. I have just asserted the biggest number. What happens if I add one to it? 1,000,000,000,001. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,002. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,003. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,004. A new biggest number! For any biggest number you can imagine, you can add one to it to get a bigger number. I don't actually need to keep at this task, it's enough to prove the potential of their existence were you to keep at the task. Same as I can add 10 + 20 without actually moving little groups of objects around. This is the great utility of mathematics, I don't need to move physical things around to do math. Concepts which don't have a physical form are not false, they just don't have physical form. If I have an idea to build a house slightly different from all other houses it's not a false concept on a house. We know houses work. This particular house just doesn't have physical form yet. But wait! It gets worse! (Or better depending on how you look at it) 

Another way to look at it, your argument is circular. Your inductive proof that there is an infinite set of cities assumes there is an infinite set of cities to draw from. 

Your induction draws from a set of city names. However, you have failed to show a proof that there is an infinite number of city names (and that all those cities exist). This is like saying... 

I ate one potato chip from the bag. I ate another potato chip from the bag. There are still more potato chips in the bag. Therefore there are INFINITE POTATO CHIPS! 

Sure you can! Infinitely! What happens when you mix red and green? Yellow! What if you mix yellow and red? And the result of that mixing with red again? And that with red again? And again? And again? And again? Each will be a slightly different color. This is similar to what you get when you try to find the smallest fraction. What's halfway between 1 and 2? 1.5. Between 1 and 1.5? 1.25. Between 1 and 1.25? 1.125. And so on. The difference is paint is made up of discrete molecules and eventually you'll have nothing but red left. Numbers don't have an end and you can just keep on dividing. Not only is there an infinity of numbers, there are infinities between every number! The infinite set of positive integers is countably infinite meaning you can potentially count them without leaving any gaps. The infinity between the real numbers is uncountably infinite meaning you can never list them all out (I realize this is not the formal definition). Every time you try to count them you create more gaps to fill in. This is the infinity of the very small. 

Infinity isn't "playing with notation". Without infinity basic math does not work. It would be inconsistent. Without infinity there must be a "biggest number" and that breaks math. For example, for the set of positive integers (1, 2, 3, ...) it can be said that if then . But what if N is the biggest number? If M is greater than N, then M must be the biggest number. Contradiction! This might not seem like a big deal, but in mathematics a system which contains contradictions is false. Without infinity integer addition does not work. Similar problem with the infinitely small and division of the real numbers. If then because . But what if N is the smallest number? If M is less than N, then M must be the smallest number. Contradiction! Without infinity there are no irrational numbers, numbers which have infinite, non-repeating decimals. Pi is an irrational number. Without Pi, we can't work with circles. No infinity, no mathematics. (You can construct mathematical systems without infinity, but they're not nearly as useful.)