It seems to me you don't mind appearing uninterested when you truly are. What you don't want to do is tick off someone at a job you would have liked. So instead of jumping straight to the "you will let me be an exception to every one of your rules regardless of cost or inconvenience to others, won't you?" chase, perhaps you could start with "What are the developer machines like?" and then work up to "is there a standard suite of tools preinstalled?" and then "is it ok for me to have a different suite of tools, or even a different OS, if I want it?" The kinds of places you don't want to work will reveal themselves to you very quickly with that line of conversation. And places you want to work won't have been put off by your assumption up front that whatever crap they were planning to provide you with isn't good enough for you, and you need permission in advance to replace it. Perhaps that isn't really what you meant by the question. But if any applicant asked me, as early as a phone screen, "whether developers are permitted to choose their own operating system" that is what I would hear. I want you to know that employers hear that, because I don't think you actually mean it, but you're leaving that impression. 

I got a "no, I have no idea what you're talking about" kind of answer with an "I am offended you would even ask that" vibe and I never asked again. The employee left for another job soon after that. You can't help those who won't participate in the helping, and I don't see how "no, really, look at yourself, is it your marriage? Or is someone sick?" is going to help. Stay focused on what the person is doing, and leave issues of Why aside unless the employee volunteers them. 

I think calling it "lack of intuition" is part of the problem. I personally don't see a connection among your 4 examples that I could call "intuitive." What I've seen you describe is several specific behaviours: 

This depends entirely on what the question is, and on how likely the company is to meet your needs. An important aspect is whether they can choose to meet your needs. If they simply are or are not [whatever] then ask as soon as possible - it can't be changed and it's a deal breaker. But the more they could choose to [whatever] then the more there is to be gained by waiting until they know you, and want you, and might be motivated to agree to [whatever] in order to get you. Classic "ask right away, before even applying if you can" questions include: 

You don't need to say "well done", "good job", "a totally well deserved honour for you" or "I'm so proud of you" and nobody will notice whether you do or not. Save those phrases for the times you mean them. 

I ask these questions not to see if you "know the answer" but to start a conversation. So I ask you to reverse a string in place or write a linked list class or whatever. And you maybe know how to do that or you have to figure it out on the spot. That doesn't really matter to me. You know what matters to me? 

Mentally file the extra expenses, shopping time, and general hassle for shoes etc as part of the cost of this injury, not as "starting a job" stuff, because this is unlikely to ever happen again. 

Congratulations, you've progressed from kitchen assistant to cook. Most managers don't take ultimatums well, so you need to ask yourself what you really want. Getting a raise to cook where you are would be great, but is the raise part or the where you are part more important? If it's where you are, ask now for a raise and if you get a yes, terrific. If you don't, oh well, at least you're cooking and you get to stay somewhere familiar. If it's the raise part, ask now for a raise and if you get anything other than a yes (including "we'll see, maybe in a few months when business is better") make a sad face and say that you're disappointed. No threats. Then quietly go and look for a new job. When you get one, tell your boss that you're leaving and be nice about it. Very few people work in the same kitchen all their professional lives. Moving jobs for more money, better hours, more responsibility and so on will be your normal until you retire. You might as well get used to it. In the future, it won't always be your choice (restaurants close, business slumps and people are laid off, and so on) so you need some practice at finding and landing kitchen jobs. Now is a fine time to start, while your educational institution may be able to help. 

On the face of it this isn't your problem. Someone you vaguely know told you that someone else you vaguely know might have done something that is at the very least wrong, but possibly illegal. If your neighbor told you that "my former neighbor where I used to live totally [breaks a law] all the time" you wouldn't feel any obligation to phone the police. However, there's an interesting wrinkle here that you are able to confirm that it's your code, and furthermore that you went and did that. This puts you in a position of knowing that something wrong and possibly illegal has happened. I don't know whether that puts a legal imposition on you or not. I would feel like I owed it to my former employer to at least tell them. I wouldn't spend my own money for a lawyer; that's crazy. But I would contact someone at the bank. A quick phone call or email in which you give them the GitHub repo address, and tell them what you have concluded - this is the code you wrote, with tabs changed to spaces. Then wash your hands of it. The person you report it to may followup on it or they may not. The repo may disappear, or it may not. The former coworker, who doesn't seem to be gaining much by claiming to have written this code, since others are seeing through the ruse pretty quickly, may "never work in this town again" or may continue to lie and cheat in order to get hired, for whatever reasons. But you will have done your part. You won't have helped the theft by keeping quiet once you know. And keep a record. Save your email and any you get in reply. Or if you call, write out notes (pen and paper or digital) about who you called, what you told them, what they said. If there is some back and forth in response, update your notes every time you talk to anyone. Put these notes somewhere safe. Should it ever happen that someone else discovers the repo and accuses you of being the leaker, liar, cheater, you will want to be able to show that you reported it when you found out, and be able to tell them who you reported it to. 

The option you don't have, that you seem to want, is to immediately change the policy where you work now. You could tell someone that you're less productive in closed-toe shoes; I doubt this would be an "aha" moment that transformed the company and its policies though. You could even wage a campaign to have it changed, but it will take a long time and there will be plenty of client visits during that time. For those visits you will have to decide what to wear and take the consequences. I started my own company almost 30 years ago in part so I could control all the aspects of my working life including what I wear. And yet, when I visit clients or they visit me, I wear "meeting clothes" including "meeting shoes" as my children used to call them. I have asked my staff to adjust what they wear when a client visits the office. There are reasons for it, and for some clients it will make the difference between landing the work (and you getting a paycheque) and not. 

I list them in the order I earned them. I don't normally include them in resumes or bios, though there are times I do, when I feel they'll be relevant, such as when contributing to a bid on a project involving engineering (and therefore rich in engineers, who will think better of me for being one of them) even though I'll be doing software design. I don't normally include them on the "About Me" slide (if I even have one) in presentations I give, but I do for the course I teach at the local university, where having a doctorate is relevant. I never introduce myself as Dr Gregory, and only answer to it when it's ironic from friends, or at the aforementioned university. I don't include an email signature at all, but I do encourage my staff to mention PMP and related qualifications in their signatures. To me the key is relevance. It has to be on-topic to tell someone your qualification. If not (say you're writing to your fellow pre-school parents) it just looks like showing off. 

It may or may not actually mean anything. Certainly, if there is something that would help you (flex hours, a change in your duties, a different communication style from your boss, working remote on occasion, more feedback on your progress) then ask for it. But don't feel that on top of all the hard work you're putting in around getting better (healthier) and improving at your job that you also have to come up with a way for your boss to pitch in so as to improve your relationship. The one thing that will improve your relationship the most is you getting great at your job. If you can do that without ever asking your boss for something specific, that will be much more of a win than if you give your boss a way to help but don't particularly improve. 

What it does not do is just go to the boss and randomly whine about the new guy. "It's not fair" and "he's not as great as you think" are dangerous phrases, even when they're true. 

It is not bad practice to ask before accepting the invitation for an interview. Further, if they won't pay your expenses it is not a bad practice to then decline the interview. If they say they will, you can ask as many followup questions as you like (what they'll cover, what receipts to keep, how to submit them, and so on.) It is, however, a bad idea to accept the interview, come to it, and then at the end of the interview ask for the first time if you will be reimbursed. This puts the interviewer on the spot, and if the policy is not to reimburse they may feel really bad about that. Find out in advance. 

Approach it exactly as you would a doctor's or dentist's appointment, but only say "appointment." For example: 

Do not just start using your own machine. That could end up being a fire-able offense. As well, you may have to change your setup in order for them to be ok with using your own machine. I would recommend an email something like this: 

This allows them to contact ABC for generic "HR records show" kind of reference, and Peter Smith for "I liked this employee" kind of reference. 

Write her a note in which you say what you said here, that you were wrong to go along with the game and you wish you hadn't. Ask her to forgive you. Then on the way to work buy something you know she likes - coffee, a brownie, some sort of treat. Take the treat and the note to her desk first thing and say "I just wanted to apologize again for my bad behaviour yesterday" and give them to her. Chances are she would forgive you over time anyway, but by making a relatively formal apology you should be able to speed up the process. Ideally she would also apologize for swearing at you and throwing something at you, but I wouldn't ask for that. 

We get a lot of questions about what to say when people ask questions you don't want to answer. Women are asked about childcare, for example. It's easy to see these questions as intrusive and nosy, but they may not be. As ColleenV commented, they may want to start a conversation in which they talk about what they're going to do, or to ask you for advice. Two concrete sentences you can work out in advance and practice saying will serve you well. The first is some way to indicate you are not going to be providing details in response to any of their questions. This might include a capsule summary or it might not. So something like: 

The title you chose tells me you're misinterpreting what happened. Say you were on a team of ten, and one day nine people all got promoted. If that happened, you really would be the odd one out with something to think about. But that's not what happened at all. Someone got a promotion. Later, someone else got a promotion. End of story. There's no drama. What happened to you is not "everyone got a promotion except me" it is "I was one of two people considered for a promotion and the other candidate got it." That is something that is really common and not a matter for intense self doubt. You've already spoken to your boss who tells you that you're doing fine, so relax and have some perspective. You might gather a little information together to help with that perspective. Is the other team member more experienced than you? Has the other candidate been with the company longer? Is the only one who knows how to do certain things? Is the one who writes the plan? Reports to the boss how things are going? If you take the time to examine the winning candidate, you might learn about the sorts of things that will be expected of you to be the one chosen next time. Or you might come to realize that it was a bit of a coin toss, the boss had to choose someone and this time, no big deal, it just wasn't you. Anyway, chin up, and keep doing a good job. There's no point in getting upset over other people's progress. You're in charge of your feelings and your motivation. You're the one who wants to keep this job. Accept the decision your boss made, and get started on showing everyone you're an adult and you're competent and capable.