I am going to compare a 50kg and a 1g spider with a silk radius of .003mm. The breaking stess would be about 1000MPa for an average spider. Lets say the giant spider manages to get this up to 2000MPa which is the strongest in the world. Quick calculation shows that the 1g spider can hold about 3 times its body weight of a single thread of silk. How much would that need to be for a 50kg spider? Only .5mm This calculation is enough to show that in theory a spider with thin strands (say 2-3 mm) would be possible. In practice a spider often uses several strands of silk together. I have my doubts about the accuracy of the .003mm radius. Basically, however, this shows that a giant spider could still possibly use silk like a small one iff it were worth it. I don't believe that it is an evolutionarily favorable path which is why we don't see it. In your world, however, you could possibly make it work. Please note that there are likely many nuances that would make this more difficult for a larger spider. I don't want to lift myself by such a small part of my body. The thin diameter likely increases mechanical strength more than bulk properties would imply. There is likely evaporation which occurs in the thin strands which would not occur in a thicker one. There is potential to focus stress on a small region of the silk. Nevertheless, spider silk's properties are incredible and, while they would need to be thicker for a giant spider, they would not really need to be THAT thick. 

The formula is: $$f'=f\frac{\sqrt{1+\beta}}{\sqrt{1-\beta}}$$ where c is the speed of light, f is the frequency of the light normally, v is the velocity of the observer, $\beta$ is $\frac v c$ and f' is the freqyency of light observed by the observer. For blue light (650THz) to xrays (1500000 THz), you would need $\beta=.99999962$ so you would need to be very very close to the speed of light. 

Biological Reason for Low Incidence Rate: There is some genetic detail of the force so that can't be easily passed on. Maybe sensitivity is a non-inheritable genetic mutation. Maybe it requires an additional chromosome similar to a favorable down syndrome or Turners. Maybe a mother, especially one who is not force sensitive, will be damaged by a force sensitive fetus resulting in a miscarriage or maternal death. There are many ideas for this, some interesting and some limiting storywise. Lack of Reproduction Among Upper Class: I don't think this takes much explanation as it is a real phenomenon. Rich families often produce fewer children than individuals with less wealth. Explain this in your world, however, you like: they don't want to sacrifice their me time raising them; private schooling (force training) is expensive; too busy working since they have the hard ruling party jobs; their religion dissuades attachment or sex. This won't help a specific noble family, however, unless they wait too long to start trying. Culling: It is dark but good for story. Someone seeks out and kills younglings. Maybe it is a secret organization. Maybe it is public knowledge. Be creative as to why. Maybe they aren't killed but kidnapped...how is that for a story? Other Removal from Gene Pool: Force users are likely to become infertal (or specifically unable to bring force sensitive children to sexual maturity). This would be best if it has nothing to do with the force but is a result of inbreeding to try and produce force sensitive children. Accidental Self Injury: Force users can do amazing things but they don't realize the downside. Some force sensitive children experience SIDS as they use their powers without control on themselves as infants. Older ones playing with their abilities don't know how limited their self control is...until it is too late. Maybe all of them incur some degree of physical damage to their body through the use of their powers and that leads to chronic illness or acute fatal symptoms a fraction of the time. Asymmetric Heritage: This is different from 1 but similar. Midoclorians (I don't care enough to check spelling) are inspired by mitochondria. These are passed on only from mother to child. Maybe only the mother can pass on the force so the father's procreation rate doesn't matter. Not knowing this, the matriarch of the family is the result of adultery/secret adoption and, as they bring in force sensitive male suitors, nothing helps. The remaining force sensitive men obviously can't do anything, as much as they get to try, unless they mate with the force sensitive woman who can't just be paid to act as livestock for breeding. 

Energy storage If you cool a rock to exactly one degree below freezing, then drop it in a nice beverage, the brick will cool the beverage... a little. But not very much, in the grand scene of things. However, if you drop a simple ice cube into the beverage, it will lower the temperature considerably! Same mass of object, but a lot more energy. The reason is the state change - the brick stays a brick, but the ice cube melts, and it takes a lot of energy to go from solid to liquid (and from liquid to gas), and vice versa. Incidentally, this is why those drink-rocks just don't work as well as regular ice. Granted, that's just water. It can hold a significant amount of energy, but you're not going to get it as small as an urn and still be able to do anything but act as a personal cooling device for a few hours, at best. What you really want, therefore, it a new supermaterial. Something that takes a lot of energy to go from solid to liquid. Then, all you need to do is find a way to get the energy into the substance (to make it warmer), or let the energy out (to make it cooler). The awesome part is that the temperature is exact. Not "vaguely room temperature", but a specific temperature with 0% fluctuation. Temperature control Ok, so I lied. There's a little bit more to controlling temperature than the material. However, this works to our advantage! You see, if you increase pressure, water no longer freezes at the same temperature. Increase it enough, and water starts freezing at room temperature (or hotter). Decrease it enough, and water boils at room temperature (or colder). Why is this to our advantage? Simple! Your supermaterial is at the solid/liquid state change at room temperature and atmospheric pressure. But, by increasing or decreasing the pressure, you can easily change the melting/freezing point by a few degrees up or down. Which means your supermaterial can be regulated at the twist of a dial! As you crank it one way, it increases pressure, the other way, decreases. Turn it up or down to regulate how much energy is released. Recharging As energy-dense as this material is, it will take significant energy to recharge - exactly the energy it lets out, actually. However, with the right material and a good source of energy, a chunk of material could heat an insulated house for a full day, or longer! And since it isn't wasting energy trying to make a house colder than it should be (like a giant block of ice), or warmer than it should be (like a vat of molten salt), it will regulate much more easily. 

Neither are good options. Being a deity is hard work, and being a demon just sucks. What he needs is a third option: 

It has to be cold - no more than 32 degrees Fahrenheit, or 0 Celsius. As a maximum temperature. Right now, there is a place on Earth where this is true: Antarctica. Maximum summer temperatures near the coast are generally near freezing. Life that survives in that weather include a few tiny plants, like lichen, some tiny creatures like nematodes, and various microbiology that frankly could live anywhere. The only other life forms are humans, and they have everything they need to survive shipped in from elsewhere. Not just cold, it's cold everywhere. For the sub-zero temperatures in Antarctica to be present at the equator, everywhere north and south of the equator will be much, much colder. That means there is no chance for life at all outside of the equatorial region. It won't just be fresh water that freezes. The oceans will freeze, at least on the surface. With no way for oxygen or light to enter the water, most ocean life will perish. A few creatures that can survive near thermal vents may survive. Once the oceans freeze, it's game over. 

To make is more traditional, I had an idea to be make it bigger. If the dragon can heat up scales at will (by a built in magic/biological mechanism) can it use this ability to facilitate flight (and therefore be larger)? As both heat and scales are magic, allow the scales to be comfortably be heated and maintained upto 1500C. If needed, older dragons could have thicker scales so hotter max temp. Realistic physics and biology allow it to be similar in size, wingspan, and flying ability to a shoebill without using magic. How big can I make it if it relies on your heating mechanism to fly? I included the following clarification in the comments: "I do not want an organic jet engine that has air passing though internal organs or an oversized air bladder" 

I think you need to figure out what your selkies are. If you want their folklore, you should ask this on mythology. As this is worldbuilding, your selkies are subject to your decisions. Selkies, to me, always felt like the result of either a fairie magic or the mystery of the sea taking people and turning them into seals. As they breed, some of their offspring can shed this magical skin and visit land. They, however, miss their family and the world they were born in. You could, however, easily reverse this by making true seals be turned into humans by their own or some third party's magic. Alternatively, you say they are a creation of nature the same as seals and fairies and have just always existed. If it is the first, they are essentially human but foreigners. They have all of the same instincts, feelings, behaviors as us but are not familiar with our specific customs. If they have no human origin, expect them to be mockups of a human. They may be kind and social but, for instance, they won't understand facial expressions or be able to learn language as a whole anywhere near as well. The first group may be able to talk immediately after leaving the water (if in a different tongue). The latter will be more silent. Personally, I would suggest you look to folklore and to the most familiar selkie story in modern times: "The Little Mermaid". Yes I know she is a mermaid technically. She is, however, a sea half-humanoid who shed her aquatic skin and came ashore looking human. Despite being from a different world and having difficultly communicating, she falls for and marries a human. This is clearly a "mostly human origin" version of course. This means that she behaves and acts like a playful (hey seals) young human who understands humans emotions and behaviors. She is, however, excited and vexed by what humans consider mundane. This is an easy but fun character to deal with. 

I don't believe my own answer but Mars One claims that they will send up the first colonists who will live the rest of their lives there in 2024. While it will depend on delieveries for maintenance items, this is very soon. If funded and supported, one would expect the technology we currently have would allow us to make it self sustainable within 20 years after that. I am not fully convinced, however, that their predictions/plans are reliable. I also do not believe that they will be able to make it completely self supported. Please note that mining and agriculture are very necessary for a physical structure to be build/repair itself and that is going to take time to setup. While the computer systems will reasonably be able to be replaced via shipments, the eventual colony would need very advanced manufacturing inorder to construct these replacement components. This is by no means a simple goal and it would require many people to operate.