In a few different sites and blogs, there's a lot of mention of military presses being bad for the shoulder. Are they any worse than any other exercise? and if so, what would be an alternative method to get the same results? 

What exercise builds your internal fortitude the best? the ability to mentally prepare you for life, exercise, encounters, etc.? Is it weight lifting that gives you the physical strength and appearance? Extreme aerobic that gives you endurance and stamina? If you had to choose, which would it be? 

I think you've conditioned your body by following the same routine for a long time '...despite exercising fairly regularly...' - as Einstein said: Insanity: doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. If you want to recover faster after a 1/2 intense workout - then you need to workout longer to condition your body to that and then the shorter workout will not tax your body as much reducing the recovery period. I'm not sure if that's what your intent is - is your goal to reduce recovery so you can work out more? or is it to maintain your current level but be able to get on with the rest of your day quicker? Either way, it will require varying your routine, including more intense workouts (Tabata/HIIT), and ensuring your have proper nutrition and hydration to provide your body with the fuel to recover. 

I do 5 sets of 10-15 reps of pull ups using a 20lb weight vest. I'm looking to focus on strength and just ordered a dip/pull up belt to add plates. What's a good progression to add strength? Should I aim for 5x5 and increase weight until I can just about complete? 

Here's a link to the same discussion on BodyBuilding.com: $URL$ I couldn't find any information on the problems going bare might cause and the general downside to using padding seems to be one of control and feel of the bar while squatting. I'm assuming people switch on/off based on personal preference, injuries and ego. 

The one 'wild card' is your metabolism, each person's metabolism is a bit different and by going on a diet could slow it down (it's often recommended to eat more often than eat less). If you still can't find the answer - get in touch with a dietician and/or personal trainer. The one thing that caught my attention is the time it takes you to bicycle 10 miles...it seems a little slow - and perhaps you can use that time to develop a weight lifting program that would help burn during/post workout.... Like Albert Einstein said: Insanity: doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results 

You can also do a seated calf rise: $URL$ you can substitute bands for the bark or any weight on your legs. It sounds like you're focused on your legs and not just the calve muscles...which makes sense, since isolating a single muscle isn't always the best approach (since various muscles work together). What I would really recommend is doing squat exercises, either with or without weights. Here's a link to a body weight squat example: $URL$ and a pic of a prisoner squat: 

I'm pretty sure there's no 'science' to determine intensity - you need to do that by results: both positive and negative. You'll know in 3-6 weeks if your routine is good if it's starting to provide the results you want - on the flip side, if you're getting injured, sick, etc. you know it's a bad routine....and if there are no positive changes - not a good routine (so, you have good, not good and bad). If you based your routine on one of the hundreds used by trainers, that are available in either books or web (many for free) - they you can be assured that (depending on the author/trainer) that it's well rounded. Your description of 5-6 sets x 2 reps x 2 exercises - seems like the reps a light UNLESS you're going heavy on the weights (which is something you probably shouldn't consistently do). The 'typical' set/rep pattern is 3 sets of 8 reps (even if you superset) for size/endurance and 5 sets of 5 reps for strength.... The statement that 'sometime I can finish easily sometimes I can't' seems to indicate that your supersets and/or daily routine is not well balanced or focused. Think about what supersets are for: either to allow extra rest on the focus area while working auxiliary muscles (ex: the focus is on chest so you're doing bench presses, the second exercise could be calf raises or lunges)....OR to add more strain to the focus area (ex: focus on chest so you're doing bench presses, the second exercise could be over head press). 

It might be that you're getting your lower body in shape, with the focus on aerobic, but not your upper body - the difference between doing jumps/running and pushups is that you're using your upper body chest, arms, back. Sounds like you need a full body workout plan and one that includes more weight training to increase strength as well as your endurance levels. Include all the basics: squats, deadlifts, bench and overhead presses. Start light and work your way up. Make a goal of doing x pushups by a given date. Don't give up and good luck. 

I'm going on the big 50 soon - my typical workout week is 3 days of strength training (squat Sunday, Bench Tue and Deads on Thu) and 1-2 days of aerobic training (Tabata and heavy bag). I've been reading a lot about changes to workouts based on age - specifically around weight training and recovery. Right now I focus on one body area a day (but typically make it a full body workout, but keeping the focus with more routines). I haven't had any issues with recovery, but want to know if there are good practices to follow to ensure that recovery doesn't start becoming an issue OR reduction in ability to lift what I currently do with on-going progression. 

First thing to understand is that there's a lot of ways to losing weight and a lot of people here (or anywhere) will make many different recommendations, so here's mine: 

I'm able to dead lift 5 sets x 5 reps @ 250 lbs OR 5 sets x 3 reps @ 300 lbs OR 5 sets of 1 rep at 400 lbs....the total weight differences are: 

What assessments would you recommend taking prior to you (or someone you workout with) takes prior to working out? NASM recommends a PAR-Q, performing an overhead squat, push up and step tests...what tests have you taken and/or recommend so a person knows they're in good enough condition and have a good idea what areas to work on (strength, flexibility