Just submit a resignation letter that gives your last date of work on it. No need to specify where you are going or why you are leaving. If they make a counteroffer, simply turn it down. If they ask questions, decline to answer politely but firmly. Tell them you were grateful for the opportunity and you learned a lot, but it is time to move on. You are under no obligation to be more specific than that. 

This of course depends greatly on whether you arepregnant or nonproegnant spouse. You can't hide it forever if you are the one pregnant, but generally people do not admit to it until after the first trimester. Exact timing may also depend on the work needs. You might not want to mention it shortly before a huge deadline or other time of stress. You also might not want to mention it until people start asking you if there are rumors of a layoff. You will want to tell your manager first at a few months months in advance because you are going to be taking more than a week off and he/she needs to do the planning for that. If you are having health problems along with the prgenancy, you nmight need to disclose to management sooner especially if you might be put on bed rest. At this time you can talk about the possibility of working from home or taking a disability leave. Use your judgement on when to tell, a long-time employee can admit to a pregnancy sooner than a recent hire (especially if you knew you were prgenant when you got hired). The recent hire might want to get a solid reputation for working well before bring it up as long as it is not physically obvious. If you have seen or heard about this employer (leagally or illegally) letting pregnant employees go, then of course you will not say anything until the last possible minute. If there are dangerous chemicals you can't be exposed to, you need to bring it up as soon as possible. Coworkers can be told anytime after the manager is made aware. It is probably courteous to tell them at least by the 6-7th month. For men or non-pregnant women with pregnant spouses, there is little need to tell anyone except the manager that they will be taking time of for this because men generally don't take that much time. If you are working in a place that offers paternity leave and you intend to take advantage of it, you will want to tell your boss somewhat in advance so planning around the absence can be handled (usually a copuple of months will do). If your absence will be affecting others or project schedules, you may want to tell at least the people who will likely be directly affected by your absence before the event as a courtesy but it us not actually required. However, in most cases, people like to hear happy things and it is a way to connect with your co-workers. If the pregnancy is not going well, it is best to keep quiet about it to everyone who is not a personal friend except your boss who needs to know you may need to leave on little notice just like when you have any other potential emergency pending. 

If the manager was let go for his own bad performance, you may be ok as long as you don't diss him. In some respects just knowing the bad score came from a manager who was not well-thought of can help. However, you still need to explain it. Above all don't just say that it was the manager's fault. What you had was a personality conflict and you chould have been more pro-active in dealing with it and not letting it get to that point. At the first sign of negative opinion by your boss, you could have sat down in private with him and talked about what you needed to do to improve. Then tried to do what he told you to do to improve. If the conflict was clearly not resolvable after that, you could have tried to move to another part of the company and to another job before getting the poor rating. What have you learned from this? Well one thing you could have learned is to be pickier about who you want to work for in the future! You could have also learned to pay more attention to the negative messages and to be pro-active in making sure your boss knows what you are doing and how well. You could have learned better ways to deal with a personality conflict. You could have learned that ignoring bad news doesn't make it go away and that you have to pay more attention to what the boss wants vice what you want to do. You could have learned that when the boss tells you that he disagrees with how you do something, then you need to change what you do. You could have learned to gain allies in the corporate world, so that you don't get thrown under the bus at rating time (employees of poorly performing managers rarely get high ratings because their boss doesn't have the political clout to get even when they are doing well). Luckily for you, this wasn't your last performance rating. You can point to the improvement of your performance ratings as proof that you have better learned to deal with the soft skills as well as the actual technical skills. 

That is not being fired, that is being laid off. In the interview, you simply say that you were laid off for due to a budget reduction. 

Be prepared to go to another job. If the VP wants you to travel in many cases then you will have to travel or leave. However, I would certainly try talking to management first. You say you have talked to your immediate supervisor about it and he says he can do nothing. In that case, request a meeting with him and the VP to explain that you cannot travel and that you turned down other jobs for this one specifically because it did not involve travel. Ask what he expects you to do onsite that you can't do on the phone or through email. Suggest using Skype or video teleconferencing instead if the need is for customers to get technical knowledge from you that no one else has. Suggest creating good user documentation. Suggest someone else who might be happy to travel if there is another person with the right skill set for the task they want you to do. Don't be surprised if just asking for the meeting causes the requirement to disappear, he wouldn't be the only boss who said the VP insisted when he didn't. (I had a boss like this once.) Could be the VP said someone had to go and it was between you and the boss and he doesn't want to either. But be prepared to leave if he says that isn't acceptable. Be prepared to get let go that day. Companies have the right in most places to change the duties of a job. 

It has been my observation that the people who never say "I don't know" when they genuinely don't know tend to skate by for awhile but in the end always have a spectacular failure. The career ending (at least at that place)kind. There is however a way to say "I don't know" and way not to say it. First, you should know the basics of your profession no matter what your profession is. A network admin who doesn't know how to even start setting up a new user is admitting he is incompetent. One who has never set one up for that particular type of system can say, "I have never done that on XYZ system, but I am sure it will only take me a few minutes to figure it out." Next there is a huge difference attitudinally between "I don't know" and using that as a excuse not to do something and "I don't know but I can figure it out." Even "I don't know" with no intention to do more is acceptable if the question is genuinely outside of your professional responsibilities. If someone asks me how to get their health insurance set up, then "I don't know" is an appropriate answer since I am not an HR person. In general though, I try to point people to the right place or person in those cases. Sometimes the right response is "I don't know, but I would estimate it to take X hours." If you are asked to give a time estimate aabout something you haven't done before and are not sure of the accuracy of the estimate, then it is uimportant to let people know that you really don't know how long it will take and that they number you are forced to give is a guess. THey will of course take it as gospel anyway so estimate on the high side anytime you don't know. But at least you can point to that "I don't know" in writing when the estimate turns out to be low. 

First your manager is wrong, you do not ever want to give promotions just because someone is compaining. THat will not help retention. You seem to be equating promtions to pay raisses as well which is incorrect. While a promotion shoudl involve a pay raise, it certainly is not necessary in order to get a pay raise. A promotion ALWAYS includes a different level of duties. A senior dev does not do the same things as a junior dev. Therefore if you do not need those extra duties done, then you do not promote (you could increase salary however). If the person has taken on the duties of the higher position already or if the person has been determined to be capable of doing those duties and you need somoen to do them, then yes you can promote. But no one should be a senior who is not operating at the senior level espcially not if they are unhappy. A senior can do much more damage than a junior, so promoting a disgruntled person is not wise. People rarely stop being disgrunted just from a promotion. Considering promoting an entire team is just silly. If you don't need 4 senior people (which you almost never do), then making 4 of them senior is a waste of money. It is bad for the organization budget. Each level of an organzation has progessively fewer people, you don't want everyone to be senior. Then who will do the junior tasks? Then you have a toxic person who is fairly good at his duties but who is strewing discontent among his team mates. This is person you want to get rid of not a person you want to promote. You can feel as if you need a promotion and are as qualifed as the last person who got one and you can be right. But there still needs to be a position needed to be promoted into. (I can think of at least 5 people who could be senior where I work but there is only one slot. You can't promote everyone who deserves it either. That is just the nature of organizations.) But when you start taking that unhappinees and making an effort to make sure everyone around you is also unhappy, then you need to be gone. If you want a promotion and talk to the manager and make your case for why you should get one then that's fine. Telling everyone else around you how unfair teh palce is becasue you don't have what you want is not. Encouraging others to look elsewhere is definitely not. Everyone is replaceable and this person is one you should be happy to see the last of. He is not someone you want to reward. That sends the wrong message to the rest of your staff. If you promote a team with there being no basis for that promotion other than they want it, then you will make every other person on every other team angry that they did not get promoted. Some of them will come to you and say, "I am a better performer than..., why can't I also be promoted?" If you want a quick way to destroy morale, promote the complaining team. Then, there apears to be no effort to find out the actual concerns of the employees. Money does not solve all or even most issues of discontent. Promotions in name only don't solve anything. You need to find out what is genuinely wrong. Perhaps they are mad becasue your thoughtless boss promoted someone else who was complaining that did not deserve it. Perhaps there are work conditons that can be changed? Perhaps they are tired of daily overtime and on an on. You never try to fix any problem until you know what the problem actually is. Does your team write code that way? "Hey the users are complaining that things don't work right." "Oh ok, I'll make some random changes until they are satisfied." Of course you wouldn't do that, but that is exactly the same thing you are planning to do by promoting people just because they are unhappy about something.