Entropy can be a very abstract idea, so my answer will involve more abstraction than hard-science, forewarning. You're asking about anti-entropy, or reverse entropy, which is a huge conceptual issue because entropy itself states that things in high-energy states will naturally degrade into lower energy states, and you want the opposite. (if only very slightly) Essentially we're asking entropy to stop being entropy anymore. Entropy is broad. Technically, heavy radioactive particles decaying into lighter, more stable elements is entropy, and so is erosion. It applies to heat transfer and electrical systems. It's well defined as the freakin' Second Law of Thermodynamics. You're asking to break physics, and you know that the scientists never appreciate it very much when you do that. Without it, we're saying that instead of a rock breaking down into lower energy states, it could spontaneously assemble itself into higher energy forms. But we have examples of things that flow against entropy, don't we? This is a question I've debated with friends many times, and I always land on "Yes, life itself seems to organize energy," although I haven't been able to convince most of my friends of that yet. In fact, I would go as far as to say that Entropy is the natural selection that Evolution is fighting against, or, er working with. I'll even go out on a limb with the most radical example I can think of, take Virtual Reality theory. Everyone is still toying out the details, but I believe the one thing we can all agree on is a larger reality would be of the same fundamentals this derived reality contains. Namely: evolution, and entropy. The theory is, with unlimited time and too broad of possibilities, evolution might become stale, and the rate it could reduce its entropy would slow. So create a variety of VR's, all with slightly different (much more strict) laws of physics and all with a time limit, so that evolution might explore the specifics of reducing its entropy in certain areas. Doesn't matter if that's too far off the deep end for you, the point is: Entropy may be so fundamental it may span dimensions / realities. And to try to actually answer your question in the most elegant way I can think of: What is anti-entropy? = evolution. Er, or Life itself. Or let's just create a VR with the parameters you specified and run the simulation. :) 

Take look at Oscillation. Hertz. Demateralization. Nanotechnology. (We can even today do molecular thin layers of things) Our computer processor today run at 3000000000 Hertz. Thats the amounts of times up and own/on and off/circular motion. I guess the big problem is to put everyhing back into place. And how to activate a brain dead person? Maybe you could tune the mind in after some time. The brain waves have to be the same. Maybe a computer program will preform a proxamiation that will in the end be so close to the original mind that it dosen´t matter. The character might experience this as dreams - that suddenly crashes - A new dream will start to continue a bit longer but only to crash again - with no memories of the former dream. The original mind prior to the whole process was saved. The brainwaves results of countless of small expriments (brain reaction to events) made by the computer - and longterm memory. When the brain starts to work - it compares it to the saved brain data (and brain wave functions) - and shut down - to redo process until it is on a whole the same as the original. When it comes rematerizaltion. Thats a tough one. There is extreme amounts of atoms in a human body. It would be near impossible if not impossible to save such data - of how they are built up. After all life is quiet old. And I guess our atoms is as many as planets and stars in our universe or something like that. I suggest the character (characters mind) would have to be inserted in a new body - or a clone (that have gotten through similar life events in a simulated enviroment). If you want more realism I think you might want to skip the container. If you stay with the container - maybe the atoms and molecules are used (turned into water and oxygen - and cole to to CO2 - for plants to breath to become food for the clone). Basically you characters materia would be recycled into a clone tha becomes himself again. You could also take a look at this and use it somehow. $URL$ 

Given an Earth-like planet, what sort of geological features or weather systems are required for a place to have the same average day and night temperatures throughout the whole year? Is such a thing even possible? The closest I could think of were tropical climates that are hot all year long (though even these have cooler wet seasons), but I'm looking for something more temperate, around 15-25°C during the day. The minimum area of the region should be roughly as big as Belgium. 

I don't have enough rep to comment, but you could look at things like dog judging contests. Each breed has certain traits and they're all judged on things like which dog is the most healthy, shows those traits the best, and so on. While different alien races will have different opinions on "beauty", there are definitely traits that each species treats as more desirable (like in humans we like certain nose shapes, cheek bones, shoulder/hip widths, breast shape, etc) and you could judge them on that. It'd definitely be tricky being a judge though! 

I notice you've already got plenty of answers about capacitors and batteries. But since we're in space, what about speed? Speed matters, and in space, speed differences can be astronomical. In the mid-60s during the ramp-up of NASA's Apollo program, there was a lot of research being done on the Moon. And a lot was still unknown: what was the surface really like? Was it rocky and hard, or was it so soft & dusty that a lander's legs would sink right in? Geologists at the time were arguing about the origin of the Moon's craters. There were two competing theories, that they were formed by meteor impacts, or that they were formed by volcanic eruptions blasting holes in the surface. Volcanists argued that when you look closely at the Moon's surface, nearly every single crater is perfectly round. In fact, it's hard to find one that's not. 

So in 1903 Barringer's mining company, the Standard Iron Company, purchased the land with the idea that due to ~30 tons of iron meteorite fragments laying about the basin, the meteor itself must be buried somewhere under the crater floor. Barringer spent 27 years searching, but no significant iron deposits were ever found. Where was the giant meteor? It would take several decades before science matured enough to answer. $E=mc^2$ or, the equivalence of mass and energy Einstein to the rescue! This equation may be so familiar to most people by now that it's jaw-dropping, awe-inspiring everyday significance must be lost on you. But take another moment right now to really let it soak in. This mind-bogglingly simple equation is telling us that energy and mass are equivalent. To put it another way, mass is energy. (And energy has mass. If you stretched out a rubber band, and somehow were able to weigh it like that, the rubber band would weigh more while stretched out than it would at rest.) Speed is also energy And in space with nothing to slow you down, objects can get thrown around at scary-fast speeds, right? Speeds so fast we usually measure them in km/s, or kilometers per second. So what happens when a meteor already traveling at several dozen km/s gets pulled in even faster by the Moon's gravity? It literally explodes. To put it in technical terms, the impact force is so great it breaks apart the bonds of the atoms holding the meteor together, and all that mass gets converted to energy. Take a look at the Moon's craters again. Yes, they're all perfectly round, but that's because each time an impactor hit, it exploded like TNT. The Moon is showing scars of literal bombardment. Why did Daniel Barringer never find his giant meteorite? Because we wouldn't discover until later that when a meteor hits at high speed, it hits with so much force that most of its mass vaporizes into energy. Kinetic kill weapons The irony of weapons in space is that in space everything is a weapon. If you have the capability to get up to orbital speed, or even faster, your vehicle itself is a weapon. If you could for example, approach the speed of light, your vehicle could easily destroy an entire planet. You don't need bombs or warheads, any regular matter like debris or asteroids will do. It's worth mentioning that the Chinese have already done tests like this on their own satellites. No warhead required, just a big, pointy steel rod, AKA a "kinetic kill vehicle". (Also worth noting that this test in particular did not vaporize everything, it actually scattered large pieces of debris everywhere much to the dislike of every nation with a space agency.) The rule of cool To answer your question, it doesn't really matter if capacitors explode when being shot at, because everything explodes if it's going fast enough! (As long as it has mass, i.e. a projectile, not a laser weapon) Use this to your advantage when designing, or ignore it if it's not. If this is for a game most people won't notice anyways. The reality is even tiny micro-meteorites can turn into bombs if you're traveling fast through space, leaving Moon-like craters in the hull of your ship. (You'd need auto-targeting lasers or something to handle micro-meteorites and debris while traveling fast through interstellar space.) I hope this answer was helpful and added some things you haven't considered yet. Cheers! 

Make the vampire and humans more closly related. So the difference is more vauge. Humans of different cultures already eat blood. $URL$ Black pudding. Bloodpudding... Combine this with canabalism (in history) or events happening in present. You will find it wouldent be so easy to find these vampires. Exactly how they would get their special powers - I do not know. It could have something to do with chemistry or genetics (combined with human blood intake). You also have some people (lunatics) that actually think they are vampires - but no one is bealiving them... No matter how hard they try to act like it. Why don´t we bealive those that actually think they are vampires?!. (Probably it has something to do with that we only would accuse someone a vampire if we fear them/it) Create a distrusting critcal world as well. (I mean no one bealives people who preform cannabalism and drink blood - saying they are vampires). If we do not bealive people that act like vampires - would it really be so hard for the real ones to hide? A human in a culture that consume lots of animal blood - that for some reason are/turn to become a cannibal. He fakes schizophrenia. He comes from a wartorn country with no medical records of him? "A few times he have gotten the illusion that he is a vampire" - psychiatrist. Maybe this actual vampire acts like an idiot that think he is a vampire... etc. A special arranged medcine seem to calm him (but in truth this hides his actual vampirism) - but he only acts calm when he gets it to fool his care takers. Everybody understand this man is a lunatic and we might feel sorry for him - so we do not accuse him of real vampirism (as he dont cause any fear I guess). 

I want some giant insect-like creatures for my setting. Since there are already answers here that say simply scaling up insects isn't feasible due to things like their circulatory system, let's assume that our big insects have the proper organs and internal piping to handle being big. Does a creature with an exoskeleton have a lower size ceiling than one with an endoskeleton before the square-cube law becomes an issue? Can I make giant bugs at a similar size to giant mammals, assuming they have the proper internal organs? 

I have some typical gryphons in my world. Bird head and wings, cat bottom half. Four legs and two wings. How crucial is a bird tail for flight? Could my gryphons be good flyers with just having a cat tail instead, or are the two bird wings good enough? No magic should be involved. 

Let's say that for whatever reason, a population of a country has completely lost interest in anything to do with politics. Nobody shows up to political rallies and nobody votes. Everyone prefers to work on their hobbies or go to the pub or watch soaps on TV instead. Assume this happens in a current-day first world country with a representative democracy. Would the government change into a different system? Would it still have power, or would it become even more powerful?