1. This is not to say that strong determinism is wrong, only that it defies common sense. Just because common sense is defined as something which is obvious to everyone does not mean it is always correct (although it is probably political suicide to challenge). There are often cases where what was obvious to everyone turns out to be wrong; a flat earth is a prime example. 

You're begging the question. There are in fact Native American Colleges in the U.S. As for the other groups, I would imagine the issue is more fiscal than legal. 

They aren't at all ethically exempt, keeping in mind the important distinction between law and ethics. Without digging deeply (since this isn't the "U.S. Law Forum"), I believe the legal system in the United States deals with cases like this in court. In other words, these colleges are not explicitly protected under law to simply admit and not admit whomever they please. If someone feels they have been discriminated against, they can sue. If they win their case, the college has to pay out damages but is still probably not bound to admit them, although likely in many cases they will then feel ethically and fiscally bound to do so since a precedent has been set, allowing for an endless stream of further suits. This appears to be a bit of a timely topic. It seems from that article that in fact, the definition of "woman" in this instance is a grey area in U.S. law, so much so that various colleges have sought and received a religous exemption so that they cannot be held culpable for denying transgender women entrance. 

What spiritual philosophy does Robert LawrenceKuhn describe here? This view says that everything exists because of the value of the totality of universe. 

In one episode, Doctor Who finds out he's trapped on a horror-like island and he finds out his time machine he could escape with is frozen in the hardest rock on earth. He also finds out that every time he dies, some kind of machine makes another copy of him, a copy with no memories of those findings. Every time he realizes that, he runs to his time machine and hit the rock with his fist a few times, just seconds before the monsters get him. From the constellation of stars, he finds out he had been there, dying and replicating, for some billion years. Now, from the utilitarianistic point of view, a torture lasting for billion years is the worst thing that can happen. And that makes sense from the physicalistic perspective because if we sum all the feelings of all the Doctors throughout the billion years, there's a hell lot of measurable (physical) stress hormones reliesed. But this statement assumes that pain + pain = 2 pains. That sounds quite reasonable but is the billion pains the Doctor had gone through really so much worse than a single one when the Doctor doesn't have memory of what happend before? My point is, is there some kind of "model of pain" that makes sense from the perspective of a physicalist, other from utilitarianism? (it doesn't need to be a moral model necessarily) Is there another way of materialistically evaluating a morality of something without simply adding and contracting pains and pleasures? 

Going back to your three questions, at least two of them are obviously not answerable with common sense unless one uses the term pejoratively (as in political rhetoric). Different people will give very different answers to, "What is the purpose of life?", and, to a lesser extent, to "Do good and evil exist?" It is also probably a matter of common sense (obvious to everyone) that the very nature of these questions makes them bad topics for common sense to tackle (since common sense requires a "simple perception of facts" and there are few simply perceived facts here). Your approach to the third question is actually an example of philosophy, albeit with a little bit of the aforementioned political hyperbole thrown in. Is it common sense that we can make choices? Probably it is, but this is a case where philosophy might take issue, and you do, by saying 

An obvious answer to this is the existence of the subject, i.e., the self that considers the question. This is partially what the famous Cartesian assertion, cogito ergo sum ("I think therefore I am") refers to. There are ways to nit-pick Descartes' formulation, however. It does seem syllogistic, i.e., actually based on two premises: 

Even though qualia are generally considered to be unexplainable, there are philosophers like Daniel Dennett attempting to get to the core of consciousness with scientific methods. In his view, consciousness is an "illusion", on the physical base, created by our brains. But I think I don't fully understand what is meant by that. Let's say that the discovery could be made and we would be able to fully understand the phenomena behind everything we experience. Would we change the way we think about consciousness in the sense it wouldn't be considered to be a "supernatural" thing outside the laws of physics? With what we know, which is tones of expierence of consciousness, is it possible to say it's less real than it seems? I know his point isn't that consciousness isn't real (because the illusions surely has to exist for him to criticize :) but I feel like his philosophy implies qualia isn't real. And at the same time, it seems to me that I think, therefore I am. * has to be an axiom for any philosophical theory formulated in human words. So if someone managed to fully explain the illusion of consciousness, would it started to be considered a standard "physical" phenomenon (just like the theory of abiogenesis started to push more and more thinkers to leave the idea of divine intervention in the formation of biological life)? As for a non-philosopher (and Czech), it's hard for me to put my thoughts into words so please feel free to reword it if you think you've captured the idea. *_ Let's consider thinking a quale for sake of the argument (it could be any other quale) 

1 As we shall see, he does have a very capital-R Romantic vision of the artist, and romanticizing disorder as a natural state unfettered by excessive civilization fits that too. 

I believe you mean the Koch curve (-sche is a German suffix meaning -ess or -ical?), which according to wikipedia was the work of a Swedish mathematician. The first programmers were generally mathematicians, or at least formally trained in math at a high level, since the first computers were exclusively for solving math problems; Konrad Zuse was an engineer. The concept of the programming loop and particularly the nesting of loops (which could be used in producing fractals) is credited to Ada Lovelace, also a mathematician, but the daughter of a poet. Alan Turing appears to have been a bit of a (math-centric) polymath and the concept of the Turing machine might be considered philosophy, although I do not think it has actually been used or applied to anything outside of mathematics and computing. 

The mind does.1 Although conceptualizing the mind as a complex physical entity may require quite a number of _________ blanks, it is not (or should not be) that difficult. Keep in mind (pun) that the difference between the physical and the metaphysical (required by dualism, but not monism) is not the same as the difference between the map and the territory, although I think it is commonly misconceived or misrepresented that way. Of course the map isn't the territory, but both the map and the territory are still just physical. Likewise, I could give you a physical description of yellow and you could say, "Oh that's not yellow to me, yellow is yellow", asserting that explaining color in terms of wavelength does not capture the experience of seeing it. This is true, but it does not mean the experience of seeing color is non-physical (although you will find piles and piles and piles of philosophical literature trying to insist something like that). It means the map is not the territory. So too the (really, very physical seeming) experience of pleasure and pain. Since there are many other products of the mind that can be easily replicated via physical stimulus (a material change in the brain that might be mapped to the production of entities in the mind), more abstract phenomenon such as the experience of love and hate might easily be physical events in consciousness stimulated by the (physical) activities of consciousness itself. In other words, consciousness, as a physical thing, may affect itself physically. 

I've learned about Descartes' universal doubt and as I understood it, he says mind that is supposed to interact with God isn't part of res extensa and therefore isn't part of the senses we can doubt. On the other hand, I know that his argument for the existence of God was founded on our natural senses. So did Descartes really doubt the existence of God? 

Recently, I advocated here the idea that moral rules should be universal, based upon clear axioms? It should make the opposite for moral imperative. The idea could encompass both hedonism formulated as "doing everything for your own good" and utilitarianism formulated as "doing everything for the maximum good". 

The neural algorithms are so complex we have no clue how does consciousness work for now. The problem is, consciousness is a different quality from anything we can measure with scientific tools. All we know is that it's closely related to our ability to learn, reason, remember and percieve ourselves. There are some attempts to explain it though - you could know the famous TED talk about the illusion of consciousness by the philosopher Daniel Dennet. Denett says that what we call consciousness is our brain's function to answer "yes" whenever we ask ourselves whether we have a consciousness. In that case, in evolutionary means, we can mainly study the concept of self. One of the simple philosophies trying to explain consciousness is panpsychism. Panpsychism is virtually a part of hinduism and buddhism and says that everything has some degree of consciousness and our mind is one of the emergences of unity of many little conscious things. A solipsist might say that the human mind is the only thing that exists and the question is thus the same as the question for the origin of the universe. Or that that the universe is what our consciousnesses invented to understand our inherently given qualia. Noam Chomsky might tell you that consciousness is the result of our ability to create digital infinities via language - our ability to process thoughts about anything. Either way, I haven't really seen a theory that would claim consciousness is not a byproduct of the evolution of intelligence or the other way around, and thus, has no evolutionary meaning. 

Not all physical phenomenon are "objects". The belief that our conscious experiences are derivative of physical phenomenon is a dualist/metaphysical one, not a materialist one. The materialist position is that our conscious experiences (qualia) are physical phenomenon. 

But what makes a religion genuine or acceptable from a secular perspective? Simply that some group of adults profess to regard it as their own, as such (i.e., they explicitly say, "This is our religion"). As a philosopher, I'd go one step further and say it must also involve metaphysics ("What is metaphysics?" being another question).1 That's two straightforward defining characteristics. So this would be a very open definition of religion, pretty close to the one answer you've perhaps said is not good enough. "Group" there is part of the definition. The esoteric beliefs of an individual, metaphysical or otherwise, cannot constitute a religion until they convince others to hold them -- which is how a lot of religions explicitly got their start. Of course, it may often be important for pragmatic purposes, under the law, to define religion in a more strict way. For example, simply on the basis of the size of the group, or, as I think is often the case, on the basis of a decision made by a government appointed board that presumably includes experts in the field of religious studies and prominent members of prominent religions (Bishops, Rabbis, etc). However, those pragmatic purposes are not philosophical. They are to account for people who may abuse an existing legal situation, e.g., to form a religion for tax purposes, to get more days off from work, etc. There's also pragmatic considerations such as, "Does the religion preach violence toward others?". But I don't think this is what you meant by (un)acceptable in your question, i.e., you could have something which is acceptable by a given definition of religion that is still not an acceptable institution socially. I do not think we can define religion politely and say, e.g., that the Spanish Inquisition doesn't count as part of the history of the Catholic Church because "those people weren't really religious". See #2 WRT Scientology.