This is all a "maybe if" statement, though. Humans are such curious beings. Personally, I think that what you propose can't happen - there'll always be some people who will try to find out the workings of the universe, and magic will just be integrated with that. It might go at a slower progress, however. A slower rate of technological progress is also not too strange. They won't stay stuck at the middle ages, but I could see the middle ages stretching a couple thousand years. 

Possible, yes. If you don't mind altering history a bit. However, beware introducing things that are used publicly. Computers, sure! You can have one in your basement/vault/secret hideout. Automobiles, no. You're going to drive it around and you need space for that. It's much harder to protect. Back in 1950, communication on a global scale was still, well, bad. I can't source this claim, to a quantifiable degree, but there was no internet. There might be global communications for politics, industry and academics, but certainly not for the common people. 

Allow me to make some generalizations, so that I may reduce innovative "power" by showing how these groups of people don't have a reason or don't have the means to advance research. 

People are lazy and will use any means that doesn't take too much effort at their disposal to do a task in a simpler manner. Academics are interested in the workings of something, and will dedicate time towards discovering how it works and how to apply this knowledge. We need to find a way to stop both of these archetypes from progressing technology. The people If magic can be shaped to one's will, then some of the hard work might be made easier through the use of magic. This leads to a less pressing need to come up with an easier method. Unless magic is expensive, it comes with the convenience of being always available. Physical, technological objects tend to lack this property. An example of this convenience would be a remote control in our world: when one doesn't have to get up to perform an action, there's no pressing need to invent. 

I'm building a Dyson sphere - a real one, like Freeman Dyson originally proposed, made of swarms of solar collectors in independent orbits that fully surround the star, something like this: 

You're looking at a post-scarcity society; there are discussions of such societies all over sci-fi. Star Trek is the classic example - with any possible artefact or machine available from the replicator, what good is money? So, here's a few options: Prestige This is really the big one. It's already a major part of being a public servant. The social rank and prestige that comes from serving others is a prize that cannot be bought or bartered, but must be earned, so it would be unaffected by the replicator technology that supplies all material needs. Challenge Plenty of people thrive on being constantly challenged to do more, go farther, take risks and chances. These people would be perfectly suited to a life spent in public service. Just plain fun Okay, sure - the replicator can make me any computer or toy that I may want, but I want to play with tanks and rifles and rocket launchers. The only way to get my hands on that kit is by joining up and doing my Public Duty For other ideas, watch a few episodes of Star Trek, or read a Culture novel. 

Not a lot...at first The sun's gravity outweighs the gravity of every planet combined by a factor of more than 1,000. At the time of your birth, the doctor/midwife who delivered you had more of a gravitational influence on you than Jupiter did, and Jupiter is more massive than all other planets combined. Our orbit would be essentially unchanged, so the sudden and mysterious vanishment of all the planets besides Earth would have virtually no immediate impact. Immediate impact, I said. Things get interesting quickly, though. Without the planets around, you've got a lot of loose rock knocking about, and Earth is suddenly the second-largest target in the solar system (after the sun). It would take a LOT more calculating time than I have access to to predict what would happen to all of those moons, asteroids and comets, and it would depend a lot on where everything was in its orbit at the time. However... Impacts. We'd see a lot of 'em, between the moons that used to be circling gas giants, especially, but also between asteroids and other bodies that used to be stabilised by Jupiter's gravity. Chances of Earth getting off scott free are slim to none, and if you think the dinosaurs had a bad day, imagine taking an Io between the eyes. Bonus 1 Is Planet Poppin' even possible? Nope. Not by any laws of physics that we currently know. All that mass and energy has to go somewhere. Bonus 2 What would happen to society if this happened? I'd imagine a lot of new religions would be founded. 

It has been done in 1654 with Magdeburg hemispheres. They're essentially two halves of a metal ball, attached to each other. Then the air is pumped out. They used horses to show that the two halves couldn't be pulled apart afterwards. You won't get a vacuum, but very low pressures, sure. What you'll need is an air pump (bellows) and the two halves of metal. I think it could have been done earlier than 1654, if people realized the ideas earlier. In 1643, Torricelli invented the barometer. This is what lead to the idea of atmospheric pressure (or so I think, you'll want to ask on History.SE to be sure, I'm just researching wikipedia here). With an air valve, I imagine one could easily pump in gases that could react after sucking the normal air out. 

Now, imagine if there was a faulty (by our standards!) theory that had these "magical spirits" that "conduct magic". There are 4 elements to control, and various substances are made of these four elements. Depending on how much of an element it contains, one can control it to a certain degree. Faulty theories ("The sun rotates around the earth") can halt scientific/academic progress for a long time. Add in a world where strange occurrences CAN be explained by magic, and it becomes that much harder to advance technology. Another way to halt scientific progress is if the use of magic strains the mind. If people are constantly mentally tired from doing magic (because by doing magic, a by-product that affects the brain forms in the body), they might not make discoveries as fast. 

You cannot use this as-is for justification for such a conflict. Compare rocket size with the size of a mountain. Now take earth's mountain ridges. Clearly we could lose a mountain, of which many rockets could be made. (Gross oversimplification, but clearly in raw tonnes of material, this is not a problem). But let's say you DO want this as a concept. There's a movie that has in Earth-orbit colony and a kind-of conflict between Earth and the Colony. That movie is Elysium. Basically, people ruined earth, and now the rich live on the colony, whilst the poor slave away on earth. 

First off no, we would not send tanks to the moon. We probably could, but it would be an awful waste. Standard tanks would not operate in the vacuum of space, so we'd need to design new ones from scratch. Trying to keep a soldier with a rifle alive and fighting in that environment would be a nightmare. Instead, we'll send up a simple guidance computer...and a whole lot of nuclear bombs. Let's talk rough numbers. We'll take the US W76 thermonuclear warhead as a baseline. I'm using this weapon because we know the exact weight of the warhead, whereas with other weapons like the W87 details like the weight of the warhead are uncertain. If we were firing these weapons at a target on the moon, we likely would dispense with most of the reentry casing, since there would be no need to penetrate a thick atmosphere before detonation; that's why we want the weight of the warhead. A W76 weighs in at 164 kg, and has a yield of 100 kilotons. We'll want to be able to aim these things, so we'll stick a simple solid-fuel rocket onto each warhead - let's round it up to 200 kg per bomb. The Apollo Command/Service module, the spacecraft that made the full flight too and from the moon, massed around 14,700 kg at launch. The Lunar Excursion Module, the spacecraft that actually landed on the moon, massed 15,200 kg. Call it a combined mass of 30,000 kg going to the moon. That's the same mass as 150 of our warheads. Let's say that our strike craft needs around 1,000 kg for a basic guidance computer and storage rack for the bombs. That's still enough mass for 145 warheads. If we manage to build launchers into that mass as well, so we can dispense with the rockets on each bomb, we'd be looking 174 warheads. Now, to get that kind of mass to the moon, we did need to make use of the Saturn V rocket, which is pretty much the most powerful rocket ever built. If we needed to, we could build new Saturn Vs with a fair amount of lead time - we have all the specs, but the tools and expertise used to build the originals are mostly lost to us, so we'd have to rebuild the industry used to build the rockets. They're probably not our best option. More likely would be NASA's in-development Space Launch System, or SLS. It's designed to reproduce Apollo-era capabilities with modern hardware, carrying the Orion crew capsule to the moon and beyond. If we wanted to launch a real strike on the moon, this would be the puppy to use. It's...complicated...to do a clear comparison of two rockets' capacity. The closest comparison would be the 'injected mass' capacity - that is, the mass including upper stages of the rocket itself that can be lifted to a given point. The Saturn V's injected mass capacity was around 154 tons; SLS will manage 173 tons. The two craft are quite comparable, so for simplicity's sake we can assume that the SLS can lift our W76 cluster to the moon. Without knowing more about the Monster, I couldn't say whether a strike like this would be able to destroy it...but it should at the very least let it know that we're here. 

Academics What could make curious people stop looking? Stigmas, perhaps. But looking at our scientific history... In 1667, there was the idea that there were spirits in substances. They called them Phlogiston. The wikipedia article contains the following excerpt: 

If you place your colonies further away, you could argue that there is a resource (resource X) that allows fast rockets. Resource X is troublesome to excavate, polluting, rare, expensive... you name it. Imagine resource X to be of nuclear origin, but 10x all it's factors and you get something that's pretty nasty. You still need an opponent, though. If me donating you goods costs me a lot, I might just stop. What's preventing me from stopping with sending you goods? Death of a colony? Then why are the people angry? Surely they understand? The idea is workable, but you need another source of conflict. Ecological conflict on a small scale is usually people not wanting to pay for getting rid of their trash properly, so they just dump it. Maybe there's one continent responsible for the colonies and it's polluting the world with the constant rocket launches using Resource X. Background radiation levels are on the rise. Radiation chart: (For better viewing, I recommend the original on XKCD) Basically, the "daily dose" of 10 micro Sv is already increased to 50 micro Sv, and in the future it looks like it will go up to 100 micro Sv and 250 micro Sv. Now, this doesn't seem bad, but the radiation gets in the food, and the water, and slowly the whole world is poisoned. 

Before I go on, there's something else that needs to be addressed: Why do we reach medieval technology at all? Well, personally, I believe that even with magic, the feudal system will still occur. It is this feudal system that brings the technologies. A landlord may dictate how the land must be farmed; after all, if lands cultivated in manner X are more productive than lands cultivated in manner Y, then perhaps all lands should be cultivated in manner X. Why one would smelt iron and develop tools, I don't know. Perhaps because controlling fire doesn't help with farming land. So some still need tools. 

Imagine a species of eusocial arthropoids, each about the size of a dog, that live in complex, multilayered nests. Each individual has very little brain - a brain about the size of a tic-tac, to be precise - but as a whole, the nest is powerful sentient mind. An individual needs to be able to perform a complex task in real time in order to operate some technologies. Rather than the individual knowing how to do the task, it would receive a series of subtle radio signals from the other individuals nearby, a cascade of meaningless pulses from thousands or millions of individuals that converge on this individual to give it the impulse needed to carry out its task, moment by moment. What physical structures would an individual need in order to send and receive these radio signals? To clarify: By 'radio', I don't mean 'any form of electromagnetic radiation'. I'm referring to the range of frequencies known as 'radio waves', that is up to around 300GHz. This is because the signals need to be able to go through the solid walls of the nest. Basically biological wi-fi. 

Regular consumer-grade cameras will be able to capture and store a much wider range of colours than just the visible spectrum, and software will be available to easily redshift or blueshift your pictures, going from a picture of the local wifi at the red end, through a heat map, through visible light, on up through ultraviolet, to an x-ray picture at the blue end. Obviously the upper ranges would be much dimmer, due to higher wavelengths being absorbed by the atmosphere, and the lower ranges would have lower resolution, but software interpolation will be able to provide a reasonably clear view at all wavelengths. There will also be much more use of software image processing. Simple picture manipulations like removing background people or creating action shots will be simple and automated.