Today on the short geocaching trip I've barely escaped hail storm. It wasn't very long, but I was without any special equipment. Light umbrella would survive a few minutes, and my jacket would provide a limited protection from water for a short period of time. What are the strategies to deal with such situations? Look for the protection of big tree (yes, I know, thunders, but staying on open ground is not a good idea either)? Search a thick bush? Improvise some umbrella from sticks and leaves? 

General rule is to be flexible. Small plastic bottle gives you absolutely no flexibility. Big plastic bottle gives you more flexibility. You can fill it fully or only to the half, or one third. Two plastic bottles give you even more flexibility. You can take 0,5l water, you can take 1, 2 or 3 liters - depending how much you will need. 0,5 liter water is almost no water. On multi-day trip typical rucksack weights from 20 to 30 kg, so taking 1 liter more water won't make it significantly heavier, while dehydration is an extreme danger. Note that even if there's a spring on the map, or in the place you know, when there wasn't raining for many days, it can be dry, and you'd have to walk many kilometers until you find next one. Doing so with only a small bottle of water simply isn't wise. 

What is the good choice for the running shoes for winter conditions in city (mostly running on asphalt)? When the snow is shoveld, normal running shoes would be no problem, but when the snow falling, they are soaking immediately and they have poor adhesion. So, I was thinking about running in light trekking shoes with elastic soles, because of good adhesion and light membrane. But, aren't such shoes too overloading for ankles? 

Walking barefoot makes skin on the soles very hard. Indigenous tribes that have no boots are walking barefoot even on the sharp rocks. But after my leg was slightly slit by the seaweed, I wonder if it is possible to do the same with the skin on the other parts of the body. If so, how to achieve it? Generating so much friction as to soles when walking would be very problematic. 

It seams, that there is another site for statistics, which is not linked (or the linking is not obvious. The statistics for Germany can be obtained under $URL$ So, OpenCaching has ~28k caches in Germany, and GeoCaching ~192k. That means that GeoCaching has over 6 times as many caches in Germany as OpenCaching (quite suprising, because in Poland it is the opposite). 

The list you've provided as the answer to your question is very good, so I write only about additional items: 

I've tried to find a few caches, where the coordinates were showing the T-Mobile telestation, such like that: 

If you want to drop some really useful outdoor items, consider that all plastic straps, strap side release latches and strap adjusters, as well as safety-pins, needles and threads, and other repair items. Some caches may bless you for it if his/hers rucksack is damaged while hiking, and they have not repair kit. Such things are cheap to buy in bulk, but if you need them they are very precious :) 

Those values seem to be over-exaggerated. I was once measured by the professional equipment (from the local university) and my callory usage was 5000-6000 kcal a day, with average 20 km hike and 1000 meters elevation. This included the normal metabolism per day (about 2000-2500 kcal) + increased metabolism because of cold temperatures in night. The measures was based on blood pressure and skin temperature, from what I know it was the top-tech device for current state of knowledge. So the hike 20km + 1000 meters elevation would make about 2500-3000 extra callories for male about 65 kg, with heavy backpack. Those are the extra callories burned, the basic metabolism is not included. The app may include estimated base metabolism, but the distance made is not enough data to estimate that value. That strongly varies between individuals. Therefore to realisticly measure your metabolism, you need to measure pulse and body temperature. 

Blisters are usually happening if you walk much more than you are used to, or the shoes are much harder than those you usually wear. For example on multi-day trekkings in heavy trekking shoes. The people more used to walking have usually harder feet and are much less likely to get blisters. The usual prevention solution is to walk as much as possible in the shoes you are going to trek in before the trek. But I wander if walking barefoot hardens the feet in the way that will prevent blisters as well? The skin must be much harder, if you walk barefoot, so it would be logical to suppose such feet will be better protected against friction in shoes. However, when walking barefeet, the friction comes from the bottom. In shoes, there's also a friction in the places shoes fold, near the ankles etc. 

Is it good idea to use city tickets for public transport (laminated or in string bags) as exchange objects or traveller objects (krets)? Are such items welcomed by the geocachers community? From the one side, simply throwing validated tickets into caches in the same city is not welcomed, because such 'items' are considered thrash. But from the other side, the ticket from the other city (or the other country) can be welcomed by collectors, and when it is secured from wet (lamination etc.) it can look quite nice in the cache. 

Even the temperatures around 0 C are real threat to life! For -20 C you'll definitely need very good equipment. A sleeping bag with comfort temperatures around -20 C will cost much but without it you won't cope. But you must note, that 'sleeping' in tents in such low temperatures is often not real sleep, but overnighting. If it matters if you sleep alone or with someone else - yes, definitely! Each person in tent warms up the air, it is much much warmer with 4 people than with 2, and sleeping single is a challenge. Also, if you get ill, 1 km in deep snow is much more exhausting than you could imagine. My answer: you are risking your life. In team the risk can be really low, but I wouldn't risk such expedition alone if I were you, if you're not a survivalist. 

People falling asleep and dying were already affected by hypothermia, once it happens to you, the only chance is a heat source such as fire or other people, however if you are alone, you will have really problems with making fire in such condition. If your body isn't completely exhausted, you will have great problems falling asleep, if you will be freezing. This is a measure how a comfort and tolerance temperature ranges for sleeping bags are measured: comfort range means you'll be able to sleep the whole night, while tolerance range means you'll wake up a few times an hour because of freezing. In extreme cases just sleep in your clothes , treating sleeping bag as just another warming layer. You can also put your legs (being in sleeping bag) into your rucksack - it will provide another isolating layer. And finally, if the night isn't too dark, consider walking in night and sleeping a bit in the day, when it's a bit warmer. 

I know some people (mostly female) who wear cotton on winter hikes, but they claim they don't sweat (and they drink very little, which makes that plausible). But I sweat a lot, and if you sweat a lot, in winter it's very important to wear breathing clothes. And with breathing clothes is so, that one non-breathing layer breaks the whole thing. Cotton likes moisture. It's easily getting wet and it takes a lot of heat to dry it. Syntetic T-Shirts are not keeping many moisture in the first line (if you wear breathing, the most of the moisture gets away) and if they get wet, they dry very quickly. After a few minutes pause it's already dry on me, even under polar and jacket. Cotton, on the other way, gets very quickly very wet on the hike and is not getting dry even when the sun shines. So you have a wet layer on you, which makes you tremble from cold, especially when the wind is blowing. Each physiology is individual, and generally in cold condition you should avoid overheating in the first line (sounds like a paradox, but the last thing you need is to sweat). You can also change cotton T-Shirt if you stop walking and feel cold in wet shirt. "Cotton kills" is overexaggerated. It drains more energy from you, yes. It can be dangerous if it gets wet, and you don't have anything for change, yes.