France made a strategic decision that it would be self-reliant. Update in response OP's request for clarification on why the British didn't think about self-reliance. The British did consider self reliance. Ultimately you can do more with the resources of two countries than you can with the resources of one. Furthermore UK policy was set in the context of a conflict between the NATO alliance (where the UK was a major player) against the Warsaw Pact alliance. Finally, a review of history would indicate that alliance and cooperation have figured promiently in UK (and commonwealth) foreign policy. Alliance is a successful strategy for the UK. 

I was very skeptical, since you didn't cite any reason to doubt the claim, but a paper by Dr. Lynn Ceci supports your skepticism: 

Please read Roman Tax Farming. The best strategy for the governor is to appoint the wealthy landlord as the tax farmer, and authorize the tax farmer to take whatever actions are necessary to collect the required tax. aside: I haven't actually double checked this against the reign of Hadrian; someone more skilled in Roman history could potentially serve me up.... The governor set a tax level for the province - I want a million sesterces this year. You go get it. The publicani could write a check for a million sesterces, or he could go out and shake down all left handed red haired me, or whatever he wanted. Note that the Publicani was expected to make a profit - if the Publicani needed to collect a million sesterces, then it was legitimate to collect a million and ten thousand and call that a profit. Under this system embezzlement was fundamentally impossible. Aside: there was a limit - publicani competed for the privilege, and the candidate with the slimmest margin was theoretically selected. The actions of the publican were prima facia legal because they were authorized by the governor. Anyone who complained about the procedure of tax collection was referred to the governor. I don't recall off the top of my head, but I believe that there was no right of appeal (there were informal channels to Senatorial patrons, but no formal right of appeal) Remember that by law the governor was immune to prosecution during his term of office. The one time that a governor was prosecuted after his term of office, his defense lawyer had him acquitted on the basis (rough summary)"Each of you would have done the same; it cannot be corruption if it is common practice" Why keep receipts and records at all? Competition between publicani was fierce, and those who kept records tended to be more efficient. They didn't fear audits or embezzlement - those concepts were meaningless. Please also consult - for a fairer, more complete, less cynical treatment: 

Remember that frequently the objective of a siege was not to defeat the opponents troops, but to bottle them up, and prevent them from joining military action elsewhere. Military action is designed to achieve a strategic objective, not just to slaughter people. I think if you look at the English wars of the 12th century, or the English civil war you'll find some good examples. During the Napoleonic war, the nobility of neighboring towns might come out and have a picnic to watch the bombardment as a form of entertainment. (Wish I could find the citation for that right now). As far as the expense of keeping an army in the field, the beseiging army will seize what they want from the countryside, and may or may not pay troops at all - sometimes they'll let them pillage the town in the end, sometimes they'll promise pay and provide nothing, sometimes they'll demand service on behalf of some ideal, sometimes the war is a civil war, in which there are no neutrals (just enemies that I haven't prioritized yet), sometimes they'll just demand service by feudal right. Unless you limit the question to a specific time period, there are a lot of variable.s 

First off the Greco-Roman world extends over a long time period. Depending on how you measure it that could span a millennium. So the answer to your question changes depending on when you are travelling, (and the season of the year; some seasons you travel by sea, and some you must travel by land) and where you are travelling. Beyond that, the answer depends on your social class. If you are a plebian, you're going to walk. If you are a slave, and IF you are permitted to travel, you're going to walk. If you are of the Senatorial class, you may ride, or you may be carried. The equestrian class were originally those who were wealthy enough to own/support a horse and armor, and notionally if you were below that threshold, you were not going to ride. While I cannot prove it, I would be very skeptical of any claim about public transport. Public services are (in general) an artifact of the modern welfare state. Rome provided some public services (the Urban Praetor was responsible for the sewers), but generally those services were provided grudgingly and poorly. There is no fundamental public interest in speeding travel. I suspect that Romans walked, with very few exceptions. The following paper models potential transport, and includes speed estimates. Travel in the Greco-Roman World 

As I said above, Wikipedia provides a fairly thorough explanation. Briefly though capitalism focuses on the role of capital in production. Summarizing a complex concept into a simple sentence, traditional societies produce for use, while capitalist societies produce for sale. Traditional societies engaged in industry and commerce, but they did so with an immediate end in mind. They made things to use them and bought and sold things to acquire things to use. Capitalist societies engage in industry and commerce with the option to accumulate capital. Industry continues to produce for use, but also for sale, and the sale accumulates capital that can be subsequently invested. Capitalism permits accumulation of liquid capital, pooling of capital and investment of capital. Return on investment allocates capital more efficiently than any other economic system. Obviously wikpedia's answer is superior; I'm merely trying to boil it down to a few sentences. 

Obviously in the pre-modern period, conscription was the norm - in a feudal society, military service is effectively conscripted. (If you fail to show up for feudal levies the government will punish you; we could argue the edge cases of this, but for the purposes of this question, I think it stands). Nicchola de la Haye was the castellan of Lincoln castle during the Baronial revolt against John. She defended the castle. If she had not done so, she would have been brought to account by her government. Modern military service is generally volunteer service (once again, I am aware of exceptions to the rule, but I don't think they affect the question). Individuals are not conscripted to fight, but once they volunteer, the government will punish them for failing to fight. I mention this because there are hundreds if not thousands of women in combat positions, many of whom have seen service. Major Rossi was the first US woman known to have given her life in combat. Other sources: 

On the other hand if you're a bog dwelling mouth breathing revisionist historian, then the official view is that Cromwell surpasses sliced bread, and only falls short of sainted Napoleon by a thin margin. It is a great credit to the UK constitution that there is no mechanism to generate an "official opinion". Citizens of the UK are free to have their own opinions, and even to disagree with one another. 

The answer appears to be the Venetian Republic was the first nation to hold masquerade balls. Wikipedia has an article on the history of masquerade Victorian Masquerade Ball confirms many of the assertions in wikipedia Samantha Peach has an article that is less well sourced 

The question is far larger; books could and have been written on the subject, but I hope this pointer is useful in setting up further research. 

The US government alleges that this has occurred - see Superdollars. Very high quality counterfeit $100 bills flooded the US market. Although it may be that these were merely a way that the responsible institution was funding operations, it is commonly believed that these were also intended to cause inflation within the US by increasing the money supply. I don't see any information about the total value of the counterfeitted currency, or how that relates to MB or M1. One would need to have that value in order to have any hope of estimating the inflationary impact. (and one would have to resolve certain controversies between classical and liberal economics). That article also references Operation Bernhard, which I think @DVK mentioned. 

The Smithsonian lists a couple of competitors including Samuel P. Langley, and Sir Hiram Maxim. Wikipedia has a reference to competing claims. Langley was paid by the government; he may be the individual you're remembering, although I can't immediately find any evidence of the depression. 

Taxes were the free gift of the English people (yes, I'm aware that this is an issue larger than the Civil War, but I think there is an inflection point here). This leads to the colonist's "No Taxation without Representation". Mistrust of a standing army, particularly one controlled by the crown. This has a significant impact on the retirement of military personnel and the quartering of those people in the colonies, which impacts the taxes paid. Supremacy of Parliament - more than any other conflict the American war for independence is about how Parliament controls colonies. The United Kingdom had colonies, but had no notion how to rule them. In general, landholding was related to representation, but there was no mechanism for the creation of new boroughs. Parliament was still inventing Parliamentary government, and now they had to change the (unwritten) constitution.