As for your example, is there a reason that both cannot be a valid description of what he believe he sees? Can the two not be correlated? In math, 2/3 and 4/6 are obviously very different symbols, as is sqrt(4/9), but they are all valid notations describing the same number. In interpersonal relationships, I may be obliged to call your friend Mr. Robert Downey Jr, but you may be allowed to call him Bobbie from time to time. But he is the same person, regardless. From the astronomer's (finite) perspective, the sun rising and the earth rotating are indistinguishable without an external influence to force him to distinguish them (such as a desire to point a telescope in that direction to measure gravitational lensing around the sun). Thus there is no reason he could not experience the qualia of both at the same time. In fact, the grammar may change to better reflect what he might feel: "the sun-rising-earth-rotating." There is no reason a skilled astronomer must limit himself to the two choices you gave him. In fact, a very wise astronomer would recognize that "the earth rotates" is also a finite view, centered on the earth. As for the rest of your questions, the answer to that is philosophy. Sadly, I'm not kidding. Those are the questions philosophy grapples with, and there are thousands of answers to each of your questions. In my opinion, the joy of philosophy is being able to find the answers which satisfy you while simultaneously allowing others to experience the joy of finding answers which satisfy them, even if you disagree. 

The answer to this question is most likely no, it is impossible to pursue knowledge without one's own perspective. This is due to linguistics. It not reasonable to state that someone can pursue knowledge unless they have a perspective which defines what "knowledge" is. The counter to this would be to define "knowledge" in a way which must have a universal meaning to "everyone," for whatever "everyone" truly means. Linguistically, it turns into a quagmire rather quickly, suggesting to me that anything resembling the pursuit of knowledge without one's own perspective is likely a sufficiently nuanced concept that we lack terminology to describe it. 

You really have two major unknowns: where do you want to go, and how do you want to get there. Where do you want to go? Is your goal to selflessly advance the human race through philosophy? Or do you want to have personal glory instead. For most people, it's a balance of many things. We have to find our own path based on where we want to end up. People will react differently based on what you are trying to do. They are generally more helpful if you're trying to work with them. As for the path we take, it depends on what we want to see on the way. Now my personal opinion is that I want to find out that I'm not as innovative as I thought I was. That's just how I am. I spent several years developing my own personal philosophy completely independent from the rest of the culture and its philosophy. I'm pretty proud of it. As I started exploring, however, I found that many of the things which I thought were incredibly novel were actually well trodden paths. I simply hadn't known the right terminology to realize that everyone else had come to the same conclusions. So my general approach is to start from the perspective of "please help me determine that what I have isn't novel." Reference-requests are great for this sort of thing. You wouldn't believe how common it is to believe something is new when it's 2000 years old! Now once you've determined what portions are novel and what are common, you can consider marketing that which is novel. The obvious approach is to market it among academia. However, as you've noticed, that's hard to do without an academic background. This is by design, really. The academics have to have a way to ensure the arguments being forth are "reasonable" by their standards. The academic language is adapted to suit that need. You may have to take some philosophy courses in order to learn the right ways to phrase things. The second approach which is very common is to live one's life according to these philosophies. In this approach, it is not one's academic credentials which validate the work, but the life one lives. The results can be slower, but anyone can do it, and the results will be judged for what they are. 

I would choose to rephrase the meaning of sacrifice to be "the exchange of a perceived greater good for a perceived lesser good." Thus the idea of such an example might be expounded upon from the parent's point of view as, "We came across many situations where we perceived something like a vacation or car as a greater good than the child's education appeared at the day. However, we had reason to believe that our perceptions were in err, and in fact the money was better spent on the child's education. However, we as parents, recognize that there are probabilities involved. Our child might not use that degree effectively. However, we believe the Return on Investment (ROI) is good enough that we will sacrifice our guaranteed vacations and cars for a probability of improving our child's life in the future." 

Statements in the form "Everything is ______" tend to be accepted via abduction (SEP). In abduction, you infer that a hypothesis is true because it is the best explanation for a behavior. Abduction, unlike deduction, does not prove the statement, but rather simply infers it. Statements in that form can also be subjective. It is entirely possible for someone to claim "everything is ______" and simply make themselves incapable of being aware of anything which is not part of that everything. This is often a self fulfilling prophecy. For example, if you believe everything in the world is made of matter (materialism), you are very unlikely to seek out and observe anything which is supernatural, such as a mind (dualism). Your statement can be true about your world until something forces you to be aware of a counterexample. I do believe small children accomplish this the best. They have a miraculous ability to assume "mom and dad cannot see me while I do this" so completely that they can utterly ignore mom or dad standing right behind them. They are aghast when they find their plans foiled, as though mom and dad somehow ruined their perfect world. An interesting example of this occurs in the book Permutation City by Greg Egan. In it, they create a simulated world built out of simulated automata. Some of the characters develop a "Garden of Eden" pattern which can provably never evolve naturally. The presence of this pattern proves that you are in a simulation. When they attempt to use this Garden of Eden pattern to disprove the beliefs of the denizens that they are not in a simulation (an "everything is real" argument), well, I wont spoil it, but I will say there are many creative ways to avoid being exposed to such a pattern! 

I think some of the challenge is that you assume a priori that the timeline for a body is well defined. Consider the case of pregnancy (always a challenge case with these sorts of things) by premise 2, "Given any two Is in a consciousness body's timeline, they are the same I." the baby has no "I" until the moment it has its own body. But the cells are simply those of the body of the mother (and a little material from the father), so they are arguably part of the mother at first. There's a discontinuity there. There's also a discontinuity at death for the same reason. The body continues for quite some time after death (as a corpse). This leads to an interesting complication with the silicon argument. Consider that you are the first "I" in a particular silicon body. At some point you die, and the silicon is re-uploaded with a "new" "I," but it cannot possibly be a new "I" because the silicon body's timeline is still going. Another thing to consider is the case of conjoined twins. Most appear to have one body with two consciousnesses, but there are records of conjoined twins with a link between their brains which lead to questions of whether they are one consciousness or two. Also worth looking at is a slow continuous cloning process, which invokes some Ship of Theseus style questions. Rather than a nice easy instantaneous "here's your clone," allow the clone to not only grow over time, but as its consciousness grows to be a mirror of yours, you can use the body as your own. Think of it like your body just getting "bigger." Then, at some point, you begin drawing a barrier between the two bodies (perhaps shutting down a high speed data link). It is well recognized that individuals of a skilled trade often develop a sense that the tool is "part of themselves," so it seems reasonable you might find this second body to be "part of yourself." If, later, it is clearly cut off from your influence, but exhibits conscious behavior, is it still "part of yourself?" At what point did it develop a new "I?" All of these challenges have two things in common: abuse of the discontinuity at the creation of an "I" and destruction of an "I," and the premise that "I"s are exclusive within some bounded system (like a body). All of these challenges are uncomfortable corner cases where those nice crisp discontinuities get muddled by continuous changes. As a general rule, any theory of "I" with discontinuities at birth and death will develop idiosyncrasies if it attempts to define all of its thought experiments using scientifically achievable procedures on the body. It is currently believed by science that the world is continuous and differentiable. If one assumes a discontinuity in level of meaning of "I," one finds there must always be at least one uncomfortable case where a virtually indistinguishable shift in body "causes" an "I" to appear or not. (If you want to see just how much discomfort it can cause, consider trying to make sense of all of the opinions on abortion at the same time. The concept of when a life starts has wracked the US for years, trying to fit a discontinuity onto a physical process) 

One has to be careful with arguments like this. There are other non-physical absurdities, like self, morals, marriage, etc, which are valued highly by many people. If one is not careful, one accidentally banishes these along with the ghosts and fairies. Keeping the non-physical that you want while discarding the non-physical that you do not turns out to be a challenge that keeps cultures going. One of the tools that has been used to explain this is the separation of mind and body. If your mind is subject to different rules than your body, then it's easy to explain why the rules you use to make sense of the physical world don't apply to the non-physical. If you do not use such a tool, then you must use more difficult approaches. Myself, I find the most important part of making sense of mind/body is abduction: the inference rule that assumes the most likely hypothesis is true. It's an inference rule alongside deduction and induction which gets a lot less press, but it's important here. Someone who argues that there is only body, and mind supervenes on the body, typically argues so along the lines of abduction: "physics has explained so much of reality, it is likely that it explains all of reality." Some people are comfortable with this inference, others are not. Part of it is because, while science is making tremendous leaps and bounds into understanding the brain, we still don't even have a scientific definition for consciousness which meets the needs of the philosophical community, much less an agreement that that definition is the only possible right definition. I, myself, prefer to take a compatabalist stance, and argue that both models fit the data. The real answer, if one even exists, is an unknown. We, as a species, have many tools for dealing with the unknown. Physics is only one of them. Maybe it's not the most effective way to approach all questions. Maybe the "best" way to view the universe hasn't even been developed yet? Why limit our search? 

What is the "function of the neuron?" Have you 100% defined what the purpose of the neuron within your self is? If so, then you can probably argue that it was replaceable. However, defining that function is hard. As one strains for 100% replacement of function, small nuances begin to require a great deal of attention. 100% is a high bar to reach. Now consider the possibility that you have just one truly chaotic region within your brain, perhaps inside a single neuron. We know that chaotic systems are remarkably unpredictable. However, as stated earlier, it's very hard to discern the "noise" of this chaotic system from its function with 100% certainty. Accordingly you have to reproduce the entire state of the chaotic system. This is not known to be physically possible. No known measurement tool is capable of measuring the state of a chaotic system sufficient such that both the original and the clone evolve identically. The measurement device inevitably perturbs the system as it takes its measurements, and those perturbations can lose essential content. So what you describe involves a godlike ability to perceive the true state of the system, and a godlike ability to create perfect replacements. It should thus be no surprise that our intuition of what we are is insufficient to intuitively handle a "self" in the presence of a god. In fact, it may be valid to argue that one's "self" is better defined by the behaviors of the deity doing the measuring and replacing: "you" are that which the deity chooses not to clone/replace. And thus the question approaches the well trod class of paradoxes involving omnipotence and omniscience. The particular way you elect your deity to be able to go through with this thought experiment of yours will define when you cease to be yourself. It also may imply that, after complete replacement, you are still you; the Ship of Theseus may still set sail. After all, you had a deity doing the work, all sorts of non-intuitive things are valid and reasonable in such a light.