Not unique (ChrisH has already nailed it), but unusual, and possibly rare. What it won't be is valuable. You have the bicycle equivalent of a 1970s manually-tuned push-button TV. Kind of fun, but kind of clunky by modern standards. 

Petrol is not a sunk cost. Every mile you travel in a car costs money on petrol. Even if the rest of it is money you've already spent, you're still saving money on petrol. And it saves money on a gym membership too. :) 

If the car legitimately overtakes you and sometime afterwards hangs a right, leaving you reasonable braking distance, then you slow down. Simple. The car should not overtake you and immediately hang a right, cutting you up. That would be as bad a move against a cyclist as against another driver. If the result of that is you damaging their paintwork, they are in the wrong. If your bike is damaged, take their details and claim on their insurance. Note the "should" though - you could end up being "dead right", so road awareness means being alert to the possibility, especially if other cyclists behind you means you can't safely brake hard. If there are no other cars behind you, then ChrisW's answer works fine. If there are other cars approaching at speed though, then the "official" way of doing things is likely to land you in hospital. Drivers have braking distance and reaction time too, and reaction times will be slower for unexpected moves like that. 

If you're running oil in the forks then you might want to look at switching out for something that's meant for the colder temps but other than that I think it should be fine. The biggest thing I'd worry about is the salt/sand on the bike. Rinse it off after every ride with some water and store it where it can dry. 

Having a strong core is crucial to being comfortable. In addition to riding 4 days a week I whitewater kayak a few nights a week. The twisting done in that sport helps keep your core strong as well as working the arms. I'd suggest that yoga, and pilates are good core/flexibility workouts that you should look into to get your core strong. Long ride saddle comfort is also a product of a proper bike fit. You may have a stem that's too long and making you reach farther than you should. Looking into a bike fitting at you LBS is probably something worth your time to make sure that it fits you as well as possible. 

Mixture of campsites, friends and hotels. If I've got a rest day (staying in one city and checking things out) typically hotel. I have some friends that just went up to houses and asked if they could camp on the lawn. They rode from Toronto to PEI with no camping fees. 

You can get a set of slicks or semi-slick tires that will reduce your rolling resistance. If you're using it to commute lots as well then fenders are awesome to keep the rain off. I have a snap on rear fender that goes on any bike I'm riding if it's raining (outside of races). I hate having a wet butt. 

Many individuals are running non matching hollowtech II stages crank arms with no ill effects. Stages themselves cites this as OK. Note the Dura-Ace crank below. Crank Compatibility: All Shimano Hollowtech II road cranks Go ahead and purchase with confidence and enjoy cycling with power. I run an Ultegra 6800 Stages on a 6700 Crankset personally. 

The 6700 rear derailleur has more capacity and might fix your issue. OR: You can ditch the roadlink and use a Shimano 9spd MTB SGS RD. They work great with 10spd road shifters. I used 105 5700 shifters and an XT RD-M761 SGS RD and XT 10spd 11-36 cassette to get up Alpe d'Huez and some other epic climbs in France during summer 2015 and shifting was great! 

SPD-SL is harder to clip out of than SPD (MTB style), it's just a fact of how it was designed. It improves slightly with time but it will never be as easy as SPD. 

Hang your buttocks off the back of the saddle is the only appropriate answer. You can see great evidence of this in cyclocross races when racers go from climbing to steep descents (in some cases) and go straight to the drops and hang their rear end off the back of the bike. Here is a downhill rider doing an extreme example of exactly this: 

The new Shimano Ultegra R8000 Cassette 11-34 fits the 11spd MTB freehub spacing. If you have the medium cage 5800 derailluer it will work as is. If not then you can upgrade to the R8000 medium cage and it will work with your 5800 shifters. 

You can probably use the barrel adjuster on the derailleur to tighten or loosen the cable slightly and get the shifting back to perfect. Put it up on a stand or flip it over and shift and play with the barrel adjuster. Knowing which way to spin it is more a matter of experience with adjusting gears than anything else. 

I'd get a pair of Shimano SPD pedals and get the 'snap on' flats for one side. You'll only be able to clip on one side then but you'll also have flats on one side. Another option would be to look at a downhill style pedal with a large platform on it. As long as the SPD portion isn't raised too much you can probably use them quite comfortably with regular shoes. 

What type of training time or average speeds are needed to qualify for each category of racer? I realize that it can varry based on a hilly or flat route so lets assume a time trial of 40km that's relatively flat. An example might be: Cat 2 = 20+ hours a week of training and an average speed of 40km/hour on the time trial. I'm not sure where to set my goals for my first racing season and figured a good place to start was to see where I fit already with training time and speed. 

This is probably going to depend on a bit more than just your height or leg length (though I'm sure a rough idea can be gleaned). Your specific bike (geometry) and riding position will also affect crank length a bit. Here are a few good links on the subject that go beyond my knowledge on the issue. 

You've not ridden a bike for 20 years - and for your first bike, you've bought a fairly serious lightweight road bike? In the words of the Irishman, "I wouldn't start from here". Lightweight wheels are a wonderful thing for fast and efficient cycling. Unfortunately the same lack of mass means they have much less inertia for keeping you upright. The result will be a bike that's twitchy as hell in the hands of a complete novice. Eventually you'll get the hang of it, but in the meantime every small bump in the road, every unexpected sidewind, every passing car and every accidental twitch of your arms is going to knock your front wheel all over the place. Road bikes also put you into a nice aerodynamic position which is great for performance, but has serious shortcomings for situational awareness in heavy traffic. If you're nervous in traffic, a more upright riding position will definitely help you. And let's face it, if you're cycling in heavy traffic then you're unlikely to be clocking up the kind of speeds where aerodynamics make much odds. And if you're worried about leaning, especially if the road/pavement surface isn't great, I'm not sure narrow tyres are helping you either. Honestly? Get yourself a more basic tourer and get your mojo back first. When you're no longer worried about the mechanics of staying on the bike and getting it round corners, that's the time you can upgrade to your hot road bike. 

Not sure why it hasn't been mentioned in the other answers but recumbents are generally much heavier than traditional frames and on steep gradients weight makes a big difference. Looks like a 2000$ recumbent is around 30lbs and a 2000$ road bike should be around 18lbs or so. 

I had a (improperly tightened) bolt drop out of a SPD cleat while riding which left me in the same predicament (also ended up eating asphalt), I ended up being able to wedge my shoe against the frame to get the appropriate leverage to kick the shoe/cleat combo out of the pedal. I would try attaching the pedal to a bike (and foot in shoe) and attempting the same move. You can always unscrew the pedal and take off the shoe to get back to where you are today. 

Here in the Toronto area, you can find these bikes either at a spring bike show or (more commonly) fall bike show. They are generally priced aggressively to clear out stock and you won't find many in the stores in the coming years. Most shops will not have previous model years around as they make money selling bikes and want to move stock. I also managed to find my girl's bike on Kijiji the same way that a shop just wanted to clear out last years model. 40% off. The final option is a few bike stores that sit on stock for years and they won't move on the price regardless and you won't convince them. 

What should one look for when picking Chamois Creme? Are there ingredients to stay away from or that should be in a quality creme? 

I'd suggest starting with your local bike shop. They're the ones that will do some of the servicing (I'm guessing) and having a good relationship with them is always important. If they can't even come close to pricing or won't get a folding bike for you then your local Craigslist might yield some results. 

Occupy enough lane to make cars think twice about 'sneaking' by you. Get fenders even on your nice road bike a wet butt sucks when you ride home and your shorts are cold. Leave early enough to enjoy the view. My best commute I watched 6 eagles in a field 10' away. Wouldn't have been able to stop for a few minutes if I hadn't left early. 

This will probably be fairly subjective. I ride with Time MTB pedals and keep up with anyone in my category. Stick with known brands and I'm sure you'll be fine. Time, Look, SpeedPlay, Shimano, Crank Brothers... 

I've had good success with the Go Pro cameras for whitewater kayaking. We generally mount them on our helmets. They stand up to quite a beating and you can get more on a card than the camera you ask about above. If you can mount it on your helmet then it will be pointing where you look and I think you'll have better success getting shots of any collision since you're often looking at it as it happens. Here's a blog of someone doing the same thing on his daily commute. $URL$ Looks like he's using a Drift Inovation ($URL$ and there is a video of his mount on the gear page.