This is amplification on previous answers citing Project Orion (aka Nuclear Pulse Propulsion). Read the provided reference for history and technical background. Background Research & testing performed from 1950s - 1970s indicated that using that level of technology we could built a 8,000,000 tonne craft capable of achieving orbit and providing a bit of extra $ \Delta V$, perhaps enough for $V_{esc}$. However, only about 1/3 of this mass is payload mass (2,700,000 tonne). The problem Let's assume we need to lift every human being off the Earth and there's zero population growth: 

Jobless human society is not possible Even if all your physiological needs are provide for free and all of those needs were provided by automation (you're not forcing someone else into slavery to provide you with a living), there would still be jobs. BTW, this sort of economy is often called a post-scarcity economy. What you are proposing is more extreme than that. Giving a jobless person a "living wage" for not working can only be paid for by first taking that money from another citizen. So any government that provides the jobless with a living wage must first force some working citizens to pay for wages against their will. This is part of the definition of slavery. 

short & heavy - is a good configuration for conserving heat, cold environment? Also good for sprinters tall & wiry - is a good configuration to ridding the body of waste heat. Also a good shape for distance running keen senses - a requirement for spotting prey or avoid predators fleet footedness (over short or long distances?) good for catching prey by running it down or avoiding predators 

For $1 billion you could not annihilate the entire human population. My own concept is interrupting the food supply (by interrupting the fuel supply, by probably interrupting the power supply, by probably using EMPs high in the atmosphere). This would lead to widespread chaos, destruction, and death but huge numbers of people would survive. The same is true of 1. bombs 2. poison 3. germs 4. environment 5. etc. With each of these approaches, you may succeed in causing mass deaths or possibly ending civilization itself, but huge numbers (millions or billions) of people will always survive any of these. To ensure the extinction of the human race, you need something really big. The 6 mile wide dinosaur killer would not be big enough to ensure extinction. My guess is something with $ 10 \times $ the energy (which equates to a 20 mile diameter asteroid of the same density and velocity - e.g. Phobos) would probably do the job. You won't be able to move this with $1 billion. If using a main belt asteroid or Phobos, this will likely take >100 years to pull off. 

Swords require good values in many primary properties (hardness, toughness, tensile strength, compressive strength, & shear strength) and benefit from good values in other secondary properties (corrosion resistance, cost, durability, etc.). The super material fibers mentioned above possess fantastic values for a single property (tensile strength) but possess significantly worse values in the other primary properties (hardness, toughness, compressive, etc.). The reason we still use steel instead of other materials is because generally speaking it provides the best over all performance of the materials we've tried. I do think that modern materials science could "build a better sword" now but I'm not sure anyone has spent significant engineering design effort figuring out what the ideal blends of materials are and how to composite them for best effect. @Youstay Igo mentions a titanium cutting edge and this might be a good addition (titanium has high hardness). But can we do better? Some things to consider: 

This is an aurora and it is caused when solar wind (protons, aka "charged particle beam") strikes the Earth's upper atmosphere. That "particle beam" might be lethal if you weren't protected by both the Earth's magnetosphere and atmosphere. Beams in space are not visible As user6511 said, an efficient beam would not scatter energy away from the beam (whether it's a laser or a particle beam). Atomic Rockets section on space combat has lots of useful information. Art showing laser weaponry in action: 

50 people can maintain the race, but it requires very strict and severe protocols regarding procreation (e.g. each woman gets impregnated by as many different men as possible during their life). 500 people can maintain the race, with strict procreation protocols but not as severe as those for 50 people (single partners are possible if the genetics board approves the match) 5000 people can maintain the race, with loose procreation protocols. 

Preface The answer to this question is very long and complicated. I'm not sure whether I'll commit to answering it to the standard of hard-science. However, I'll start with a general outline and work towards that goal. That way if I give up part way through, at least you will have something. References I'm basing my answer upon primarily these references: 

I don't know how effective this chemical would be for your stated purpose, however, it is nasty enough that I want to mention it and you deserve to know about it. From the blog Things I Won't Work with: Dioxygen Difluoride 

I don't see anything wrong with prior answers but thought I'd add my $0.02. Minimum size constraint It turns out that any rotation speeds >= 3 rpm makes people motion sick. For design purposes, designers felt a maximum rotation speed of 2 rpm would ensure very few people would suffer motion sickness. Scientists felt that most people could acclimate to a rotation of 10 rpm but I think I'd reserve such a design to mission specific applications (e.g. a small military ship crew). So the minimum size of your cylinder is constrained by human physiology. Maximum size constraint As many others have pointed out, the maximum size of the station is constrained by the tensile strength of the construction materials. I don't feel like doing the math and others have commented on it so just use their numbers. More information The most excellent Atomic Rockets web site has a vast store of useful information for world builders. Even better, it has a whole (& very large) page devoted to Space Stations. For people looking for math, numbers, and other reference materials - including actual design studies for rotating stations (as well as other issues that might arise), run to the web site and be prepared to spend a couple of weeks reading. 

Hire a philosopher specializing in symbolic logic to write your wishes. Symbolic Logic is a branch in logic that (among other things) allows translating natural language into a symbolic equivalent which can then be solved with mathematical precision. By working with the philosopher / mathematician (because these realms overlap on this topics), you could write a statement or logical equations which dictate exactly what you want. With the special symbols used by this study, in your case, you could consider the symbolic representation of what you want as a "spell". 

New alloy combinations (e.g. Beryllium + Aluminum or high temperature super conductors). New composite combinations (e.g. Nanotube fiber + some matrix materials). New methods of crystallization, cooling, or heat treatment (e.g. into amorphous solids) Elements unknown to CE science (using Islands of Stability). Use non-baryonic matter. 

the gene altered children don't view unaltered humans as part of their species. They view us as we might view dogs (or even worse). They could exterminate us, put us in preserves, or otherwise limit us to enclosures (like zoos). In any case, our descendents aren't "human" as we understand it and they cease letting us reproduce. parents select all the same genetic traits. Which means our descendents don't have genetic variation and we and our descendents die out from in-breeding (but this relies on the alien machine breaking at some point so it smells of deux ex machina). 

The Question So for SF stories that require a material with exotic properties, what properties might these "super materials" hold in reality? I realize that's a wide open question, so although I am interested in speculations, I will judge based upon the material's structural properties (tension, compression, bearing, shear, etc.). Remember bulk material properties are dependent upon the chemical bond strengths so we are limited by the strength of covalent bonds. 

Other Solar System Bodies The IAU uses a different standard for the "minor" bodies of the Solar System. This standard or convention is called the Right Hand Rule to determine which pole is the North vs. South pole. With the Right Hand Rule, you make a fist. Observe the direction your fingers curl. Align your hand so the fingers point in the direction of rotation and then your thumb points in the direction of the North Pole. Right Hand Rule shows direction of North Pole 

1-handed weapon (main) + 3 shield 1-handed weapon (main) + shield and 1-handed weapon + shield 4x 1-handed weapon (main) 2-handed weapon (like spear/pike) + 2x 1-handed weapon (main) 2-handed weapon (like spear/pike) + 1-handed weapon (main) + shield 

Although still unstable, a hexagonal Rosette (of either type), should possess some additional stability because the adjacent bodies of the Rosette will sit in each other's L4 & L5 points. 

Battling from the longest effective range only makes sense if destruction of the enemy is your objective. If ships carry highly valuable, cargo, crew, components, etc. then you need combat to be much more precise. In fact, this is the only reason a ship would bother with a boarding party too. One SF series proposed that FTL took a human with very special and extremely rare genetics to make an FTL jump. In such a Universe, that human would be the most precious commodity and many engagements would start with closing to a range in which fire can be very judiciously used to cripple and not destroy opposing craft. Many such actions would end with a boarding action to capture this psionic jump enabling person. Another priceless (or at least pricey) commodity might be a cargo of quantum entangled particles. You could postulate that they would be useful in communications, ciphers, etc. Or magnetic monopoles (none have ever been found, but they would be highly valuable if they were found). Perhaps humans are rare and we need to preserve their genes too. The point is high valuable and fragile cargo would require ships to not engage in combat trying to completely annihilate each other. Or it could just be a set of war conventions that both sides follow. 

what would be the most valuable part of a space ship? It really depends upon what you mean by "valuable." Value as Plunder If you mean valuable from the point of view as plunder (one ship stealing from another), it constrains the part to be both relatively small and portable. If this is your definition than the computer core could very well be the most valuable portion of the ship. Value as Replacement Let's instead assume that some bit of the ship broke and you're wondering which bit would cost the most to repair. In that case, it would likely be the propulsion system. Space Opera spaceships require high thrust, high impulse engines which require extreme science and engineering. Unfortunately repairs won't be made by mechanics named Kaylee using a hammer (or for that matter by the ship's Captain by kicking it back into alignment!). You'll never fix your drive system this way 

Yes but you have to violate one of your conditions. Acceleration To launch from Earth, your acceleration must exceed Earth's gravitational acceleration. So assume an acceleration of 1.1 g (within bounds). Trajectory There exists a family of trajectories called Brachistochrone trajectories for vehicles moving at constant acceleration on a trajectory. This is within your constraints. Space Craft Orientation Brachistochrone trajectories require a flip at the mid-point so the ship can begin deceleration. The conventional way to think about this is, turn off your engines, rotate the ship 180 degrees, and then restart the engines. This, of course, causes a period of zero-g for a short time during the flight. In order to remain under constant acceleration, the ship must fly something called a "skew flip" (there's a nice diagram at the link that I can't paste in here), in which you flip the vehicle while remaining under constant acceleration. Since Pitch & Yaw are used to describe the ships orientation to its velocity vector, you violate the pitch/yaw constraint. As a passenger, you mostly won't feel this because velocity is relative. You will perceive a constant acceleration and, except for possibly a little vertigo, not notice the ship rotation. The skew flip, violates your minimizing the pitch/yaw - except that the passengers won't really notice this pitch/yaw change. In space, we don't care about our orientation to the velocity vector except in relation to how it causes our velocity vector to change. More Info The first place I've seen this term is from Have Spacesuit, Will Travel (and this book appears to be free on Google). The book is a frolicking romp through space but most of the science in it is very real. 

Humans - EQ ~ 8.1 Bonobos - EQ ~ 5.9 Dolphins - EQ ~ 4.2 Crows - EQ ~ 4.1 Cuttlefish - EQ ~ 1.4 about a Husky's (dog) level of intelligence 

We're hitting the Moon with 7 billion MegaWatts of power (that's $7 \times 10^{15}$ W). It matches the brightness of the Sun but doesn't accomplish any deorbiting. Not possible using conceivable weapons 

The only possible answer to your question is nuclear (fusion or fission, I'm not picky) and that still isn't reasonable. I'm afraid "hard science" answers won't satisfy your criteria. Some critiques of your question. How Much Power?! A large city uses GW of power not MW. According to Wikipedia per capita energy usage in the UK is 244 TWhr / year and this site claims average energy consumption of 35.8 GW. Since London's population is about 11% of the UK total, this makes London's power requirements about 3.9 GW of operating electrical generation. This is about 100 times the energy storage you planned to provide. City Power Renewables don't work for you they are energy diffuse - meaning you needs lots of heavy things to generate the necessary power. One of those giant high efficiency wind turbines might have a rated power generation of 2 MW but likely generated power of less than 20% of that. So your city might require 70,000 or more of these to generate its power needs for all things excluding hovering and that's a lot of weight - which we'll find out later, is a bad thing (TM). 4/23/15 correction London requires about 3.9 GW of operating capacity not the previously quoted 47 GW. Wind Turbine Rated Power Generation