This is, on the whole correct; I take that formalism is associated with Platonism, so that mathematical truths exist in some ideal world; when we use the truths of geometry about the real world then we are adapting it there. Second question: 

No, not particularly; even given the debate on other kinds of logic that you allude to bivalent logic will still remain important; hence truth-tables will also remain important. Even in the context of multivalued logics one can still find truth tables useful. For example, this wiki-page gives truth tables for two ternary (three-valued) logics - Kleenes & Łukasiewicz; the extra value is named unknown; a variety of this logic is used in commercial databases that are based on SQL; it could also be described usefully as indeterminate which leads onto the logic of paradox in which this new value is named both. It turns out that Łukasiewiczs logic can be generalised to any number of truth-values; of course the value of truth-tables here quickly vanish, at least for a human, whereas they are still important for computers where truth-table lookups are usually the most efficient to parse a calculation. 

Still, one can connect these views (Subjective to Ideal) by noting that though the valuation of Beauty differs, man by man, culture by culture; that there is this kind of judgement is a kind of constant ie an Ideal Form. For example, take calligraphy; what is considered as beautiful script in medieval Europe, Arabia and China differ in particularities, in their form; but still, such a notion does hold; and one should expect it to hold - one has to step a little higher to notice ie more ideally (or abstractly). 

Marxism has many aspects to it; the main difference appears to be as a political movement, and as a school of thought. As a political movement, it is as political and legal theorist Roberto Unger put it: no longer a live option; as a school of thought its influence is still apparent. 

There is a much easier way to show that 'maths is finite'. Suppose that the universe has a finite lifetime. Then the human race has only a finite amount of time to prove theorems, hence there can only be a finite number of theorems proven! Take any mathematics expressed as a set of axioms, and enumerate every possible proof, this process will not halt, but in theory you're proving every possible theorem in this axiomatic system. Of course you haven't exhibited a single significant proof, which is generally the point of forming an axiomatic system and proving a theorem! What this shows is that the set of theorems is countable. Now from the perspective of any large cardinal axiom, countablity is small. So you haven't shown that the mathematical truths enumerated by this set of axioms is finite, but that they are small, for a suitable idea of small. Of course I'm not being particularly serious above, as this misses the point of mathematics which is to come up with significant new ideas, questions, theorems & proofs. 

Your patient can't distinguish between reality and dreams. In the dream reality his willed and considered decision makes sense; in that there is a rationale behind his decision: he does not want the stranger to cut off his arm every night; perhaps he wants to spite this stranger who is cutting off his arm with such monotonous regularity; in this dream-reality his wilful act appears to be act of will against the phantasm. And who is to say what happens in his dream world next? For in the morning he may find his arm growing back? Or he might find himself in a forest standing by a Green Knight who cutting off the branch of a tree and placing it on his shoulder turn it into his arm; and then he himself turn into a blue nightingale that the forest into a rose-garden. In the real reality his decision looks monstrous as he will suffer pain, and torment when and if he returns to real reality. Dreams have a dream logic that isn't the logic of reality; a proper sense of judgement can judge between realities: the fictional, the dreamlike, the religious and the real. 

What is meant here by the 'negative of mind'? Is it privation of mind, where mind is not; or is something else meant? 

No. Al-Ghazali for example said Allah was necessary to guarantee causality. Spinoza said that God was immanent in the world, or rather the world was immanent in him. Kant places the origin of causality within us. In other words the point is arguable. 

This looks like a translation of the term zeitgeist the spirit of the age) which is usually understood to be taken from Hegel, except that Hegel never used such a term. He did however use the term der Geist seiner zeit, the spirit of his times, in his Lectures on the Philosophy of History. History here should be distinguished from original history which is the basic, original matter of history; for example, eye-witness reports and also from reflective history which is the history given by historians. What he's concerned with is philosophical history, a history of the world as guided by spirit. It's probably inspired by the notion of world soul in Plato. 

Even if the sciences have abandoned neccessity and embraced possibility & probability one should be careful, I think about the ontological & epistemological ramifications, and also the ongoing usage of neccessity within the sciences. One, I think is dealing with a more expansive world. A case in point: The discovery of non-euclidean geometry makes it appear that one has to abandon euclidean geometry. This is far from the case. Locally the geometry of a non-euclidean space is still euclidean. And in fact this is what is used to define in contemporary usage the idea of non-euclidean space. (The idea of locality in this sense is a major theme in contemporary mathematics). Perhaps, then one should then say that although globally the cosmos in its most general term being contingent, one can still say locally neccessity holds (in manifold forms). I do not, for example, expect to wake up tommorow and see the sun fall out of the sky. When cosmologists extrapolate to micro-seconds before the big-bang the more careful amongst them know that they are doing highly speculative physics, but of neccessity they can only use what is known at present, as well as speculative moves that make sense within the larger picture and understanding of physics. Borrowing terminology from geometry, perhaps then one can talk about possibility being a kind of curvature of neccessity (given that a broad form of logic is geometrical). I'll take it for granted, as you say, that the necessity has been a major theme in Western Philosophy say since from Aristotles time, as I'm not at all well versed in intellectual history, and perhaps reinforced by a Christian theology of God as a neccessary ground of being. Although I tend to suspect that this is the influence of Greek thought on Christianity. However it wouldn't surprise me that there could be a possible minoritarian position that poses the opposite, that has led a kind of underground existence, following Hericlites lead. One can, I suppose fruitfully contrast this with the Taoist thought, where contingency is emphasised on a cosmic level, and on an epistemological level - for example, the first two lines of the Tao: 

So also not an electron, nor a planet, or a universe. There are classes of being - but no single genus of being; which is exactly what the first quote alludes to.