What would be the best way to send energy that is generated outside the Earth's atmosphere, possibly in the asteroid belt (nevermind the means), so that it can be used on the surface of the planet? Let's say solar power generation. With enough mirrors you can get really high output. The energy thus "gathered" can be "transmitted" down to Earth's surface, but it will be, in essence, a laser beam (i know, it will be concentrated sunlight, but I mean effect, not the naming details), that will be dangerous to anything in it's path, including the atmosphere. Assuming level tech of today but include current experiments in all stages of advance, what would be the best - that means safest, cheapest and most efficient - way to supply energy to the grid on the Earth's surface? Additionally: what would be the upper limit of the power levels to be transmitted? To clarify after some very good comments: 

One possibility - but not sure how to execute it - would be to use steam. Dig a hole, put a sealed metal cylinder with water in it and fire it up. Steam has tremendous power and if there will be enough pressure in the cylinder it would be much like explosion. But someone would need to run some pretty neat equations on cylinder size and water content and I'm not sure you can build one with only blacksmith-level metal craft. Any other way in a short form: not bloody likely. A bit longer answer: unless it's a really small dam, good luck! Long answer: there is a reason why most of the Roman-built dams are still around, with a lot of them still in use. You'd think that engineers who built roads and aqueducts that are around today and are definitely pieces of finest engineering would build a dam that is a simple wall? Yes, there are a few - like subiaco dam, which are like that, but they are exception to the rule. Subiaco especially, as it's said to be built so that Nero had a lake next to his villa. But most of them were lime or concrete (yes, concrete) core, with compacted earth and masonry to protect it against erosion. First of all you can forget catapult or trebuchet. Yes, they would crack the "outer layer", but will be completely ineffective against earth underneath. With limestone or concrete core you can forget burrowing. The only way to break solid Roman dam is with good-old earthworks: spades, picks and shovels. 

Key Question: How are these subsistence-farming, blacksmithing humans producing/finding these batteries? Why is it that the androids can't or prefer not to produce or find the batteries themselves? Answer to question as posed: Infinite ways. There really isn't a limit on how this might work. Addiction and reward systems, as outlined by Renan, could do it. But to make the servitude really invisible I think the best tool is going to be control of historical information. Time is on the side of the immortal machines, and so minor changes over time can really add up. Human society could be manipulated via introduction of new cultural or social standards in which service to the machines is highly valued, and people self-organize to be of as much use as possible. The humans' religion might be an especially handy tool for this. If the machines control information, they could provide "help" in the humans pursuing something that they know humans will never achieve (maybe it's impossible but humans don't have the knowledge to be aware of that, for example) in exchange for service. If the humans don't have a good way to record historical information over time, they might never know how little progress they've made over countless generations. If informational manipulation doesn't work for you, the machines could monopolize some necessary resource, like water, via ordinary acquisition or subversion (like draining away all potable water into a supply the machines exclusively can access, or poisoning the sources humans can easily reach) and then effectively enslave the humans through trade. Which method might they choose, and why? With so many options, answering the question of why the androids would bother to rely on the human population at all for access to batteries will help narrow down which specific methods might best fit their situation. 

Energy is energy, but the origin matters. Kinetic energy of a projectile comes from somewhere, that is: there needs to be energy expenditure in the first place. However, in contrast to projectiles laser cannot be easily deflected nor absorbed. Plasma energy is much harder to achieve, and is - at least theoretically - much easier to defend against (simplifying: strong enough e-m shield can dissipate it). SO in conclusion: d.e.w. actually needs only reliable high-capacity power storage to be technologically viable as of now. And, thinking on it, if one wants to trade some of the combat readiness time for power levels, capacitors+batteries setup is possible even now for something reasonable. Kilowatt laser (equivalent to roughly 2x45.ACP)? There are capacitors now available allowing for 8 shots, in the size of two shotgun shells and weighing much less than that (I know; simplification). 

for starters let's look at powering Earth from orbit in 100%. So 200 TWh Current level tech +20 years caveat means no space industry in place. So let's say I want to start working on it next year (2018). Any way of sending and/or form of energy goes. 

Answer is, as most often is the case with "what if" questions, complicated. But in short it can be said: no problem understanding the theory, Replicating the machinery is a different matter. Simple steam engine was known in 1st Century AD - look up - and Romans had excellent understanding of parts of hydrodynamics - dams, pipes, aqueducts, pumps. So they would have no problems grasping the concept. But building a working engine requires more than just knowledge. I would say that it's possible to build very simple steam engine using Roman tech, but it would be very heavy and unreliable. As sphennings points out it requires high quality of metal alloy and a degree of precision manufacture not available to Roman tech base. I believe they would quickly found out that and after maybe several decades (on the fast end) to maybe a century at least (on the slow end) to be able to produce stable output. But the issue is not the tech, but the culture. Romans were uninterested in such things simply because they had enormous excess of power (slavery). Steam engine gained in popularity after it became light and small enough to build locomotive, for example, thus Romans would not have any use for their version. You would have to put this "discovery" in proper context (warship, i.e. ironclad maybe?). Industrial revolution in England began as a attempt to address the labor shortage that plagued (no pun intended) the Europe since.. well, the plague. Add wars (most notably the 100-years war, 30 Years War and 1000 Years Muslim Invasion) and the labor shortages are a fact of life until end of 19th century. In fact, the wars were mainly why the Europe was so poor for so long, as they sucked away lives needed to improve livelihood across the continent. What Roman need would a steam engine address? Most of the Roman trade is water-borne. Mediterranean is rather small sea, there is no economic nor political reason to invest huge capital to shorten the travel times by half - it sounds impressive until you realize that it means 3 days from Alexandria to rome instead of 7 or so (admit, I'm guessing here), and there are huge grain ships plying this route already. Sail ships, cheapest possible type. Rome-Londinium route? Again - current tech is enough and speed is not economically explainable. Raw materials needed to equip Roman legions and address needs of the population are there in sufficient numbers... The only way to improve average roman life is to increase supply of raw materials, but there is no way to do it. Last thing - for widespread use of steam engine supply of coal is needed. Wood is not good source of fuel. 

Given the overwhelming similarity of most day-to-day experiences (unless you've got some wild social/experiential setup), the passive accumulation of experience likely wouldn't be worth much. Especially if qualia cannot be destroyed, inflation should quickly drive the relative value of most individual qualia to virtually nothing. Most people will be poor by dint of the commonness of their life experience. 

Rare and precious experiences maybe, but outside of novelty of experience or self-identity construction, why would people value these so highly in most cases? 

This is similar to the above. If we're talking about forming your own identity or dealing in rarity, then maybe. Otherwise, a lot of daily experience seems like it would be valued as trash. tl;dr: As laid out, I don't see why people would use qualia as currency if they had other options, as the subjective value of different experiences would leave qualia with wildly diverging values. It would be more like a bartering system than a currency. Answering the question of why people would choose to use qualia will set the stage for the actual use of the currency. If you're set on this system, the society in which it operates will have to be molded to fit, and that involves arbitrary choices on your part. 

I'm not sure such an economy would work. To the extent that it might, that's probably going to be about social structure and values, not economics. I realize that may not be the most worldbuilding-esque answer, but as I see it your fundamental issue is that you've designed a system to be internally consistent (I assume, I'm not sure I understand the technical details fully) without much thought dedicated to how that system would interact with the actual world, or the people that would use it. Hence your question. So let's abstract away the technical details, at least to rough out how the economy might function. The process of producing qualia seems to only validate that they underlying experience actually happened (no fakes, at least by the standards of subjective experience), but otherwise doesn't establish any real market features of the currency. The overwhelmingly key question to be answered seems to me to be: 

D.E.W. is any tacticians wet dream. I believe they will be developed parallel with advanced projectile weapons, but I think absent some technological breakthroughs in high power projectiles area it will be laser weapons at first. Why: 

It's instantly vacuum-rated, recoilless, non-ballistic characteristic, reactionless etc. Power source for them can be unified across the board (that is: no different calibers, calibres etc.) 

Requires energy only. No ammo needed, so combat load is instantly smaller. Yes, it's being offset by power pack weight, but I don't think it's in same range. Combat load in infantry is about 10 pounds of 5.56 ammo including LBE. twice that for LMG. Twice that for MMG ammo. Powerful enough. Yes, laser can be weakened by smoke and mirrors, but: 

All answers missing very crucial point: there is a fundamental difference in approach to building exoatmospheric vessels compared to endoatmospheric. Spaceships need to have reinforced hulls to prevent EX-plosion, while air- and sea- borne vessels are reinforced to prevent IM-plosion. One atmosphere of atmospheric pressure seems like not much, but in space it's actually a tremendous force just on it's own. Those two goals can be jointly pursued in construction, but that means excess mass. Space shuttle is not big because why? There is also a world of difference in power requirements to move spaceship in space and to move it up (and down) gravity well. I know mass is mass, but for the purposes of the question it's suffice to say there is a difference. So that means high power requirements, which also means size of the PGU (Power Generating Unit), which cuts into capacity of a spaceship's hull, as is extra reinforcements and quite possibly some aerodynamic requirements. Space combat vessel needs to be armored in some way. If you elect atmospheric braking it means that outer layer - i.e. armor - is exposed to extreme conditions not unlike combat (depending on weapons used in warfare, of course), thus weakening it enormously. Armor in spaceships has dual-purpose: prevent/absorb combat damage and shield from all sorts of radiation encountered in space. Current space tech relies on E-M shield of Earth to work in space, but spacegoing vessels have to have this sort of protection. Weakening that every time you enter atmosphere sort of defeats the purpose. Thus we get to a bottom line: I recommend dropping the idea unless you give your civ enormous power source(s) (or other techs like force fields reinforcing hull or reactionless drive of some sort) to accommodate for all the requirements of the concept.