EDIT- I'm adding extra information: The "Grand Turk" was the Ottoman Sultan Mahmud I, who died in December 1754 – his death was sudden, too, and the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica says he died from heart disease, so it's easy to infer he had a stroke; the ambassador was Roland Puchot, the mentioned (Count) des Alleurs,not Ailleurs as I wrote before (corrected that), who died in Constantinople in late 1754 or early 1755, of a stroke ("un attaque d'apoplexie" according to this source). So, if the sources and Voltaire are to be believed, Pancrace Royer has most probably died of a stroke. 

I guess he could be anyone, but one who more or less fits is Edward IV of England – he was one of four brothers who survived into adulthood, was the fourth king by the name Edward, had four sons (including an illegitimate one), and his reign began on March 4, 1461. Maybe there's more trivia around about him matching the number 4. 

As far as I know, most if not all rulers in Christian Europe "conceded that the Emperor was the universal lord of Christendom, but only in high office, not in deed" (taken from The Prince and the Law, 1200-1600, which speaks specifically about the King of France). Thus, most were just concerned with obtaining and securing liberties for themselves and their lands (in the case of Germany and Italy), or avoiding interference from the Emperor (as in the kingdoms outside Imperial lands – France, England, etc). Although the Emperor real power was limited, breaking from the Empire and denying the Emperor's lordship over the Christian community would have been quite daring; for example, the Italian cities became independent de facto but never, to my knowledge, declared any intention of breaking with the Empire. I think that didn't happen even after the Reformation: reformed rulers claimed that the Emperor had no right to force Catholicism into the lands they ruled, but didn't deny the Emperor's overlordship, however theoretical it was. Anyway, my knowledge is limited and I might be wrong, so let's see what other posters have to say. 

In the Dutch General Election, 1948, the largest party was KVP with 32 seats. Second was PvdA with 27 seats. Normally the largest party provides the prime minister. Yet in the folowing KVP-PvdA-CHU-VVD coalition government, the prime minister was Drees (PvdA) rather than Van Schaik (KVP). Why did the second largest party rather than the largest party provide the prime minister between 1948 and 1951? 

Interior minister Louis Beel was at this time based in Oisterwĳk. The period is described in detail the book: D.C.L. Schoonoord. Het Circus Kruls, Militair Gezag in Nederland, 1944 – 1946. Available online: PDF, 4.8 MiB, 890 pages (in Dutch). 

here, Randall Munroe refers to minute-by-minute — or even second-by-second — timelines / reconstructions that one can find in newspapers or on websites, such as Wikipedia. Have there been any big events that happened during DST changeover? By big event, I mean any event big enough such that it was covered with a detailed timeline (at least down to the minute) in major news media. 

Yesterday I learned of the (somewhat obscure) Centrocaspian Dictatorship, an unrecognised state that existed for less than 2 months in 1918. Are there any other (less obscure) states that have called themselves a dictatorship? It seems more common dictatorships call themselves the free democratic people's worker's utopia and so on. 

That map looks like a joke. Like some kid randomly colored in a world map. Even the article doesn't agree with the picture. The history of kashmir page on wiki shows a much more reasonable extent. $URL$ 

Until the 1800s Germany was divided into many different countries. When the concept of nation states was developing, the general idea was people who spoke the same languages was the same nation. By some historical accident Austria was excluded when most of them formed united Germany, but it's people were still considerd Germans. The idea of a separate Austria nationality developed after the war. 

This question depend on what you mean by control. Just before the Japanese invaded Manchuria, the Nationalists controlled the most territory. But usually its a local warlord pledging to obey the government, so in reality the Nanjing government doesn't really have much control over local issues. But these warlords were made generals of the government and usually enrolled in the KMT, so they were still under KMT control on a level. 

All these answers are to focused on politics. Agricultural technology advanced a lot under the Eastern Zhou dynasty. Better farming output means more people can live on the same farm, so population grew greatly. The traditional, hierachial Zhou society couldn't handle this. The nobles, who were from the Zhou tribe, were forced to open their ranks to the commoners, who were conquered subjects. They weren't that respectful of their masters, so the whole empire started weakening. The population pressure also made the states to start waging war against each other for land as a result. Since Zhou was losing control of China, it couldn't pita stop to the expansions. Then, it was only a matter of time before one of them became too powerful to be controlled by the emperor. 

The Allied Liberation of The Netherlands lasted from 12 September 1944 (when the first villages were liberated) to 5 May 1945, when the German capitulation took force (not counting a few German remnants on some islands). However, the Dutch government-in-exile did not return until the war was over. How was the administration of the liberated part organised? Was it under allied military administration? Did parts of the Dutch government return to be in charge? Did the Dutch government govern remotely? 

The administration was carried out by the Militair Gezag, literally the Military Authority. This authority was initially based in Brussels (Belgium), later in Breda and finally in The Hague. They had lower authority than the Supreme Allied Commander Allied Forces (General Dwight D. Eisenhower) leading the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces (SHAEF), Mission to the Netherlands. From Wikipedia: 

(If you ever get the chance to listen to Sergey Zimov speaking in person, I strongly recommend you do. His are most memorable lectures I've ever attended.) 

According to Russian scientist Sergey Zimov, the disappearance of grasslands in Siberia was not due to Climate Change, but due to overhunting in prehistoric times. The theory is that humans killed the large grazers. This led to the older steppe-like landscape to be replaced by the less productive and less biodiverse dense forests that we associate with Siberia today. Those forests are so much darker than the previous landscape, that it has a significant impact on global average temperature. According to this theory, not only did pre-industrial civilisations engage in unsustainable practices, but they actually engaged in anthropogenic climate change. Note that there is currently no scientific consensus on this theory, but I find it a very intriguing thought. 

The inscription is in Italian or, perhaps more accurately, in the Tuscan dialect that became the basis of modern Italian. The inscription is written in an abbreviated form, which was usual in monumental inscriptions since at least Roman times and common in manuscripts and early printed books too — the missing letters are replaced, between brackets, when transcribing the text. 

Found information and more or less contemporary sources on Google Books (here, here and here, for example) and in gallica.fr (here), but no source cares to say how he died, only hinting that it was sudden and unexpected; the only person I found who said something about how he died was Voltaire, who, in his letters, didn't hide his rejoicing at Royer's death (they had a quarrel before): 

The coat-of-arms is that of the Austrian state of Lower Austria; another source says that "the arms were officially granted in 1920" (the mural crown is usually employed by republics to replace monarchic crowns), placing it sometime between that date and 1938. EDIT: Here's someone selling that same badge and dating it as "Second Austrian Republic", that is, anytime since 1945. 

The quotation "fino al '600 riprodurre monete altrui fu considerato legale" actually means that it was legal to counterfeit other people's [i. e. foreign] money, in fact, aristocrats, churchmen, traders, and guild engaged in such counterfeiting, and it was usual for official mints to counterfeit their own currency (thus producing debased coins) — but a private individual could be severely punished if caught by the affected authorities and could end being boiled alive. There's an interesting chapter on currency counterfeiting in England in Malcom Gaskill's Crime and Mentalities in Early Modern England. 

In addition to the soul is in the bowels explanation, I read recently that the reason they chose a painful easy to die is to punish themselves. So a samurai who had committed a capital offense was going to die, but by choosing a painful method of dying he is giving himself additional punishment to earn forgiveness. This may not apply to all seppuku cases, but it makes sense in cases when it is used as a punishment for mistakes or failures. 

The Japanese rebellion was caused by heavy taxes and Christians being persecuted. Its not like the taiping rebellion which was a cult organized by someone power hungry. So it probably didn't remind the Japanese of anything since there's such a big difference between what they are seeing in China, which was a deadly civil war, and their own much smaller uprising. Taiping death toll is like 100x the numbers in Shimbara. 

Chinese traditional history includes a war between the Yellow Emperor and the Flame Emperor. The main battle is called the Battle of Banquan. This is supposed to be before the two of them joined forces to fight Chiyou. Tradition puts the date at sometime before the 2500 bc. $URL$ 

Some more info to complement what @PieterGeerkens has found: there's a very scholarly work on the subject on Google Books, Het Bier-oproer te Leeuwarden, in het jaar 1487, in zijne oorzaken en gevolgen by Jacob Dirks; sadly (for me), it's in Dutch and several passages are in Old Dutch or Frisian. But more or less, from what I managed to understand from Google Translate and some common sense, there was a political dispute at the time between the Vetkoopers and the Schieringers (a term that doesn't refer to the community near Leeuwarden but, apparently, to the Cistercian monks' habit, as explained here), which apparently had much to do with both the prohibition and the riots. 

I'd say Half-Uncial (3rd Century AD) and Carolingian (9th Century AD) scripts; as it says in the Wikipedia text for the latter, 

Interestingly, the French Wikipedia article about perrons says that originally the letters were added to distinguish the coat-of-arms of Liège from that of Saint-Trond, which also featured the perron and the letters S and T, and that in the Middle Ages, the coat-of-arms carried the syllables Lie and Ge or Ly and Ge (which seem demonstrated by the picture in Thomo's answer); it also goes on to add, that the "Libertas Gentis" meaning is a recent legend the people from Liège are fond of — they very probably are, since that's what the Liège website says! Further confirmation is provided by a website (in French) that cites a text by Liègian historian Théodore Gobert: 

As the Nazis invaded the Soviet Union, incorporated conquered territories into Reichskommisariat Ostland, Reichskommissariat Ukraine, and military administration, they went on to implement the Holocaust and exterminate most of the Jews in Belarus, Lithuania, and elsewhere. Already during the Soviet invasion of Poland, many Jews reportedly welcomed the invading troops, apparently expecting to be better off under the Soviet Union than under Nazi Germany. Despite Stalinist oppression and antisemitism, Jews must have been less bad off under Stalin than under Hitler. In Western European countries, there was little time for Jews to flee to neutral or Allied countries; it took the Nazis only five days to occupy The Netherlands, for example; and the logistics of fleeing to the United Kingdom were complicated by the North Sea. But in the Soviet Union, it took the Nazis three months to take over the Baltic States, Belarus, and part of Ukraine. There would have been enough time to flee east. Why was there no massive wave of Jewish refugees, fleeing the advancing Nazi army by retreating deeper into the Soviet Union? Apparently, around 300,000 Polish Jews escaped to Soviet-occupied territories at the beginning of World War II. 

I recall hearing that in the past in Britain and Ireland, some workers (perhaps miners?) got their weekly wages paid out in the pub, much to the dismay of their wives. I don't remember where I heard or read it, and I can't find a reference to it now. Was there any era / branch / area where such was common practice? 

The mongols weren't fighting modem armies. 100k is huge for a medieval army. Most of what the mongols conquered were steppes which weren't very highly populated to start off with. The Chinese or Persians had large populations, but their infantry army was no match for mongol horse archers. So basically the mongols were successful because 100k cavalry armies were very formidable. 

In the Korean War, the US air force destroyed the Gwanghwamun, which was the gates of the old Korean palace. More info: $URL$ Aldo, the Yongmyongsa Temple in pyongyang was destroyed by carpet bombing. Link: $URL$ 

One thing that's overlooked is that there was also a huge population growth during the industrial revolution. The population of england grew from 7 million to 30 million in a century. So even without selling the clothes overseas there was a lot more people buying clothes than there was before the industrial revolution. See: $URL$ 

Here's the thing. They made plans to kill Zhang too, if the communists came close to getting him. Yang was only killed after the president at the time, Li, ordered his release. So we can conclude Chiang was willing to keep them under guard, but will not tolerate letting them go alive. 

There were no actual "boundaries" as far as I had been able to research; the Spaniards relocated the natives, not into a closed area but scattering them in some 600 reducciones all around the Viceroyalty, and most of the time the natives appear to have been resettled not excessively far from their original villages, while local chiefs appear to have had a say on the placement of the reducciones. You might want to look at Jeremy Ravi Mumford's Vertical Empires: The General Resettlement of Indians in the Colonial Andes, which appears to be a fine book on the subject — chapter 8 mentions the topic of the placement of the reducciones, and you can see some pages of it in Google Books. In this other text, the author makes a general outline of the thesis he puts forward in the book. 

And the cited Dictionary by Bescherelle indeed says, but without citing any higher authority, that "by the way, the Ethiopic historian Marcellus spoke about Atlantis before the Greek philosopher." 

Although there were many languages spoken throughout the Byzantine Empire (or Eastern Roman Empire), its court and administration language switched from Latin to Greek over time.