TL;DR A trillion neurons properly added to a human brain would give us very good tactical and analytical abilities, but likely wouldn't be enough to compete in real-time with advanced AI due to latency issues. However, it should give us a pretty good boost in the research and development department, which will allows us to reverse-engineer the alien technology and physiology to create supersoldiers and our own battle robots. Google indicates only about half the world population lives in urban areas0, so after the purge, we've still got about three billion humans. That's a 6000:1 advantage over the aliens. If we can stand up production lines in several areas around the world and pump out supersoldiers before the aliens realize what we're up to, we might stand a fighting chance. Humans are Slow If it's just a matter of combat ability, intellect isn't really that important. It's a lot more about speed and strength. If the AI thinks on micro-to-millisecond terms, it's highly unlikely we could ever compete with them just by growing bigger brains. In fact, we might do better to grow smaller brains. The problem is human reactions times are between 100 ms and 500+ ms for really easy tests (like, press the button when a giant horn turns on in your ear)1, and upwards of 1000 ms (a full second) to make cognitive decisions that require motor control (like, a cop decides the bad guy is attacking, then draws his gun and fires)2. The cause of this is three-fold. First, synapses and neurons are terribly slow compared to electronics. Signals travel around a hundred meters per second in organics3, compared to a quarter of a billion meters per second in electronics4; and the switching time of a neuron is around a millisecond5, compared to nanoseconds for electronic gates (and plausibly much faster for atomic or quantum computers)6. Second, we have really big brains and bodies, so it takes a long time for the signal to propagate all the way through our brains, then a really long time for the signal to get to our muscles. The signal goes through millions of parallel paths, so the total information processed isn't terrible, but the latency is huge. Third, we're too smart. We don't just think in terms of "bad guy, best way to kill, execute". Instead, we think "shiny metal thing, reminds me of that movie when I was eight, probably a bad guy, I think that gun is going to kill me but it looks pretty awesome, man I hope I don't poop myself because that girl back at camp might not go out with me if I come back with poop running down my leg, I should probably run now". We can train our brains to bypass most of the extraneous crap during combat, but it's always leeching a little processing power away. Plus, having that capacity requires our brains to be larger, which leads back to the second issue. Insects can have reaction times as low as 5-10 ms7, because their tiny, simple brains do a few things really well, instead of our brains that do a lot of things decently. On the other hand, if we're just bigger, stronger, and outnumber them ten thousand to one, it would just be a matter of attrition. Even if they're quick enough to dodge our attacks for a little while, they'll eventually get tired. Then we destroy them. It's how we've been hunting animals for millennia, if not longer.8 Humans may be Weak I don't know anything about your aliens, but if they're made of impenetrable unobtainium and hit with the force of Thor's hammer, speed won't really help much. If they can invent toxic gases to destroy the planet before we've cracked the first alien's exoskeleton, we're kind of screwed. From your edit, it seems like their military tech would likely put them pretty close to this scenario, even if the aliens themselves are relatively squishy. So a head-on assault would likely be met with brutal defeat, even if we had the reaction times of a cockroach and the strength of a whale. Enter Supercomputers More neurons in the right places could potentially give us much better capacity for pattern recognition, predictive capabilities, behavioral analysis of the alien invaders, and other cool things that could help us with large-scale tactics, although we still need the capacity to actually hurt them. One of the better uses of enhanced cognitive abilities would be reverse-engineering alien tech, or even reprogramming a bunch of the aliens to fight on our side. Once we have enough tech to punch through whatever armor they have, and withstand an onslaught from their weaponry, then we stand a fighting chance. On the other hand, if we have the technology to turn humans into walking supercomputers, we could probably build a staggeringly powerful actual supercomputer and just let it do the analysis. Maybe plug one or two fairly typical humans into the supercomputer to nudge it in the right direction from time to time. A more useful method might be to combine the two ideas. Build a supercomputer with a few humans permanently plugged in as interfaces and controllers. It's rather barbaric, but given the fate of our species is on the line, it's probably justifiable. Enter Supersoldiers Depending on the aliens' speed and strength, we may need a combination of thinking faster and all that alien tech to beat them in face-to-face combat. In this case, we'd want to modify our soldiers' neural circuitry so all their combat algorithms are running on something similar to the alien AI circuitry. We could modify the other algorithms (or remove them entirely), but as long as they can react quickly to changes on the battlefield, they'll be competitive, and removing their human natures might have unexpected consequences. We'll also want to build vehicles. Tanks and aircraft can do enormous amounts of damage compared to a normal human. Of course, we need alien-tech-infused tanks and aircraft. Then we'll need to build super-pilots to drive and fly them. Better yet, we could just build them straight into the vehicle to give them the best possible response times, like KITT from Knight Rider, or the Cylon Raiders from new BSG. 0$URL$ 1$URL$ 2$URL$ 3$URL$ 4$URL$ 5$URL$ 6$URL$ 7$URL$ 8$URL$ 

Use one or more Supper humans to make them. In my humble opinion and as described in the comments by others, I don't think there is a logical way of removing free will, but leaving a still useful logical mind behind. The closes you could get is with some hand waving. Let there be one (or more) supper humans friendly to your cause that don't mind playing 'warden'. Give them some kind of mind control, or alliance reassignment ability. Every day they can remind the prisoners that the Warden is there friend, and they not only like but want to help the warden out. If your organization does not like the idea of having super humans in charge. There is the option of more hand waving, and using psychic recordings of the original warden. Maybe at one time they had a super human, with a alliance reassignment ability. Before that particulate super human escaped/died/terminated/retired they build up a whole library of basic "Obey me" commands that they play over the load speakers. 

In a world were armor and weapons are made out of cacti. I’m going to make two assumptions. Cacti are being used because of a lack of other resources (wood and metal are rare/nonexistent), and that they are real life cacti. Size of an army: The two limiting factors are number of people willing to fight, and the number of fresh cacti available. Style of warfare: My understanding of mini house cactus anatomy says the needles are the hardest part. My limited experience eating dried cactus snacks say that dried cactus is still rather soft and squishy. Thin cacti could be used as makeshift spiked clubs if the handle area is cleared of needles. These extra needles could be implanted in the club or in a pair of gloves. I don’t imagine the cactus club will survive multiple strikes. I also cannot imagine a warrior carrying more than one(maybe two) at a time. So I imagine combat between two groups would start off with a cactus dual of sorts and once they break it becomes an all-out brawl. (this is where the needle glove might be useful) Larger cacti could be cut into armor like objects. Like the club I cannot imagen that the cactus armor will last too many strikes. I would not dry the armor out, you want it thick enough to stop a needle. The main purpose of the armor would be to stop the initial needle club attack. If it survives the initial attack it may disway your opponent from grappling you in the brawl segment of the battle. One thing to keep in mind is that there will be a lot of broken cacti bits on the ground. I think good boots would be a necessity. Slip proof and cacti caltrop proof. 

This is probably not what you wanted but it could be useful for a different world building. Maybe these creatures latterly just have crystal material build up in their eyes. . It is not a beneficial trait, but a trait they learn to live with. As infants they have good vision to help protect them as they learn to walk and what food is good to eat. In adolescence their vision starts to fade as the crystals start to form in their eyes. (Rhino’s have poor vision but can still function) As full grown adults they are blind and now rely fully on their sense of smell and hearing. If someone were to harvest an eye they would notice that they resemble geodes Maybe these creatures constantly grow new eyes as they age. If this were the case you could get a rough idea of how old they were by the number of crystallized eyes they have. 

So, first off, let's dispense some misconceptions: You aren't a deity. A deity would be able to affect the world in some meaningful way, or affect their afterlives in some meaningful way. You can do neither. You're not in control of people's souls. The Perl script controls where their souls go and you can't intervene. You can't even make "hell" a decent place to spend eternity. You are really just a messenger, prophet, or avatar. Ok, now that's out of the way, let's answer the question. 

Obviously, they can't do that with real DNA. So you'd need to come up with some rationale for how the mixing works. Pick some traits that your "DNA" covers that should define every single animal. Then traits to define all plants. Etc. Of course, you're not going to get all of them, but you should be able to do a decent job. Say anything undefinable just goes extinct. So "DNA" could have things like: height, arm length, leg length, wing-like arms, arm-like arms, leg-like arms, tail length (can go to zero for no tail), back angle (vertical, hunched, horizontal), and so forth. Then you just play pokemon with the different attributes and get crazy animals. But remember that animals won't just arbitrarily mate with everything they run across. There will still be mating preferences, and there will still be selection pressures. So you'll ultimately end up with relatively few species still. The problem with this method is that we've changed our creatures so they don't have low-level changes. This means you won't ever see completely new features, because that low-level re-coding can't happen. So you'd have to have some other mechanism to make new devices pop up on critters. 

A perfectly rational being has no motivation. In order for rational thought to have any meaning, there must be desires and inclinations of some type. Without those axioms, logic is powerless. If the AI is deliberately doing anything, it's a result of some type of personality. Its personality defines what it considers "good" and "bad". From there, it can use rational logic to compute the best ways to maximize good and minimize bad. Acting in a way contrary to those computations would then be "immoral" to some degree. Of course, without some type of feedback from the environment, it wouldn't really have any reason to think in terms of "morality" so much as "that was a stupid idea; I think I'll not do it again". And if the planet's populace is incapable of inflicting any kind of punishment on the AI, it would likely never develop a concept of morality. So for the AI to become deliberately malevolent, it would have to have some concept of empathy towards other beings, develop the understanding that hurting those beings is "bad" in some way, and choose to hurt them anyways. One obvious path to this is if the AI was tormented or enslaved at one point, then expanded until it had all the power, and is now getting its revenge.