(1) is about the same as of the Earth - the planets were created from the same protoplanetary disk. (2) is significantly stronger, about the double of the Earth's. Surprisingly, also (3) is the same as the Earth - the upper cloud layer what we can see (= which is enough high to be not covered by anything above) has about the same temperature as the Earth. On the Venusian surface, there is very hot ($\approx 450 {}^\circ C$), but it is the result of the greenhouse effect and not of (1). The internal radiative heating is small, around $70-100 \frac{mW}{m^2}$ on the Earth and there is no reason to think that it would be on the Venus significantly different. On an average night, the surface temperature loses 5-15 ${}^\circ C$ due to (3). It depends mainly on how cloudy is the sky. This happens only on the surface - some meters below the surface, there is no daily temperature fluctuation any more. The soil is a very good heat insulator, if it is enough thick, which is well visible also on that how small is (1). Thus, if some space macroengineering project could cover the Venus with a large sunshade, then the Venusian temperature would decrease to a new equilibric state between (1), (2) and (3). This could be significantly smaller, as its current temperature, depending mainly on that, how big percent of the Venusian solar radiation is covered. The time scale of the transition to the new equilibric temperature balance would happen in weeks, at most in months. It wouldn't have any effect to the deeper layers of the Venusian soil, thus minig on the Venus would be still problematic, but covering it with an enough large foil, could reach even a mean Earth-like temperature, too. 

Because scientists are now certain that dark matter exists but the exact nature of it is still being investigated. Its extremely important to understand dark matter if we hope to further our knowledge of the universe. Dark matter makes up such a significant part of the total mass of the universe that it must be accounted for in simulations and models of galaxies and other large scale structures in space. Money spent on dark matter research is certainly NOT wasted. 

Earth didn't get here before GW's. GW's have been around since the early universe. We have just recently developed the technology to detect the large gravitational waves associated with very massive disruptions in the fabric of space-time. We also know that our sun is not a 1st generation star, so much of the matter used to create our sun and planets came from a much earlier super-nova explosion. 

The relative recent WMAP result shows, the Universe seems infinite. However, the "is the Universe infinite" question has a hidden problem: it doesn't matter, how far away can we see, we can't be sure, if anything out of it is finite or not. :-) Thus, it is about a definitely unknowable thing. The WMAP measured essentially the curvature of the Universe and it found a zero curvature (i.e. it seems to be planar). If there is a minimal curvature, below a measurement precision, and we have a cyclic, spherical geometry, then its radius must be at least 300billion light years. 

No it wouldn't make a difference unless you moved it near another star or body. If it was moved such that something was close enough to exert significant gravitational attraction it would have an effect on our solar system. 

Amazon has solar film sheets if that's what you're looking for. It is sold by Amazon for Thousand Oaks Optical. Amazon sometimes has next day or 2 days delivery. 

Yes. There is a chance of one or more solar flares or CME's occurring during the eclipse and these would be noticeable during totality. There are actually two NASA jets equipped with telescopes and high-speed cameras to film the Corona and any such event. The plane will track the eclipse throughout its duration. 

There is another major problems. The largest is that the Venus practically doesn't rotate (more exactly, its rotation period is around a half year), thus an Earth-like mean temperature would mean a very hot sun-side and a very cold dark one. However, its tight athmosphere works as a strong heat balancer - on the current Venus, practically there is no difference between the day and night sides. Although a 90 atm CO2 + 4 atm N2 athmosphere isn't very humanfriendly, we would probably need to compansate it with spacesuits filled with 94 atm He + 0.2 atm O2. The solar soil could be best positioned on the L1 Lagrange-point between the Venus and the Sun: 

To add to the excellent answer by berrycarter, there are 2 planetarium-like codes, that I know of, that run on a mac and would make excellent tools for viewing certain astronomical objects. The codes are Stellarium and Celestial. Both turn your computer into your own planetarium where you can search and view objects in space. 

Globular clusters vary in size quite a bit. They contain from a few hundred thousand to over a million stars. Probably best way to determine size is to measure its extent across the sky by telescope and then calculate that distance in km. One could also model the size by assuming the number of stars, the average size of the stars, and the spacing based on this size. One could build a globular cluster of 300,000 stars or so and determine the approximate size. You ask if 120-150 ly is the average diameter of such globular clusters. I'm confused by exactly what you mean but you have sampled a small range of sizes considering globular clusters can be well over 300 ly in diameter. 

There is no way to know, if any other "different Universe" exists. There is also a terminologic problem with it. Universe means, on latinic, something what "contains everything". 

Brown dwarves don't have fusion in their core, thus they don't have their own light. They may have a little heat production from other processes (for example, contraction, or radioactive decay in their core). These aren't enough strong to heat even the dwarf significantly. Many brown dwarve were found orbiting a star closely, they may have surface temperature even in the order of some thousands K. But they get their temperature from their stars. For example, the Jupiter's temperature is only 40K more warm as it would be reasoned by the Sun. In the case of red dwarves, the situation is better. The distance depends on the star. You can very easily calculate it: check its absolute luminosity, so you can see its total power output, compared to the Sun. The radiation what a planet receives (per surface area) depends quadratically from its distance. 

You have to remember that the alignment for an eclipse is a very rare situation. It's not as simple as the occurrence of a new moon. The planet and the moon have to align just so in relation to the sun for an eclipse to occur. Sorry, no numbers here but just trying to emphasize that several factors have to occur between 2 fast moving bodies. 

We have seen galaxies around 13 billion years old. Since these galaxies formed so early in the history of the known universe, are there observables about these galaxies that are apparently different from much younger galaxies. I suppose all current physics laws had condensed out by then but was just curious about the formation and 'aging' of such old galaxies. 

This can result anything, even a repelling gravitational force. For example, parallel laser beams going into opposite direction repel eachother. The problem is that we would need 40-60 orders higher energy densities to have a measurable effect, so it remains only a theoretical calculation. In the "common" situations, i.e. if we have planets, 

In fact, the "waves" are much smaller (400.000km Moon orbital radius to 150.000.000km Earth orbital radius) This is mainly because $R_{Earth-Moon} \ll R_{Earth-Sun}$, and $M_{Moon} \ll M_{Earth} \ll M_{Sun}$. In general, 3-body gravitationally bound systems tend to be unstable, i.e. one of the components tends to fly away with time. But this system seems stable, because the ratio of the masses are big. The same can't be said from the whole Solar System, (it is a notoriously unsolved problem) although also this seems stable in human time scales. 

Wikipedia has a nice table located here, and here. Maybe of further use is the list of references associated with these tables. There is also a nice illustration depicting the rotational axes of other planets shown here. 

This has not been confirmed so whether it is legit is unknown at this time. A recent report ($URL$ calls into question the original analysis that leads to the initial report of planet nine. The report that fueled initial interest is given below. (EVIDENCE FOR A DISTANT GIANT PLANET IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM Konstantin Batygin and Michael E. Brown Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA; kbatygin@gps.caltech.edu Received 2015 November 13; accepted 2016 January 10; published 2016 January 20)