When I was a kid, I remind that I had a strange type of game - I was mostly concerned of annoying other persons. Whenever they assumed something, I asked why, and then when they aswered, I asked why again, and then I kept asking why until the person was annoyed. There was a point where the person could not provide an answer to the why's, I always wondered if our knowledge behaves this way: This way of having an infinite series of why's and at some point, a nullity of answers. So, is this infinity of questions a problem somehow? Have someone thought about it? 

Excuse me for such nonsensical question, but for some time, the idea of things that could not be discovered bothers me. I guess that this is an interesting object of investigation, and I also guess that someone already thought about it or wrote one thing or two. I know almost nothing about philosophy, but I guess that the hypothesis of undiscoverable things, could probalby pose what we know as something with less legitimacy. But again, this might be a meaningless sentence due to my lack of understanding. I'd be glad to be pointed to works that speak about this. 

I am a student of mathematics, that afirmation of the question I propose seems plausible to me. But I remember that some days ago, I was talking to a friend and he said that such terms are not exactly consequences of a quantitative method. Is that feasible? I don't remember perfectly if he said that one is not consequence of another or if it was about somethings that don't need to be quantified. But I would like to know about my initial question. Note: I have no idea of what tags should be used for this question - any edit is welcome. 

In the near past, I've read about the work of Tversky and Kahneman, the text said that they presented their work to a famous american philosopher (without mentioning names) and he said that he wasn't interested in a philosophy of stupidness. From what I know, Kahneman and Tversky wrote about biases, not specifically stupidness. So, is there someone else who wrote some philosophy of stupidness? 

I'm reading David Papineau's Philosophical Devices, and there's a section on numbers and set theory. But there's not deeper hint on why it's important to philosophy. I guess that in mathematics we can think of formulas for building the elements of some set, such as the set of even numbers, the set of odd numbers, the set of all the prime numbers (which I guess that until this date, have no formula) so perhaps it's important to make formulas for some objects in philosophy? I guess I can see the importance of the knowledge of the axiom of comprehension (and the Russell set), which states that for any condition C, there exists a set A such that (for any x)(x is an element of A iff x satisfies C). It is there to remind us that such axiom can't hold without some exceptions. Although I fail to see where one would create an object (in philosophy) and then notice a similarity of this object and Russell's set. Note: If you know better tags, please edit. I've tried to use the tag set theory, but It does not exist. 

I noticed that Spinoza (Ethics, proof for Prop. XI) mentions cause and reason often in the same sentence, but what is the actual difference between these terms? Example: "If, then, no cause or reason can be given, which prevents the existence of God, or which destroys his existence, we must certainly conclude that he necessarily does exist." I always thought these words are synonyms, but now, when tried to find something about it in the internet, it seems that reason should mean something more mental, so cause is not mental? Or perhaps it depends who is causing it, in this example given is it then reason something what God is causing , and cause would be external, then? 

It is said on page 15 Smullyan's A beginner's guide to mathematical logic, that What do we do if we have more than three unknowns, say, A, B, C, D? Well, we can no longer draw circles, but still the four sets divide I into 16 basics regions, and we can number them in such a way that : A = (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8) B = (1.2.3.4.9.10.11.12) C = (1,2,5,6,9,10,13,14) D = (1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15) Why does he say we can no longer draw circles? I did and there are less regions than he has - I got only seven per circle? This would give only 14 regions total in I. 

(There was an example given in my book " if it is not p or not q, then it is not the case that p or q" - so this as a function would look I think like this: [(~p) v (~q)] -> [~ (p v q)] 

I am trying to read Smullyan A Beginners Guide to Mathematical Logic and there is mentioned under ' Complementation ', page 11/12 that A'' is A itself - so why to bother to mark it with a double apostrophe at all( I hope I am right how this mark is called) if it could be just be written A without any '? I suspect it is really a silly question - Sorry about that - but I am trying to understand what's the point of it? Any clarification really appreciated! 

By the method of indexing, prove the following Boolean equation to be valid: (A ∪ B)′ ∩ C = (C ∩ A′) ∪ (C ∩ B′) What I tried to do - but somehow it doesn't go right, where did I made a mistake, Please? A - 1,2,3,4 B - 1,2,5,6 C - 1,3,5,7 1) A ∪ B = (1,2,3,4,5,6) so (A ∪ B)′ =(7,8) (7,8) ∩ (1,3,5,7) = (7) 2) (C ∩ A′) = (1,3,5,7) ∩ (5,6,7,8) = (5,7) (C ∩ B′) = (1,3,5,7) ∩ (3,4,7,8) = (3,7) so (5,7) ∪ (3,7) = (3,5,7) 3) So it comes to (7) = (3,5,7) what surely can't be right?                                                                                                                 

[(~p) v (~q)] -> .... - Should read I believe "if it is not p or not q ,... "? Or if not, how is the correct way? 

I've been thinking a bit about the core argument of social constructionism. Whenever I see the argument being employed, it seems that it means that if something is a social construction, then this thing is not too legitimate. This seems to agree a bit with Hacking here. I've noticed that I could take the argument itself and write: "The idea of social construction is a social construction. Then the idea of social construction is not too legitimate." At least for me, this seems to be a logical problem: An instance of the liar's paradox, with the argument eating itself. Is it actually a problem or the argument is built in an ideological framework unbeknownst to me in which this problem could be eliminated? I know that there are logics that deal with self-reference. But I don't know if the person who created the concept worked with these logics and conscientiously created the concept using it or if he/she didn't see that one could apply the argument to itself. 

Is there a branch of philosophy that deals with the concept of classification? I guess that perhaps it's metaphysics or ontology - they are the nearest things I can think of, but I'm not really sure. 

In mathematics, it seems that when we try to find relations about objects we are forced to set a unique object as a basis for the construction of each other object. For example: take one rectangle and define It's area as b•h, now if you take a line through Its center, it will allow you to cut the rectangle in two having its area divided in two pieces (b•h/2). Now if you rotate the line in a way that it passes through two vertices of the rectangle, then you have a triangle and it has the same area: (b•h/2). Now for the area of the circle, we need to make a comparison between what we made and we can do that by inscribing a regular polygon and taking the limit of its sides to infinity, that is: it's measure will depend on the sum of a infinity of triangles. Even in integral calculus, the area under the curves is defined as the sum of an infinity of rectangles, consequently: An infinity of triangles. And hence, the triangle seems to be the most basic object found when building these relations. Does this effect have a name? Has someone written about it? If yes, who? 

This is something that attracted my attention several times, but I never heard of anyone who wrote about a philosophy of poorness, I guess Marx would be the nearest I've heard of, are there other ones who wrote about it? 

I am a mathematics student and am curious about how research in philosophy is done. In mathematics, let's say we have a geometric object, this object has various representations and each representation can make it easier to see some specific feature, for example: A geometric object could be the set of zeroes from a system of equations, it could be a set of distances from a certain set of points in a certain way, a category, etc. In there, these are some kinds of most basic methods of research, each one revealing in a certain way. Are there such things in philosophical research? From my naive view until now, it seems that metaphysics, epistemology, ontology, dialetic, logic, etc are these most basic methods and they can be combined to yield additional insights. Is that correct? I'm not sure if the tagging is adequate. If not, feel free to correct it.