Therefore you shouldn't be so concerned with what you should do, but how you do it. If you have a pure mind that is free from defilements, the right action will come naturally. If you don't buy something from such a person, you may feel guilty. If you do buy something, you may feel betrayed. So there is no warranty for a wholesome mind by only looking at the action itself, in both cases it is possible to reinforce bad habits and conflict. Whether you do buy something or not, there is in both cases the potential to develop loving-kindness, compassion, joy and equanimity towards this person. Keep in mind that you're not responsible for the suffering of others. But if you really want to help, you should think about whether or not it would be more wise to give money to an organization that fights poverty than giving it to random individuals (I honestly don't know which one is more effective). 

Ask your teacher. But my advice would be to just continue trying. Failing is not the problem here, it is the expectation of achieving some results which is the problem, because it causes suffering. Do as much meditation as you can without thinking about the past or future. Also sometimes being frustrated can be useful, because it shows you what kind of approach to meditation works and what doesn't. 

I looked up Muse Brain Sensing Headband and have to say that you cannot practice Buddhist meditation while using such a device for at least two reasons: 

Since you asked about accumulating ideas, I guess that you don't have a clear and comprehensive instruction to follow. And since you asked this question on the Buddhism Stackexchange, you'll get the Buddhist explanation of meditation :). In Buddhism, the meaning of the word 'meditation' may differ from what you associate with it. A common misunderstanding is that you practice meditation in order to get calm. You don't. You practice in order to get wisdom. This can be done by using a calm mind, but only as a means. The following is a good, practical instruction based on the original Buddhist teachings (over 2500 years of people practicing it has proven it works): How to meditate. 

I myself noticed that in such a environment it's very beneficial to 'sort' those distraction in regards to the six senses. This is seeing, hearing, thinking, tasting, feeling, smelling. 

I wouldn't worry about it too much. Wherever you catch thinking that's where you should note it. If you realize you were not mindful you can note it with 'knowing'. Actually when you realize you were not mindful before, that's the only way of becoming mindful again, by becoming mindful of not being mindful. But having a stable eye is really a wrong perception of what meditation is about. It's supposed to be unstable. 

absolute theory: You should punish someone because his action is intrinsically bad and therefore he deserves to be punished. (refers to the past) relative theory: The purpose of a law is to prevent a crime from happening. Therefore a penalty on certain actions is reasonable because it prevents 'criminals' from doing it again and scares people off. (refers to the future) 

I wouldn't get too fixed on the idea to get concentrated in meditation.In general, the practice is to bring your mind back to the present and be aware of any of the 5 hindrances which prevent you from having a clear mind: 

While dana mostly seems to fall under the training of morality, practicing the dhamma and listening to dhamma would be more on the side of concentration and wisdom. These three aspects, the cultivation of morality, concentration and wisdom sum up the Noble Eightfold Path. So practicing as much as you can according to this path in any way is the best choice. 

If you're looking for some instructions, I would recommend those which refer to the original teachings of the Buddha. A good one is How to meditate. There is also a meditation community where you can sign up for an online course, if you need some guidance, at $URL$ 

Should one go through each one in order [metta - karuna - mudita - upekkha] or is it possible to do i.e. only karuna (in a formal meditation sitting) Why is it that (from my perspective) many meditation teacher only seem to focus on metta ('loving kindness') meditation (and not the other 3). Is there a particular benefit or is it important to practice it in order to get into the 'cycle' of the brahma viharas? 

If you are practicing mindfulness and meditation regularly you can actually stop nightmares from happening by this habit. 

mana (pride & conceit) is the 9. fetter. It does not only mean feeling superior than somebody else, but also feeling inferior or feeling equal. These views are wrong, because they are not true in an absolute sense, since they are based on the illusion of self. Who is feeling proud? Who wants to achieve? I suggest to read those two very good articles about mana: $URL$ 

Wanting to improve and having expectations is in Buddhism seen as the cause of suffering. Meditation can't help you to gain your goals, but you learn how to be content with the way things already are. As a side effect you become a better person and have a better attitude, but this is not the goal of meditation. The goal of (Buddhist) meditation is insight. 

Physical lethargy is not really a problem as long as your mind stays unaffected. But in reality physical lethargy most of the time comes with mental lethargy. There are already lots of answers regarding the 3. hindrance on this SE. 

I have problems understanding the difference between byāpā­da­ (~ ill will) and vihiṃ­sā (~ cruelty). I know that vihiṃ­sā means something like "wishing someone harm". But I didn't find where the word byāpā­da­ comes from and in what quality the meaning of it is different from vihiṃ­sā. Can someone please help me out? 

Is this list of 31 realms static or can single realms vanish? Because due to science we know that this earth won't last forever. This would mean, that there are no animals or humans anymore, unless a similar species lives on another planet somewhere in this universe (which is very, very, very unlikely if you consider the set of condition it took of several billion years to evolve humans). The theory of evolution proofs, that humans have evolved from animals and just use different techniques for surviving as every other species as well. So knowing that there was a time of transition, where there only existed primordial human beings, how could you at that time say if it was a human or an animal? How can you cross that line between one species (humans) and every other one? Because it is sure, that in the next few 100.000 years humans will have evolved to a totally different species according to the conditions in the environment. 

What I wonder is: Can I say "meditate" or "don't do stuff for fun" and "brainwash" myself somehow to help advance my practice somehow ? I still find this technique (from what I've read in Wikipedia) problematic for several reasons: 

Have you tried the instructions from this booklet? Seems very basic and simple, but it's actually not easy to do and quite profound. I wouldn't intellectualize about it too much (like reading studies or books). Bhikkhu Bodhi used the analogy that this is like going into a restaurant, reading the menu and then leave without eating anything. I'm linking this talk by Ajahn Sumedo which I personally found very helpful. I don't find the source, but there is a Buddha quote that goes like 'sati (mindfulness) is always useful'. So if you find time to even meditate on your breath that's great. Also just reminding in what posture you're in (sitting, walking, lying, standing) I find to be a very powerful tool. I've never heard the term mindfulness-based, but in general mindfulness (= reminding, reaffirming what's present) is the practice and insight (= clear understanding, knowing) is the result (likewise if you clean your house cleaning is the practice, the clean house is the result). 

A Monk trains himself in sila (moral discipline), which includes not intentionally hurting living beings. Since he himself is a living being, he should respect and protect his life as he would others. 

sleep is a state of body, not a state of mind. If you are asleep your body has shut down the 5 senses, but your mind can still be active (dreaming). 

I recently stumbled upon an interesting explanation of vibhavataṇhā in the german translation of the Majjhima Nikāya by Mettiko Bhikkhu. I tried to translate this explanation as good as I could into english. The following is from page 25 (3rd edition, 2014): 

I'm currently considering making schedules for my daily life in order to counteract boredom and restlessness. Does anyone has experience with doing this and maybe can give me some tips? Is it beneficial and if yes, how strict should you schedule your day? 

In Buddhism there is no solution for 'my problem', because there is no problem in the first place. The mind is creating problems out of ignorance, and causing useless suffering. The title says 'Being assertive/manipulative', but as you wrote the people you ask say you're straightforward. Where is the problem? I would suggest to drop this thinking and pondering upon 'I', 'me', 'mine' and focus on the real practice. By using mindfulness ('thinking', 'emotion' ...) and in daily life applying the practice of sila (morality). Therefore you should know the 10 skillful/unskillful actions and practice them (the skillful ones) actively in daily live (i.e. try to speak in a honest way). 

I think the formula is actually I will restrain from the killing of sentient beeings. Keep in mind that the 5 precepts are not obligations, but rather rules you take up voluntarily. Nobody forces you to keep them, but they are an absolute minimum of Buddhist morality. The mind that has the intention of killing, stealing... is not able to have a clear perception of reality, at all. 

Learning how to meditate on impure objects Devoting oneself to the meditation on the impure Guarding the sense doors Moderation in eating Noble friendship Suitable conversation 

Consider the advantage of compassion/ danger in lack of compassion Develop compassion by picturing/think about a being that is in great suffering and making the wish: "May he/she be free from suffering" 

In ultimate reality there exist no beings at all (not even you exist). There is only the experience of one of the 6 senses (seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, touching, thinking). So metta would here not refer to the concept of loving other people, but rather to the state of mind that is free from defilements (anger, greed, delusion). This aspect is mentioned at the end of the Metta Sutta: 

I find being mindful while sitting on a computer very hard. Most movements with mouse/keyboard are happening so fast and intuitive that it's very hard to be conscious of what the actual intention (by clicking on/typing this or that) is; often this also leads me into restlessness or loosing track of time; I'm sure this is a common phenomenon. Are there certain tricks/tips by which one can be more aware while sitting/working on a computer?