You can impress an interviewer by showing that you understand your motivations. Rather than saying "I like QA more", you want to talk about why. Talk about what it is that you like about it, how it fits your personality and skills. Talk about what makes you particularly good at it. Show some insight. The try to tie all that into the job for which you are applying. (And don't use the term "Automation Testing", unless your job is testing automation. If you are crafting the scripts to automate testing, then the term is "Test Automation" or sometimes "Automated Testing".) 

It depends on the job, company, individuals, etc. For many knowledge worker positions, being physically close to other folks working on the same tasks is a "good thing". Having permission to work from home can also be a "good thing". But as with anything in an office environment, management balances competing goods against each other. Outsourcing saves money (and sometimes time), but sacrifices closeness, communications effectiveness, and sometimes continuity and control. Working in a cubicle saves the company money, but costs in terms of a quiet, effective working environment. And work-at-home is a nice benefit for some, but costs in terms of closeness and communications effectiveness. For some jobs/companies, the trade-offs work one way. For others they work in exactly the opposite way. 

It's okay to apply for any job you wish. Nothing will stop you from applying to a job you find interesting even when you don't meet the stated requirements. Your chances of successfully getting the job depend entirely on you, the job market, and the needs of the hiring company. Academic time is absolutely not the same as work experience. In many companies you'll have to "unlearn" some of what you were taught in school. In most companies/job there's "what you were taught" and "how the job is actually performed" and they aren't at all the same. Some companies may consider accepting an advanced degree in lieu of some work experience - which they would clearly spell out in the job listing. Some companies will consider an internship as almost like work - not really work experience, but certainly better than no experience. In general, if they require 2+ years of experience and you have none, you'll have little chance. But you never know and it's still okay to try - the worst that happens is a rejection and a little bit of wasted time. 

I always take the approach that you shouldn't be worried until you actually know you have something to worry about. 

Other than what I have already suggested, there are alternatives. You could ask HR for tips on how to deal with a difficult subordinate, if you are too new to management to understand what to do on your own. You could be the counselor. Sit him down and say "Look, Jealous Subordinate. I know you were disappointed at my promotion and probably feel that you should have been promoted instead. But I need your technical expertise. Let's work together and we'll both benefit!" You could be the avoider, and do nothing - hoping that his behavior won't be any worse than it had been in the past and hoping that people will continue to tolerate him due to his technical brilliance. You could complain to your boss that you were handed a bad situation, and ask him to deal with the issue rather than you. You could try to get him transferred to a different team, so that he is someone else's problem, rather than yours. But I'd suggest that you deal with it head-on. Managers must be able to manage people who are their friends, and people who are not. You might get him to shape up, or you might have to ship him out. Either way, you can solve this problem yourself if you choose to work on it. 

That depends on the nature of the contract you signed, local laws, the willingness of Company B to pursue any remedies they may have available to them, etc. You might be compelled by your signed contract to wait out a notice period. You should read and understand your contract (as you should have before signing it). In almost any context, one consequence will be to your professional reputation. There will be at least a few folks who know of your going back on your word, and may hold it against you in the future. 

It's unlikely you will be in any trouble over a simple mistake like this. But the simplest way to avoid the possibility of any trouble is to talk to your boss now. Something like "Hey, boss. I accidentally downloaded some source code by mistake. I deleted the download as soon as I realized. Is there anything else I should do?" should suffice. If you are really that worried, you might want to capture the discussion via email, so that you'll have a trail of question and reply. 

Not only is it okay, but it's extremely important to do so immediately, particularly if you suspect something nefarious is going on. Cover yourself right away by bringing this to your manager's attention. It's probably nothing, but if you feel "set up" you want to make sure you don't get the blame for whatever happened. 

Some companies hold annual reviews, others do not. If this is one of those companies who don't have annual reviews, then going three years without one isn't a red flag. If this company used to hold annual reviews, then stopped for three years without telling employees why, then that is cause for concern. 

I don't know if this is standard practice in your part of the world or not (since you haven't indicated where you work), but where I have worked in the northeast US, that has always been the case. Benefits can and do change over the years. For every company where I have worked, they have been outside of any contracts. (I'm assuming here that you haven't negotiated some special benefits for yourself that aren't contained in the standard benefits package. The only non-standard benefit I ever negotiated was 1 additional week of vacation beyond what was standard for new hires. Everything else has always been whatever the standard benefits package contained.) You should get a copy of the benefits package being offered to you. It's not part of your contract, but you'll want to understand what benefits you'll be getting (in the first year at least) before you agree. That way, you can judge the entire offer as a whole. You likely don't need to worry here. As you point out, companies (at least in the US), typically don't change benefits for individuals, but they review and revise them for the company as a whole - usually once every year. 

(I'll purposely define ethics/morals loosely and interchangeably here, since that is the sense of what I read in your question. As others point out, the terms don't have the same textbook definition. But in casual conversations, it's not necessary to be so strict with the terms.) Personal Ethics are always individual and contextual. What might fit my personal ethics may not fit your personal ethics. And what might be ethical in one circumstance, may not be ethical in another. Here are some ways to examine the personal ethics of your choice. Have you fully disclosed what you are doing to your boss? If not, then why not? If you suspect that your boss would disapprove, yet you are doing it anyway, many people would find that unethical. Would you fully explain what you are doing during an interview with a potential employer? If not, then why not? If you are doing something that would reflect unfavorably on you in your career, many people would find that unethical. If everyone else in your company did the same thing you are doing, would that be a good thing, or a bad thing? If you are taking advantage of your situation but wouldn't want others to do the same, many people would find that unethical. Are you worried what would happen if you are "caught"? If you have concerns about what your boss (or upper management) would do if/when they find out, some people would find this approach unethical. What would Mom think? The fact that you felt it important to post the question here makes me suspect that you are doing something you are not proud of. Many people would feel that doing activities for which you feel some shame is unethical. Only you can determine if your actions meet your personal ethics. And how you feel is the most important part of answering "Is this ethical?" anyway. 

In this case, it means that they don't have reqs for jobs at the moment, but anticipate having some coming open soon. The key is here: "We have a number of upcoming requirements for Mid - Senior Web Developer in the October – November periods." 

You should make it clear to the Executive Director that you need these Board members to respect your confidentiality, and not leak the news to your current employer. Depending on your position, and if this is something that you do in your current role in your current company, you may also want to chat with these Board members individually some time shortly after your confirmation. If you personally part of the confirmation meeting itself, you could even use that as an occasion for discussion and a reminder about your confidentiality need. You could explain your decision to move on, and explain how you will help the transition in your current company. 

You failed to complete the assigned task in the allotted time. Only the interviewing company can come up with a proper evaluation, since only they know their expectations. Either they don't expect candidates to finish, but just want to see how far they get, or they do expect candidates to finish. In the latter case, it's possible that candidates who fail to finish are rejected. 

While it might be acceptable, it could seem rather odd. I'd be shocked if VPs were impressed by your watch - I'd expect them to think you simply aren't capable of remembering a few questions you wanted to ask. Unless the position you are applying for is Smart-watch-reader, far better would to memorize a few questions, or instead ask whatever comes to mind. Interviews are far more about what you know, and what you think, than what you can look up online. 

You accept the job but tell your new employer that your current company requires a 3-month notice. If 3-month notices are standard in your part of the world they should understand, even though they would prefer that you start in 1 month. You also tell them that you will attempt to negotiate an earlier leave date if possible. Then, you talk to your current boss, give your notice, and attempt to negotiate an earlier leave date. Once you and your current boss have agree on a leave date (early or otherwise), you inform your new employer of the anticipated start date. Finally, you work your notice period to the best of your ability, leave, and join your new employer. If for some reason your new employer absolutely will not hire you unless you can start in 1 month, you may be out of luck. You could choose to attempt to negotiate an early leave from your current employer without having a formal job acceptance, but that could be very tricky. Likely it won't come to that. 

Hmm. You've only been there 3 months. It's possible that the situation is exactly as you perceive it, but it's also possible that you are reading too much into a short-duration situation. Try not to jump the gun here. Everyone can avoid making silly mistakes. We just need to be more careful and learn from our past mistakes. And what we perceive as a big deal, might just be normal for someone who has only been there 3 months. A 2-year age difference is nothing in a corporate setting. Don't overreact. Try to find a mentor. Perhaps one of those folks who are 2 years older than you was right where you are now just a few years back. Find such a person who might be willing to talk with you periodically. Ask for feedback on what you are seeing, feeling, and learning. Telling your manager that you ought to receive proper training is a bit presumptuous. Such a declaration ("I expect this... and what I've received so far isn't 'proper'...") might not be well received. Instead, talk with your manager during a one-on-one meeting. Explain how you feel you need more training to be your best. Ask her how best that could be accomplished. Your idea of "proper" and her idea may not be the same. There are many ways of being trained - self-learning, mentoring, inhouse training programs, external training programs, etc. Are you sure you are getting "light treatment"? How do you know? And are you sure it's "just because [you're] a woman"? How do you know? Try to bounce those thoughts off of your mentor, or someone else you trust who might provide some insight on the situation. You don't want to react to a situation you have misjudged. Overall, try to be patient. Three months still puts you in the "total newbie" category in many shops. It might not have anything at all to do with your gender or your age - just your newness - and newness wears off over time all by itself. 

For many companies (particular smaller shops), it's pretty common that developers are asked to do more than one specific technology. While it would be nice to be able to focus solely on just the work we would prefer, sometimes business needs dictate otherwise. You should talk with the only person who could change your situation - your boss. Explain your feelings and ask if there are alternatives. Ask if it is possible to remain working on the technology you like, and avoid the technologies that you don't. Then listen. You might find that this is a temporary thing, driven by business needs. Or you might find that your boss mistakenly thought you would prefer to expand your horizons, rather than being cast solely as "Android". Either way, you learn more about your current situation, and can discuss your future. If that doesn't meet your needs, then you can decide what you would like to do about it, including leaving the company. But at least you'll go into that decision with a solid basis for your feelings.