I have a pair of skis, let's pretend I use them as much as I want to. How often should I wax them? Once a season? Every few ski days? Before or after every ski day? Both? Does it matter what kind of snow it is? If so, how does that factor in? 

Say I'm hiking outdoors and I get a scrape. I've forgotten my first aid pack, or already used up the appropriate supplies. Is there anything in the wilderness I can use to sterilize and perhaps cover it? 

My mother, who is a doctor, has always told me to let blisters be. Keeping them unpopped keeps them clean and sterile, and (if I recall correctly) the fluid in them actually helps them heal faster. If you're in the wilderness, you really don't want to pop them and risk infection. Even if you have antibacterials, a popped blister is likely to contact dirt and pathogens through use, you can't be putting antibacterial on it all the time. And I never really thought a popped blister felt any better anyway. 

You will probably need, as you mention, a mallet/hammer or rock, but if you find a particularly resistant spot, you may have hit an underground rock, and you should move the stake around a bit, see if you can avoid it. 

I am thinking about changing the backing on my reel for something thinner and stronger like gel spun line (I'm currently using 20lb Dacron). The goal is to fit enough backing into the reel for Atlantic salmon fishing. The reason is that I bought a new fly line that is both longer and thicker than the previous one, which was a sinking tip one. Now I can't fit the previous 200 yd of backing that I had. I know that the answer is to buy a larger reel, but before that I would like to try some alternatives. I have heard that there is gel spun and that some people use fireline as well, but will these work well? Will the attach well to the reel spool? Won't they damage the fly line where it is attached to them? Will I risk cutting my fingers? 

In addition to the great answer by user737012: How strong should the tippet and leader lines be? Tippet size also affects how natural your fly looks in the water. Bigger tippets are stiffer and make the movement of small flies seem unnatural. On the other hand, it is very hard to cast big flies on thin tippet because a smaller tippet will not be able to turn the fly at the end of the cast. There is a rule of thumb for deciding tippet size that stipulates that tippet size should be close to hook size divided by three. So, if you fish a fly tied on a hook size 12, the most appropriate tippet size would be 4X. Then you can go one size larger (3X) if you expect to fight bigger fish or if the water is turbulent/murky. You can also go one size smaller (5X) if the water is clear and still, or if the fish are wary. Bear in mind that this rule will not work for very big hook sizes (1/0 or above). 

Melt the butter in a dutch oven. Pour in the sugar, mix quickly, flour, mix quickly, eggs, mix quickly and then thoroughly. Put the lid on, bake until it's done. I imagine this doesn't translate to a camp stove quite as well as the peach cobbler, but if you have a pot that can handle the temperature and you don't mind getting it dirty (and possibly melting, if you misjudged its sturdiness) you can try putting it in a pit surrounded (beyond a bit of a gap) by coals piled up. Also, this one can obviously be scaled down to smaller portions (e.g. 1/4 lb of each) if you are in a smaller party. 

Heat up some coals, pour the peaches into a dutch oven, and pour the cake mix evenly over the peaches. Put the top on the dutch oven (including coals on top), bake until it's done: The peach syrup should bubble over into the cake mix over much of it, the rest of the cake mix should be just starting to brown. How long depends a lot on your fire/coals. If you're hiking and a dutch oven is too much, you can probably get away with putting it in a fairly wide pan on a camp stove. You can also experiment with other fruits and cake mix flavors; but note that the heavy syrup is important, it keeps the syrup below the cake mix in a place to bubble up properly. Pound cake 

All other answers assume that you want to use spinning reel and lure as your tackle, but it is also possible to catch pike on the fly. It is indeed a lot of fun, as you can check out from this video filmed in Sweden. At around 15 minutes they show how they set the tackle. In answer to your questions, here is how I would go with a fly rod after pike: a) I would use a heavier rod (at least 7 or 8 wt) with appropriate line (at least 7 or 8 wt). Not only to be able to fight the big pike, but also because you can cast bigger flies on windy days with them. b) I would use bigger streamer flies with lots of flash. Anything tied to hooks size 4 to 6/o would be nice. Minnow imitations (common roach/mört is the usual food for pike in most Swedish waters) work well. For those, white streamers with flash to them work nice. Perch imitations also work great, and I think that flies with green, yellow, and red patterns can match those. c) You want to have a line that matches your rod (at least 7 or 8wt), and a floating line or sink tip would do. You will mostly be casting towards banks and the weeds, so a full sinking line will not help you much. As with spinning tackle, you will want to have a wire tippet guard, and you can get leaders with those already tied to (many tackle shops in Sweden sell something like this). You want your leader to have a breaking strength of at least 8 pounds, but it is wise to go higher if you know you will meet bigger fish (depends on where you fish). d) You want a reel that can hold at least 100 yd of 20 pound test backing, and preferably one with a big diameter so that you can reel in more line faster. Pike don't often take off with your line like salmon do, but I'd be rather safe than sorry in case you get that one big pike that does it. e) As That Brian Davies mentioned, you want long hemostats/pliers and gloves to handle the fish. A rubber landing net is also a good thing to use if you plan to release the fish (it is nicer on them than just hauling them into the boat). Since we are on this topic, you should try to keep the fish in the water and wet your hands before handling them if you plan to release them. Don't hold them through the gills upright like you see in some pictures, as that risks rupturing their internal organs and is a recipe for dead fish. Exception made to some trout creeks in northern Sweden where you are demanded to dispose of all pike you catch. There you should dispatch the fish humanely. f) Cast your fly towards the bank/weeds, make an initial strip to straighten your line if you have some slack to it, wait for a while so that it sinks, and then retrieve it with fast short strips like it is a minnow swimming fast. One exception is when it is very cold and during spring when they are tired from mating. Then you should give slower motions to your fly. Otherwise, pike are really aggressive and will attack anything that looks like another fish. I have hooked pikes accidentally while I left my fly in the water and was texting or talking to someone. Good luck fishing, and I hope that you get a fish like this one in this video. Edit: I recently found this link with a lot more information on fly fishing for pike. 

Moss grows best in the shade (and damp, but most relevant here is shade). Because of the curvature of the Earth, in the northern hemisphere the north side of trees is shadier than the south side, so if moss grows on only one side of a tree, it is likely to be the north side. In the southern hemisphere, the whole thing is mirrored so the moss is on the south side. This is, however, nothing more than a rule of thumb, as there are many other factors that affect moss, especially the density of foliage and humidity. 

I have, unfortunately, not had the opportunity to go climbing (and thus use my climbing equipment) for a couple years. I know that such equipment, especially the rope and webbing, can degrade over time. So how can I check my equipment to tell which pieces are still OK to use and which need to be replaced? 

It's been a while since I went rock climbing but I'd like to get back into it. What are some hand exercises that will help with climbing? 

Perhaps this is too naïve a solution, but I would take a tarp, lay the tent out on top of it, trace the outline with a sharpie, and cut on the outline you just drew. 

The other two answers are correct. You can use plain old nylon or fluorocarbon monofilament lines and save cash (with the pitfalls mentioned by the others). Keep in mind, however, that specialised tippet brands sometimes use better materials or do fancy things to their lines like coating them with UV or abrasion resistant materials, so you may want to go for them if you want good quality. It is possible to buy large bulky spools of specialised fly fishing tippet (like Stroft, incidentally one of the best in the market) from some brands, so you still get to save money. 

When reading or watching videos on about reading water for fishing in English, I often come across terms like riffle, run, pool, seam, among others. However, when I get o the river ready to float that dry dropper over the riffle, I'm not so sure if I'm targeting the right area. I'm not even sure I perfectly understand what these terms mean. Can someone help me to make sense of these terms and of which cues should I look for when reading the water. Specifically: 1) I often read that seams are where two currents meet each other, but what should I look for? Pictures from the internet don't always look like what I see at the river. I can see that there are different currents when I have my line across more than one, but is that the only way to find seams? What are the general visual cues? 2) Pool and run (also beat) are somewhat confusing for me. They seem to refer to the same thing: a stretch of fishable river water. Yet, how do I know where the pool/run/beat starts or ends? I know that this should be at the head/tail of the pool, but what should I look for to find these? 3) I learn that riffles are faster shallow parts of the river, and I usually look for white foamy water. What is the difference between that and a rapid? Is it just a matter of semantics? It all looks like white foamy water for me. 

The CDC says Picaridin and DEET* are the best, with Oil of Lemon Eucalyptus** being something of a shorter-lasting runner-up: 

When I was younger, I had a flashlight where the cone part pulled out and it became essentially a lantern. I would tie it to the top of the tent (most tents I used had a hook there), and that provided good light throughout the tent. Lacking that, if you have a Maglight (or, I'm sure, many other brands), you can screw the cone off that for essentially the same effect, though you'll have a bright spot and you can/should really only do this with one of the smaller, lighter ones. Beyond that, your method does sound reasonable. 

If I'm out in the wilderness and find myself in need of a rope I don't have with me (forgotten, not enough, another snapped), how can I make one? Are there any natural ropes I could use with minimal extra preparation? Rope for use in hanging a bear bag, maybe some lashing or other round-the-campsite miscellaneous uses, in the U.S. northeast. 

I have no personal experience with sailing a raft (though I do sail), but as it's getting on three weeks without an answer I'll give it a shot. I see two primary concerns here: the stability of the sail on the raft and the overall stability of the craft. To make the boat stable, the center of gravity has to be below the point on the mast directly over the edge of the boat when the boat is tipped as far as you want to let it go without tipping. The boat is all of five pounds, so how heavy and tall the mast is matters quite a bit; a sailboat has a good deal more weight to counterbalance the mast. You will be able to help a bit by leaning like in a real sailboat, but not as much. And the sail and boom add a non-negligible amount of weight higher up and towards the side of the boat. So you'll want a light mast, boom, and sail, preferably bottom-heavy. After considering this for some time, I have come to the conclusion that your best bet is a windsurfing sail. That will also help some with the center of gravity problem when you're not actively using it because you can lay it down in the boat. It ought to be big enough to get you moving, though probably not as fast as a full sail. It should be relatively light, and you can tilt it so that its center of gravity is in the center of the boat. But you will have to hold it while you're going. Now consider that an inflatable raft isn't going to have a solid spot to put the mast. How are you going to secure the mast to the raft? Honestly I don't have a good suggestion for this beyond rigging up an ugly frame somehow.