The short answer is Finland had no official involvement in the siege of Leningrad. They did have a significant indirect involvement, however. Also, the Finns did do what little they could in an unofficial manor in regards to helping individuals who came to their border looking for food. What they could do didn’t amount to much but they were in a no-win situation in this instance. Finland declared war on Russia separately from Germany in June, 1941, just days after the German invasion of Soviet Russia. The Finns were aware of the planned German attack and in return for help in buying arms and in fighting the Soviets, they did allow German troops in Finland just before the attack and on newly conquered Soviet territory at the Finnish border after. Here is my shortened version of the whole story as posted on: $URL$ Finland was in 1939 and through the war years a small democratic country that along with Sweden had the misfortune of being located next to two of the most powerful totalitarian regimes in the world (Soviet Union and Germany). In November, 1939 the Soviet Union invaded Finland because the Finns refused to cede Finnish territory—and meet other demands—made by the Soviets. The war was deemed illegal by the League of Nations and the Soviet Union was expelled as a result. Though the Soviets had an army three times as large, a hundred times more tanks and thirty times more aircraft, the Finns fought well. Finnish forces were fighting for their own country and the Soviet army command structure had been decimated by the numerous purges by Stalin in the years leading up to the war. As a result, Finland repelled Soviet advances for several months. Eventually, the sheer weight of men and materials allowed the Russians to conquer more than the territory they had originally demanded. Due to the unexpected costs of men and equipment to win the relatively small gains, Moscow accepted a peace initiative offered by Finland. It is widely agreed that the Soviets original intentions were to conquer all of Finland but bit off more than they could easily chew at the time. On March 12, 1940 a peace treaty was signed. As a result, the Finns ceded 11% of their overall land mass, approximately 30% of their economy and had to relocate 442,000 people who had lost their homes and farms. During the subsequent run-up to the German invasion, Finland was once again being pressured by the Soviets to allow them to operate Finnish nickel mines in the Petsamo region for Soviet use. The Finns refused. At the same time they demanded the Finns allow them access to the Finnish railways to transport Soviet troops to and from their new military base on former Finnish territory. Again, the Finns refused. Seeing what was coming, Finland began seeking assistance in building military and related equipment. They sought support from democracies in the League of Nations and other Nordic countries. The support that had been offered by Great Brittan was not available after the Nazi invasion of Norway and Denmark in 1940. After that, Britain cut all trade and traffic with Scandinavian countries. Guess who was the only country left to buy military supplies from? That’s right, it was Germany. In addition, the Germans supplied Finland with information as to what the Soviets intentions were regarding Finland. That being, the Soviets told the Germans they intended to handle Finland the same way they handled the other Baltic States, by installing puppet regimes that were directed by Moscow. Lastly, the Soviet Union had made it clear to the Finns that in case of war with Germany, they intended to attack Finland immediately. This is exactly what they did when the time came as well. Finland was a democracy and preferred help from the democratic nations that would soon be allied against Germany. However, that was impossible in 1940 and 1941. Therefore, in order to ensure their own country’s’ continued existence, they worked with the German government on certain military common interests. They never had any official agreement, nor provided other official assistance to the Nazis that axis allies did. No, they did not allow Germany any say in Jewish affairs in Finland—and yes, the Germans did ask. In short, the Fins made it clear to Hitler they were at war with Russia for their own reasons. Though it was mutually beneficial for the Finns and the Germans, they were not allied in the way other nations were. 

Though there were many factors involved overall, there was a primary reason Germany didn't focus all their forces on the Caucasus region during Operation Barbarosa. That reason was the German leadership's unflinching confidence that the Russians would be defeated by Nazi forces in a single summer campaign. That is, by the end of summer the plan called for a Soviet surrender, and going into fall 90 divisions of the German military would be left operational as an occupational force in the Soviet Union. All other German Military forces were to be re-deployed or drawn down. Not only was this the Nazi plan, the following source gives one an idea what other military powers thought of the German invasion as they became aware: $URL$ (From Chapter 1, page 3, "The World Will hold Its Breath") As of June 23, 1942 -- In Washington, the War Department War Plans Division expected a Soviet defeat in one to three months. Robert E. Sherwood, Roosevelt and Hopkins (New York: Harper, 1950, p. 303). Sir Stafford Cripps, the British ambassador in Moscow, predicted a German victory in three to four weeks, while the British Joint Intelligence Committee gave the Russians "a few months at the outside." (J. M. A. Gwyer, Grand Strategy London: Her Majesty's Stationery Office, 1964, vol. III, pt. I, p. 90.) Indeed, BARBAROSSA appeared to be, as Hitler claimed, the greatest military operation of all time, capable of defeating the Soviet Union in a single summer's campaign. In short, both Hitler and his most powerful enemies--outside of Moscow--were certain that not only would the Nazis defeat the Soviet Union but that they would do so with relative ease. This being the case, Hitler and The German High Command expected to win the oil fields of the Caucasus and their production facilities still intact, as they would have been in use right up until the surrender. In addition, he expected to rid Germany of this enemy for good. If Hitler and the others had been correct, Germany would have won the war and basically, made money while doing it. 

Were there any pilots that declined to carry out the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki? The answer is no. Then Lt. Colonel Paul W. Tibbets, who retired a Brigadier General, was put in charge of the newly formed 509th Composite Group of the Army Air Corps in September, 1944 (activated in December, 1944). He was a successful bomber pilot / leader and was recommended to Major General Uzal Ent, who was responsible for getting the atomic bombs dropped on targets, by Dwight Eisenhower himself. Tibbets was given complete authority by Uzal to appropriate, transport and make needed alterations, etc. of the planes to be used. He also was allowed to pick and train the flight crews for the group--as well as the missions themselves. Tibbets was the only member of the 509th who knew in advance what the missions would be, though it is likely others guessed as the time drew near. In preparation for the missions, Tibbets developed a dramatic diving turn for the bomber that he insisted all pilots of the group adapt and practice. The idea behind the plane--and crew--stressing move was to create immediate speed to put as much distance as possible between the B-29 Super Fortress and the impact point of the bomb after the drop. All crews were required by Tibbets to have practiced the drop a minimum of 50 times. All of the personnel associated with the 509th were well-trained and as best as I have been able to determine, all were excited to participate as well. All crews had completed a minimum of 17 practice missions over Japan, dropping 10,000 lb. special "pumpkin" bombs, roughly the size and shape of the atomic bombs. All crews also participated in a minimum of 12 actual bombing missions just prior to the real events as well. Tibbets, as the person responsible for picking mission crews, picked himself for the Hiroshima mission and Major Charles Sweeney for the second. Just before take-off Tibbets gathered his crew together for a meeting. Without revealing exactly what they were going to do, he told them the mission was extremely dangerous. He also said anyone who wanted out would be allowed to do so without any question or recrimination. Everyone stayed. Only after being airborne were the crew advised about the mission. The same was the case for the second mission. 

1) "What historical or cultural reasons did the Nazis give for hating the Jews?" There were several different "official" reasons given by the Nazi regime to encourage hate towards Jews. One of Joseph Goebbels's most famous propaganda films "Der Ewige Jude" (The Eternal Jew), which claimed to be a documentary, portayed Jews as hordes of rats. This film was shown repeatedly at theaters and was required viewing at all schools. In the film, rats were shown scurrying out of a sewer as the announcer states "as rats are the vermin of the animal kingdom, Jews are the vermin of the human race and similarly spread disease and corruption." The film then shows shots of Jewish people in the Warsaw ghettos who were deliberately chosen to be poorly dressed, dirty and who had partially toothless grins. The announcer then goes on to say Jews have the uncanny ability to change their appearance and blend into their "human hosts." A scene depicts four bearded men in traditional religious Jewish clothing, then shows them shaved and in modern business suits, while the narrator explains that only a "trained eye" can distinguish their Jewish features. These type references and comparisons continue throughout the 62 minute film. The propaganda in this and other Nazi productions were designed to play on the existing misconceptions of many European citizens. It was Hitler's belief from 1919 that Germany was defeated in World War 1 because the elite, and most wealthy of German--and the allied countries--society was dominated by capitalist Jews. He believed they conspired together to sell the country out (See Mein Kampf). From Hitler's earliest political campaigns, he had made it clear that many of the economic challenges the Weimar Republic faced before the 1929 Wall Street crash were a result of the crushing debt of German war reparations (The World at War). His view was since this debt was a result of the Jewish conspiracy, it was not valid and should not be paid. Hitler also believed that America, Britain and France were controlled by capitalist Jews. He thought that they worked together, with their only concern being for profits. He believed these Jewish conspiritors put profits ahead of anything else, including the well being of their country's own citizens. 2)"Did they ever accurately and precisely identify non-practicing Jews?" The Nazis did not make any distinctions between practicing and non-practicing Jews. In most cases, the determination between full Jew, half Jew and quarter Jew was based solely on the person's grandparents. The only distinctions made were in the case of some German citizens who were given some limited rights as quarter Jews. If the person in question was a practicing Jew or if three or more of their four grandparents were Jewish, they were considered a full Jew. If two grandparents were Jewish, they were a half Jew. If only one grandparent was Jewish, they were a quarter Jew. 

During the first few months of the Nazi invasion of Russia, Stalin feared a Japanese attack from the east would create a two front war. In August, he was finally convinced by intelligence reports that the Japanese had no immediate plans for attacking Russia. As a result, he allowed well-trained, well-equipped Russian troops to be transferred west to assist in defense of Moscow. These additional 70 divisions played an important role in stopping the Nazis short of capturing the city. It was during the same week that Hitler was becoming aware his forces simply could not capture Moscow in 1941, the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor (December, 7). The U.S. declared war on Japan the next day. Between December 8 and 10, Hitler made the decision to declare war on America. He made the announcement in a speech on December 11, 1941. This reason was NOT mentioned in his speech declaring war but then it would not be. Hitler would not have allowed the German people to know he needed any help in Russia--but he obviously did know--as his Generals were making it clear daily from December 5th on that the Russians had not ran out of troops or equipment and his armies were stuck. I have researched this to death and cannot find any evidence in existence that supports my hunch this is true. I just want to see if any other history buffs know of anything I may have missed??? 

At the time Hitler declared war on the U.S. there was no existing plan for how to win it at all. In fact, based on all the information I have studied, I have come to the opinion that the timing of the whole thing was more about the German military situation in Russia at that moment. I really don't think Hitler had any plans of a serious German war effort against the U.S. ever. Or at least not before England was dealt with. Something that was still a year or two away. The following supports this opinion: Short of saying it in a speech, Germany couldn't DO anything that would make a real war difference against America. Hitler did lift the ban he had on German U-boats attacking U.S. shipping but they were still looking more to enforce a naval blockade against England or sinking Russian shipments. What is the point in giving America justification to join England in any overt actions against his Reich at that time? The answer is there is no point. Making dumb moves like that fits the Hitler of the comming desperation times but not of late 1941. The Hitler of 1941 still worked situations to his benefit in most cases. It was during the very week of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, operation Barbarosa ground to a halt at the gates of Moscow. Right after the stall (December 5th and 6th, 1941), the Soviets attacked German forces around Moscow with forces that included 70 fresh divisions of well equipped, Siberian troops. Troops that the German High Command didn't think were available. $URL$ From the 5th on, the Soviets began a counter-offensive and were making small gains (a mile or less) in several areas. On the 6th, Soviet Thitieth Army broke into Third Panzer Group's left flank northeast of Klin to a distance of eight miles, almost creating a complete breakthrough. German generals were reporting all along the line about the fresh, well trained and equipped Russian Siberian forces. For the next several days German forces were retreating west from Moscow. Early on, it looked at times like the routs the German were accustomed to creating but they were the ones on the run. On the 10th of December, Guderian characterized his Second Panzer Army as a scattered assemblage of armed baggage trains slowly wending their way to the rear. Hitler knew very well everything that was happening along the front. He was updated several times a day. He knew his armies were stalled and falling back. He also knew that unless something changed quickly, the Moscow objective could not be accomplished in 1941. Though its certain he was shocked as this type situation had never occurred up until this time. Still, Hitler was not at a point where he was delusional and making up defensive formations yet. He knew Germany had a real issue here and likely thought he could work their way out of it. In addition, Hitler was aware that his nation's strategic fuel reserves were low and some of the German armies in Russia were well short of normal strength. He had plans for how to get troop strengths back up but the oil situation alone threatened everything. In order to turn the situation immediately, Hitler was looking for ways to change things on the Russian front. It is my opinion he hoped declaring war on the U.S. would induce Japan to reciprocate the gesture by declaring war on the Soviets. Or at the least, he hoped to persuade his ally to create concerns along the Russian border. The Soviets and Japanese were not allys by any stretch. Rather, they were old enemies. In fact, Stalin had feared a Japanese attack on the Russian Eastern border since the war bagan. It was very reluctantly--and possibly out of desperation--that he had moved forces from there to the Moscow area. Even then it was only after Stalin's senior Japanese spy convinced him that Japan was looking East, not West. If successful in influencing Stalin to pull some of these forces back, Hitler was still under the mistaken impression the Russians were completely out of reserves. He felt that victory was that close. If he could get the situation back to where it was just before the deep freeze began, they could resume the attack--and quickly win Moscow. Other than his hopes for immediate help with the Soviet situation--which would have been admitted to NO ONE by the Nazi regime--it is unexplainable that Hitler would just up and declare war on America without substancial upside for his country at the time.