I have an Arkel Bug and an Arkel Briefcase, and I think that they are great. Both have straps that can be used over the shoulders, in fact, a shoulder bag can be added to any pannier. I use the Bug for my clothes, lunch, and tools, and the briefcase for my laptop and other work related items. They are convenient to use easy to carry around, and Arkel makes high quality panniers. They are pricey, but worth it. The way that the laptop holder in the briefcase is built provides shock absorption. It is worth noting that the backpack functionality of the bug is inferior to that of a regular backpack, there is always a metal bar on your back. Arkel has one of the best attachment systems, it keeps the bags secure even without the bungee cord. Jandd also makes great panniers and some of the best racks, but I found that their briefcase was poorly made when I tried it out in 2006 (same year I purchased the Arkel bags above). They have changed the material and possibly the quality since then, so it might be worth checking out. Another drawback is that it hangs sideways rather than 'right side up'. 

For a few years, road bike suspension forks were used at Paris-Roubaix, but now they seem to have disappeared. Are they still being manufactured? If not, why (aside from UCI regulation) did they not persist, e.g. for cyclocross or city riding? 

There are a number of ways to determine the seat height for a road bicycle. But you should also pay attention to how you feel while riding your bike at different heights. In addition, it is important to consider your entire position, not only the seat height. Finally, if you are riding a lot, change your seat height in small increments over time to avoid injury. Here are some of the popular methods for determining seat height: 

Before I learned to do a track stand, I learned to balance a BMX bike while sitting with my left foot on the pedal so that I could push forward and my right foot on the front tire so that I could move it back and forth to keep my balance. This provided me with the feel of the basic rocking technique that is required to do a track stand, even though I did not know what a track stand was at the time, and it made doing a track stand easier. 

The bottom line is, steel (or any metal) fatigues; but in both of these cases it was helped along by my own abuse - both were learning experiences for me. 

tie a knot in the tire where the hole is and stretch ride home on a flat and risk damaging your rim stuff the tire with grass or something else handy hitch hike call a friend/ family member 

Number one advantage to a fixed gear is that it will make you a better rider. Not only does it give a smoother pedal stroke, but the fact that it is slower to start and stop forces a smoother overall style. It also forces the rider to ride more safely and to look out for upcoming dangers in the road. note: Although it does encourage the rider to adopt a generally more cautious riding style, a bike without brakes is not as safe as one with brakes. Even if you can stop by skidding, it is wasteful to ruin a tire. It not only promotes a more even pedal stroke, facilitates development of a more powerful pedal stroke since riding uphill in a gear that is difficult to turn, or trying to slow down by putting backward pressure provides a load bearing exercise similar to weight lifting. I find that I get a better workout per minute or per mile on a fixed gear than on a freewheel bike. bicycle ballet Riding a fixed gear bike is fun. 

Again, once you get these starting points, you can adjust until it feels right. I would also suggest getting a professional fit, especially if you ride a lot or are planning to purchase a new bike. Probably the most important attribute of a new bicycle is it's fit. A proper fit will do more for your riding enjoyment, skill, and speed than any component or frame material (excluding department store bikes). Some good online resources include: $URL$ $URL$ Here is a list of references found in the chapter on Body Position for Cycling from the book "High Tech Cycling" by Ed Burke. The entire book can be read at google books. 

According to the user manual, the Blackburn rack is required. The seat snaps in to the rack, so the old Schwinn rack won't work. 

Location of arm pads The position of the arm rests have moved back toward the elbow over time. Greg Lemond's position had the arm rests closer to the wrists than is common now. This position is useful in a hilly time trial because of the leverage that it gives. 

Notes this answer focuses on cleaning the bike, but cleaning is also a good opportunity to check the bike for mechanical issues, including worn or loose parts: 

your seat is too high if you should have to wobble your hips with each pedal stroke to reach the pedal. Your seat is too low if your thighs hit your stomach 

Rinse bike off with water Liberally apply soapy water to entire bike with sponge Wipe dirt off everywhere except drivetrain with sponge Wipe dirt off drivetrain with a dedicated greasy sponge spray drivetrain with degreaser wipe down drivetrain with rag rinse again apply lube to drivetrain remove excess lube with rag 

Despite my own advice, in practice I carry a spare tube in my pocket if one is handy. On a side note, if you have neither a tube nor a patch kit you can 

cog and the chainring are not in line. rear hub is not tight enough and twists under load (see 1.) chain is stretched or cogs worn out - so the chain doesn't 'seat' well in teeth what the shop says - chain not tight enough 

five patches go for about $5, lower than the price of a single tube (~$7). a patch kit can be taped under the seat whereas a tube must be carried in a bag or pocket (and if in a pocket, remembered). Given the ability to avoid flats almost entirely (e.g. using puncture-resistant tires, riding mindfully / carefully), I have never had to wait for a patch to 'dry', even the minute or two for the glue to set passes pretty quickly. Except when in a rush (e.g. a mountain bike race), it takes this much time to change a tube. Tubes deteriorate more quickly and are more likely not to work when needed than a patch. For example, improperly folded tubes often crack where folded or at the base of the stem. 

I am considering the purchase of a bicycle for riding off road, and have heard a lot of buzz about 29" mountain bikes. However, I am not particularly interested in technical riding - although I would like to be able to ride through most things, even if I have to do so slowly. I am leaning to a CX bike because I am familiar with the handle bars and geometry. However, the 29" also ride very smoothly. I can see that the tires, handlebars, suspension, and geometry are different, but what are the consequences of these differences that I need to consider? Mountain Bike: 

I stretched the rear dropouts of a frame built for a 7 speed hub to fit a 9 speed hub, and this put stress on the chain stays just behind the rear bottom bracket. After about 6 months of daily riding, the right chain stay cracked. I rode my bike head on and it crimped the downtube just barely enough to notice - I could only tell if I ran my thumbnail over it - and about three years later, the down tube cracked at this spot. 

What skills and techniques are required to descending at high speeds while maintaining control of the bicycle? How does this change when the roads are wet or have gravel in them? 

Sit on the bike, put your heel on the pedal, and your leg should be fully extended. This provides a good starting point Another good starting point is Greg Lemond's recommendation from "Greg LeMond's complete book of cycling" states that the distance from the top of the seat to the center of the pedal should be 0.833 times the distance from the floor to your crotch, measured with your back and heels against a wall. If you use clipless pedals, subtract 3cm; if you drop your heels at the bottom of the pedal stroke, decrease the height and if you point your toes, increase the height relative to these recommendations. When you need more control (crit racing, urban cycling, bicycle polo) lower the seat; for more power (hill climbing, time trialing), increase the seat height. 

Overview As needed or as inspired, rinse off bike with water, clean with soapy water and degreaser, wipe down, rinse off. In practice, I do this every month or two or... of commuting. And yes, there are advantages to cleaning your bike; a clean bike will last longer, perform better, and serve as proof of the love of a proud owner. Materials 

Should I start near the stem or at the bar ends? wrap clockwise or counter-clockwise? How to wrap (e.g. how many times) around where the brake hoods are? 

I was given a CoPilot kids bike seat and the instructions say that it requires a Blackburn EX-1 rack. But will my Schwinn bike rack do the trick, safely? 

Although I use waterproof cycling jackets, I often find that a garbage bag with holes for the head and arms does the trick - especially when there is only a chance of rain. The price is right (less than $1), they stow easily in the pocket, and they be found in many places. 

Even runners use the slipstream, and they run at a max of 12mph, but I have enjoyed drafting at considerably slower running speeds. It also depends on the strength of the headwind. And, as Teddy pointed out, the distance you are from the rider in front is important. This is why runners can draft at relatively slower speeds, although for a skilled cyclist (e.g. one that rides rollers all winter) you can ride just about as close as you could run next to someone. Furthermore, unless you have a direct headwind, you should ride off to the leeward side. For example, if the wind is coming from the right(left), your right(left) hand / shoulder / arm should be as close to the left(right) butt/thigh of the rider in front as you feel comfortable. Put your head down and enjoy. That is the place where you can hang on when the going gets tough. But remember a golden rule - whoever's front hub is in the lead has the right of way (e.g. if you are drafting, you must yield). 

A little googling goes a long way... I didn't realize that one of my favorite tires (Continental Grand Prix) comes in many colors, including orange: 

rags sponges bucket filled with warm water and soap scrub brush with plastic bristles simple green or citri-solve in spray bottle lube 

The answer to your question depends on the rider physiology, goals, and objectives. There are a number of considerations, and the focus should be on your overall position. If you are primarily a time-trialer, or if you are interested in triathlons, you would have different needs than a road racer who does a handful of time trials a year. Triathletes tend to be even further forward than road racers. Overall position: When I used the same bike for racing and time trialing, I would raise the seat, push the seat forward, and lower the stem when I added the time trial bars. Being comfortable and having the ability to take a breathe easily and fully is much more important than aerodynamics per se. Also, note that the pros spend a lot of time preparing for this. In general, imagine a time-trial position as the body being rotated forward at the hip about 15 degrees, so that the hip gets closer to the bottom bracket. Also notice that much of time trialing is done on the nose of the saddle (not sure exactly why). If you look at the pros, you will see some general trends in position. The arm rests are many cm below the seat, the forearms are relatively horizontal, and some prefer to have their hands a little bit more elevated, some at a negative incline. Seat fore-aft position Generally, the seat is forward and the rider is on the nose of the saddle. The distribution of weight between the seat and handlebars goes much more in favor of the handlebars than when riding in a standard position. Saddle-handlebar drop An important aspect of the position is the difference in height between the saddle and the elbow pads. The lower you can get the more aerodynamic you will be. Arm angle In addition, notice that the upper arm may be perpendicular to the ground, like Fabian Cancellara here: