That said, among the countless species found on Earth, there are certainly some exception to this general rule, perhaps the most notable among them being Euglena and some related protists, many of which have functioning chloroplasts and practice both photosynthesis and phagocytosis. The notable aspect of Euglena is that their mixotrophic lifestyle appears to be permanent, insofar as their chloroplasts reproduce within the host organism, and are passed down from parent to offspring. It appears that, for Euglena, this unusual lifestyle may be useful because it helps them survive and reproduce efficiently under variable environmental conditions, as they can switch between an active foraging mode and a passive, mainly photosynthetic mode depending on the relative availability of food and sunlight. Another relatively common class of exceptions are kleptoplastic species, like the "photosynthetic sea slugs" mentioned in some of the other answers. These are animal (or heterotrophic protist) species that don't grow their own chloroplasts, but can harvest them from plants or algae they consume, retaining the functional chloroplasts (or, in some cases, whole algal cells) within their body for at least some time. Most such species are primarily heterotrophs, but the ability to retain harvested chloroplasts within their body apparently gives them some survival advantage, at least as an emergency energy / nutrition reserve, if nothing else. 

By far the majority of all stars are small red dwarfs, much smaller than our Sun. Our current exoplanet surveys do seem to indicate that such small stars are capable of having Earth-like planets within their habitable zone. The smaller a star is, the closer to it its habitable zone lies, and thus the more likely a planet orbiting in that zone is to be tide-locked. 

Besides these living examples, there's also evidence that the evolution from a combined phagocytic + photosynthetic lifestyle to essentially pure photosynthesis has happened several times on Earth. In particular, the endosymbiotic theory of chloroplast evolution, which is nowadays all but universally accepted among biologists, states that all eukaryotic plants and algae are descended from an phagocytic ancestor that engulfed and retained photosynthetic cyanobacteria in a symbiotic arrangement, much like Euglena today. Eventually, adapting to a photosynthetic lifestyle, this hybrid organism lost the ability to forage for food, becoming totally dependent on its chloroplast symbionts for energy. In fact, there's even evidence that this process was later repeated several times, with eukaryotic algae (with their own chloroplasts) being absorbed and retained by other phagocytic protists, most of which (with the notable exception of the euglenozoans, as noted above) in turn also evolved to become fully dependent on their photosynthetic endosymbionts, and lost the ability to forage for food. Typically, the algal endosymbionts then shrunk over time, as more and more of their functions were taken over by the host cell, becoming little more than simple chloroplasts themselves, but in many cases their cell membranes, and sometimes a remnant of their nucleus, remain and still reveal their origin. 

Images from Wikimedia Commons. Left image by user Stephanb at the German Wikipedia, used under the CC-By-SA 3.0 license; right image created and released into the public domain by user Benjah-bmm27 at Wikimedia Commons. One important detail to note is that the colored forms of most of these salts are hydrated, i.e. they include some water molecules as part of the crystal lattice. Removing this water of crystallization will typically destroy the coordination complex, and hence the color. Thus, in addition to copper, your blue planet also needs to retain at least some water (although it need not be present in liquid form). In a pinch, other small polar ligands like ammonia may also serve the same role (either alone or mixed with water, as in e.g. tetraamminecopper(II) sulfate), although the exact hues will be different. Ps. Some iron salts in the +2 oxidation state, such as iron(II) sulfate, also have a blue-green color, but iron compounds can take on many other colors as well, depending on the oxidation state and on the other compounds present. Unless you tweak the surrounding chemistry just right, an abundance of iron is far more likely to give your planet the rust-red hue of iron(III) oxide, just like on Mars, than the deep blue shade of iron(II,III) hexacyanoferrate (a.k.a. Prussian blue). 

The orbit you describe is typical for (moderately) long-period comets. Given the desired orbital period, we can calculate the semi-major axis of the orbit (which, for a highly elliptical orbit like this, is approximately half its maximum distance from the star) using the formula $$T^2 = \frac{4\pi^2}{GM}a^3,$$ where $T$ is the orbital period, $a$ is the semi-major axis, $M$ is the mass of the star (the mass of the planet is assumed to be negligible in comparison) and $G$ is the universal gravitational constant. However, if we assume that the planet is orbiting a star of about the same mass as our Sun, and if we measure time in years and distance in AUs, we can take a shortcut: we know the Earth orbits the Sun in one year, with a semi-major axis of one AU, so we must have $a=1$ when $T=1$. The constant of proportionality thus simply becomes $1$, and we're left with $a = T^{2/3}$. For $T=1027$ (years), this works out to $a\approx 101.8$ (AU), so our hypothetical planet gets no further than $2a\approx203.6$ AU from the Sun. This is beyond the classical Kuiper belt, but much closer to the Sun than the Oort cloud, which is believed to be the source of most long-period comets. It is also closer to the Sun than several recently discovered "detached objects" such as 90377 Sedna, which are believed to have relatively stable orbits. Your planet thus remains well within the Sun's gravitational well, and is at little risk of being scattered by passing stars. (Well, at least as long as they don't pass too close, in which case we could all be in trouble anyway.) There is a problem, though. Your planet might be safe and stable as long as it's far away from the Sun, but as soon as its orbit takes it into the inner solar system, it's going to occasionally pass close to to the planets already there, and thus be affected by their gravity. Such interactions could have many possible outcomes, but the statistically most likely one (at least in a solar system similar to ours) is a close pass with a large gas planet like Jupiter, which will either fling the "comet planet" straight out of the system, or, more likely, kick it into a shorter-period orbit that will keep it interacting with the other planets in the system until it gets ejected from the solar system, collides with the Sun or one of the planets, or (least likely) get captured into a stable near-circular orbit. So, to keep our hypothetical planet safe, we really should clear the solar system of any inner planets that might disturb its orbit. Fortunately, that might not be so implausible — something obviously caused our planet to end up in that highly elliptical orbit in the first place, and it's not altogether implausible that the same something (which could've been, say, another star passing through the inner solar system) might have also conveniently swept the system clean of any inner planets in more conventional orbits. (Indeed, our planet might well have been one of those, before it was scattered into its new eccentric orbit.) OK, so we've got the orbit stabilized. What about the climate? First of all, let me note that there's absolutely no reason to expect a planet with an orbit like this to be tidally locked, and certainly not to a 1:1 resonance like you suggest. On such an eccentric orbit, the planet would feel almost no tides at all for most of the time, and would only experience a single tidal nudge every time it passed close to the Sun. If anything, if it locked at all, it should therefore lock to a rotational speed approximately matching its orbital angular velocity near perihelion. But I suspect it just wouldn't lock at all, but would simply retain whatever rotational period it originally started with. So what's the weather like? Well, for most of its orbit, this planet is going to be so far from the Sun that it might as well be in interstellar space — the Sun will just be the brightest star among many in the sky. Without any significant heat from the Sun, any seas the planet may have will all but freeze solid, and even the atmosphere will freeze and snow down. In general, the surface of such a planet seems pretty inhospitable for life, or at least any kind of life as we know it. That said, if the planet is large enough, and possesses a massive rocky core, it's possible that the bottom layers of the oceans might stay liquid due to geothermal heat (from trapped primordial heat, and from decay of radioactive elements in the core). Such a subglacial ocean could potentially support life, even if the available free energy would likely be orders of magnitude less than that on Earth's surface. Thus, we might expect any life on such a planet to be aquatic, and likely to cluster around hydrothermal vents at the bottom of the ocean, like some deep-sea ecosystems do on Earth. Generally, I would not expect life under such conditions to evolve very fast, but in science fiction, even unlikely events are still possible, and so of you want to postulate advanced, even intelligent life to have evolved under such conditions, I'd be happy to suspend my disbelief. To such an ecosystem, living under a kilometers-thick blanket of ice, safe from to freezing cold of space, would be the norm. The rare and brief passes close to the Sun, if felt at all beneath the thick ice blanket, would be abnormal and catastrophic events: suddenly, scorching rays of heat blast down from what's normally the coldest part of the world, melting the ice and upsetting the ocean circulation. Of course, any life that did survive such events would eventually adapt to them, but they couldn't possibly be easy on any hypothetical subglacial civilization on your world. Then again, that could make for an excellent story... 

All that said, there's a couple of things that may reduce the element of surprise for your alien survey team spotting the Earth: First, if they're surveying for habitable planets around Sun-like stars in the first place, they're presumably smart enough to do the math and figure out that such planets are not likely to be tide-locked to their star. If they're so convinced that this makes life impossible, why bother even surveying such stars? Second, given the observed existence of "hot Jupiters" (and their apparent prevalence, which of course may also be partly due to survey bias, since they're the easiest kind of planets to detect), it's reasonably likely that a significant fraction of all theoretically habitable bodies around small stars may actually be moons of large gas planets. While such moons will almost certainly be tide-locked, they'll be locked to their parent planet, not to the star, and will therefore have a more or less Earth-like day-night cycle. If life on planets around small stars is possible at all, it's likely that such moons can also support it equally well (or better), and thus your alien survey team ought to be aware of the possibility of life on such worlds. From there, it's not a huge leap to suppose that freely rotating planets around large stars could also be viable places for life. 

As anyone who's studied inorganic chemistry knows, many salts of copper in the +2 oxidization state have colors ranging from green to a nearly black dark blue, including some remarkably intense shades of sky blue like those of copper(II) sulfate and copper(II) nitrate: 

I don't see any obvious reasons why that couldn't work. Fuel, as noted by some other answers, could be an issue if your people live entirely on the treeless tundra, but if they spend any time at all (perhaps only winters) in or near the taiga, they'll have plenty of wood to burn for fuel. Reindeer (which, even if not domesticated, were traditionally one of the main sources of meat and furs for arctic hunter-gatherers) live in both regions, often migrating between them, so it's perfectly reasonable for your arctic people to follow them. As for "wasting" heat that could by used for staying warm (pointed out as a potential problem in some other answers), the obvious solution is to build your forge inside the hut or tent or dugout that you're living in. You're going to be heating that space anyway, so you might as well get some useful work out of it. Build your forge with a big pile of rocks to store the heat, fire it up in the evening, work some metal while you're waiting for the rocks to heat up, and finally douse the fire and let the rocks keep the place warm all night while you sleep. As a bonus, you can also use the stored heat for cooking food, and the same structure can also serve as a sauna for washing up. Minus the forging, that's pretty much how a traditional Finnish savupirtti ("smoke cottage") worked, and I see no reason why something similar couldn't work for your people, too. Of course, you don't have to combine all those functions into one structure, but if heat and fuel are scarce, that's one way to optimize it. The biggest issue I see with your scenario, however, is economic: if the metal is not produced locally, why would traders bother to haul it all the way up north as raw ingots, when they could probably (especially early on, before your arctic smithing tradition was established) make a much better profit hauling finished goods instead? Traditionally, metal was usually either worked locally close to where it was mined, or it was traded to cities where smiths and other craftsmen would gather. Your proposed system, with scattered smiths in the arctic working on traded metal, kind of runs counter to that pattern. That said, I don't think that's an insurmountable issue. Certainly many places historically had village smiths, specializing in simple repairs and adaptations of existing tools. It doesn't seem entirely implausible for some basic metalworking skills to become a useful and established trait among your arctic population, especially if trade in metal goods was common but irregular (so that metal tools would be reasonably common, but not always easily replaced if they broke), making the ability to repair them useful. Getting the necessary skills introduced in the first place could be an issue, but that could plausibly come down to a one-time event, maybe even a single trained smith fleeing to or being captured by the arctic folk. And once established, it's entirely plausible that your arctic folk might develop some unique small-scale metalcrafting tricks or traditions that would justify exporting their produce, at least as specialty items or curiosities. Instead of importing raw metal, they might still (mostly) import simple metal tools and weapons and rework them (for practical reasons, or just to decorate them), but that could still allow the maintenance of a local smithing tradition. 

As far as dietary requirements go, there's absolutely no problem with giant spiders. They'd have essentially the same dietary needs as any other large predator, and so any environment able to support, say, wolves or bears or tigers could also potentially support giant spiders of similar size. (In fact, since spiders are ectotherms, they could potentially survive on a sparser and/or less regular food supply than mammalian predators. In that respect, reptilian predators like large snakes or crocodiles might provide a better comparison.) What prevents spiders from growing a big as a bear in real life is not food supply, but difficulties with scaling up the arthropod body plan. The main issues appear to be the exoskeleton (and the ensuing need for moulting), as well as oxygen intake: