I have uninstalled and reinstalled the components 3 times and I get the same issue. I cannot rebuild this server. How can I fix this WID issue to get the database working for WSUS? 

I have a Windows 7 Professional I had in an UO called "Testing" using Windows Server 2008 R2. In the OU a GPO setting to disable the registry access was set: User Configurations/Administrative templates/System/Prevent access to the registry - Enabled I have since removed this GPO from this OU and no other GPO is altering that settings. That GPO is no longer linked in the OU and it is removed. Problem is when I try to access the registry on the machine I am still blocked. Looking into the RSOP it shows the computer is still playing the setting. How can it still be set if no GPO is telling it to remain set? And how can I remove this setting from being set and bring it back to "Not Configured"? 

Found the answer to this question when looking for the answer to another question. Please see THIS question for the fix to this issue. 

I am running 2 servers on Windows Server 2012 R2. One of them is running a WSUS Server. The server running the WSUS server can search for updates and it Shows it needs to download and install updates. When you click install, it states that it has to download XXXmb of updates and then errors out saying error 8024402C. Group policy has Delivery Optimization set to Bypass (100). I have the group policy set to the $URL$ set. It is set for automatically install. I don't see any glaring info in the log other than it can't download from the internet which I have disabled through group policy. It can reach the IIS site without a problem which means it is not a firewall issue. What could I be missing? I am testing on the other Server 2012 R2 server as well. Same seems to be happening on the Windows 10 computers on the system. They are showing in WSUS as needing updates and they show as a successful checkin to the server but not downloading updates. Server version is 6.3.9600.18324 EDIT: Other server getting the exact same issue which leads me to believe it is the WSUS server that is the culprit. EDIT: Found the following errors in my WindowsUpdate.log 

Shell script should not delete any files under* root dir*. My* path will be like /export/home/ftp/ ... I did some research and figured out the way for finding and deleting the files older than 30 days from a specific path, using find and exec commands. *find /export/home/ftp/ -type f -mtime +30 -exec rm -f {} \; But according to the requirement I want to delete console.log and server.log only from that directory and exclude the remaining files. Please help me out in this issue. 

Is there a program to recover emails that I deleted in my gmail account? I've already checked the "trash" and they are gone.Please help me. 

EventLog Analyzer is a web based, real time, agent less, event log and application log monitoring and management software. The eventlog analyser software collects, analyzes, reports, and archives, Event Log from distributed Windows hosts, SysLog from distributed Unix hosts, Routers, Switches, and other SysLog devices, Application logs from IIS Web server, IIS FTP server, MS SQL server, Oracle database server, DHCP Windows and DHCP Linux servers. The eventlog analyzer application generates graphs and reports that help in analyzing system problems with minimal impact on network performance. 

There are a number of mail servers that are being used out there (Postfix, qmail, sendmail, etc. See $URL$ for a list of them). You want to do some research into the various ones out there and pick the right one for you as their feature sets and complexity will likely play a part in which server is right for you. Postfix seems to be a very popular choice, often coming pre-installed with many distros. After having chosen one, you need to do some reading on your server of choice. You'll have to learn the various configuration options out there and choose ones that are best suited for your situation. The following mail gives you some idea to configure Mail server $URL$ 

I got the solution.My ip table is blocking the sqlyog to access server.changed the configuration in the ip table config file and it works smoothly. 

Basically this is a bug in MySQL that causes the problem but a work around is simple. The problem happens when the Auto-Increment value of a table grows beyond the limit. Just run this SQL query in MySQL to fix the bug. ALTER TABLE AUTO_INCREMENT =1 Table_name is the name of the table where you found the error while inserting data into. Don’t bother about the Auto_Increment value even if you have records in your table. 

We use the default Microsoft quota system on the file servers, specifically when it comes to home drives. Other than that, one of our admins down south of us has a tendency to let the users' project spaces fill up, then encourages them to run duplicate finders and large-file/last-accessed programs such as "Doublekiller", "Easy Duplicate Finder" and "JDisk Report", which is one of my personal favorites. Another solution we're looking at implmenting is Symantec's "Enterprise Vault" especially if you're doing disk-disk-tape or have the tape storage available to shuffle files off to. 

Yes, "We" can see what you're doing, long story short. Here, we use Altiris to enable Helpdesk to administer your machine from afar, as well as perform application metering, maintaining configuration standards in the guise of rapid image deployment. On our network and in our company, Skype is a banned application. If you install it, thanks to app metering, we'll know within 24/48 hours. Altiris also comes with a remote control function that can be hidden from the logged-on user. (At least the taskbar display icon, etc.) If the bosses-that-be decide you need to be monitored, after our system emails us that you've installed Skype, then we'll do so. Remember that "Use of electronic company equipment constitutes consent to monitoring", etc, blah, blah? Maybe it was worded differently in your company. Either way, I'll bet you a can of soda pop that your sr. IT, HR and Legal management have agreed on this policy. Let's say that you install Skype anyway and we don't catch it for a while. I'm still a pretty good network admin though, I'll probably catch the traffic from it on one of my wireshark or LanHound monitoring laptops. Or, you could just whip out your cell phone and call whomever it is you want to talk to, completely independent of your work-network. At that point, all you need to worry about is the NSA. :) And you're not doing anything wrong, right? 

Two suggestions: 1.) Make sure that ANY local volume shadow copies you're taking, are turned off. We've had QUITE a bit of conflicting information from Symantec regarding running local VSC, but have found that when we talked to the techs, they've all advised we don't run VSC on the same server. 2.) If you absolutely, positively have to run VSC, (like, there's a group of users who love deleting things and making you restore them via VSC and they're holding your family hostage or something) you could try resetting the entire kit-and-caboodle by using "vssadmin" to delete all current present volume shadow copies, then delete them. In addition to the above, have you presented/removed a disk, (such as from a SAN via fiberchannel, etc?) recently? Make sure it's no longer present in your system, and that you haven't inadvertently attempted to take a volume shadow copy snapshot of it. Along the same side of the coin, you may have "stale" volume shadow copy snapshots present for disks that are no longer there. That could be exacerbating your issue. Suggest same above, to delete those, since I believe that vssadmin is the only way you can see some of them. Don't quote me on this, but I think that you also have to expand the default size of the VSC from 300 to 500, however I'm not entirely sure. I do remember that it took me quite a bit of googling though and in the end, this made Symantec happy. Sorry, ordinarily I'd be more clear and try to give some steps but I can't seem to find where I documented this, the last time it worked and the primary backup guy is out for the day, (only other guy who'd have them in his email.) Good luck! 

Lately, I've been hearing system administrators and managers ask about solutions to keep people from accidentally removing their data. These are very smart and dedicated people asking for a solution so that data isn't lost either by accident or on purpose. A wild idea I've heard to solve the problem is getting rid of user access to the rm command. Is this truly a crazy idea? Administrators who have users who either accidentally, or sometimes absentmindedly, remove data. The problem they are facing is that the user removes the data, most likely using rm, and then realizes they actually needed the data. Please tell me the best solution to sort out this problem...??? 

find . -name .svn -type d |xargs rm -rf Remove all .svn folders bash -x script.sh print line and execute it in BASH Ctrl + [ the same as [Esc] in vim shopt -s autocd Automaticly cd into directory df -i View the current number of free/used inodes in a file system sudo !! Run the last command as root python -m SimpleHTTPServer Serve current directory tree at $URL$ netstat -tlnp Lists all listening ports together with the PID of the associated process Below are some ways to number input.txt: cat -n $ cat -n input.txt 1 123 2 3 456 4 5 789 6 7 8 abc 9 10 def 11 12 ghi 

I am at work right now, and my superiors asked me to write/find a shell script for the Red hat Server edition that checks a folder size, and if it's above a certain limit, it will send an email.Can anyone here help me find or help me create a script like that?? I thank you in advance, Jayakrishnan T 

With this line root cannot ssh into the box. To become root, ssh in as a normal user then use su - to become root once logged in. 

For a long time I’ve wanted to know how MySQL scales as you add more memory to the server.We looked for a balance between utilizing the hardware as much as possible, limiting the system complexity, and lowering the price-to-performance ratio.Please suggest proper solution for this issue. 

I think you're on the right path thinking DNS and Igal's asking some good questions. Check the local hosts logs for RPC errors, if you suspect NetBIOS, try at command prompt: 

I think you get the gist of where this is going. To summarize, if my workday consists of training co-workers and subordinates, passing on knowledge, doing a daily log check and focusing PRIMARILY on strategic IT initiatives such as security, tools to make the user's life easier and making the network run.. Oh, I dunno, faster or better or something, then I am "doing well", I suppose. Eh, kinda rambling, but I warned you in the beginning. :) 

First of all, you've got good backups, right? :) Always a good idea to make sure that you're all backed up, just in case a disk decides to not spin up, etc. when you bring everything back online. Nothing like breathing easy after a power outage then realizing that one critical SQL server never came back. :) Second, you're right, gracefully shut down and turn off all servers, etc. If it's not a modern building and/or you don't have a UPS in-line with surge protection, (which it sounds like) or anything like that, it's always better being safe rather than sorry, and I would suggest unplugging equipment. Bringing power back online could result in a power spike. Also, a little FYI; bring your core servers down last, (such as DNS, etc.) You don't want to bring down your DNS servers and find yourself unable to resolve the rest of the servers if you're shutting them off remotely :) When bringing everything back online, bring the network equipment up first, then your core critical servers, then finally your app/file servers. Good luck! 

Try restarting the netlogon service on your DC? (Or probably in your case, just giving it a good reboot wouldn't hurt) 

Another suggestion, (although it's a little risky/beta right now) I've been experimenting with Windows Live Mesh. It's got 5Gb of storage for free and I could see a setup of something like this: 

I, personally am a big fan of restricting accounts that are logged into the machine as non-admins, but providing them the ability to invoke installations, etc. with the "run as" command. You could create a local admin user on the box, granting them privs and allowing them to use it to install programs?