I would put it in much the same way you've written it here. You mentioned that your job is stressful and demanding and you're not growing career wise. Make your direct report think about what's keeping you at the company and what reason you have to stay. Perhaps they think that you're comfortable with what you're doing and you don't really mind that you haven't been given anything extra, perhaps they're just thinking that you want what everyone else is getting? Below's a few talking points for you. Be extremely clear about what you want and where you want to end up. Most people don't want to stay in the same job for the rest of their lives, so let your manager know what you aspire to, what's driving you. Show that you're keen to learn. Don't forget to tie it into a benefit to the company, why should they put you through the training? How does that turn into a benefit for the business and how will they get a return on their investment? Will they end up losing the "invaluable person" they have in their current role? Talk about how you could up-skill/cross-skill someone else into your role. If you're determined to reach a goal and there's a roadblock in the way, ask "How can we overcome that?". If it's something that simply cannot be overcome, then you really don't have much option other than to look for another job that will provide what you're after. On a side note It's best not to let things slide for so long, if you're determined to get something, letting it go by for 7 years without having a path to your destination doesn't exactly scream determination. You have very little reason to show loyalty to a company that can't keep it's promises. At the end of the day you need to look out for yourself. "You're #1" as someone else here put it! 

Similar to another answer here. State the facts. That is, your suspicion is just that, a suspicion and it doesn't appear to the reason why you'd choose not to hire this candidate. I think that the way you've summed it up already in this question provides valuable feedback to the candidate. Provide the factual feedback that you're not comfortable with the candidate's level of understanding of topics that they should know. Back this up with your observations during the interview. For example... Facts When I asked questions X, Y and Z whilst you were able to provide an indepth explanation but where unable to explain follow up questions that are designed to show a candidate's fundamental understanding of the question. Consequence Because of this I'm not comfortable that you have a sound understanding of topic A, B and C. Meaning that you have not been selected for the position at this time etc etc Resolution If you're looking to apply to a similar job in future. I would recommend you look into X, Y, Z so that you can answer questions more efficiently when probed for a deeper understanding. Note: Don't confuse your suspicion of this candidate googling answers to things as the reason why you've chosen not to proceed with them. Whilst it might be a byproduct of the candidate not understanding the topic you're asking about. Fundamentally it's the lack of knowledge that is the problem, not what they may or may not have been doing on the other end of the phone. 

Note that since you have no formal contract and thus presumably haven't been given your written statement of employment particulars then you are perfectly at liberty to require one of your current employer, if you have been there more than a couple of months. This doesn't necessarily have to give away the fact that you are job hunting. You could approach HR and say "Hi, I've just been catching up on paperwork at home and realised that I never received my copy of my contract or employment particulars. Could you get them to me as I should have got them within two months of starting". If they refuse or delay your request, then you can remind them that it is a legal obligation on both of you, and that you would really feel more comfortable if your working relationship were on a solid legal footing. 

No, it is not acceptable to use pirated software to do your job, in fact it could lose you your job. In the UK, the use of pirated software would usually be considered gross misconduct and be grounds for summary dismissal, so as risks go, that's a pretty big one. As others have mentioned, the reason companies treat this so seriously is because the consequences for the company can be grave. In the UK, The Federation Against Software Theft (FAST) publicises the legal penalties and security risks for piracy and prosecutes both organisations and individuals on behalf of its members. They also promote the use of Software Asset Management to help companies avoid copyright infringement. Even using software provided by your company, if you know it to be pirated, could result in pretty dire consequences - it's not impossible that you could be considered to be a conspirator and personally liable. Under such circumstances, ethically you should report the infringement to FAST (in the UK) and any repercussions for this should be covered by whistleblower legislation. The situation in the US, or in any of the countries around the world whose legal system is based on the UK/UK models, would be pretty much the same. The specific laws, crimes and enforcement agencies would be different, but the essential principal and the ethics of the situation would be identical. 

The only other thing I would say is that while working hours are a significant part of your situation, managing people such that they don't feel the need to spend excessive hours of over time is another. You should try to identify if there are other impediments to these employees work. It is possible, for instance, that they are spending so much time during the day helping the newcomers that they hang around late just to get some peace and quiet and allow themselves to get into flow. One way to avoid this might be to have one established team member at a time available to help newcomers, leaving the other established team members to concentrate on their work. This could switch every day/week, so that people at least get a day/week block of time to concentrate of their tasks (depending of course on their business needs). Having 1 person working at 50% and two working at 100%, but only putting in 100% of their hours might work out better than having three people working at 70% (because of the task switching), but working 120% of their hours to make up the time. 

The best way to transfer knowledge is for the people who need the knowledge to work with those who have the knowledge. Whilst the knowledgeable people may not have the time to work on documenting their knowledge themselves, they may already be spending some of their time explaining to others what to do and how to do it. Even if the knowledgeable people had the time to write up their knowledge, it is not necessarily the case that the documentation they produced would be of use to the less knowledgeable people. It is surprisingly easy to miss out important 'obvious' information when trying to impart knowledge. By making the knowledge transfer more explicit and co-operative, and having the users of that documentation write it so that they can understand it, you could both ease the burden on the knowledgeable people and get more information transferred. If the knowledgeable people are really pressed for time, you could ask the people who need that knowledge to write up what they understand now, and then have the knowledgeable people proof-read and correct any misunderstandings. This could substantially speed things up, and could also help identify areas where the knowledge is lacking. 

A good manager must do the things you describe as they can't be the conduit for all communication (it gets worse if they have to pass this on to another manager who then passes it on to their team member). A good manager should make it easy for you to do these things though. For example they could make an introduction if you've never spoken even if that's just a simple email. "Hi so-and-so, just putting you in touch with grn who needs some information and it would be great if you could help them out..." As you say, it's harder when these are non-trivial tasks and it absolutely is your Manager's job to align teams across departments around the same projects and objectives. You could approach your manager saying that these tasks are likely to take some time and you can't directly assign the work to them, perhaps even get more detail from the person in the department for their estimate (you aren't asking them to do the work, just how long it might take). Be open about why you are asking, this might land on their desk soon! With this information you can approach your manager with more detail, but able to say that the person can't commit to the work until they are given the go-ahead. That puts the ball firmly in your Manager's hands. 

In my experience a recruiter will be desperate to make contact with you if they think you are a good match for a position and the opportunity is still open. I would suggest this opportunity is gone now so it's not worth following up again. The only thing you might want to do in a few days is send a message to say something along the lines of 'I guess this position is no longer available, thanks for making initial contact with me and please do keep me in mind for any similar opportunities in the future'. This might keep you at the front of their mind. It's possible that when the recruiter called you they thought you were a good candidate and the job was still open. Perhaps shortly after that the job was filled. From my experience that's when a recruiter will stop taking your calls, unless they have other posts you are suited to. You might ask how the job could be filled so quickly if they were trying to contact you? Even if a recruiter has 3 candidates being interviewed for a post it makes sense to keep advertising a position. If those 3 don't work out, you need to have a few more people in the pipeline. 

There are a number of things to consider from your managers perspective that he might be trying to do: 

If you start with HR they will only ask your manager for the detail relating to your request. In my experience of organisations, managers will make a recommendation to HR to make these sorts of changes. If you are not asking for a pay rise and you are able to demonstrate to your manager that you are performing a team lead role then it could be straight-forward. If you are asking for a pay rise then I would suggest a different approach. 

Develop direct-team-to team relationships so that people can 'get things done' without having to always ask managers to intervene. Develop you as someone with the ability to build productive working relationships with various teams Improve your knowledge of the company or business by exposing you to other teams' work