If anything else is needed, let me know. Edit #1 5-10-15 1:15pm CST When I execute the dir command in the folder suggested by Shanky, I get: 

He told me that he used to be able to use his Active Directory account or a SQL Server SysAdmin account to create new sites, now he can't. I'm pretty sure that his AD account was not an admin of any kind on the SQL Servers regarding the SQL 2005 configuration. Further, he stated that he used a SQL Server SysAdmin account (in the SQL 2014 configuration) but it still failed. 

Questions: - Is there a Jedi trick to gain SysAdmin access or will I have to contact our consultant? - How does this happen? I thought there was some sort of failsafe to keep this from happening. 

Action required: Use the following information to resolve the error, and then try the setup process again. 

I have created the following as an automated job to run at midnight on every database server I manage: 

The following is a script I found online that has most of the elements of what I desire in the result set. The only thing missing is how I can get an average of the run times over a decided time period, like a week, 10 days, 23 days, a month, etc. I've done some searching, but what I've tried has failed in some way or another. Further, my TSQL are weak, but I'm reading publications by Itzik Ben-gan to change this matter. I'd truly appreciate any help that anyone can provide. 

A colleague of mine and I were configuring Log Shipping in a test environment. We took a full backup of a database on LSPrimary01, a log backup, copied to LSSecondary01 and restored the backup and log . Then used the GUI on LSPrimary01 to configure Log Shipping. We already configured file sharing and proper permissions for Sean\LSServiceAccount. The following error was the result: 

I take the LSAlert job with a grain of salt. Troubleshooting that issue made me pull my hair out! In the end, the log backup, copy, and restore jobs were functioning as expected. Here are a few things to consider when you're getting that LSAlert error messages on your monitor server: 

I've ran into this same problem! As Mr. Vernon stated, the account needs admin access to the server. However, that is not the recommended way of providing access to the service account, especially if you're to follow the "least privilege" security mantra. Instead, perform the following: 

There are couple of ways that you can verify that restores are happening as intended. The following query will help find gaps in the log restore process: 

I've verified that the logs are being restored on the log shipping secondary, matched up the LSNs, also, I have the Log Shipping Monitor from Red Gate that verifies my logs are up to date. Further, the aforementioned error message is for every database in the instance. I've built a similar setup in a lab environment and I get the same error messages. 

Note: We are only able to import into the SQL Integration Services (SQL version 2017 14.0.3023) is the SQL Server Management Studio v17.6, 17.5, 17.4. The older SSMS’ cannot import into the newer SSIS service. We think this problem is originating in Visual studio because we can create the package and import it using VS 9 but not (Since May 3rd) VS 15.7.0. . .If we create a NEW package. . and leave it "blank" it can be imported .. if we make the package with VS 9 and "upgrade it to VS 15 it is importable. . but the second we make "real" modifications it is unable to be imported? We also have an inclination that it might be our version of Integration Services that is unable to import the newer packages. Possibly an incompatibility issue? We have checked and there were no “visible” changes/upgrades to Visual Studio since early March. We also checked the server for Microsoft patches and updates for the period in question and found the following: 

During our recent monthly maintenance window I ran into an error installing SP2 on SQL 2014. The following is a screenshot and the associated error messages. Let me know if you need anything more. Here is a list of things that I've tried: •Tried installing CU7 - failed with similar message •Tried installing CU8 - failed with similar message •Restarted Server each time and tried installing CU7, CU8, and SP2 - all failed with similar message 

I've searched the forums here at dba.se and other places on the Net and haven't found a specific answer. I know this question looks similar to many, but the ones that I've found only address how to shrink a log file, which I already know how to perform. I happen to be in one of those unique positions that a log shrink is necessary. My specific question is: When I perform a log shrink on the primary in a mirrored set, do I then failover and perform a log shrink on the "new" primary? Or does this somehow replicate the changes to the secondary, making the manually failover unnecessary? 

Upon investigation of the account, it shows up under the Security object folder in SSMS. Also, we find that the account is associated to all the databases under User Mapping for the account properties. I've verified that 'MyReportAcct' has and , so on the surface every looks as expected. The rub comes when I try to alter the account or remove the mappings. I'm met with: 

I'm looking for answers on all the services you disable, anything that you disable, uninstall, etc. The goal of this topic/question is have a running checklist of things that do NOT need to be on a SQL Server for an OLTP-type system. I've not been able to find a definitive list on this topic, just various things here and there. I wanted this list for my own edification as well as something the community could refer to as needed. My thought is to update the list as folks make suggestions in the original post. I know that some of the topics that'll come up can be considered subjective, but either way, I'd like you to explain your reasoning for why you make the suggested modification or disablement. Not all of these are blatantly obvious. 

I believe I found the real issue. SharePoint 2010 is NOT compatible with SQL 2014. SQL Server 2014 and SharePoint supportability 

Further, does anyone know of a TSQL script or a (free) program that'll script all logins from the primary server? 

I have performed an intensive search on this error message and have not found much of anything. The only gem I found was to use Process Explorer from the SysInternals suite by Mark Russinovich. However, isolating the SQLAgent.exe binary did not show me what other process is using it; the process is lone. I am either performing the incorrect steps or my process is completely wrong. Other items to note: 

I've done some searching and haven't come up with much. Further, I don't know how to access this "summary.txt" file as it isn't anywhere to be found on the C:\ drive, so I can't see what file is stating. Other details: 

When I run this code, it appears things are running fine, the GUI window comes up and shows progress, then all the sudden it quits, the GUI goes away, and then I'm left with the following at the CLI: 

I have several maintenance plans configured on a SQL 2008 R2 (10.50.6529). When I remotely connect to it with SSMS 2008 R2 or SSMS 2016 to edit the notify operator task there is nothing listed, just blank. If I RDP to the server and open SSMS locally, the expected checkboxes appear. Why is this so? Is this a just a one-off bug? I thought, for the most part, that it didn't matter which version of SSMS you use. 

I've never seen this before and wasn't able to find much during research. I've verified that the associated service account has permissions to the backup folders and there is more than enough space. Other details 

In the interest of saving time and money (licenses). For example: We have a mirrored SharePoint backend as well as a mirrored Lync SQL backend. I want to use the witness for the Lync servers to be the witness for the SharePoint mirrored pair at the same time. 

I received alerts from one of my database servers over the weekend that was somewhat disconcerting. There was an alert for each single database within the maintenance plan. 

Actually, everything stayed the same, I found out that the service account some how lost the permission. So, I gave the service accounts the permission and all the mirrored database synced as expected! 

I've set up alerting on all my database servers and every once in awhile I'll get the following error, sometimes it goes on and on and on, other times it'll be a few times here and there. 

I'm simply looking for what most folks do to keep their SSRS servers in top shape. Beyond performing backups of the databases, symmetric key, custom extensions, configuration files, IIS settings, RDLs, SSL certs, etc. are there other tasks I can perform? I'm really new to SSRS and I've been asked to do some research to keep our 4 servers in the best condition that I can. I know this topic may seem subjective, but there has to be a general list of things that most SSRS pros use to make sure everything is running in tip top shape. 

I figured out the issue after doing some more searching and trial & error. The process I used for finding the issue: Started with the CLI and ran the following command: This will provide a list of all features that are enabled and disabled