I agree both are measuring torque/force. That is the ratio you would get with 170 mm cranks. 1 kgf = 9.80665 newtons. 7.3 * 9.80665 * 170 / 1000 = 12.2. But without pedal angle I agree you cannot calculate work or power (wattage). And this appears to be just one pedal. stagespower-tech-specs 

Have an older Niner Air 9 Carbon that has the original Biocentric eccentric hub. Does anyone know if the Biocentric II is compatible? 

That said some bicycle helmets are safer than others. Not cheap but check out POC. It has to be a helmet you will wear. I have a POC but I wear my lighter racing type helmet often because it is more comfortable. 

Regarding the question "from the standpoint of the rim being backwards" (not tire) the answer is none that I am aware of. Clearly on the rear with drive train or disk brakes this is not an option. I have never seen a rotation indication on a (non drive) rim or hub. I have bought new wheels and in the box the skewer was separate with no directions regarding which direction to install it. According to vclaw a dynamo hub can have a direction and it is marked. Doubt it is a factor on a bike but in a car with radial tires typically they tell you not to switch direction (rotate some side only) as it breaks down the belts. 

What do you mean halfway between? A blowout is bang and an instant flat. A blowout is not caused by under inflation. Pinch flats is an indication of under inflation. You will see a slit on the side of the tube where it was pinched against the rim. At your weight you should be at the tire maximum pressure. Get a quality pressure gauge. Pumps can be off. If you can put larger tires on that bike the go that route. Large tires are less susceptible to pinch flats. When you get a flat inspect the type of hole and it match up to the wheel and tire. When you take the tube off leave it same side up so you can lay it back on the tire / wheel and see what caused the flat. If you have debris in the tire you must remove it. If it is a spoke need to fix that. OP posted a picture of the tube and it appears to be a puncture. I assume that is the bottom/outside of the tube (you are not twisting it). You need to get the debris out of the tire or you are going to keep getting puncture flats. If it is just small debris then it can take a few days to wear through before it flattens the new tube. Also inspect the outside of your tire on a regular basis for debris. A piece of glass will eventually works it's way through (even a puncture resistant tire). 

The first number is the number of front gears and the second number is the number of rear gears. How many gears do you want / need is for you to decide. The gear range is the smallest and largest. Even with 7 speed you could have big range. The down side is a bigger step between gears. You could have a 10 speed rear with only a difference of 1 tooth between gears. The front is more a range gear. A small front is for climbing and large front is for flat and downhill. A touring bike with a load would need one small front. The front is not really aware of how many gears in the rear. 

Define safe. Are you just worried it will fail or that you will get hurt? It is going to fail all the way and sooner rather than later. If it jams into the rear wheel it might damage other stuff (like spokes). The safe bet is to just replace it now. If it jams into the rear wheel it might cause you to get hurt. If pedals jammed might cause you to fall then yes in that respect you could get hurt. Save it for parts. 

If you rolled it to the front it would not look like that picture. Yes you roll it to the back. I have some Front Roller - not making this up. 

The two most common types of flats are 1) pinch 2) puncture Can also have the spoke puncture the tube from the inside but nothing a tire can do about that. A fatter tire is more resistant to both pinch and puncture flats. A larger tire will also have softer ride (due to lower pressure) and better traction due to more tire in contact with the road. This durability and comfort come at a cost. A larger tire is heavier, more wind resistance, and more rolling resistance. Wheel sizes are reported in a number of ways. The actual actual wheel size or actual wheel size plus nominal tire size. For sake of fair comparison I will use actual wheel size. For example ISO 622 is the same as both 700mm and 29". Will compare ISO 622 wheel diameter and tire diameter of 1" versus 2". Same rubber in each tires and same thickness. A fatter tire will tend to be thicker but for the sake of head to heads comparison assume same thickness The tire must support the weight of the rider and bike. If I am 170 lbs and 60% of the weight is on the rear wheel then let's call it it 100 lb on the rear wheel. The 2" diameter tire will run at a lower pressure. Let's assume the 1" tire runs at 100 PSI and the 2" at 60 PSI. A bigger tire runs at lower pressure because it has more contact area. In this example the 1" tire will have a contact area of 1 square inch. And the 2" tire will have a contact area of 1.67 square inches. Pinch Flat Pinch flat is when the tube is pinched against rim and splits open. When you hit a blunt object such as a curb. A larger diameter tire is more resistant pinch flat for two reasons 1. With the larger diameter the outer tire (starts) further from the curb. 2. Due to the bigger diameter the fatter tire builds surface area faster so it does not need to deform as far to match the force of the curb. Puncture Flat A sharp object penetrates tire and tube. Identical rubber will have the same force per surface area to penetrate. The rubber does not know if it has 1" or 2" or buddies. Assume a triangular piece of glass 10mm by 10mm by 10mm. Along comes this this fat soft tire. The tire deforms and the rubber makes contact with the road around the glass like the glass is not even there. Because the tire deformed and made contact with the ground the glass never exceeded the minimum force to penetrate the tire. Even if the fatter tires comes in contact with more glass is still distributes the load. Would you rather stand on a bed of nails of lie on a bed of nails. Then along comes a hard shinny skinny tire that cannot absorb the glass and at the point it is just tire on glass there is sufficient pressure for the glass to penetrate the tire. The higher pressure tire did deform but not as much as much as the lower pressure tire. In this example when the tire was directly on the glass no tire was in contract with ground to take the part of the load. 

At the very low end you have BSO or Bicycle Shaped Object. Those should be avoided. At the very low end you get parts that are not even serviceable. At a minimum you want name brand (e.g. SRAM, Shimano) components. They are serviceable and you are going to be able to find replacement parts. A bike with low end named brand components will start in that $400 (US) range. A low end bike is going to have low cost drive train components as well as low cost tires, wheels, post, bars, .... Yes you are going to have stuff wear out faster on low end bike. If you are having problem with a seat post that is like a design flaw. You should expect a working seat post on a low end bike. If you want higher end components it is always cheaper to buy a bike with those components up front. Replacing components is expensive and labor intensive. You almost never get a bike you never change any component. Even higher end stuff wears out. Look for a good frame and a drive train at the target level and target budget. Beyond mid range you are not going to get more reliability - the expensive stuff is for weight and racing. Like in Shimano in the road line 105 is a very reliable. At even the $800 point you are getting a mid range drive train. Well more than the lowest level drive train components. At $800 you are not going have $400 wheels and a $100 seat post. Even at $1200 you are not going to have $400 wheels and $100 seat post. Seat is lower end on almost any bike as on a higher end bike it is almost always changed out. Higher end bike often don't even come with pedals. Even on a mid range bike you are not going to find an expensive seat post as many people like an offset - it is a component that is often changed out. Wheels are typically going to get better as you spend more. If you put a lot of miles on a bike you are going to wear wheels out. When you upgrade then put a nice set of wheels on the bike. What you want is core bike that you are willing to put more money into consumables. On a mountain bike never go full suspension on a low end bike. That is going to be a low end suspension you need to put money into and money that did not go into other components. Even the front suspension on decent mountain bike is going to be low end. At $800 you are getting a decent bike. For light needs even $600 is a decent bike. At $1200 are you getting the stuff you really want - yes I like the wheels, post, pedals .... Beyond $1200 you are getting more into performance rather then reliability. That said a $2000 bike is probably more reliable / durable than a $1000 bike but not any where close to twice as reliable / durable. Your best buy in my mind is used $1200 bike you got for $800. Or a $2000 bike you got for $1200. The higher end bike always have higher discount. You get people with money that buy a new bike every few years. 

The math is fork length X cosine of the angle for height. If straight up and down the angle is zero. Cane Creek angleset is only 1 degree so it might not be enough. 

Many brake holders are not symmetric. The lever is an indication of vertical orientation (and other possible uses). Many (in not most) brake pads are not symmetric. There is often a font and back and a top and bottom. In this example below clearly want the force in the direction of the insert. 

This has to be a dup. First step is get the cheapest bike that does what you need. One it is a lower theft target and two if it gets stolen it hurts less. Buy used. Single speed is cheaper, less to steal, and rear wheel is already semi secured. This is my $400 used city commuter - add $80 big u lock. Just remove the front wheel and lock it all to something solid. Take the lights with you. If they steal the post and seat I can still ride home and I am out all of $40. And this bike is a very nice city ride. 

Define performance? Top speed, efficiency, handling? If you lower the bar you will be more inclined with less frontal area Unless you have some really strange air flow you will have less aerodynamic drag Drag = CD x Area x Velocity x Velocity CD is the drag coefficient and it can also change with position but it should be pretty constant Because of the velocity squared aerodynamic drag comes more into play at higher speeds But if you take drag out then upright is more mechanically efficient Even racers climb up on the bars In almost all situation a bike handles better in a more upright position So in summary on performance of lowering the bar 

Removing the dent would weaken it. Sound like you have been riding it. A dent does significantly weaken the bike. I would ride easy. No jumps. 

Most of your riding is on the hoods. I race CX, city ride CX, and road ride on a CX. I spend very little time in the drops. In the city pretty much no time unless into a head wind. On the hoods out of the saddle it should feel a lot like a mountain bike but no shock. Come off a curb out of the saddle. If you feel like you could go out the top it is too small. Since you are not used to it you should feel only slightly stretched out. 

Naturally you would want to put a women's seat on it. A shop will typically switch our for free. This is a comparable women's in Specialized. DOLCE 

I will take a tire in the operating range If you are above 170 lbs then near the top of the range If you want a bigger patch then get a bigger tire and run it within the recommended pressure range A bigger tire is not just bigger - it has a lower pressure operating range Run a soft rubber compound 

This is not a full answer It is too much for a comment Please don't vote this down But don't vote this up either As for tire size that is not the problem. My theory is you need to correct but I cannot demonstrate how much. A larger tire is good as you will get the same amount of traction for less force. Bike geometry is designed to hold a line on a flat cant. If you hold a bike by the seat and balance it on flat ground the front wheel will be straight. If you tilt the seat to one side or the other the front wheel will turn. This is how you can ride with no hands. So if you change the slope under the bike it is going to affect the natural line also. I ran a test where I tilted board under the bike compared to tilting the bike on the board. What I found was the wheel consistently pointed down hill - which made sense. I think this needs a free state diagram that mechanical engineers do and I don't know how to do those. Hopefully a frame designer will get on. 

If the tube leaks out from under the wire bead it will burst. If you had a cheap tire with a stretched bead that can happen. If it is real easy to slide the tire on the rim that is a bad sign. If that was how the burst happened then a new tire would help. This can happen on even a good new tires if you over inflate too far. If it bursts again the you need to look at the rims. See hook bead on this page bicycle tire