My opinion is that there is no such gradation. Actions begin with a thought or Chēthanā. These are the seeds that determines the eventual actions. So if our Chēthanā are pure it will lead to pure actions. If they are impure, the actions will be impure. 

Hence, as these verses quite clearly justifies, thought precedes all actions. Since thoughts cannot be graded, it is more so the quality rather than the quantity of the thought that really matters. Forget all the jargon that comes with the precepts and rules. Follow your heart. Ask yourself truly, at the very point of thought, "Is this what I really want to do? Does this go against my self conscience and pure gut feeling? Does the action that comes with this thought hurt me, others and both above mentioned parties?" . If the answers are satisfying, then put that thought into action. It will bring good. Life is not like a game of basketball or cricket where a judge keeps score. It all comes from the strength of the thought itself. If your thought is strong enough, you can even attain higher Pāramitās or 'states of perfection' which are stepping stones to Nibbana. 

Because we are in fact, in Nirvana, but we - don't know about it. Thus we are spending all our lives wandering around. The path is that finally one decided not to wander but taking a path one believed that's the right path to go home; going through this path from beginning to end we then be shown that in fact, we are actually all the time already in Nirvana. That's why the path should be abandoned at the end of the path; or sometimes the path is metaphorized as the boat ferrying one to the other side of the ocean. So... hmmmm... it's working like, a minus minus 1 will be a 1 {-(-1)=1}. Or, following Tenzin Dorje's, it's like, "John is not home". However, to realize the fact for oneself, one must walk (The Path) from where he is back home, open the door, then, "Ooops, John is really not home!" ===== §。Sequel。§ By sheer chance, this someone has the Mahayanist mind, thus the story continues: He looks up the wall the portrait of John The Great staring back at him like Da Vinci's Mona Lisa the enigmatic smile. With disbelief slowing he turns to the mirror on the table, examining his face, "Goshhh... I'm John The Great!" He then once again reaches into his pocket re-took the key out, fondling it in his hand, musing, "Holy crap... all those years since I lost my mind I was wandering around in delusion, believing I'm John Lemon... " §§§ 。。。balloons 。popcorns 。sob 。applause 。tears-snots-saliva 。 ...The End 。。。§§§ 

But when we think even deeper, if both mind and body are 'sankhara', then who is the 'being' within our minds, who travels through this eternity of existence? This 'being' that some refer simply (and quite wrongly) as an 'Āthma' or in other ways as 'existence'? If 'Āthma' or 'existence' is Sankhara, then how does it endlessly exist? Sure it changes from one existence to another, but it is endlessly existing , which contradicts the nature of 'Sankhara' itself, making 'our existence' immortal. It is like a man travelling from house to house. The house breaks down, but the man is eternally travelling. Who is this man, and how is he eternally travelling, is he is also 'Sankhara'? Shouldn't he also end at some point or the other? In this analogy, the man is the 'existence', and the house symbolizes our body and mind. I know this is very confusing material, but I consider this site a realm filled with knowledgeable beings. I would find myself very happy to find any number of meaningful replies. Thankyou!!! 

I haven't read A Manual of the Excellent Man, "natural elements" here I assumed you mean chemicals. If these chemicals are pulled together, without the "man", can they think, i.e., inject these chemicals into a sole brain, or a highly sophisticated robot? Thus mind is definitely not chemical, although chemicals activities may relate to the process of thinking. Second, Buddhist doesn't view material as "material", like the science way of material formed by atom, atom combined by electron and proton... baron, quark... etc. Material appears because the "Aware" (覺) stagnated (attached), combined by collected "logos" (names) stored in the 8th vijnana. Buddha used a metaphor in Surangama Sutra, that someone who looked at the empty space for long long time and worn out, he started to see "flowers" (sparkles of lights etc.) in the sky. Because of habitual in many many lives, this "material" interacted with us, like it has it's own property. Like someone walking on a path with a hole on it, after many many times, he gets used to the hole as if it's flat, if this hole leveled, he may feel like to walk on a mound in the beginning. The hollow, flatness is not the property (permanent, self-existed) of the hole, neither the mound. Third, there is nothing "supernatural" in Buddhist teaching. All phenomena is as-is, including sometimes we read in the Sutras describing the abhiññā demonstrated by some arahants. "Supernatural" if we used this term is just because we don't understand how it happened. 

According to Buddhism, there are five orders or processes (Niyama Dharma) which operate in the physical and mental realms. They are: Utu Niyama - physical inorganic order, e.g. seasonal phenomena of winds and rains. The unerring order of seasons, characteristic seasonal changes and events, causes of winds and rains, nature of heat, etc., all belong to this group. Bija Niyama - order of germs and seeds (physical organic order), e.g. rice produced from rice-seed, sugary taste from sugar-cane or honey, peculiar characteristics of certain fruits, etc. The scientific theory of cells and genes and the physical similarity of twins may be ascribed to this order. Karma Niyama - order of act and result, e.g., desirable and undesirable acts produce corresponding good and bad results. As surely as water seeks its own level so does Karma, given opportunity, produce its inevitable result, not in the form of a reward or punishment but as an innate sequence. This sequence of deed and effect is as natural and necessary as the way of the sun and the moon. Dhamma Niyama - order of the norm, e.g., the natural phenomena occurring at the advent of a Bodhisattva in his last birth. Gravitation and other similar laws of nature. The natural reason for being good and so forth, may be included in this group. Citta Niyama - order or mind or psychic law, e.g., processes of consciousness, arising and perishing of consciousness, constituents of consciousness, power of mind, etc., including telepathy, telaesthesia, retro-cognition, premonition, clairvoyance, clairaudience, thought-reading and such other psychic phenomena which are inexplicable to modern science. The Buddha says: 

Mahayana perspective based on studying Sutras - Dhyana achievement cannot be quantified by measuring against time. The Buddha was able to enter Dhyana without a teacher's instruction or learning when he was a prince. Upali one of the major disciples of Buddha the one who cited the Vinaya was able to enter from 1st to 4th Dhyana in one go by the first time when he was shaving the Buddha. [Should be recorded in Agama and Nikaya]. That said, be near to an accomplished teacher it would help to advance the practice [but it's almost impossible to find nowadays], for the teacher's "energy field" is conducive to the practitioner. So is close to sacred relics or sites, or auspicious Buddha/Bodhisattva Statue or painting. The experience of different Dhyana also can't be measured by time, for beginners. Though adept can control the time or which Dhyana he intends to enter. In fact, most beginners and long time practitioners can max. enter the 1st Dhyana. Although there are plenty of websites with articles on how to enter Dhyana, even describing how they experienced the different Dhyana, they are not. I remembered reading teacher Nán Huáijǐn in one article said, for modern man that one could enter the 2nd Dhyana, this was already a miraculous rare event. That would completely change one's perspective of reality. It is still my puzzle, how do those teachings of Vipassana, Samatha or noting "thinking thinking" methods getting one enter Dhyana? Would be interesting if anyone entered any level of Dhyana properly practicing these methods could share the experience. The most appealing and suitable method to enter Dhyana for modern man, according to Mahayana teaching, is chanting. Chanting Mantra was one of the daily practice in the Samgha during Buddha's time, as far as I read from the two or three versions of Vinayas collected in the Chinese Canon, in their original belonged to the Eighteen Early Buddhist Schools. Chanting could be chanting-out, or chanting-in. Chanting-in is silent chanting in one's heart. Chanting could be a Mantra, or a Buddha name like "Namo Amitābha", or Buddha Shakyamuni, or just Mantra of the Mantra of Heart Sutra: "Gate, Gate, Paragate, Parasamgate, Bodhi Svaha". Or whichever one feels connected with. Unfortunately, this simple effective method would only be appreciated by a few who's not misled by reading those already corrupted ""...