As it was written befor, 3 weeks isn't really long. Try again and again and keep doing sports. Also it depends on the kind of push ups you are doing. There are hundreds of different kinds. If you are stuck at one, perhaps try switching to another kind. Wide arm, close arm, diamond, elevated... Also, look at your form. Is your back straight, your belly tucked in, are your arms like they should be for this kind of push ups? When I restarted doing sports some times ago I could do 20-30 push ups. But I tried e.g. Convict conditioning where you start doing push ups against a wall. It seems easy and silly, but if you do in slowly and if you concentrate at that time on all your movements you will greatly increase your skills. then I moved after one or two month against a wall to doing push ups against a table. Still easy enough to concentrate on your form and so on. There a plenty different body weight books and programs out there. Convict conditioning is just one of them I tried and had fun doing it. Have a look what suits you best. tl;dr: look at your form, try different styles but keep doing push ups :) 

No it's not wrong but is not the same thing as training a single muscle chain/section consequentially. If you have a volume of 70 reps total ( divided in 4 exercises ) for, let's say chest, you want to perform all of those ( if you're going with 70%-80% intensity ) with at max 60 to 90 seconds of pause between sets. If you do like you said your metabolic stimuli will be different while mechanically its the same thing. It's not "bad" but for hypetrophy is better going consequentially. 

With this out of the way give frequency the priority in the microcycle. For exemple if you want to have a total volume of 30 sets, don't burn them all on the same workout but divide them by 3 or by 5. Give this characteristic to your microcycle and you will grow AS FAST as your body can possibly do. Intensity/voume ratio: you can actually utilize the Undulated Periodization ( at microcycle ); it means you're actually changing in a wave fashion the ratio between the two ( Ex. one micro is high volume - low intensity, next is medium and medium and next is low volume high intensity ). This will provide the best of the two types of stimulii I've explained to you. Nutrition advices Here the thing is more simple. But I dont know if you have any ethical standpoint on nutrition or if there's any food you can't eat for mediacal reasons so I will keep myself in general. Do not go crazy on protein! It has been long debunked and litterature is FULL of biased studies on the actual link between grams of protein x Kg body mass. Just eat enough carbs and you will be good to go. Focus more on having a sustainable lifestyle approach to nutrition that benefits you first with great health, and only after muscle mass will come. As long as you are energy replenished your AMPK inside the muscle cell will not be phosphorylated by the low AMP:ATP ratio and will not inhibit the Akt/mTOR pathway and your protein synthesis will work smoothly. I'm not an expert on nutrition so I'm not going to make the step longer than my reach. Hope it helped, I tried to fill as much info in less lines possible. If anyone has any question be free to ask. 

OK, so, the gym I go to has standard weight plates, from 5KG to 25KG going up in 5KG increments...the other day, I was front squatting, I wanted to go up a little, but realised I can't go up in 1KG increments so I had to add 5KG, I found that my trunk gave in a little. My question is when attempting to get stronger is what I had to do OK? like my form had discrepancies when trying to lift the heavier weight, to be honest I think even if I had only added 1KG, my form would have suffered. how bad is what did? is it recommended when trying to get stronger? 

at home I have a york fitness bar and york weight plates...the bar is 5kg I believe...I stack 4x10kg plates and 2x5kg plates on there for a total of 50kg. Now at the gym the bar is 20kg, but it is quite long and thicker. When I add just two 5kg plates, it feels heavier than the ones I have at home, why is this? surely the fact that it is thicker requiring stronger grip doesn't make that much of a difference, if I add 2 10kg plates, it gets really hard, yet at home it is easy...why is it like that? 

There's always strain on the knee when you use it for something. Actually this mode is probably safer than a full squat olympic style for a reason: Range of Motion is reduced and the starting point at the bottom of the movement is actually inertia free. In cheaper words, its different from a half squat because when you are in the lowest position you sit on the box and so tension on the knee and ankle joint is heavly reduced. So, yes, it's going to put strain on your knee, but nothing to worry about as long as you perform the movement correctly. 

Why is this all important? Because now it all boils down to understanding why I'm giving you these advices regarding the periodization. I have two approaches on the subject, but I'm going to take the most succesfully proven one in terms of scientific reference. But first, two "MUST DO" before you get started. 

I am just looking to mix it up on the treadmill, Right now I do 50 minutes running at 8.5mph at 2% incline and then 15 minutes of HIIT 1 minute at 13mph and 1 minute at 5mph alternating at 2% incline, I was just wondering if people could mention some other ways of doing HIIT that I could try out for fun, just to stimulate myself really. Much appreciated and I can't wait to try out some your suggestions. 

So yesterday I did 55 minutes on the treadmill, the settings were 30 minutes at 9mph and 25 minutes at 8mph, all 55 minutes were done at 2% incline... then I did some squats, nothing heavy, it was 50kg and I was doing them slow and keeping good form. I did 2 sets of 30 repetitions. Then I went back on the treadmill to some HIIT, then thing is when I was running I kept throwing up a little in my mouth, it didn't stop for the 30 minutes I was doing HIIT, my settings were 15mph for 1 minute, walk for 1 minute, all at 2% incline. Why was this happening? Is there a reason my body was throwing up all this stuff? 

First of all we have to look at what you need in terms of real conditional capacities. Lactate thresholds have been used to asses one's endurance capacities related to many sports such as cycling, running or swimming. What you are asking is basically if you can improve the delay in onset of lactate accumulation that is correlated ( not cause ) with the aerobic-to-anaerobic energy system transition. Problems of the thresholds We must understand first of all what we are referring to when we talk about LT ( Lactate Threshold ). For exemple, your wikipedia extract is not precise in describing effectively what Lactate Threshold is or are. 85% of %HRmax and 75% of VO2max are still only general measures that are based on general indications aswell; these measures have been shown to coincide with the anaerobic thresold in some, but not all individuals (expecially adv. athletes ) and I'm not going to take these indicators in consideration. To focus only on LT, there are two thresholds. The first one is called Aerobic Threshold (AT), and the second one is called Anaerobic Threshold (ANT) ; even for the AT there is a general observation that put it in correlation with the 50% of VO2max. The AT is considered the upper limit of the exclusive aerobic mechanism usage ( this doesnt mean that glycolysis does not occur ), while ANT is considered the upper limit after which the anaerobic system become more and more consistent and the body relies more on a glycolitic/fast type metabolism. So what we want is to consider ANT to answer your question. Yes you can improve your ANT There are several protocols of training for improving ANT. On top of that a big body of research over the years has accumulated work that shows how the ANT can be found at different lactate concentration in blood ( ranging from 2 up to 10 mmol/L )[1-2]. This however do not correlate with performance. When you improve your ANT you actually have a shift of this limit upward thowards the exerted power ( it means you can exert more power and sustain more intense workload without the accumulation of further lactate. This happens because you have improved your aerobic capabilities, but I won't get in depth in this argument just because it would lead to an enormous Off Topic. How to improve your Lactate Threshold (ANT) It largely depends on your sport but the key thing you have to keep in mind is that you must target what you need. You can perform in two different ways. 

I was working out yesterday, I have recently increased the pace at which I run at yesterday, for the first time my legs were sweating more than my upper body, usually it is my upper body that does the sweating, but for some reason my thighs were sweating rigorously. This has never happened before, could someone explain why we sweat more in some places than in others? why it isn't all round? and perhaps explain why that happened yesterday? it was only a treadmill workout. 

I need opinion / advice / information... basically, I want to take a week or more off work, to weightlift everyday, and increase my lifts as much as I can. Even during work days, I squat in the morning and in the evening minimum, so I'm not really so worried about the intensity and I don't really want to go on holiday. I can't really find a decent weightlifting camp around in the UK, or one that doesn't cost so much. What are some opinions on what I could do? or what you may think on what I want to do. If anyone does know of any weight lifting training camps around in the UK please post. much appreciated on any comments.