Is (more or less planned) emergency overnighting with usage of hammock and/or canvas tent considered wild camping in Europe (especially in Germany)? In many countries, such as Germany, wild camping is disallowed and fined, but if you don't use full tent, but only canvas to protect yourself from rain/insects, is it still in praxis treated the same and fined? I'm not sure if canvas tent is the proper word, I mean something like that: 

How to learn to find north using moon phases? I'm looking for easy-to-remember rule of thumb, at best some simple graphic. It's quite trivial by full moon. Since full moon is in direct opposition to the sun, at the midnight it will be exactly on south. Some time ago someone have explained to me how to navigate when the moon is in other phase, using the term of C-shaped and D-shaped moon, with deviation from north at midnight depending on how C- or how D- was that phase. He have made a sketch on the sand. I should have made photo or drawing of it, but I haven't thought about it and now I have problems finding similar sketch or similar rule of the thumb in internet. 

Go to your nearest builder's supermarket, or even check a normal one, and look for worker's gloves. Or mechanic's gloves. Such as are used by people building houses or repairing cars. Those are very resistant and cheap. I've bought my ones for about 2-3$ (price in Poland, but I've found similar gloves in Germany too, only it was a small craftsman's shop). The companies making 'dedicated extreme sport equipment' tend to charge unimaginable sums for fancy equipment, where something simple and cheap is just enough. 

GeoKret is an open alternative to commercial TravelBugs. It is an independent solution, having own site: geokrety.org, where you can log it. It is integrated with OpenCaching portal, but Groundspeak is not willing to integrate them with their site. You can use Chrome plugin called GeoKrety Toolbox. Registering new GeoKret costs you nothing, but you need to print a label yourself and laminate it. There are a few templates for labels available, my favourite has QR code which directs the founder directly to the site where he can log the GeoKret. 

This is a common problem during wild camping or survival activity, especially during colder seasons. You are tired, you have lost a lot of calories during day, and now you want to wash, but the only option you have is the cold water in the stream. And the temperature outside is also not very warm. So, you want to be clean, but you don't want to lose another big portion of calories because of that, because your body is already driving on reserves. But how much calories are lost when you, let's say, spend a 5 minutes naked and wet, with about 1 minute inside cold water (or pouring cold water on yourself, like in cold shower)? Of course, the exact answer depends on many factors, such as body mass, the fat/muscle factor, the exact temperature, etc., but I need only estimates, such as about 100 calories (which can vary from 50 to 200). Would it be about 100 calories, or 250, or 50? 

Mosquitoes are the one of the most disliked petspest, but they don't seem to take it to heart. When I go fast through their territory, they seem to have problem with biting me (but if there are enough of them, they manage to do it), but they are circling around me and bite with joined force when I stop. Sometimes after I have to run a bit to get rid of them, but some are still chasing me. I wonder if there are tests made, to check, what speed is necessary to: 

I'm used to not being able to find geocache (I'm not enough experienced, or maybe simple I don't have good enough perception), but this case doesn't give me rest - I just couldn't figure any movable parts here, where something can be placed without risking damaging the machine or triggering alert. Is there any 'standard' place to hide in such machines? I don't know any cacher around to ask for a tip. 

The trackable is the object which can be moved from cache to cache and tracked with help of tracking code. This is something like normal exchange object, but you can track it and know who have taken it and where have it landed. There are only other rules for trackables as for exchange objects - you can't trade trackable for normal exchange object, but you can take as many trackables as you wish, only that you must put then to the other cache and not keep it. The travel bugs is only the one system of trackables, operated by geocaching.com. This is a commercial system, you must pay for trackable identifiers. There are other trackable systems, the most popular from them is now geokrety. This system is free, you pay absolutely nothing for registering as many codes as you wish, only you must print the tracking labels yourself. 

You need to climb there to log. But standing on too thin branch can be very dangerous. Is there a formula to estimate how thick must be a branch of a given species of tree to hold the weight of man? Of course we are talking about solid, healthy (and not rotten branches). For example, how thick should be an oak branch to hold a weight of 70kg man? 

I've seen some running technique in a documentary with Bear Grylls, but I've forgotten the name, and I know you can't believe everything you see in his films... 

Various sources (mostly TV stations, at least in my region) are constantly warning about the danger of cold shock response, if someone goes to water too quickly. But on the other hand, Bear Grylls is famous for not passing any occasion of jumping naked into ice-cold water. The sudden heat loss by swimming in such cold water (near 0 degree) must be immensely greater that when you go from heat air into c.a 20 degree water in summer. And I've never heard of him having cold shock response. So, is the cold shock response a real danger for someone used to cold water? Or it's just a problem for people who never take cold showers and swim only in summer? Or it's just an urban myth, popularized by media in cucumber season? 

Are there any trekking maps of Svanetia available abroad? I'd like to purchase the maps before arriving to Georgia. The preferred map scale is at least 1:50.000, however 1:100.000 would also fit in last resort. It would be at best, if the actual tourist trails (if any) were shown there. 

Even if you want to go for city-sightseeing trip for one day, you wan't go below 100$ assuming you have nothing, including shoes, clothes and rucksack. But this is extreme situation. Everyone has something to wear and some kind of rucksack. You shouldn't started from extreme with novices, so we assume you choose some plains or little mountains during summer, and you wait for better weather, so you wan't need storm-proof clothes during day and warm sleeping bags at night. Let's start with clothes. You can assume that everyone has some sport shoes and jeans trousers. They are good enough for start. In cheap shops like Decathlon you can buy fleece from about 10 Euro, if you have a luck you can get something on sale cheaper. But sweater would be enough. Sleeping bag - you need some, but you can buy something cheap. For about 25 Euro you can have something with comfort temperatures about 10 degrees. Sleeping bags with comfort temperatures about 15 degrees are actually coverlets, not sleeping bags, and it may be a bit shivering to sleep in it outside even on plains in summer, but you can get it for about 10 Euro. Foam pad - the cheapest I've seen costed about 5 Euro (in Tesco or other Auchan). Tent - novice won't need it. 1-person tents are extremes. Typical tent can accommodate 2-3 people. There should be a free place in your tent, or in someone's else. Rucksack - yes, it is must-have. But most of the people that have studied have a bigger one. How else could they take their belongings to dormitory? If someone is in that extreme minority, that don't have one, it should be quite trivial to borrow one. This was practiced million times in student mountain guides clubs. The people who started their adventure with backpacking usually don't have professional equipment from start.