Note the position difference in the two images you posted. In the padded image, the bar is high on the shoulders, above the shoulder bones. In the unpadded image, the bar is supported a little bit lower, more on the muscles, and not on the bones. Changing positions of the bar is a good way to avoid adaptation, and to continue improving. Sometimes, this means putting the bar in a place that is uncomfortable without padding. 

At 6' and 140lbs, you are very thin, so you likely need to eat more in order to gain muscle, but if you want to control your hunger, you need to stop it with the pasta (and maybe the sweet potato). When you eat a high carbohydrate meal, your blood glucose level raises. In order to bring this back to baseline, your body releases insulin. However, insulin clears from your bloodstream slower than the glucose, so at around 2 hours there is raised insulin in your blood stream while your glucose level is back to normal (or possibly lower). This state causes hunger. In order to avoid this hunger response, you need to avoid the insulin response. Whole wheat or not, pasta is going to send your blood glucose levels up. If you eat again at 9pm, make it a low carb meal so you don't get hungry again in the middle of the night. 

Anecdotal answer: I am also a new father not getting much sleep. I made it a point to continue working out 3 times week to keep in good health and to get out of the house a little bit. I definitely notice that my performance is not as good on the days when I have not slept well. However, I also feel better, and sleep better (and go to sleep faster) on days I make it to the gym. I haven't noticed any downside. They get bigger fast, so you need to train to lift that extra weight! 

The concern regarding stunting the growth of teenagers is related to injuring growth plates. It turns out that weight training does not increase the incidence of growth plate injury and does not stunt growth. However, injury prevention requires correct form and the avoidance of overloading. It is especially important to supervise their training and teach form first. Crossfit Kids, for example, emphasizes form with very low weight (PVC only) until the student shows the emotional and physical maturity to use real weight. You can rely on an adult to make good decisions about their own limits, but the instructor should be making those decisions for a child. 

Mike Burgener (Level 5 Senior International Weightlifting coach) uses the cue "Show your armpits" at the top of the snatch, meaning, as you suggest, you should put pressure on the bar as if bending the weights forward. Also, you should always maintain active shoulders, meaning you use your muscles to lift the weight off of connective tissue. Shoulder blades should be pressed together. (Active shoulders during a pull up would be shoulder blades together, but shoulders down, because you are fighting gravity and not relying on connective tissue to hang.) 

I have asthma, so I find it important to warm up well in order to avoid breathing problems. For me, that means a gradual ramp up to the heart rate I will use for the activity. If I am jogging for an hour, I can walk for a little bit and then slowly increase speed as I feel comfortable. When I was younger and raced in cycling events, my heart rate might climb to 185 at the very beginning of the race, so I made sure that my warm up got me close to that rate as well. For me, it is the quick initial increase in heart rate that causes problems. I think that is because the blood vessels have not dilated completely yet, and therefore this would benefit everyone. But maybe it is just because I have asthma. My strategy was to ladder up to the target. For example, I would make my heart rate go to 100,90,120,110,130,120,140,130, etc. Your mileage may vary, but this worked for me. 

All of the exercises you listed are good, and of course, reducing body weight is helpful as well. However, the most difficult part of the strict muscle up is the transition between the pull-up and the dip, and the best way to train this movement is to do it. Like any other exercise, you will improve by working through a progression. If you wanted to increase your bench press, you might do different number of sets at different weights. You can do the same with muscle ups by using a pulley system. Place a pulley above your ring setup. Connect a rope through the pulley with one end of the rope lifting a set of weights that is easily changeable. Connect the other end to a climbing harness, or just create loop to sit on or wrap around under your arms. Do a variety of sets over time, decreasing the weights on the pulleys and therefore increasing the weight you are using for the muscle up. My favorite part about this approach is that you can measure your progress in real numbers to see how you are improving, and how close you are to an unassisted muscle-up, rather than just feeling like you might be getting closer. If you want to continue with some of your listed exercises, also add in a piece where you specifically work back and forth through the transition point without doing pull-ups or dips. As far as grip goes, you must use a false grip. There is no other way to get through the transition at strict muscle-up speeds. However, the false grip can be painful, and you don't necessarily need to use it every time you are training; just when you go through the transition. 

You have built up a good volume foundation by running for several months. You have also trained your body to run at a certain speed by doing it over and over again. If you want to run faster, you have to practice running faster. Since you obviously can't just go out and run 6 minute miles for an hour, you will need to break up your workout into faster runs separated by rest. Here are two techniques: 

It is important to note that the end goal is not cholesterol numbers, but heart disease avoidance. The first sentence in that abstract tells the tale: there is not a connection between eggs and heart disease. There is an abundance of research showing that exercise improves your cholesterol profile. Here is the first result I got on google scholar: $URL$ 

You have replaced sugar with other carbohydrate rich foods, which still raise your blood sugar and make you hungry, but don't have quite as many calories. Try satiating foods that do not contain many carbohydrate such as cheese, meat, or eggs. You can match the same number of calories, but you will feel less hungry if you use fat and protein rich foods instead. Recently, I was also trying to be less hungry between breakfast and lunch, so I exchanged my oatmeal breakfast with the same number of calories of scrambled eggs (2 eggs, 1 ounce of cheese, a little butter). As I hoped, I do not get hungry before lunch any more. An unintended consequence was that I lost 10 pounds in 2 months when I was not trying to lose weight. Your mileage may vary regarding weight loss, but I would place a bet that you will be less hungry. 

Carbohydrates attach to and retain water, so when your glycogen stores are reduced from alow carb diet, there is accompanying water weight loss imperfect citation here. This is often responsible for early, fast weight loss of up to 10 lbs. This rate of weight loss is not sustainable because once glycogen is depleted, the effect stops. The water extra water that the person drinks can not be retained because it has to attach to some other molecule to avoid being flushed out. On the other hand, the diet you are describing sounds like a starvation diet, which might cause significant weight loss, and might also cause health problems. 

Many gyms provide a free half hour of personal training to get you acquainted with the equipment. You might ask an employee for an overview. Also, don't worry, most people don't know how to use anything but the treadmill. 

A recent study associated potato consumption with weight gain of one or more pounds per year, depending on how the potatoes were prepared: Mozaffarian D. Tao Hao PH. Rimm EB.Willett WC. Hu PH. Hu FB. Changes in diet and lifestyle and long-term weight gain in women and men. N Engl J Med. 2011;364(25):2392-2404. On the other hand, potatoes are a whole food that is considered a staple food by many cultures, so it's hard to say that they are unhealthy.