From what I have seen, a large portion of the debate over free will arises from unclear conceptions of what one means by the term. If you do not count your internal state as you but rather as "the situation", and you insist that your free will must be will (neither determined nor random, but selected based on some reason), then you cannot have free will: your reasons depend wholly upon your internal state, which is not really you. (In fact, in this conception, nothing is you, by definition!) If you allow at least the internal states that correspond to your mind to count as you and not "the situation", then of course you can have free will. Your camera has free will of this sort: it may or may not flash, depending on both whether the flash setting (internal state) and the ambient light levels (external state). (But in this conception, free will is, on its own, not even interesting, because it's so trivially obvious.) Although one can conceive of free will in more complex ways that either of the two above, either internal state counts as "you" or it does not, so if you are only asking whether it is possible, you need only determine which framework you are operating under. 

One rather important point to understand is that as a practical matter, a logic is only useful to the extent that it faithfully models the (possibly real-world) system that you are trying to analyse. Logic is a hard-nosed engineering discipline these days, and there are far too many practical formal systems where double negation simply doesn't hold. As Mauro Allegranza pointed out, intuitionistic logic is the logic behind constructive proofs. A constructive proof is a procedure for constructing a conclusion from a collection of premises. What do we mean by "procedure"? Well, think of it as something that can be implemented as a computer program. In fact, a constructive proof is the same thing a computer program in a deep sense, but I digress.) That is an extremely useful property! In most practical situations, it's not enough to be confident that an answer exists to some question. More likely, you want to find out what the answer (or an answer) actually is. Formal systems based on intuitionistic logic are typically decidable, in that they have effective computation procedures which will give you an answer to any question. Similarly, they are typically complete, in the Gödel sense; the proofs of Gödel's incompleteness theorems or Cantor diagonalisation arguments are inherently non-constructive, so they don't apply to formal systems which only allow constructive proofs. So it's not really a question of not accepting it. It's more that there are a formal systems where it's not correct, and formal systems where it would make the system useless for various practical purposes. 

There can in theory be a "most beautiful" human if you are willing to define what that means, e.g. if every living human between the ages of 10 and 80 on January 1st, 2015 judges the runner-up 99 most attractive humans and the candidate for most beautiful human by ranking them all from 1 to 100; then the most beautiful human is that human which has the lowest summed rank over all judges. Given this framework, you have two possibilities: 

Then and agree that is actually the better moral system. This doesn't say anything about a third moral system , but aside from the problem of being self-refuting it's odd not to say that is better than here. If that's not enough, let be your entire set of moral systems, and then suppose that 

And on and on. In any case, it is simply not true that the dark forest solution is the only one. The Federation of Planets model (Star Trek) is a good alternative: mutual agreements for defence, so if anyone tries to be a dark hunter, the entire federation is alerted and can either evade or squash the hunter. (Space is big, so it will take a really long time for this to play out.) Big predators on earth have an alternate "agreement": packs of wolves don't attack bears much (or vice versa) because both sides stand to lose a lot in the conflict. Two powers will damage each other badly if they fight; it's far better to work out a way to avoid fighting. Also, physics don't really work out for dark hunters to exist. If a civilization is spacefaring, the chance that you can catch everyone is just about exactly zero. Earth is vulnerable to an asteroid or something, but escaping is incredibly easy because you simply accelerate and wait, and you're pretty much invisible for arbitrarily long. Unless you as a dark hunter can move at the speed of light, your prey is going to get away. So I just don't think there's any deep problem here. (Not a deep philosophical problem, anyway.) 

Abstraction makes us more powerful by simplifying things and focusing exclusively on the most relevant details. Clear, simple thought, at an abstract level, can be more effective than confused, complicated thought, lost in details. Abstraction harnesses the power of focus. It allows us to step back and better see the big picture. It makes easier the wielding of complicated tools (conceptual tools in mathematics, physical tools in the physical world). The more complex something is, the more details we need to hide, and the more abstract the resulting concept. Mathematics involves objects more abstract than numbers. For example, sets of numbers can be manipulated without explicit references to the content of these sets. Hiding the least relevant details is especially helpful when dealing with complicated things like sets of sets of sets. Powerful abstractions allow saying vertiginous things with just a few symbols, by hiding all the work that has been done before to create these powerful abstractions in the first place. Mathematicians stand on the shoulders of giants. (And frequently also on their own shoulders! I guess mathematicians are contortionists.) Conceptual tools are not just used in mathematics, they are also used in natural languages. For example, the concept of “car” is a helpful abstraction: thankfully, we do not always need to mention brand, model and color when mentioning a car. This is especially useful when speaking of a lot of different cars. An important difference between abstractions for physical things and abstractions for mathematical things is that physical abstractions are usually simplistic (because the world is so complex), whereas mathematicians strive to make their abstractions “rigorous.” For example, the abstraction “planet Earth” assumes that there is a clear spatial boundary between the Earth and the rest of the cosmos. However, the real situation seems more complicated: does the Earth include its own atmosphere? If yes, where does its atmosphere precisely stop? Is the Earth an absolutely precise zone? I am no physicist, but the uncertainty principle seems to make that doubtful. In contrast, mathematical objects seem more docile when it comes to making abstractions based on them. Mathematicians try to make their abstractions simple, but not simplistic. 

Act-utilitarianism has a lot of problems with mapping well onto our innate moral sense. This is hardly the only example. There are oodles of other examples, such as when it is okay to eat all the cake at a birthday party. (Hint: it is not okay to eat it all yourself even if, in the absence of social responses, it would increase your happiness more than everyone else's combined.) With many of these, you end up tempted to then start lying and hiding your behavior as then "nobody is hurt", except the reaction to discovery of lying and hiding is even worse, and you end up with a cascading mess. Unfortunately, this mismatch is so bad that the act-utilitarian would probably end up deciding that nobody should strictly follow act-utilitarianism, even themselves. So I think the meta-answer (neglecting concerns about disease, desire to kill or at least not prevent the deaths of sexually desirable people, etc.) is that to some extent you simply must acknowledge that people have a powerful innate moral sense and you have to work with it. That is, it is immoral (as a utilitarian) to do things that disgust and horrify people, even if that reaction is moral in character, and even if they only know in the abstract that such things happen, not about individual instances. At least given present societal norms, Necrophilia would be in that category. Note that this is also true, as a utilitarian, for e.g. gay marriage or sex out of wedlock. You might envision a society where it is accepted, but your calculation could well be that it's immoral solely by virtue of (some) people's distaste for it, or that you must fix the distaste first. 

gnasher729 raised an important point that deserves some expansion: "In formal logic, implication x ⇒ y and equivalence x ⇔ y are very obviously useful - they directly express the possibly most important concepts of formal logic." The main point that I want to bring up is this: Naive set theory is not the only important set theory, and Classical logic is not the only important logic. In most logics, it isn't true that P⇒Q is the same thing as ¬P∨Q. As you get more into logic, you'll gradually realise that implication is (in a very deep sense) "more fundamental" than even conjunction or disjunction. But I can give you a taste of that now. You don't need the other connectives if you have quantification over propositions and implication. We will use the usual convention that implication associates to the right (that is, A⇒B⇒C means A⇒(B⇒C); you can reason about this by noting that A⇒B⇒C is equivalent to (A∧B)⇒C). Then you can define them in terms of Gentzen rules: 

Occam's Razor states, essentially, that among hypotheses with similar explanatory power, the simplest hypothesis should be favored as the most plausible. Thermodynamics states, at zero temperature, that a reaction will proceed if the products have lower energy than the reactants, ΔH < 0. The analogy is that the favorable reaction is like a favorable hypothesis: lower energy is akin to simpler (and/or better-fitting). But at non-zero temperature, it's not so simple: random thermal fluctuations will tend to knock species into different states; if there's more ability to "be random", that will tend to be favored. This ability is quantified as entropy, and favorable reactions now must obey ΔG = ΔH - TΔS < 0, where T is absolute temperature and ΔS is the change in entropy (G is Gibbs Free Energy). (To increase sophistication one step more, one should consider the Boltzmann distribution of states, but I'll stop with entropy.) There seems to be an analogue in hypothesis space. Suppose there are many not-exactly-simplest hypotheses with approximately the same explanatory power as the simplest hypothesis. (For example, you could add more variables than are needed to explain your data.) Depending on what mechanism might encourage simplicity (i.e. what the "temperature" is), you might be a lot more likely to find the true hypothesis in the pool of not-exactly-simplest hypotheses than to actually find that the simplest hypothesis is true. Is there any literature, perhaps in philosophy of science, that expands upon this point? It is of particular relevance in fields like biology where the simplest hypothesis is often not true--and when you consider evolution as temperature (specifically, a component of it involves randomly changing stuff), it vaguely suggests that a Gibbs-Free-Energy-like modification to Occam's Razor is advisable. 

There are different degrees of abstraction: something is abstract to the extent that it omits details. The user interface for a technological device is abstract: it hides the inner workings of that device. 

Mathematical definitions of quantity are irrelevant here, because even a layman's concept of quantity is abstract. “Three” is abstract, it omits saying what is counted. “Three oranges” is abstract, because it omits saying exactly which oranges are spoken of. “The sun” is abstract, because it omits a lot of details about the nature of the sun. According to this view, though, zero is not abstract, because it means “an empty quantity”, and there is no lacking information here, no need to wonder “an empty quantity of what?”. Similarly, the empty set is not abstract, because there is no need to answer the question “an empty set of what?”. That the empty set is not abstract may be the reason why it can be used as the “starting point” of mathematics. If you want zero or the empty set to be abstractions, you need to use another sense of the word “abstraction”, like “imaginary concept”. 

You may recognise that last one as ex falso quodlibet. Quantification over propositions seems like something "new", but actually it isn't. In fact, when you said that "P⇒Q could be written ¬P∨Q", you're actually making a claim that some statement is true for all propositions P and Q, which is universal quantification over propositions. We tend to hide that detail from undergraduates so that they can get familiar with propositional logic without having to think about quantification. Final thought: The "deep sense" which I alluded to earlier is that logical entailment is a morphism in category theory, and implication is an exponential object. I don't expect you to understand that sentence, but an example may help. Consider modus ponens. If we have P⇒Q and we have P, then we can conclude Q. However in set theory, if we have a function f : A → B and a value x : A, then we can apply the function to the value, giving f(x) : B. This, it turns out, is not just a trick of notation, or a coincidence. It's a connection which goes very deep. 

Abstraction is not the same as commonality, because there is only one sun, yet “the sun” is an abstraction (as explained above). Commonality may inspire the creation of abstractions, because it can make clearer which details we should omit. By seeing a lot of stars, we can come up with the concept of star, by trying to articulate what all stars have in common. “Star” omits information about physical location, in constrast with “the sun” which is “the closest star to the Earth”. 

Abstraction allows generality. By omitting to mention which natural number a mathematician is studying, whatever she finds out about it is true of all natural numbers. For example, let n be a natural number; then the sum of n and its successor is odd, because n+(n+1) = (n+n)+1 = 2n+1. There is no need to take all natural numbers one by one, we can speak of them all simultaneously. This is very expressive. Abstraction allows uncoupling and flexibility. As others have mentioned, natural numbers can be defined in different ways. However, no matter the chosen definition, the behavior of the resulting numbers should be basically the same. This allows someone to study natural numbers without the need to choose a definition. If mathematicians discover a much better definition of the natural numbers, all the work that has already been done before on natural numbers may still be valid with that new definition. Someone who wants to build a computer screen does not know which images the user will want to display. The builder only has an abstract knowledge of which images the screen should be capable of displaying. The builder knows the amount of pixels, and which colors each pixel should be able to display. By keeping in mind the image as an abstraction (“set of pixels”) instead of a concrete picture, she manages to make up an extremely versatile device, able to display nearly any image she wants.