I walk to work most days (I'll admit, I do get lazy if it's raining sometimes), my partner walks to work, lots of the people I work with walk to work. There's nothing strange with walking to work, it's good exercise. It should be ok for a man aged 28, assuming there is no medical reason why the man shouldn't be walking 12km a day. I find it's a good time to listen to music or podcasts and get a little extra learning into my day (occasionally I'll read my Kindle, though that's probably not the smartest move) 

Hinge movements and the lunge and reach can also be included in this if you want to do a push / pull split. Hinge This group of movements involve hinging at the waist (like when you bend forward to touch your toes, or pick something up off the floor), e.g. 

*at the moment, anyway, until we realise that everything is actually controlled by the Flying Spaghetti Monster 

3) The one that adds up to the least calories. As I mentioned in another answer, the better option is the one you can stick to as pertains to your lifestyle, and results in a total caloric intake low enough to put you under your daily energy expenditure. Unless you're at figure athlete level body composition, you probably don't need to overthink individual meal make up to this degree. 

If you've been stuck at the same weight for a couple of months, then you've definitely hit a plateau. There are a couple of planned ways I've used to break through plateaus before, and one bonus accidental way. Method 1 Reduce the weight you're squatting and start to build back up slowly. I'd highly recommend Jim Wendler's 5/3/1 for this approach, but what should work is to drop your squat weight to about 80 - 85% of what it is at the moment (so, say 60kg for 5 reps), then add the smallest increment you can each time (usually 2.5kg). Assuming you're squatting once a week, and you increase by 2.5kg per week, it'll take you 8 weeks to get back to attempting 80kg for 5 reps. During those 8 weeks, you shouldn't really be missing any lifts since they're mostly below your current 5 rep max. Method 2 Squat every day. I've used this in the past to great effect to break a plateau and improve my squat technique. The idea is that you take a sub maximal weight (so, I'd say 65 - 70kg) and every day work up to a couple of sets of 3 reps at that weight. Note, 3 reps, not 5. This is sort of akin to Pavel's Greasing the Groove technique, it just gets you a lot more comfortable and capable of squatting that weight as well as squatting in general. Once doing that weight for a couple of sets feels comfortable (I did I think 3 weeks of a couple of sets of 3 reps at 70kg), then bump up the weight a little and carry on. When you're feeling good, test your max again. This method is more of a "by feel" method since there's no definite progression, it more relies of a lack of ego lifting and the ability to just get in and do the work without thinking about it too much. It also helps some of the psychological issues people have with throwing a heavy weight on their shoulders and squatting with it, if you've done something every day for the past 3 weeks, then it doesn't seem as big of a deal as psyching yourself up to do it once a week. Which brings us to... Bonus Method 3 By accident. Following on from the end of the previous method, some people just hit a mental block at a certain weight. A friend of mine was stuck at 120kg for 3 reps. He'd been stuck there for a good month, when he tried 125kg, he got one very shaky rep and any higher bailed the lift. One session, we were chatting about nothing while he was loading up the bar, not paying attention, he un-racked it, stepped back and hit 3 solid squat reps. THEN someone pointed out to him that he'd mis-loaded the bar, and what he thought was 120kg was actually 130kg. From that point on, he managed to hit 130kg every time. 

I've had this in the past (and still do occasionally), and I put it down to three possible issues, fitness, food and water. Fitness If, as by your own admission, you're pushing yourself particularly hard during a set, then you may find that you work harder than your body's ability to supply oxygen to the muscles, which would result in you gasping for air and feeling dizzy if you can't get enough oxygen into your system (yes, this is a very over-simplified version of events, but it boils down to you working harder than your body can handle = dizziness). Food When you train and push yourself, your body pulls blood into the muscles to fuel them, pulling it from places like your stomach, where it is normally used for digestion. If your stomach / guts / intestines can't digest the food in it, wants to get rid of it so it doesn't sit and rot, and does so by trying to get rid of the food in the most expedient manner (pretty much the direct opposite to how it got in there in the first place). Having said that, there is still food in your stomach that's trying to be digested, so your body is probably trying to keep some blood there for digestion, causing less to be available to fuel your muscles, which is why you're getting the nausea / dizziness. (Again, over simplified explanation of body stuff, but you should get the general gist). Water You're not drinking enough / your salts / electrolytes are out of whack. I'm going to admit, I haven't read into the physiology of this, but I know from personal experience that going into a training session a little dehydrated can really screw you up. Make sure you've drunk enough beforehand and during. 

It sounds to me like you've gained some muscle on your back because of all the skiing and rowing, both of which work the latissimus dorsi muscle (which, I believe, has it's lower attachment point at just above hip height). Women don't build muscles as readily as men due to their lower levels of testosterone, but they can build muscle, especially with the amount of work it sounds like you've been doing (to answer the question of if women can build muscle, look at female Crossfit athletes, figure athletes and female strongman competitors in the under 63kg category). Now the bit you don't want to hear... from my understanding, it takes between 2 and 6 weeks for muscle to start to atrophy (i.e. get smaller), the shorter end of that is for trained athletes. Now if you've been doing a lot of skiing and rowing, then it's entirely possibly that you'll start losing muscle if you stop doing exercises like rowing and put yourself on a calorie restricted diet, but for what you're trying to do and in the time frame you want to do it in, I'd seriously suggest consulting with a personal trainer (NOT your partner), possibly even talking to more than one (you may have to shop around, asking someone to help you lose muscle is a very rare thing). You may find some luck asking someone who trains female athletes for sports that have weight classes, since making weight can be an issue, but even then, trying to lose muscle isn't a very common ask. (I know it seems like an odd suggestion, but you may have more luck asking on a dedicated figure athlete forum, like this one) Sorry I can't help any more than that, good luck! 

There are actually different types of grip strength, the type you use when balancing on your hands is going to be different to the type you use pulling a heavy deadlift. Yes, there will be some carry over, but since you're trying to accomplish a free standing hand stand, specificity comes into play. First off, I would recommend stretching out your forearms regularly using a kneeling forearm stretch (on your hands and knees, rotate your arms outwards until your elbows are facing forward, palms flat, and lean back gently to stretch the forearms). When you do this, make it a more active stretch by gently resisting the stretch. Although it sounds like an odd suggestion, stretching like this can actually help condition the forearms to having to apply force in this manner (very similar to when you have your palms flat on the floor in a handstand position). Secondly, you can train the Crow Pose as a progression into a free standing handstand. To make it a little more interesting when you get reasonably good at it, gently apply pressure through your hands to rock yourself backwards and forwards. The reason I stress gently so much is that to start with, your forearms may quite tight and you don't want to risk an injury (I've seen a climber trying to get rid of a forearm pump badly pull something by trying to stretch too hard). Don't forget to stretch your wrist in the other direction as well, since general wrist mobility and strength is important for a decent flat handed free standing hand stand. Lastly, just a general handstand tip, spread your fingers as much as possible; it'll help with balance and control. 

Just because your apartment gym only has dumbbells doesn't mean you have to limit yourself to them, bodyweight training is also a fantastic way to get yourself in shape. An exact routine would depend on knowing your goals, but essentially movements break down into one of about 6 different movement patterns (I'm not going for the 7 primal movement patterns here, before anyone decides to contradict me). They are: 

As others have mentioned, being healthy is a somewhat subjective thing to aim for. So instead, I'm gonna aim to answer, as much as I can, your definition of health: Less diseases This is a particularly subjective one, and all I can offer is impressions from what I've read. There has been a fair amount of research linking inflammation to disease, and several authors have already written a fair amount about regular exercise to reduce chronic inflammation. There doesn't seem to be one particular exercise regime resulting in reduced chronic inflammation that I could find, it was more a case of "do exercise stuff" where exercise stuff is taken to mean resistance training as well as cardio type stuff (both aerobic and anaerobic). Less injuries As Dan John is a big fan of saying, the keys to living to a ripe old age are don't smoke, wear a seat belt and learn to fall (amongst others). The first two seem pretty self explanatory, but the last one sometimes confuses people. Basically, the older you get, the more likely you are to have a fall, and if you land badly, that's when things go snap. Ok, so being slightly more objective, heavy resistance training increases bone density, and the more dense your bones are, the less likely they are to snap upon impact. Along the same lines, if you carry a fair amount of muscle on your body, you effective have a form of natural "armour" between your bones / insides and whatever it is that you decide to impact on. Less pain Again, this is rather subjective, mainly because it depends what hurts! Speaking from personal experience, I've found that getting myself stronger and constantly working on my mobility has helped keep me reasonably pain free for the past several years. I've fixed back issues by working on my deadlift strength and hip mobility; I've fixed knee issues by working on my squat technique and hip mobility; I've fixed shoulder issue by building strength around the shoulder joint (Turkish get-ups) and loosening up tight pectorals. If you want general suggestions, go with what Dan John suggests and strengthen the phasic muscles, and stretch the tonic ones. Mentally and physically better quality of live I'd suggest reading this first. There's a certain joy in being strong that isn't easy to express, because it's not until you realise what it's like to not have it that you realise what a great thing it is. It's those times when you open tough jars without thinking (sometimes by them being handed to you by someone else), that time you helped a little old lady load something into the boot of her car, the time you helped your friend move house, listening to the laughter and joy as you lift your grand kids up onto your shoulders, that time you had the strength to catch your pregnant partner when they passed out, that time you helped your dying father sit up in his hospital bed so he could watch the sun set one last time. Had I not have had the strength to do any of those at the time, it's not just my quality of life that would've suffered. A shot at surviving the zombie apocalypse Despite rule #1, I'd say that being strong is one of the key factors here. If you can't break down doors when needed, fight off the undead craving your flesh, or pull yourself up onto that roof to get away from the hordes, then your chances of survival are pretty slim. Conclusion I've always valued strength above all else. There is something to say for putting on muscle and looking good naked, especially when you're younger, and it can honestly do wonders for your self confidence if you don't feel the urge to kill the lights before stripping off in front of someone. But (NSFW!!!) there's something beautiful about watching how someone strong enough to have full control over their body moves (NSFW!!!). TL;DR Do sets of 5 for the big lifts (deadlift, squat, overhead press, chin up, row) and sets of 10 for the not so big lifts (curls, lunges, triceps extensions). Finish off with a few sets of heavy carries for distance, and spend a little time stretching where you're tight. That should see you pretty well. 

You've got a few options, though honestly none of them are going to fit your ideal scenario. 1) As Kevin Lee suggested, just do 30 seconds sprint, let it slow down and do 30 seconds walking. You're still doing intervals. If you're worried about the time that the treadmill is spending changing speed, then shorten your walking period to take that into account. 2) Get off the treadmill and go sprint outside (up a hill is better). No, you can't keep an accurate record of the speed, but it probably doesn't matter that much as long as you're still going all out during your sprinting periods. This has the added benefit of being self limiting, so as you get more tired, you'll naturally sprint slower, instead of stumbling on the treadmill and ending up embedded in the vending machine opposite. Also, unless you're using the treadmill on an incline, sprinting outside recruits the hamstrings a lot more, so is a much more complete exercise. 3) Use the hop on / hop off method. Get the treadmill up to your sprint speed, sprint for 30 seconds, then, using the sides / arms / grips / non-moving-parts-within-reach bits of the treadmill, hop off so you're standing with your feet either side of the moving belt. After your rest period, (slowly!) lower yourself onto the moving belt and sprint again. I've seen a few people use this method, and it seems to be a reasonably good option. Obviously, you're not getting your walking periods in, you're only getting the sprinting parts, but they're arguably the most important bits of HIIT. 4) Use another machine that makes it easier to adjust the speed, i.e. exercise bike or rower (as suggested in the comments). If you want the most bang for your buck and a challenge, do tabata front squats. If you can still walk afterwards, you're not going hard enough :)